[{"Title":"Still stands up","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"147 out of 177 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I remember hearing about this film before its release.  It had caught a great deal of flack for its use of Arabs and Muslims in particular as violent extremists.  Even at that time I knew that the protests against this film were nothing more than politically correct nonsense, as even then the only trans-oceanic terrorists that existed were of the fake-Muslim variety that today we hear about every hour.When I saw the film, I was impressed by the fair nature of the film, in that it portrayed the truth  these extremists exist in the overwhelming minority of Muslims, and that it is unwise and unfair to paint them all with the same brush.  With a very good script, excellent performances and exciting action pieces, I was impressed.Jump ahead a few years, and we see what we have learned.  This film was not just an intelligent story.  It was a warning sign.  It examined things that people did not want to talk about.  It examined things that people thought it more politically correct to ignore.  It portrayed events realistically and in fact far less devastating than what was possible.  If there is one thing that can be learned by examining a film such as this in retrospective of recent events, it is that our species chooses to ignore that which it does not want to accept.Those who do not learn from their history are doomed to repeat it. Perhaps there are other subjects we should stop being so PC about and actually talk about instead of worrying about how it will look. "},{"Title":"Eerily prescient.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"122 out of 142 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film, made in 1998, is so close to the reality of Sept. 11, 2001 that it sends chills down your spine.  Although events played out differently, so many elements in the film are near-mirror reflections of the reality.  The attacks are carried out by Islamic extremists, whose core network were trained by the CIA, their attacks were dramatic and centered on New York City, there was little cooperation between, the FBI, CIA and military, and Arabs and Arab-Americans were rounded up in large numbers, or were subjected to harassment and violence.  The images of bodies and debris are no less shocking than the sight of people jumping to their death from the World Trade Center.  Torture was employed by US soldiers, in pursuit of terrorists.  With all of that said, even had the attacks of Sept. 11th not occurred, this would still be a tremendous film.Director Ed Zwick and actor Denzell Washington team up once again for a great one-two punch.  Denzell brings great humanity to his role as an FBI agent, charged with counter-terrorism operations and investigations.  He is aided by Tony Shalhoub, who delivers another great performance and some of the best lines.  Annette Benning displays her talent as a CIA operative at the heart of the whole crisis.  Roger Deacons adds his wonderful cinematography, and Bruce Willis turns in a fine performance as an over-zealous army general.The film delivers a cautionary tale about extreme reactions to terror and the loss of freedoms that can result from acting in anger, rather than with reason and law.  The rounding up of citizens, as depicted in the film, and the declarations of martial law, are not that far away from the provisions of the Patriot Act, which violates First Amendment rights, the right to privacy, and the right to due process.  The film suggests that by giving up these rights, or stripping them away, we become the very thing that our enemies claim we are. It suggests that that may be the terrorists true aim.This is not a crystal ball prediction of 9/11; but it is a fine thriller.  The filmmakers did their homework and got quite a bit right.  They also extrapolated things to an extreme, but not an implausible one.  However, they delivered an excellent film, and one that should be seen and studied. "},{"Title":"What if....","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"95 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" At first glance, The Siege looks to be a jingoistic, typically heroic American patriot film. But upon further review, and if you honestly give this movie a chance and listen to what it has to say, you'll see that it wants us to listen, it wants us to learn and it wants us to just look at the possibilities of  what if? .This is one of the best movies that I have seen in recent years and what kind of stumps me is the negative criticism surrounding the film, not just the complaint of racism ( I'll get into that later ) but about the film in general. And I have come to a conclusion that not everybody will agree with and certainly many will dislike.The positive reviews that have been in the IMDb have been, at least a great many of them, from people that are nationalities other than American. And perhaps the reason for that is that we can sit back and look at the U.S. from afar and it may be easier for us ( as non Americans ) to understand more clearly what this movie is trying to say. And it may be easier for us ( whatever nationality we happen to be ) to understand what is wrong with America and why a film like this is just trying to give one possible reason for the decay of American society. That is not to say that our own countries don't have problems, because they do, but we can just see what is wrong with America a little easier, we are not blinded by our own patriotism. It may be easier still for perhaps Europeans to appreciate the movie even more than others because maybe their own countries have been under siege at one point or another. And maybe the relevance is that much more prevalent when you have been that close to something.And what this movie has to say perhaps should not be taken lightly.Steve Martin's character in  The Grand Canyon  uttered the line  watch the movies, they have all of life's answers.  Perhaps that has never been more true than what this film's message is. And I believe that message is that sooner or later if there is always going to be that one watch dog, that one Big Brother that is known as the United States, then something like this may happen. What if....I truly believe this movie has been unfairly criticized about it's apparent racist tones. Every time there is a bombing by terrorists that are Arab in heritage, there is always a scene that follows where the Arab leagues lend their support and let the FBI know that they want these criminals brought to justice just as much as anyone does.  They love this country just as much as we do.  Denzel says in one of his speeches to the people in charge. Is it really racism when a movie tries to explore what could happen when one body of government takes matters in their own hands and breaks international law? To me every effort was made to show Arabs as normal, family loving, law abiding, peaceful citizens that they are. A bunch of Arab terrorists does not mean that all Arabs are fanatics that are bent on destroying America. That perception is like believing that all we as Canadians do is play hockey, drink beer and play in the snow.The movie itself is so well acted and it is so well written that I really can't understand why Washington did not get a nod for best actor. He is mesmerizing. And I think his final confrontation with the general is tense, and brilliant.Washington plays Hub, a very patriotic, by the book FBI agent that is personally affected by all the chaos that has ensued in his city, and he plays him brilliantly. Bening and Shaloub are also wonderful in their roles and the music in the film is haunting. Willis is a little weak in the film but that is minor in comparison to the rest of the movie.If you haven't seen this film because of what you have heard, give it a chance, it is well worth it. And try to watch it and listen to what it has to say. You may be surprised. I'm not sure if something like this could ever happen to the US, but it is not out of the realm of possibility. "},{"Title":"A solid film about paranoia and extremism","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"82 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I still can't see why this film was  looked down upon objectively by  the Arab-Americans living in the USA.  Granted, this was before all of the  Sept. 11 bombings, but the way the  people were depicted in the film was  objective. You had the extremists,  capable of destroying building with no  remorse from life, and you then had  the other side. The innocents, the legal  Arabs who love this country as much  as the next person, blindly being  lumped into one group without any  provocation. This film isn't about anti-Arab  sentiment, its more about paranoia  and hasty decision making brought  about by reactionary leadership. Interesting  and enthralling, this film is better than  what most people give it credit for. "},{"Title":"This fictional movie showed us what was coming. And they showed us what not to do!","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"71 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was a very strange film. Strange, because it had so many of its facts right for 9/11. Right city, right jihadists, right plot.And the military's answer to the terrorist threats? Go in, plunder, pillage, torture, abuse and kill the bad guys. Moral? If we stoop to their level, we are no better than the enemy. The real irony is, Denzel's character had the CHARACTER to do the right thing. Oddly, and presciently, Bruce Willis' general was about to do all the wrong stuff, and with a little help from Denzel, decided not to resort to all the things we really have resorted to. This movie is notable for several reasons, but the uppermost is showing us the future we shouldn't take, but took anyway. The irony is not lost. What is confounding here is how much of this originally semi-corny movie got right. Washington, Benning, Shaloub, and Willis, all deliver in a big fashion, with some pertinent warnings. The road not taken was the moral. How scary that in the long run, when presented by a much larger threat, we one-upped this movie's punch line in reality. How much stranger can you get than that? This was a fairly realistic portrait of the underworld, the intrigue, the terrorism, and gave us a scary view of our future. Hopefully, next time a movie like this one comes along, we might be better served by taking it more seriously. "},{"Title":"One of the Effects of Cinematic  Media Reaction","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Watching the 1998 THE SIEGE in 2007 and then rolling through all the reviews of this film from the time of release to the present is a lesson in the power of the cinema. The obvious initial response was less about the film as a film than about the manner in which the FBI, CIA, Military, Terrorists, and public responded to the unimaginable shouts of protests about 'glorification of occult terrorists', the Hollywood idea of the impossible happening, and the criticism of the fine cast of actors who steeped into roles 'beyond swallowing' are all here in these reviews.Now, six years after 9/11 reviewers are taking a different view, though most still find the film pompous and obnoxious. Offensive versus defensive. And after viewing the movie as a movie it is gratifying to know that people feel strongly and are vocal about the depiction of the 'war against terrorism' we continue to lose. Movies that make people think and talk are valuable, and in that light the film is more successful than initially considered.Yes, there are gaping holes in the script and the plot and the concept, but as a little thriller it maintains our attention throughout and offers some fine moments from actors such as Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, Tony Shalhoub, Bruce Willis, Sami Bouajila, Ahmed Ben Larby, Aasif Mandvi among others. And then there are the panoramas of New York City under siege with the Twin Towers standing mightily in the cityscape... It begs the question if scriptwriter Lawrence Wright and director Edward Zwick (Blood Diamond, The Last Samurai, Courage Under Fire, Glory, Leaving Normal, Legends of the Fall, etc) were thinking along these lines and finding flaws in our intelligence forces, why weren't the leaders in Washington, DC in tune with 'absurd possibilities'? It makes one think - and that is the best thing about this film. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"The Siege raised questions that we should have been asking before the tragedy of 9/11.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I seem to remember that this film was looked down upon by the Arab Americans.  I don't understand that considering the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993 and some of the perpetrators who were eventually apprehended.  My husband and I found The Siege frighteningly entertaining. Once more Denzel Washington gave a tour-de-force performance. The rest of the cast was excellent.  The script was prophetic. The writer understood what might happen if the war on terror resided in New York City. Where is Lawrence Wright now?  "},{"Title":"one of the most thrilling and controversial film of the year","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Edward Zwick's The Siege is a well made suspense film about the de-construction of NYC. Not literally, but by arab terorists that set bombs off all over the City and Denzel Washington (great as always) plays a FBI agent who is trying to catch the units that are doing this. Annette Benning is also good as a foreigner who has a link to the arabs. But soon, this leads up to martial law in NYC, and army man Bruce Willis (also very good as a stone figured tyrant) begins to get arabs into concentration camps. This is pretty controversial in and of itself becauase this seems to be where NYC is headed. Director/writer Zwick knows that, and makes that knowledge into one hell of a good thriller. "},{"Title":"The war in the streets of Brooklyn","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What if the events in the news about the Middle East were to happen in the crowded streets of Brooklyn? Buses being blown by terrorists, or a bombing at the FBI headquarters, downtown Manhattan, or even a Broadway theater? No one is spared in this war being waged by terrorists that have infiltrated the country. In view of how the world has changed in the post September 11th era, it is not a far fetched idea because it could happen at any given moment.The Siege, directed by Edward Zwick, who also collaborated on the screen play, in retrospect, can be seen as precautionary warning of how things could degenerate when a group of Middle Eastern extremists start setting up a number of deathly attacks on institutions one holds dear. After all, wasn't the purpose of most of the wars to be fought overseas in order to keep America safe? Anthony Hubbard, the level headed FBI agent in charge of investigating the terrorists' activities must face deadly enemies. In doing so, he also has to deal with the bigotry as the press and the government decide to round up innocent law abiding people whose only fault is to be of the same race as the few people that are creating panic in the city with their agenda. Of course, all this came out in a 1998 movie, which proves to be almost prophetic in heralding the attacks on the Twin Towers.The Siege, in a way, points out to the present Guantanamo. When hundreds of Arab-Americans are detained, they are sent into holding places where there is no hope of having justice done. Things go from bad to worse when Frank Haddad, Hubbard's own partner, learns his own teen aged son is taken to one of those places. A father's despair is real since he works trying to preserve law and order, but suddenly he realizes that bigotry has won the battle.The other aspect of the story involves a sort of Mata Hari, an American born in Lebanon, whose loyalties are always questioned. We don't know whether to believe Elisa Kraft, and yet, she is always at the right place at the right moment, sometimes fighting Hubbard, who is skeptical of her methods.When all hell lets loose, a misguided Army general, William Devereaux, is made to be in charge of the forces protecting New York City. Martial Law is declared and the city is living its worse moment until Hubbard rises to challenge Devereaux and his men.As thrillers go, The Siege is packed with action. Denzel Washington is perfect as the decent FBI agent in charge. Annette Benning brings an aura of mystery to her CIA operative, who could be also a double spy. Tony Shalhoub appears as Hubbard's partner. Bruce Willis is the uptight Gen. Devereaux.Edward Zwick directed with his usual style, making this a satisfactory tale that can well happen, although one can only hope it never does. Steven Rosemblum's editing works well with the action in the film. The cinematography of Roger Deakins captures a Brooklyn that is seldom seen in pictures. The music score by Grame Revill adds to the texture of the film. "},{"Title":"History Squeezed out of Prisoners","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I saw this when it came out. At the time, it bombed. Critics -- and I remember in particular the critic in my local paper -- said it was shrill and unrealistic. The military would never torture prisoners, never suspend the constitution, never round up Muslim men in unlawful pens, and most of all never do so because that's what's at the root of the terror food chain. We would never conduct an extraordinary rendition.I myself saw this and felt the same it was just too unrealistic and seemed to unnecessarily hammer a point. Surely we all knew that what makes America special is its consistent rule of law. That was then. This is now. Now we know the president authorized torture, ignored the law. We know the military and CIA did these very things. We also know irrefutably that there are two orders of magnitude more terrorist recruits now because of these offenses.I often watch old movies and enjoy the metastory that rides on how its context has changed between when it was made and when I see it. This is only ten years old, but what a ten years! Seeing the World Trade Center in the city shots makes it all the more powerful.Both then and now, the acting seems off; its always apparent that these people are reading lines in between sitting in canvas chairs. Also at both poles of watching, the pacing, the plodding speeches and the ersatz explosions still seem poor. It is, really a bad movie in all the ordinary respects.But watching it now has the same effect I would get from watching Plan 9 after a monster octopus under alien influence had actually attacked me.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"Extremely eerily accurate -- 1,040 days before it ever happened!","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Our country secretly funds a terrorist leader because we have a common enemy. We stop supporting this terrorist leader. He retaliates by taking the knowledge, training, and money we gave him to the streets of New York City, killing a large number of innocent civilians in the process. Our government responds by heavily cracking down on personal freedoms and by torturing detainees without benefit of due process, in the hopes of locating terrorist cells functioning within American society and avoiding a future attack. The fact that this movie predicted with near-pinpoint accuracy how our country would respond to a terrorist attack on our own soil -- 1,040 days before it happened -- is rather frightening. "},{"Title":"An amazing movie, especially in light of recent events","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Warning Contains minor plot spoilage When I first watched the movie a year or so ago, the first thing that really caught my attention in the beginning of the movie was the first explosion. There was no ludicrous running from the explosion like you see in most action movies. Washington's character blinked because of the explosion flash and then was thrown on his tail by the force of the detonation. Because he was facing the explosion he received a bloody noise from the air concussion (before even hitting the ground), and he couldn't hear after the explosion. They also showed him in  shock right after the explosion.  The impact of the explosion  on inanimate objects was also more accurate. You could clearly see the inverse falling off effect of distance from the explosion.Glass shattering was shown in slow motion at the same slow mention speed as the fireball moving in the background. These are details of things that happen in real life that I haven't seen in any other movie, action or otherwise. And that was a very small thing about the movie that impressed me. I think the story line is extremely plausible and appropriately complex (which I thought before 9/11). The analysis of the culture of the terrorists was very accurate compared to most  movies dealing with the topic. The terrorists weren't demonized and their motives were examined and explained in a well balanced way. I think Bruce Willis does the movie a disservice, although it is  his history of action and mediocre characters that hurts the movie, not his actual acting in the movie. The complexity of his character is interesting. The movie leaves it up to interpretation whether General Devereaux is really reluctant to impose martial law on New York, or whether he just tells the congressional committee what they want to hear in order to get himself in. Devereaux is definitely the bad guy in the movie, but not because he is portrayed as the nexus of evil, but because his world-view allows him to rationalize actions that are un-American. One of the biggest criticisms that I have seen of the movie is that the end of the movie is not believable because of the martial law that is imposed on New York City. But if two or three more significant attacks happen to New York City, I won't be surprised at all if martial law is declared there. I always thought the movie was excellent, but with the events in recent days, the impact of the movie has definitely ratcheted up a few notches.  "},{"Title":"A Very Prescient View of Post-Terrorism America","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Islamo-fascists (or simply terrorists) have taken their game to a whole new level, striking schools and even the FBI office. This film shows a fictional version of what happens when America meddles in foreign affairs, when the foreigners push back and how we would have to give up civil liberties to protect our freedoms. (Or, more properly, why we shouldn't have to.) Denzel Washington is Anthony 'Hub' Hubbard, and like all his action roles, he is a strong and sturdy leader. I love Washington so much. I warmed up to him after seeing Man on Fire and this goes above and beyond that as the best role I've seen him in. Annette Bening is a CIA operative, and she continues her streak of starring in roles that annoy me (such as the one in American President). Other than American Beauty, I can do without her...Bruce Willis is Major General William Devereaux and is quite good at being both pragmatic and tyrannical as he needs to be -- in the same role. We see his Die Hard persona more refined into a leadership spot -- commanding others to do what McClane's commanders would have him do. It's like a promotion. Tony Shalhoub is Agent Frank Haddad, and this is his best role (and when does he ever disappoint?). Aasif Mandvi (The Daily Show) also appears as Khalil Saleh.This film works as an action-drama. Plenty of frustrated romance and explosions, as well as gunfights and tense situations where a bus might explode (where is Keanu Reeves when you need him). So, even if you have no interest in American history or politics, you're probably going to appreciate the running and jumping and shooting.History and politics buffs will enjoy it even more. We have the history of what America did in Iraq after the Gulf War (hint we let Saddam slaughter his own people). And we have a sneak-peak of what would happen if a major terrorist attack hit New York. Muslims and Arabs are rounded up and all seen as suspects, liberties are brought to a minimum and there is a debate between waging a war and a police action -- with war winning the debate. I think if anything this film gave America too much credit for being sympathetic to Muslims. But at least we don't have concentration camps where we store innocent Arabs (unless you count Guantanamo Bay).This film flew under my radar and I had not been aware of it until some friends pointed me in the right direction. With 9/11 and Iraq now having happened, this film gives a great overview. Along with Syriana, Jarhead and Three Kings this will give a good starting point of how to view the world and America's role in it, at least from a fictional point of view. "},{"Title":"Prophetic but not great","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is a movie that, in some ways, is prophetic. Arab terrorists attack the US. The President orders a crackdown. Arabs are rounded up, much like what happened after 9/11. All the same cliches are used--terrorist killers, our way of life is threatened, make no mistake--we will hunt them down. Even people's patriotism is questioned.However, being prophetic does not make it a good movie. It would have been more interesting to have had the main character be Tony Shalhoub's character, an Arab, who has to deal with his son's incarceration. It would have been better to eliminate Samir's character as well (SPOILERS AHEAD) and not have him talk about why he's a terrorist before the tradition Hollywood shootout ending. In real life, there is no one terrorist leader who survives and then fights the hero as he is about to carry out an attack. Lastly, (SPOILERS AGAIN) it would have been a nice touch had Bruce Willis' general not been arrested, which would probably not happen in real life, but instead promoted for his patriotism, and the ending taken place at the President's ball with a (verbal) confrontation between the hero and Willis in tuxedos.There are many more things I could say to improve the siege. For one, maybe more believable writing. However, I believe that the movie was worth seeing, if only for the parallels between 1998's view on terrorism and what comes after real attacks in 2001. **1/2 stars our of **** "},{"Title":"OK for what it is - another Coke and popcorn feelgood epic","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When watching films such as The Siege, it is always best to remind yourself every five minutes that you are watching a film, that this is fiction and that the whole exercise ultimately has one purpose to make money.Edward Zwick, the film's producers, his scriptwriters, his cast and the myriad of professionals who make it all possible from the lighting director and sound man to the catering crew and the crimpers are direct descendants of the good folk who many years ago sang songs, told jokes, juggled and generally did what they thought would entertain us in our music halls and vaudeville theatres. And as direct descendants they have the same motive, nothing more.That is not to say that some theatrical art - including films - can't touch upon serious subjects in an intelligent way, but the vast majority of them don't and don't want to they merely want to entertain. Nothing particularly wrong with that, of course, and as entertainment The Siege is fine if that is your bag, with fine performances from Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, Bruce Willis and Tony Shalhoub. It has to be said, though, that none of that quartet really pushes out the boat. Each does his or her standard schtick and could more or less do it all on auto-pilot. And for a film with a cast of several hundred, theirs are the only faces you will recognise.As a piece of art - can't believe I used the phrase, but there you go - The Siege falls at the first hurdle despite the fine speech Washington delivers at the end when he arrests Bruce Willis renegade general in which he seems to outline what is honest and wholesome about the United States of America and why we should all be eating apple pie and building white wicker fences around our home, this is 24 carat hokum.The premise, that someone like Willis's renegade general might want to manipulate an extreme situation in order to introduce martial law in New York - though quite why isn't at all clear - might be an interesting one to examine in a play or a film, but The Siege isn't at all that kind of film. And even as 'that kind of film', it has rather glaring flaws what is Bruce Willis up to and why is he up to it? What is driving him to manipulate a situation so that martial law is imposed in Brooklyn and he can be top dog answerable to no one for a while? We aren't told and nothing is even hinted at. And would not such a situation in which every last American Arab man in Brooklyn is rounded up and interned - and the HQ of the FBI in New York is blown to kingdom come with 600 losing their lives, for goodness sake! - have piqued the interest of not just of the rest of the US but of the rest of the world? It most certainly would and it most certainly would have had an impact on what took place. But no our four stars - sorry, main protagonists are allowed to carry on rushing around New York with barely a flicker of interest from the rest of the world, although the media, in the form of several helicopters ghoulishly hovering over the latest scene of outrage, do get a look in.Is the CIA really operating on such a tight budget that the only representative of its interests it can marshal is a lone female agent (no doubt to whoops of joy from the sisters), and furthermore one who is, quite literally, sleeping with the enemy? Apparently so. And by the way, a Muslim fanatical enough to cause mayhem in New York and one portrayed as 'devout' would most certainly not swig champagne (or white wine, it isn't clear which) and smoke cannabis after a bout of sex outside marriage on which devout Muslims are rather strict, I gather.Denzel Washington does what Denzel Washington always does best which is to take command of a situation so thoroughly and so intelligently that you keep asking yourself now why aren't that man's talents put to better use in the real world - I'm sure he could knock the administration/the Fed/the economy/the UN into better shape. Just look at that jawline and his cool under pressure. Sadly for the world (though not sadly for the film-going public) Washington has sold his soul to Tinseltown.So forget the 'issues' involved and the subject matter which seem to hint at greater things, The Siege is, and wants to be, nothing more than a solid two hours in a cinema entertaining folk who might be bored with the night's TV schedule. Nothing wrong with that of course, but it does explain why, despite the high production values, there's far less to it than meets the eye. This is one for the Coke and popcorn punter who don't care to think very much. "},{"Title":"When Troops Go Marching In","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The time? Apparently, the present. The place, a major metropolitan city in the Eastern section of the United States. The situation? A possible terrorist plot which threatens the city and it's populace. Up against this ominous threat, two seemingly benign official entities of the government pit themselves first against the enemy, then against one another to ferret out and defeat the looming threat. At first, things go well enough, but soon, the two arms of the government square off against each other. If one believe the movie, then one accepts the premise, that Denzel Washington as a police officer could go up against a standing army led by Anthony Hubbard (Bruce Willis) as Major General William Devereaux. Unable to stop the imminent threat by conventional means, Martial Law is declared. This leads eventually to a personal confrontation between the cop and the general, In the end, if one believes the fanciful outcome, the general with his great army and legitimate powers is trumped by the one police officer. ** "},{"Title":"A bizarre prediction of 9/11/2001 ???","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The movie won't get any nomination or prize, but it's worth seeing if you want to meditate about a time when US talked about the 'Greatest Terrorist Attack in America' only in a movie. The first time I saw this movie I really got immersed into the plot, it was a great drama displaying the deployment of Army forces to protect the US integrity versus the struggle of the reason and the law to protect it's citizens rights... evidently the Arab-Americans would be angry about the stereotypes displayed, but also the Hispanic have been portrayed at Hollywood with the same old stereotypes thousands of times (which BTW it's boring), anyway, at the end it's all for the show and to make the movie believable... however it was ALL fiction. But in the morning of Sept 11, 2001. The first thought that came to my mind (yet in disbelief), as I saw on CNN, planes falling all over NYC and in DC, was.. 'that' movie! Days after the WTC Attack I saw this movie again and obviously (to my regret) I found many new things to meditate about, this movie makes an interesting remark about what almost every US government have done at least one time, the so called 'shift of policy', and this is the key to the whole mess (in the movie and in real life), US government can't pretend to look after some 'groups, organizations or people' when they are useful to their interest and when they no longer need them just dispose then like trash, remember, 'what goes around, comes around...', sure, I totally condemn terrorism, but as we can learn from the movie, this kind of behavior gives birth to extreme hate and enemies, and this is (or was) NO fiction. You can't develop relations on a double moral standard, like the character played by Bening, sooner or later the price has to be paid, so, it's better to stand beside those who help you always, not only for pure convenience, because no one wants a 'friend' like that, right? This can be the great moral of the movie. Be honest, construct relations on loyalty, learn to be tolerant, please stop thinking that US is the world, and tear down to the stereotypes, but mainly, be humble! Personally I think it's a great movie that sadly portrays some similar events that a few years later (2001) became real, one can't be blame if at one point it's mistakenly thinking that this movie was an inspiration to the WTC Attacks. Mr. Denzel Washington's (FBI Agent Anthony 'Hub' Hubbard) performance is powerful (as usual), the rest of the supporting cast did a good job too, Annette Bening's (Elise Kraft/Sharon Bridger) seems a little 'old' for the role but does an excellent job though.  "},{"Title":"Raises a lot of questions, doesn't it?","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It's not just another action flick, although there are shootings and explosions. But -- well, look here. The most effective explosion of all is off screen. The FBI agents in New York have just thwarted an Arab terrorist bombing and they're celebrating in an uptown nightclub, getting smashed and dancing. Denzel Washington (FBI) and Annette Bening (CIA) are slow dancing and a tender moment of accommodation is coming up when we hear a rumble on the sound track. The music stops. The rumble grows louder and the room begins to shiver physically. A few glasses shatter. The hanging decorations sway. But it isn't an earthquake at all. It's another terrorist bombing that has just obliterated a soiree involving New York's Who's Who.That's a pretty good directorial decision. And it's not the only one, although there are no self-indulgent displays of directorial pryotechnics either.The story is straightforward. There are a couple of cells of Islamic terrorists operating out of Brooklyn. (Atlantic Avenue has to be seen to be believed.) A couple of increasingly disastrous bombings prompts the president to impose martial law under the war powers act (?). The general in charge of the army is an unyielding but not insensible Bruce Willis. For most of the film he stands at parade rest, squints, and snaps out orders. But he's not a military robot. He's wise. When he is asked at a conference if the army can be mobilized to occupy the city, he points out that the army is a broad sword, not a scalpel. Yes, he can impose order on the streets but only at great cost. He begs, he implores the committee to reconsider using the military in a role for which they were never trained.There's a lesson in the film too, though I'm not sure it's the one the producers were aiming at. Most of the Moslems we see are peaceful and law abiding, but they're increasingly angry at their treatment by the police and by Christians as they become victims of hate crimes. (We can be thankful that the movie was mostly wrong on that point.) But there are a handful of fanatics who manage to find passages in the Koran to justify their bloodshed.The point is that every charter document -- the Koran, the Bible, the Constitution -- must by its nature be vague and ambiguous enough to be interpreted differently under different circumstances. That's why they last so long. If they weren't subject to contradictory interpretations they'd go out of date pronto. Imagine if one of the Ten Commandments read, The Fed Will Never Raise Interest Rates Above Six Percent. Or the Constitution simply said, No private ownership of guns -- period. The Koran has the same ambiguity built into it. I know Moslems who are devout, who pray and read the Koran regularly, who find nothing but joy and comfort in it, and who hate sectarian conflict as they hate all violence. It's unjustified to think of the Koran as only sanctioning warfare against infidels. Like most charter documents it sanctions pretty much whatever you want it to.What an interesting movie. Denzel Washington, no bleeding heart, hears Willis discuss varying ways of extracting information from a suspected terrorist who is sitting naked in the torture room. There's beating, of course, and there's electric shock and sleep deprivation, and then of course there's cutting but that can get messy. Washington is horrified and shouts at the General that if they use torture on their helpless prisoner they're throwing away the Constitution and the terrorists win. Interesting point. Arguable but interesting.Worth seeing. It's heartbreaking to notice the twin towers in the background of some shots. (This was 1998.) "},{"Title":"An intelligent film","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I think that a lot of people who came to see this film would have been expecting a action film (due to the presence of Bruce Willis).  If so, these people would inevitably have been disappointed.The Siege is instead an intelligent thriller, which tries to show just how things could go badly wrong if America ever truly faced a terrorist threat on its own shores.  It even puts across the valid view about the Iraqis, which is that we supported these people and then dumped them when they weren't convenient anymore.  It takes an unusual line in that in reality the terrorists aren't the true threat, the military is because they have removed peoples freedom.Good acting by all the principles with no flagging of pace.  An excellent film. "},{"Title":"Proven possibe TODAY","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"32 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Today was the day the terrorist attack on the PENTAGON and the WORLD TRADE CENTER and other places which was more sunbstancial and incredible compared to the attacks depicted in this movie which looks amateurish in comparison to the real attacks.A good wake up call to all who snickered and dismissed this film as UNLIKELY and HOLLYWOOD FANTASY.Nothing is impossible and I also would like to say that most media ART IS A REFLECTION of reality.The CIA and other world intelligence branches can only do so much.Most of their work comes AFTER the attack.Preventing an attack is next to impossible if freedom is to be had by the masses.See this film and learn.Great film although a ittle improvement with screenpay would have taken this movie to classic status.Only for people who are interested in spy films and politics.The fans of the lead actors will enjoy this film as well for their performances as adequate,particularly Washington.......  "}{"Title":"Wonderfully prophetic!","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Those who sacrifice liberty for security deserve neither. Benjamin Franklin, 1755 (paraphrase)I remember when I first saw the trailer for this movie in the theater. I was immediately really excited, as I had a sense of what the movie was going for - a warning of what could happen in our free country under the right conditions. I applauded this because it is a lesson that was extremely important but not well understood in 1998.When I finally saw the movie I was not disappointed. The issue of Muslim extremism was handled very well. While some Arab-Americans may have felt offended by this I think the viewers understood that this was a tiny percentage of the Muslim community, and it was better for them to recognize this in order to distance themselves from the extremist.However, the real issue and prophetic warning of this movie was not about Muslim extremism at all, but about how our citizens were capable of going collectively insane over a tragedy and throwing away our freedoms in the name of safety, and the tragic consequences of such a short-sited decision. Bruce Willis was exceptional in this as he truly warned everyone of the consequences and was reluctant to accept.The Siege became all the more important and frighteningly prophetic after the events of 9/11. The U.S. did go collectively insane, and our fears were exploited to serve neoconservative special interest that we never would have agreed to otherwise. I hope interest in this movie is renewed for this all important warning for the future.Those who cannot learn from history are doomed to repeat it. - George Santayana, 1905 (paraphrase) "},{"Title":"Domestic Terrorism","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Edward Zwick directed this film that stars Denzel Washington as FBI counter Terrorism Taskforce leader Anthony Hubbard, who enlists the help of a CIA agent(played by Annette Bening) to battle an escalating series of terrorist attacks in New York city after the U.S. abducted a radical Islamic religious leader. When one attack in particular hits close to home for all, Martial Law is declared by Major General William Devereux(played by Bruce Willis) which greatly alarms Hubbard, as his fellow agent, an Arab American(played by Tony Shalhoub) is rounded up with other suspects in an internment camp, while the CIA agent knows more than she's willing to tell about the terrorist cells responsible... Well-intentioned but overly preachy film forgoes dramatic storytelling in favor of speechifying, and result isn't particularly believable either, despite inevitable comparisons to the real-life horror of 9/11... "},{"Title":"Just more Hollywood product for consumption.","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Siege was released in 1998. It most likely was released on DVD sometime in 99 or at the latest 2000. It stars ever reliable Denzel Washington and one of my favourite actors Bruce Willis. I must've seen the DVD cover 127 times over the last decade.I knew all the above facts very well, yet I never watched it until a couple days ago.Why? Because, like Outbreak and many other films of the era, I knew the film back to front without watching it. I knew The Siege to be a terrorist themed film with obvious ethnic and socio-political issues that confronted obviously controversial topics in a brave way.I repeat I thought that before I watched the film, and I was spot on. The Siege is everything I knew it was for a decade without the unneeded benefit of proof.This is neither good nor bad, just the facts.In five years time I will walk past a DVD shelf with The Siege on it and think 'yep I've seen it, then without any specifics I will re-think the thoughts of the first paragraph.In this case Denzel is FBI Agent Anthony Hubbard, his second in command is played by Tony Shalhoub, who for the purpose of this review (and the film) I might point out is of 'middle eastern' descent.When a terrorist threat arrives in New York City (yes the film was unfortunately prescient) it is swiftly identified as being of middle Eastern descent. When a bus filled with people goes BOOM NYC goes into lockdown mode, with the threat of more attacks looming the terror threat level goes to&#x85; whatever colour we think middle Eastern people are while still remaining PC.With everyone on tenterhooks and ethnic tensions simmering an expert on middle Eastern affairs from another government department steps into the fray. Her name is Alyse Kraft (Annette Bening), and she tentatively teams up with Hubbard and co, providing advice and occasional hints, without ever really seeming to 'lock in' to the task.After a series of bombings the army is consulted, lead by General Bill (Bruce Willis), and the politicians run a merry dance trying to decide how to deal with this fiendish threat to the American view of freedom, and if armed intervention is necessary.The Siege presses every button that you think it will and shows all sides of the story &#x96; from the American side of the story that is &#x96; that means people from the middle East are neither all good or all bad (except the 'all bad' ones), and *GASP* Americans can be pricks and racists too, I would never have thought! The film was chugging along nicely in a mainstream formulaic way, without eliciting any extreme response from me, until the final 20 minutes got altogether preachy and ultimately verged into frankly ludicrous territory.Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. In the end The Siege is hardly essential viewing, you won't learn anything from it unless you have been living under a common sense rock for 15 years, it is merely a movie. A well made one, but no more than that. "},{"Title":"One more good idea turned into a bad movie","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Yawn! So this is supposed to be an Action-Thriller?? Gimme a break boys, this was neither Action nor Thriller, it was just plainly disappointing. The idea of what might happen if martial law is declared nowadays is great and it could make a really great movie...just why didn't they make one? First of all, the title-giving event, the declaration of martial law and Bruce Willis moving into the city is located somewhat near the end of the movie. Beforehand, there's not much to see, because of all the big, bad explosions the terrorists cause, we only get to see one bus-explosion of the kind you will find in every late-afternoon action series as well. The only interesting thing to see in this first part is that Oscar-Winner Denzel Washington is being matched out big time by that guy (I forgot his name, sorry) who plays his collegue (whatever his name was He's great). When finally the siege occurs it does not deliver any action but it just rounds up to a nazi-like imprisonment of most of the arab society in (nice little irony) a football stadium. Finally, after holding the typical Why-I-bacame-a-fanatic-bomber speech (and after shooting the Annette Bening character which , in this movie unlike her other is a real treat) he gets shot by Washington - that's it. Really original, ain't it? I'll give this one a two as a punishment for screwing up on such a great idea! "},{"Title":"No depth, poor end","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The action in this film was very good. No doubt. However, I left the theater feeling like if something was incomplete. I personally didn´t like the ending. Overall, I felt that -despite the modern topic-  the film lacked depth.Positive The shots of the bus exploding. The terrible premonition and the tremble felt at the bar upon the explosion at the Broadway theater. The maimed arm of the girl coming down the stairs in shock at the same theater. The anguish displayed by the Arab FBI agent as his son is taken prisoner.Negative Not enough realism in some of Washington´s reactions (upon seeing the maimed girl at the theater, he almost cries, which I find inconsistent with the anger and coolness shown while killing the school´s kidnapper or co-ordinating his forces after the bus blast). The verbal fight at the end between Washington and Willis, I felt I was watching Crimson Tide again with a slimmer Gene Hackman. The rapid, inconclusive, and empty ending. It looked as if the writer of the movie got bored all of a sudden and got up to watch David Letterman. The classic, boring, and overplayed scene toward the end of the Arab agent finding his son amid hundreds of people and hugging him as if he was coming out of a Nazi camp (if that was the comparison intended, it failed miserably). Bruce Willis, strange, incoherent character, probably a miscast, it didn´t scare me or triggered any respect on my part as a well dressed general.Overall, a nice film to watch due to the action, but one of those you never have to bother watching again. "},{"Title":"It started out well","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It started out well, then it became another Liberal/Hollywood message of downing the American Military and Tolerance. Amazing. you can see the WTC Towers in the background. This should have been a warning of whats to come. Instead its borderlines on Un-American Hollywood propaganda.Hollywood movies are the most powerful tools of social and political propaganda the world has ever known. Think about it America wins wars only when Hollywood believes in them and puts itself squarely behind America's war effort. During World War II, every studio in Hollywood backed the Allied effort against the Axis. Hollywood's stars raised money for war bonds, and studios produced films that went all out for freedom and liberty against the tyranny of Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan. Hollywood played a huge role in America's victory.I give it a 2/10 only because of my 1st statement. It started out well "},{"Title":"Formulaic and boring beyond belief.","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Only the wonderful Anette Benning is worth it. The script is slow,boring and formulaic, and so cliché ridden. Strictly for (some) teenagers and morons, lots of them around. Only Hollywood can mass produce such stinkers. Another day another dollar for some fat exec cat in Hollywood. Seeing this after 9/11 it isn't even eerie? what is more shocking this unreal junk or the terrorist attack? These propagandising films straight out of the offices and the wallets of that organisation and the Israeli lobby of course, and then there's the real deal.They are gonna hit the march?, one character says, Can you imagine a better target? Well it seems actual terrorists had a better imagination, which says a lot about the screenwriters. To be honest there is a point to be made in that the Americans train their terrorists abroad and then unleash them upon themselves, takes a lot to be world bully, and someone's had to do it. But this simple point doesn't have to make for such bad films.And of course this is whitewashed and watered down because the bad US general is arrested for the torture and murder of an arab suspect, not that much luck for any court marshal in Guantanamo...Washington gives the umpteenth performance of that one character he plays all the time, or about 95% of the time to be precise. Mr. Monk has a role as a side kick too, he's a good actor, but after monk he's too typecast to make him palatable.Like I said Ms. Benning is a wonderful actress, too bad she didn't wear a bullet proof vest. "},{"Title":"The Truth","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A simple comment would be there is great truth in this movie and its impact is being felt some 8 years later.The fear that terrorists bring to the streets around the world today is depicted with sincerity in this movie and how easy people can be deceived by the not very obvious.I am sure that this movie has given great significance to Security concerns around the world.Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, and Frank Shaloub contrasted well in their roles.Well Done "},{"Title":"Underrated and far too relevant today","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"   Edward Zwick had to take a lot of stinging criticism for The Siege upon its release, most of which was unfounded, but it is a film which must be taken more seriously today. Not only because of the controversial politics involved, which have, sadly, just been validated, but cinematically speaking it's also quite accomplished.  Zwick already had one masterpiece under his belt with 1989's Glory, and here is the general look and feel of a director who knows what he's doing. The direction is smooth and accomplished, and particularly geared towards conveying the frightening speed and dark efficiency of what is now a very public type of warfare.  Having said that, the direction is one of the film's major strongholds, and the script is a little light - talky and boyish like 'The Negotiator' but, unlike 'Arlington Road' it lacks real political weight, despite the fact that its messages are very scary indeed. "},{"Title":"Nothing new","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film by accident on cable, having no idea what it was until half way through when I bothered to pick up the TV guide.  Started off interesting enough, displaying flashes of a (far superior) Arlington Road, then unfortunately degenerating into a US/freedom/we are becoming just like them!/I love my country babble fest.  Interesting to note that half the production team have Jewish names.  On the surface you could look at this film and say, but its saying that racism against Arabs is bad, but the 'we are becoming just like them' quotes that just keep coming really show where the true colours of the script writer lie.  Politics aside, I did watch this to the end, and found most of the acting okay, (although Bening is annoying).  Best part of this film is that it goes to extremes that we haven't come to expect from Hollywood.  A bus blows, then a theatre, then a school under siege, it's like god, what will they blow up next?, then the whole city is under siege!!!  One good point that I did note in one of the above reviews was about the citizens of NYC not fighting back against the army, but if we can't have a little suspension of disbelief then Hollywood would be out of business.  Overall, watch it if it is too cold or wet to go to the video library and/or you just want to stare blankly at the screen. "}{"Title":"The Siege","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Well back in 1998 this entire premise seemed quite far fetched, virtually in the realms of fantasy by the kind of overly paranoid Yanks that stockpile guns and tinned food. Then unfortunately the unthinkable happened as America was indeed attacked and hit hard on their own turf with the dreadful September 11, 2001 terrorist suicide bombings of the World Trade Center in New York. It is only now that this film really does have a much darker meaning with the events of the movie disturbingly realistic when once thought of as hyper reality.The story simply sees New York under threat from terrorists in random attacks across the city by an unknown force suspected to be Arabic. Its up to Denzel Washington and Tony Shalhoub to track down and stop the attackers before things get out of hand. Of course things do get way way out of hand as the attacks become more ferocious and the FBI's leads dwindle. In the end the military are drafted in as martial law is declared with Brooklyn locked down around the Arabic community.Apart from the very real threat of terrorist attacks anywhere at anytime the films main focus is on racial profiling, hardcore stereotyping and prejudice. There is a strong morality tale between good and evil that not only covers the obvious but the use of Nazi-like tactics by American troops on Arabic/Muslim American citizens as they are rounded up and detained in mass makeshift holding areas. I really don't need to go into the obvious concentration camp connections here do I. But there is more as we also get Bruce Willis (badly miscast) as a Major General who is intent on getting information out of suspects in any way possible, illegally of course. Here you see the little twist of the Yanks being no better than the terrorists they are fighting, becoming what they fear and stand against, taking away the right to a court of law, innocent before proved guilty, liberty and justice, human rights go bye bye.When the sh*t hits the fan and terror is taking control of the streets, power is granted to various officials, its then that we see the darker side of some people. Willis' character has the orders to basically protect his country and the American way of life by any means necessary, do what needs to be done whilst the upper echelons look the other way. Of course Washington's character stands firm and will not allow this kind of behaviour to carry on, there are still laws and rights. Gotta be honest though at times you do feel he is being too PC considering the circumstances, he's almost too heroic and saintly when in reality someone might buckle. The message is forced even more once Shalhoub's sons is also rounded up and taken away causing him to toss his badge. The message slaps you across the face sure but it works effectively.This being a Washington movie you know its gonna be decent, you just know...and this doesn't disappoint. Visually its very slick and effective in getting across its now very realistic message. The only let down for me was probably Bening who didn't really fit her part in my opinion, she comes as someone more concerned about their hair looking right plus her plot setup with the Middle Eastern chap is too obvious really. Tension is reasonable but the film is a little too mainstream for you to actually start sweating over the outcome, its not like Washington is gonna bite the bullet is it, everyone else is fair game but not Denzel. The ending is way too God bless America for my liking, although expected. Too neat and tidy as all the citizens are released with schmaltzy hugging scenes and Washington preaching about their forefathers and how they fought and died for the life they have today. He's right sure but it feels too much like an all American Boy Scout speech, you half expect the Star-Spangled Banner to kick off with fireworks in the sky.As said its funny how back in 1998 this all seemed so unlikely, the notion that the US could be attacked on their own soil in such a devastating way. This whole martial law scenario and the rounding up of specific people was always possible but it still felt more like an old World War II flashback. These days the entire aspect has come true to a certain degree although not as bad as depicted in the film, its a much easier prospect to see becoming a reality within the US these days that's for sure. In the end the story boils down to the terrorists winning on a psychological level simple because the US way of life has been changed dramatically. Justice and democracy have gone out the window, fear and suspicion sits in its place. 6/10 "},{"Title":"An effective cautionary tale about the effects of repression","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I must join many of this site's others writers who have noted this movie's eerie prescience; reviewers in 1998 had no way of appreciating the filmmakers' many uncanny predictions.One element of the movie that stood out for me was the portrait of the American citizen, upstanding FBI agent, and decent man Frank Haddad, played flawlessly by Tony Shalhoub. Through the actions of the government in consenting to martial law and the internment of American citizens and residents of Middle Eastern descent, Shalhoub's character was wrenched out of his life-long unquestioning American patriotism. With the prospect of his son's being tortured or even killed, he came to see that the concept of justice for all might be a very conditional and situational idea indeed.Injustice happens everywhere on this planet, and this cannot justifiably serve as an excuse for committing violence. But at the same time, when injustice becomes the actual policy of a government, it is not surprising if the victims of the injustice fail to retain a complacent attitude of loyalty to said government. The movie makes the practical consequences of the philosophy we will control 'them' all too plain.If a government asks its citizens to fight and sacrifice on the basis of its status as the embodiment of justice and the rule of law, then it must act according to those principles, or forfeit any claim to its citizen's hearts and minds. The Siege does a remarkably even-handed job of showing (among other things) the anguish of a man whose illusions (of having given his loyalty to a nation that deserves it) are shattered by a shift in the political winds.Those winds can shift all too easily, and this movie reminds us of that danger. "},{"Title":"Fantasy = Reality? Also, a standout performance by Tony Shalhoub","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When I saw The Siege in the theater in 1998, I thought it was a flawed, but entertaining what-if thriller. It had a very good performance by the always dependable Denzel Washington, an underrated performance by Bruce Willis, and a somewhat disappointing performance (perhaps because the role was underwritten) by a slightly miscast Annette Bening. Who would've known that something tragic like the attacks in New York City, the Pentagon and the plane crash in western Pennsylvania. Some reviewers dismissing the film thought the film's good ideas became muddled and confused in the end. Seeing what's happening in the world right now, I don't think the confusion was way off. I felt before the tragedy and afterward that it was pretty accurate. The one performance that really impressed me was Tony Shalhoub as Frank Haddad, the Arab-American police detective who's partnered with Washington's character. I hope screenwriter Lawrence Wright (with Menno Meyjes) and co-writer/director Edward Zwick, didn't create Haddad as an afterthought. There was some major controversy on how Arabs were portrayed in the film. (Note the U.S. running time compared to some other countries.) What stood out for me when I first saw the movie and still lingers is Shalhoub's character. His character seemed human. We see him at work and at home with his wife and children. We see him and his family practicing the Muslim faith. There's a pivotal moment when Haddad is trying to find his son in an internment camp. He's angry and confused and frustrated. I really felt sympathy and empathy toward his character. With all of the explosions, I still feel that Shalhoub, despite being what is, essentially, a supporting character, was the truly human aspect The Siege. "},{"Title":"A great movie unfairly and foolishly passed up by most","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've heard a plethora of critics and other such individuals wrongly calling this movie anti-Arab. To make that accusation makes about as much sense as accusing Schindler's List of being anti-Semitic. It simply doesn't make sense. The movie is about PEOPLE who are racist, but people seem to be making the mistake of thinking that the movie itself is racist; in other words, they are mistaking the messenger for the message. Ever since the '80's, there have been a whole string of movies (Wanted Dead or Alive, Executive Decision, etc.) that have featured Arabs as bomb-laying terrorists, yet none of these movies have so much as raised an eyebrow with critics. If this movie was so anti-Arab, then why would it make one of the main heroes (Frank, played by Tony Shaloub) an Arab? And why would it show only a few Arab terriorists, while showing hundreds of innocent Arab-American citizens who never hurt anybody and are just victims caught in the crossfire? And it's a shame that this is the case, too, because this is acutally one of the best movies that was released this year.Filled with powerful drama and suspense, and some terrific performances (including a surprisingly good one by Bruce Willis, and Denzel Washington and Annette Bening are great as usual). The terrorist attacks are frighteningly realistic, and some of the visual images, such as troops marching through downtown New York and enforcing martial law, are truly powerful and disturbing. This is a truly great film; ignore the misguided criticism and go see it!   "},{"Title":"''If we torture him, General,everything we have fought, and bled, and died for is over. And they've won. They've already won!''  **** out of *****","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" There isn't anything I can add to everything else that has been written here, obviously this is clearly a movie which is brilliantly made but difficult to watch especially since 9/11 - this came out 3 years before and the story pretty much follows exactly what happened after a terrorist attack on U.S. Soil to a huge degree,A lot of the Right-Wingers here kick this movie for being Far-Left Propaganda, (the usual suspects who get their news From FOX and listen to Rush Limbaugh on the radio, and believe Obama's a Socialist) The Film isn't in the least bit Left-wing, it takes both sides, Obviously the biggest threat to the US and indeed the UK comes from a 'MINORITY' of Fundemantal Muslims, That's not being Anti-Muslim, that's just FACT, But it also shows the completely unjustified level of action taken by the General/Armed Forces in the film (Torture/Murder/Keeping all People of a Middle Eastern Appearance quarantined - Without taking into consideration the number of White ordinary Joe's who have converted to Islam) so taking all that into to consideration, this is pretty much an unbiased view which sadly came true 3 years after it's release. Denzel Washington, Bruce Willis & Annette Benning are all fantastic in their roles, and the film ends up feeling very claustrophobic & uncomfortable to watch***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"***1/2","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Just what we all feared comes very true in this film. A series of terrorist attacks in New York leads to martial law being declared, Arab families divided as their men are placed in a stadium. Anyone remember the Japanese internment camps.Even more frightening if possible is the mistrust that exists between the army, CIA and FBI in this film.Denzel Washington is perfect as the super patriotic FBI man who seems to get his objectives, only for another incident to take place. Annette Bening is also quite good as a CIA operative who is duped by Palestinians she has tried to aid and Bruce Willis goes all out as the army general to show what martial law can really be like when it's put into practice. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood, but it was still pretty lousy","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Many people have complained that this film was racist and anti-Arab, but that really isn't true.  The ultimate point of the film was that we shouldn't follow stereotypes and consider all Arabs to be a bunch of bloody thirsty terrorists, because that is what the US does in the film, with plainly horrible results.  But ultimately having Arabs running blowing things up and talking in stereotypical high-pitched voices(Do you want to die?!), even if they are portrayed as a minority, does not help the message of the film.  One person suggested that the film should have had Arabs getting blamed for the attacks of some domestic terrorist group.  This plot would have served the film's message better.  The group that Zwick really portrays badly in this film is the US army.  All the army characters, especially the one portrayed by Bruce Willis, are arrogant, racist, cruel, and stupid.  Remember that Zwick also made Courage Under Fire, a film which the army backed its support out of at the last minute, a move which must have angered Zwick considerably, because it clearly caused many production problems in a film with large and costly battle scenes.  Whatever his other motives, Zwick probably made this movie at least in part because it gave him a chance to portray the army badly. In any event, this movie was really not very good.  "},{"Title":"This kind off movies can only be made by Bruckheimer","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This kind off movie can only be made by Bruckheimer. Now it's a big mistake. Maybe enjoyable for 10 whole minutes. Waste of money, waste of talents, waste of 2 hours off my live. (minus 10 minutes) "},{"Title":"Decrepit Annette Bening","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Once upon a time I was in love with her. Now she looks like a garbage. How can The Siege do this to her? I think that this film is a B-film uncovered. And this is one of the good things in it. In the other hand, the fight between the CIA, the FBI and the BBC is bored. Why does Bruce Willis always the same role? The director hardly gets a 6 rated. "},{"Title":"Nice action, but falls flat philosophically","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very entertaining and the action scenes are believable. However the attempt to make the audience contemplate international relations, Constitutional law, and government conspiracies falls short.The film is basically a cross between a mindless action film and a film that shocks us to reality such as Saving Private Ryan.Denzel Washington and Annette Benning turn in good performances, but Bruce Willis's screen time is uncharacteristically limited to a few scenes. "}{"Title":"Real nightmare","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" THE SIEGE is a predictable movie from nowadays after we all have experienced the attacks of the 11th September 2001. It's really a nightmare watching all these terrorists that are ready to die for their religion. When this action thriller has been realized nobody expected that the world trade center towers will disappear one day.Denzel Washington made a great job and he should have won the Oscar. Be prepared on some brutal scenes as in UNITED 93. What I missed was the adrenaline and suspense. Therefore there were some good action sequences. My wife and me give 6/10. "},{"Title":"An equal opportunity offender","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The filmmakers have pulled off an amazing feat. They've managed to incorporate offensive stereotypes of Arab Muslims and offensive stereotypes of the American military into the same movie. Although it turns out that the Arab stereotypes exist only in the minds of the stereotypical military goons. Eventually the Arab community is joined by the Jewish community, the black community, the Italian community, the FBI, the CIA, and the courts in a united stand against the evil military. (I don't think that's a spoiler, but I'll put in the Spoiler Alert just to be safe.)But you don't notice any of this until after the movie is over and you've had time to think about it. While watching, even on repeat viewings, this is an exciting and suspenseful thriller, made all the more believable by outstanding performances by Bening, who brings depth and complexity to a CIA agent who screwed up, and Willis, at his scary best as the I am the law general. Washington and Shalhoub are also very good. Even now, having figured out how ridiculous certain elements of the plot are, I will probably rent it and watch it again. "},{"Title":"We should've seen it coming!","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There I was, having a normal dinner (Manila time) when suddenly my Mom hollered out to me about the news she saw on TV of the terrorist attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and my life as well as everyone else's in America was changed forever.  As we witnessed on CNN the horrific destruction of the towers, the very first thing that popped up in my mind was this movie.In sort of an ironic way, this film was prophetic in its message on the impending threat of worldwide terrorism and its roots.  I first saw The Siege at a cinema in New York, the setting of both the film and last week's real terrorist strikes, when it was released three years ago.  Director Edward Zwick may have originally intended this film to be a mix between political comment and thrilling entertainment.  But I sensed something more, an underlying premonition.  What I felt was a warning to American society and abroad, that zealots with clear fanatic intentions can and will do anything to make a statement, whether it means killing a dozen or a million innocent civilians at the most unlikely places.  Another warning the movie conveys is the evil of violating civil liberties, in this case the Gestapo-like roundup by the U.S. military of Arab-American citizens in New York under suspicion of being terrorists.When it first came out, The Siege was such a controversial film largely because it dealt with stereotypical issues associating Arabs with terrorism.  Yes, the script had its problems, I honestly felt the plot concerning the search and capture of the bombing suspects could have been more compelling.  But overall, it makes its point across, that modern society in America and elsewhere needs to be vigil, especially in these times of crisis which we are living in.  Vigil in all ways of life, that is, to always be on the lookout for people with the potential to kill, yet prevent unnecessary anger to be taken out on members of a particular ethnic/religious group just because people from their own group are guilty of heinous crimes.  I myself have close friends who are Muslims and I know them to be good-hearted souls who support the United States and its stance as a bastion for freedom-loving people around the world.  I wouldn't want any officer from the higher levels of U.S. bureaucracy to turn into reality what transpired in the movie, specifically the callous acts of Bruce Willis's military general against Arab-Americans residing in the Big Apple.The Siege has an interesting gallery of quality actors.  Denzel Washington has, well, a dignified screen presence here as with most of his characters in his other movies.  Washington's FBI agent Hubbard brings a desperately needed sense of moral authority and direction in the film, and he is as tenacious and determined to track down the cinematic killers as every FBI agent in the U.S. looking for the real murderers should be at this moment.  Annette Bening gives depth to her politically ambiguous CIA operative who possesses much information on the background of the terrorists and their actual motives.  Bruce Willis's rogue general doesn't have as much screen time, but as I said earlier, his character is a reflection of the dangers of how American society can react to such a situation if succumbed to hate and prejudice.  Arab-American actor Tony Shalhoub rounds up the main cast as Frank Haddad, the dedicated FBI partner of Washington, a significantly non-stereotypical role.          Having been born and raised in the U.S. for most of my life, I can easily identify with the American experience.  I grew up in the country during some harrowing episodes, like the Gulf War and the 1992 Los Angeles Riots, but nothing prepared me for what has happened in New York and what difficult times may lie ahead for America and the world in the global fight against terrorism.  The Siege doesn't offer the best solution as to how the nation should combat religious fanaticism, but it does provide insight into the root causes of some of the worst evil this world has ever seen.  If every country on earth needs a scenario (asides from the collapse of the twin towers) of what would happen if nothing is done to eradicate terrorism, this film should serve as an exceptional guide.  How I wish we heeded it's warning sooner!                                                "},{"Title":"duh, u call that a movie?","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  in 2000-2001, there have been quite a few flicks where the bad guy is across the atlantic .. ala.. the patriot and MI-2. it seems that these film makers dont have the depth in their scripts to let the movie goers get engrossed in a movie, and then think, well he's a bad guy. its even easier now for them. get someone from britain to do it. and if u want terrorism, uve got the whole arab land to choose from, so take ure pick. i think denzel wash. is a very good actor, and even with such a pathetic script he did quite a good job. annette ben. was good in the first half. bruce willis, well he's had better movies ( i love him as an actor though).i think die hard 3 is better than this crap fest if u wanna c a terrorist movie.  "},{"Title":"Big, Bombastic and Boring","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the trailers for this movie it looked great. Big budget,excellent director, top actors. What a disappointment!It starts out okay but just gets more silly and the plot flies up and disappears into the atmosphere after the first hour.Bruce Willis, who I usually like,is completely miscast and rather wooden.Denzel Washington is great but, with his talents, should be starring in better movies than this routine thriller.Not a disaster, but not reccomended either.However, the concept of New York under martial law is interesting. That would be real Zero Tolerance.     "},{"Title":"thoughtful, provocative... but still fails","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is a movie that can fool you. It is well acted, with the likes of Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, and Tony Shalhoub (who's a looong ways from Wings here) strutting their bad self, well directed by Edward Zwick (who's best film to date is Courage Under Fire), and at least tries to intertwine an action/thriller plot with a literate script. At first blush, she's smart and sexy.But there are problems underneath the heavy makeup. The movie is a fantasy that explores the question of what might happen if Arab terrorists went wild in a major American city, in this case New York (obviously getting its inspiration from the Trade Center bombing). The movie wants it both ways - it wants the tension and action of fighting terrorist action on the street, but doesn't want to be anti-Arab. The movie makes constant references as to how most immigrants from Arab countries just want to be regular Americans, and has a huge crowd of people taking to the streets in support of Arabs being detained in internment camps by the Army. The Army, and its overzealous general, William Deveareax (Bruce Willis) is introduced in the last third of the movie as a sort of straw man. Suddenly they are the villains, trampling ordinary citizens' civil rights, as opposed to the terrorists, who are just killing people 600 at a time.This is where the movie wants its cake and eat it too (to mix metaphors with the one I alluded to earlier). If it's Arab terrorists committing these heinous acts, then there's bound to be anti-Arab sentiment. That's the name of the game. I don't know what's worse - the inconsistency of The Siege, or the cartoon bad guys of True Lies. At least in True Lies it was impossible to take the Arab bad guys seriously; they were meant to be funny. The Siege could have been about the struggle between civil liberties and protection from terrorism in a democracy. But it's not. It's a thriller, it's about catching the bad guys. So the movie shuffles out all the usual technical gadgets, spy wizardry, news footage, etc, which is supposed to impress the viewer but confuses him instead. This is a very busy film, there's not enough time to let a development sink in before we are onto the next one. For a better movie on government abuse of power and technology, check out Enemy of the State.(Just as a footnote, a very interesting idea is introduced along the lines of the CIA (and hence Americans) paying the price for its dirty work overseas. For don't kid yourself, the American government has a lot of blood on its hands. Now that would make for an interesting movie). "},{"Title":"Heart Pounding Action That Never Stops!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Before you watch the movie, please be aware that there are some very intense moments that might not be suitable for kids under 14 or people that can't take heart pounding action. The people I was sitting behind of screamed at one of the scenes. And lots of people cried later in the movie.With this said here is my reviewThe Siege is by far one of the best action films out there. It has everything from comedy to action. If you were to watch only one movie this month or this year so far it would have to be The Siege it is great.The cast is great. Bruce Willis is an Army General, Denzel Washington is a FBI agent, Annette Bening and is a CIA agent. At some points of the movie I feel like I'm actually in it.Some of the weapons in this movie are totally awesome and the plot line is great.I would recommend this movie to an film watcher that can take heart pounding action. "},{"Title":"bruce willis is not a bad guy","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" While this plot may seem implausible it really isn't. This movie makes Bruce Willis out to be a bad guy as I'm sure the director intended but I don't think that he is. These are a group of characters forced to do what they have to do. Bruce Willis (MG William Devereaux) takes extreme actions in a situation that calls for them. Call me what you may but in a situation such as what is presented in this movie you have to go by the good of the one is outweighed by the good of the many philosophy. MG Devereaux does what he feels is necessary to complete his mission. Denzel Washington plays a character doing his job much as Willis is. Just in case the audience wavers the character of Frank Haddads (Tony Shalhoub) son is introduced to put a personal feel to the whole situation. "},{"Title":"a revealing movie","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Minor spoilers ahead!A few interesting theories/facts are made visible in this movie1. A free and democratic society is a fragile composition. It is not only vulnerable by a few extremists, but also by the rampant powers of it's own institutions. Even the media itself is part of the problem, insofar it is used by those terrorists as a mouthpiece and multiplier of their campaign and message.2. The hunt for those few terrorists easily turns into a hunt against the citizens everybody is suddenly under suspicion3. As the General Devereaux himself warns against the use of martial law, it is pretty clear that the political establishment (or the government) simply want to hide behind the broad sword of the Army, tolerating again the collateral damage inflicted by its useTo make only the General or the Army responsible for the violence inflicted by the declaration of Martial Law would be short of justice.4. Violence only generates more violence. State-funded violence also generates hatred against the people of that country. The terrorist cells were made by former allies, who turned against their former supporters after being abandoned.The (1998!) movie is a scary reflection of the current situation in many western countries. Yet the happy ending (which still leaves many questions raised) gives not much comfort.Of course this movie cannot cover the whole picture and certainly misses a lot of background information. It is concerned more with a certain aspect of this menace the dealings of the established institutions with the terrorist attacks and the interactions between the various government bodies. "},{"Title":"A Remarkable Film","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is a remarkable movie from the director of Glory (also starring Denzel Washington). Not so much because it was a believable movie at the time it was made, but because of the eerieness of many of the scenes. If you pay attention, there is even a shot of the Twin Towers, which is very unnerving. Denzel Washington standing in front of the rubble of his office, which has just been blown up... This is probably just speculation on my part, but what went through my head when I re-watched this movie recently, is whether it was possible that the 9/11 people had seen this stuff.  Beside the blown up buildings and the shot of the Twin Towers is the way hardline general Bruce Willis goes about solving the problem - doing _exactly_ what Ariel Sharon has recently done in the West Bank. Lock off the town/neighborhood, arrest all males in a specific age range, lock them up in temporary concentration camps (in the Boer War sense of the word) and see who's wanted. One of the more questionable avenues the film takes is the justification of torture to obtain information, although it is also shown to be useless in the second of the two incidences.Another thing to note is that this movie simply isn't the same movie after September 11th. Which is remarkable of itself, because most movies about current events are made before the fact, rather than after. "}{"Title":"Too Close to Reality","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the Siege the first time I watched it.  I then watched it again following the World Trade Center disaster.  It sent a chill down my spine the second time I watched this film.  I think it highlights what could happen following Terrorist activity, and I only hope that in reality we don't do what is portrayed in the film, although we may not be so lucky.The film seems to have done their research regarding Terrorist groups.  If you haven't watched it since the disaster, watch it.  It will surely seem like a different movie now. "},{"Title":"Underrated movie with complex characters","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I can kind of understand why people are knocking this movie. There are some things which don't immediately make sense, and some of the characters do contradictory things.HOWEVER I think people who complain about this are showing some level of ignorance and an unwillingness to appreciate that real people are indeed contradictory! Real people do not make sense! I think this is one of the film's strongest points.These characters are flawed beings, all of them, like us. It made the movie more real to me - and that's saying something, it is a surprisingly realistic portrayal of events - pulls few punches in the explosion scenes, very heartbreaking at times.Stop complaining about this movie, people, and start thinking. "},{"Title":"A griping, action packed story with a strong political and social statement.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't go to see the movie because the trailer was misleading. I was expecting a shallow shoot 'em up, the typical Bruce Willis stuff. I should have known better. I like most of the movies Denzel has been in. When I finally saw The Siege I was pleasantly rewarded.It's a great story, with interesting performances (even Bruce's character was well played), direction and cinematography. And to top it off the story tackles real issues of democracy, political freedom, cultural stereotypes and the political subordinance of the armed forces.Worth watching and thinking about. "},{"Title":"Confused but Misunderstood","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, all the complaints directed to this movie vis a vis anti-Arab prejudice and anti-Bill of Rights are misguided.  This movie was annoying in its repeated efforts to show us the evils of such prejudice, that 99% of Arabs or Muslims are fine people, and that Military takeovers and suspended Civil Rights are EVIL.  OK, I GOT it already. The plot itself deteriorated as soon as the first terrorist cell was wiped - when all hell broke loose, and the Benning character became even more confusing. There were logical lapses too in events how could two dozen machine-gun armed FBI agents just suddenly waltz through the doorway of the Army division HQ  unbothered and untouched? Some of the actions of the division CO, Willis, were not something a two-star general (or even a major) would do.  The Siege started very well, and unravelled in many ways plot, character, and the writer's desperation to not be seen as anti-Arab. It (unjustifiably) didn't work.    "},{"Title":"It Never Sieges the Audience.","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Siege (1998) Dir Edward Zwick / Cast Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, Bruce Willis, Tony Shalhoub, Aasif Mandvi Action film not so much about the tragedy at hand but about the siege of the victims. After a series of terrorist bombings in New York, an F.B.I. Agent, played by Denzel Washington investigates. He arrests a mysterious agent played by Annette Bening who may or may not be helping the guilty. Soon a General moves his troops in and orders that all Arab Americans be fenced in and individually tortured for information. This angers Washington's partner played by Tony Shalhoub whose own son is mistreated. Interesting setup deteriorates into a series of recycled scenes that seem to have materialized from other films. Directed by Edward Zwick who previously worked with Washington in Courage Under Fire, where he delivers another great performance. Zwick is effective at presenting action but his cast are mostly at odds with the material. Washington holds his own but Bening steals the film in her rebellion. The big disappointment is Bruce Willis as the General who is hardly convincing. He barks orders and looks intimidating while reminding viewers that he was even worse in Armageddon the same year. Shalhoub fares well as Washington's partner. The big payoff will seize mainly action lovers. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"THE SIEGE Implications For The World, And For Ourselves","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Nobody who was at Ground Zero in Manhattan, or saw the horror unfolding on live television, can ever forget what happened on September 11, 2001. And in 2015, we saw sizable terror attacks of a decidedly different nature take place some ten thousand miles apart, first in three simultaneous attacks in Paris, and then on a rehabilitation center in San Bernardino, California, just sixty miles east of Los Angeles.But a film released slightly less than three years before the horror of 9/11 may have foreseen the problems we have had to face since then in dealing with terrorism, both militarily and morally. That film was THE SIEGE, released in the fall of 1998.Co-written and directed by Edward Zwick, whose films include the 1989 Civil War epic GLORY, the 1996 Gulf War film COURAGE UNDER FIRE, and the very chilling 1983 TV film SPECIAL BULLETIN, THE SIEGE depicts the various terrorist attacks leveled upon the Big Apple after the CIA abducts a fundamentalist religious leader (Ahmed Ben Larby). The attackers are followers of this radical Islamist sheik, and unfortunately their tactics have the hallmarks of the CIA all over them, something that becomes all too clear when FBI counter-terrorism agent Anthony Hubbard (Denzel Washington) meets up with CIA agent Elsie Kraft, nee Sharon Bridger (Annette Benning), and they try, without a whole lot of success, to catch the perpetrators. But there is much worse to come; as the attacks keep happening, the United States military, under the command of the staunch general William Deveraux (Bruce Willis), takes charge and hunts down virtually anyone in NYC who just might look like a terrorist (i.e., anyone of Arab/Islamic extraction), even if that happens to include Washington's FBI partner (Tony Shaloub). Even though Willis implores the Congress at the start of the onslaught not to use the Army as a police force, when push comes to shove, that's what he does on his own&#x85;and, much to Washington's own personal horror, becomes nothing if not Napoleonic in the worst sense of the word in threatening to kill and torture anyone he personally thinks is a terrorist. Thus, the siege of THE SIEGE isn't the terrorist attacks themselves, but the conflict between Willis and Washington, something made manifestly clear near the end as Willis is about to torture a suspect (Amro Salama), and Washington tells him in no uncertain terms If we torture him, General, we do that and everything we have fought, and bled, and died for is over. And they've won. They've already won! THE SIEGE was, at its time, a fairly controversial film, less for its depiction of terrorism and violence than for what many Americans of Muslim and Arabic origin saw as perpetrating a dangerous stereotype of them, a stereotype that they had every right to rail against then, and do even more so in the wake of Paris and San Bernardino. That being said, however, the film does show what history should have told us that overseas covert or military actions carried out years or decades in the past can result in the kind of nightmarish blowback seen here on screen, or for real in New York, Washington, and Pennsylvania on 9/11. And when martial law is declared in what we like to call our Land of the Free, as happens in this film, then terror can win out, as it almost does even after the attacks themselves stop.Zwick gets plenty of action and tension out of the situation in THE SIEGE, less of a Schwarzenneger free-for-all or even a DIE HARD-type thing (Willis' presence aside) than something more akin to the 1977 John Frankenheimer classic BLACK Sunday; and Washington's Everyman-type FBI agent and Willis' hard-assed general are perfect antagonists. THE SIEGE might have been seen as an 'R'-rated popcorn flick in 1998, but now it is something a bit more in light of the last decade and a half of events, both national and international. "},{"Title":"Good pre-9/11 thriller about terrorism","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie follows a thrilling series of escalating terrorist incidents set in New York city.The feel is of a police/action movie. Denzel Washington is a squeaky clean police chief who is the reliable hero of the hour. He can turn his hand to negotiating, gun-toting and plain old hard-talking. As the terrorist incidents escalate, the tensions in how to respond to the threat escalate to fever-pitch.Washington's character is accompanied by Bruce Willis, who plays a general that prefers a direct approach to fighting the terrorism, and Annette Bening as a CIA spook. I didn't think either of these two put in convincing performances - this is Washington's movie really.It's a pre-9/11 movie and for those of us used to modern shows like Homeland, The Siege's depiction of the CIA, torture, and the terrorists themselves can seem unsophisticated and sensationalist. But accepting its limitations, it actually puts quite a strong ethical foot forward. The debates on implementing martial law, the CIA's fraternising with the enemy, and the racial profiling of suspects - are all tackled reasonably well.The Siege is not a perfect film but it is exciting, thought-provoking and very watchable. "},{"Title":"Martial Law...","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I understood at first this movie bombed, it was an improbability that the United States would be attacked with all its security measures to protect the population...In this post 9/11 era, now it sounds eerie and terrifying...The FBI and the Army clashed on how to stop multiple attacks done by some terrorist cells, Muslim-related, all due to some secret black-ops by the CIA, and backed blindly by an Army General...Good acting by Denzel Washington, Tony Schaloub mostly. Annette Bening does a good job as the confused CIA agent and we would never knew Bruce Willis, in his turn as tough-as-nails General Devereaux, would be as well turn up to be a bad guy in a democracy turned into martial law and send thousands of innocent Arab citizens just to find some dangerous terrorists...Good movie to make you think... And was shot less than 4 years before the Twin Towers fell down... Of course, they're there on this movie... "},{"Title":"Effective movie on a relevant topic with an ending that contradicts its message","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1998, The Siege chronicles events as New York City becomes the target of escalating terrorist attacks after the abduction of an Islamic leader by the US military. The head of the FBI's Counter-Terrorism Task Force (Denzel Washington) teams up with a CIA operative (Annette Benning) to hunt down the terrorist cells responsible for the attacks. Ultimately, the US government declares martial law and sends in the troops, led by General Devereaux (Bruce Willis). Tony Shalhoub plays the FBI agent's Arab-American partner while Sami Bouajila plays a seemingly suspicious Arab-American.While clueless PC morons have criticized this movie as racist propaganda it dared to show the awful truth in the late 90s and was nigh prophetic in light of 9/11 occurring less than three years later. There are numerous noble Arab-Americans Arab, and the movie emphasizes this, but &#x96; let's be honest &#x96; there are also Islamic whack-jobs in our midst who enjoy blowing themselves up with as many innocents as possible so they can go home to Allah and 72 virgins (or whatever).I like the fact that General Devereaux (Willis) isn't a black or white character and viewers can have completely different views about whether or not he's actually a villain. The movie shows that he's a professional soldier who warns the governmental leaders exactly what would happen under martial Law, a suspension of all civilian rights guaranteed under the constitution, clearly cautioning them that they might not like the form of medicine martial law dishes out. But it's a desperate situation and they give him the go-ahead, so he offers up exactly what he said he would give. He has his methods to protect his country and performs them with conviction. The terrorists were killing masses of innocents and he's commissioned to stop it, which is what he does, PC or not. Does this make him evil? These are questions the movie provokes and you'll have to answer them for yourself.This is a quality movie that frankly addresses relevant topics and tries to be fair and balanced, but it sorta shoots itself in the foot at the end. Read the spoiler commentary below for details.The film runs 116 minutes and was shot in New York City with a couple scenes in California.GRADE B- ***SPOILER ALERT*** DON'T READ FURTHER IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM One of the main points of the movie is that it's wrong to mistreat Muslim-Americans by profiling them, rounding them up and subjecting them to investigation outside normal procedures because it's equivalent to the internment of Japanese Americans during WW2. There are two problems with this (1.) It isn't the same issue. Interning the Japanese was wrong because the government was rounding them up based on their ETHNIC HERITAGE. The Feds would've interned German-Americans if they used the same logic. The issue with Muslim terrorism isn't ethnicity, but rather religion. Statistically, most terrorists against the US are Muslims of Middle Eastern descent. Therefore profiling them is simply acting in accord with statistics. That's just cold hard logic, not racism. By contrast, interning Japanese-Americans during WW2 wasn't logical.(2.) More importantly, the movie undermines itself by having Samir turn out to be a radical suicide bomber. This revelation demonstrates that peaceful Muslims can't be trusted, just as the Army and their supporters believed (in the movie). There's no reason to assume that any of the rank-and-file Muslims depicted couldn't have turned out to be terrorists just like Samir. This being the case, the army was right to intern and interrogate them. As you can see, the movie takes a noble position and then inexplicably contradicts it. "},{"Title":"Important Film","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Powerful cautionary tale regarding America's response to Arab terrorism. Produced before the tragic 9/11 attacks in New York City, this film is stunning in the way it is so prescient. It is also unrelenting in suspense and building the tense environment that follows terrorism perpetrated by rampaging Arabs. Some of the sequences are truly haunting and one scene in particular where Bruce Willis, the commander of the military force in Manhattan, is framed by the Twin Towers is simply startling. Tony Shaloub gives a tremendous performance as an Arab- American FBI agent who witnesses his innocent son incarcerated in a Central Park camp surrounded by barbed wire. A scene involving him and Washington outside the fence of that camp absolutely steals the motion picture and puts Shaloub on the map as one of this country's finest actors. "}{"Title":"Not a great film but has hidden depth","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is not the best film I've seen. Its wooden performances justly won it the 1999 Razzie for worst acting. The story progresses rapidly although there is no proper plot development. The film thus remains quite hollow. The film ends with the viewer feeling dissatisfied as it the premise held much promise and it could have resulted in a far more entertaining piece if it were handled differently.However. And it is a big However. This film was released in 1998. For anyone who's ignorant enough to not realise the significance of this I'll spell it out for you. 1998 is three years before 2001, and 2001 is the year when 9/11 happened.This film therefore concerns the tricky concepts of terrorism and Islamic violence, jihad and stereotyping before the War on Terror began. I know from my political studies classes that American's seem to believe that this began after 9/11 and they would be right. However the religion of peace has ostensibly been at war with America for far longer.Another tricky subject covered in this film is the infringement of civil rights by the government in combating the threat of terrorism. The right to habues corpus, to not be tortured or the right to privacy are covered in The Siege amongst others.The film is not very good but serves as an eerie predictor of the post 9/11 world with such rights being increasingly infringed upon and no end in sight for the Islamic Jihad against the West. "},{"Title":"Great promising 1st half","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The US captures an Islamic religious leader in Lebanon. FBI agent Anthony Hubbard (Denzel Washington) heads a task force to investigate a series of attacks in New York. CIA agent Elise Kraft (Annette Bening) helps to hunt down the terrorist cells responsible for the attacks.This starts off great as the two agents can't cooperate. Tony Shalhoub also stars as an FBI agent. It's tense, and smart. The action isn't the ridiculous over the top type, but very compelling.As the attacks continue, US troops led by General Devereaux (Bruce Willis) are sent into the streets of New York City. That's when this movie gets out of hand. Martial law just seems unrealistic. They had the real life example of Oklahoma City bombing. This is an over reach by the writers. The whole thing just turns ridiculous. "},{"Title":"What's it all about?","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In my humble opinion, director Edward Zwick has been on a steady downhill slide since his impacting, important film from 1989, Glory. It won Denzel Washington a Best Supporting Actor Oscar, and taught us much about the American Civil War. Since then he has presented us with an average collection of movies including the dull Legends of the Fall and this confusing 90's thriller, The Siege. Even the 1986 Rob Lowe, Demi Moore film About Last Night&#x85;. was better.It is just unclear what The Siege is all about, or rather what it was intended to be all about. Given the serious subject matter, one cannot simply decide it is merely another action movie. Ed Zwick had to be trying to say something here, but what? The pic clearly starts out as an anti-terrorist feature, yet could have at any time become anti-United States government. Then the CIA appears (remarkably only one agent), and the film begins to become an agency stand off, with determined FBI agent Washington trying to stop CIA operative Annette Bening messing with his case. Just when you believe the film has found its focus, in hops megalomaniac general Bruce Willis and his army forces, and suddenly the theme is anti-martial law. I could go on. Zwick also manages to throw in references to subjects such as religious fervour, loyalty, revenge, retribution, restoration, justice and human rights.Denzel Washington delivers a performance of strength and determination sadly wasted on this film. Annette Bening also tries hard as the CIA covert operations agent who appears to be as confused about her agenda as everybody else. Of course she had her work cut out trying to convince us she had a conscience. Then there's Bruce Willis, who is, simply, Bruce Willis. He desperately needed more to chew on. The most fortunate of the actors is Tony Shalhoub, who gets the pick of the roles as the FBI guy torn between country and heritage. His is a showing that warranted more screen time. The technical team do a top job turning New York into a war zone, while the military score is from none other than James Horner.What a pity Ed Zwick, the scripters, or both, could not decide on a definite direction for this pic. Either that, or they tried to cram it with too much material.Monday, December 28, 1998 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"an interesting story that loses momentum after a while","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Anthony Hubbard is a respected and headstrong FBI agent who has his hands full when the entire city of New York becomes the target of crippling terrorist attacks. Aided by a CIA operative (Bening) and his own team of agents he tries to resolve the situation in a sound and lawful manner, but when the U.S. Army (led by tyrannical general Willis) take over and declare martial law, it leads to an outbreak of fear, discrimination, and hostility against innocent Arab-American citizens. Believable, well-acted thriller holds your interest, and manages to build some suspense and excitement, but eventually it drains and loses the intensity it needs to really make it soar. **½ "},{"Title":"We have met the enemy & they is us","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The title I chose expresses what this movie seems to be about. This movie is eerily prescient and worth viewing for that reason. I agree with an earlier reviewer who said that the movie lacks a clear villain, but I submit that this is because Bruce Willis's character turns out to be the real villain. Does the movie vilify Muslims? Not without qualification. The last scene of the movie instantly reminded me of the news footage of Palestinians rejoicing over the destruction of the World Trade Center--which was obviously not the filmmakers' intention at all because this movie was released in 1998! My reaction is the opposite of what the filmmakers intended back then. Director Ed Zwick wanted the audience to empathize with the Muslims who had been unconstitutionally detained by the US government. Some Muslims do some bad things, but the movie deliberately loses focus on that. The character Samir, at the end, reveals that he is pretty vicious and devious, but the Muslim character who really sticks with me is Frank Haddad, the Lebanese Shi'ite played by Tony Shaloub. He is the most sympathetic character in the movie. This is largely because Shaloub is a great actor, of course, but it's also because he is supposed to be sympathetic in the script. I did think there was one inconsistency (although I could have missed something); I thought Willis's character was convincing in his initial opposition to martial law--until he was put in charge of it. I never understood whether he was faking opposition knowing that they would put him in charge because of his feigned reluctance, or if he was corrupted over-night by all the power he was given. I somewhat agree with HLMencken above who suggests this movie has a hate America first element to it, but I disagree with those who think we have dodged the anti-libertarian bullet this movie warns against. The real world story since 9-11 is not yet over. It is uncertain that the measures taken in the real world have been either appropriate or effective, and the US military has detained at least one American citizen since 9-11 where the evidence against him may be good, but who knows because his right to a hearing has been violated just as in the movie. In the movie it becomes clear much more quickly that the measures taken are too extreme. Movies tend to set up extreme situations so they can excite the audience, but who would have thought this one would come so close to reality? I also agree with Menckie that the movie perpetuates the myth that the CIA has trained a lot of Muslim terrorists in a hands-on way. Mostly, the CIA has given some money to third parties (Saudis and Pakistanis, let's say) who then gave it to the wrong people. Also, the notion that you could use a woman agent to train devout Muslim fighters, as suggested in the movie, is laughable. They tend to be male chauvinists and would not be likely to accept her leadership. I thought Willis's performance was amazingly understated. He played his character so that when he gave press conferences, he sounded like a monotoned non-professional rather than an actor playing a role. The acting of this movie is another good reason to see it.  "},{"Title":"Good - and relevant idea - but poorly paced","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The premise behind this movie is sound (and all-too believable these days), the dialogue well-written, and Washington and Shalhoub not only well act their roles but make their characters very likable. Yet this movie doesn't quite reach its roles.(Spoilers ahead)For one thing, I thought that the movie wasn't properly paced out. The first part of the movie (before Willis' character takes command when martial law is enacted) goes on too long. Then the rest of the movie goes WAY too fast. I believe the movie would have been greatly improved had there been more focus on everything that was happening during the martial law period - the reactions of citizens (Arab and non-Arab), what Willis and his soldiers were doing, the investigation by Washington and his team. As well, Willis' sudden transformation into someone reluctant to get involved in this mess to someone who blatantly breaks the law is unbelievable.(End spoilers)There is some good stuff in this section of the movie, but the way it's presented, at times it's almost an afterthought. In fact, the movie rushes so much to finish itself, that at the end you realize that there are a few loose ends it neglected to resolve.Not a terrible movie, and not a great movie. Not boring, but you see a waste of potential throughout. "},{"Title":"Good premise, horrible execution","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  THE SIEGE is one of the movies I watch and think  Great idea! Badly done!  What's worse is the amount of talent involved here with banal, on-the-nose dialogue.  Still, Washington, Bening and Shaloub do the best they can.  But they can't save a movie with bad pacing (is this action or a thriller?  The tone is all over the place) and the barest of storylines. Color me disappointed. "},{"Title":"great movie about terrorism and the middle east","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I'm currently writing a paper on the Oklahoma City bombing.  I've been doing a lot of research on terrorism and thought of this movie.  It's a great movie to check out if you want to learn about terrorism and the US.  Thanks! "},{"Title":"Good moral, Great Acting, Bad Plot.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the attempt at showing how egotistical and racist we Americans can be, which is something we should be ashamed of.  But the plot, although good in the first 30 minutes of the movie, leaves us all confused and disappointed.Denzel Washington, Tony Shalhoub, and Annette Benning put in fine performances but I thought Bruce Willis was horrible in this movie.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Confusion Reigns","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Alfred Hitchcock is supposed to have said that movies are like life but with the boring bits cut out. This is the movie which proves the exception. The script is confusing, the characters' motivation clouded, the holes in the plot swiftly passed over. Somewhere in there is a thoughtful movie with a social conscience, but it is paralysed by too much plot and no suspense. A great cast left high and dry is the result.  "}{"Title":"Terrorists hold New York City to ransom","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  THE SIEGE ( rating, * * * ½ out of 5 )From writers Lawrence Wright, Menno Meyjes and Edward Zwick who also directs, comes this modern thriller that contains plenty of gloss and lashings of style.FBI Agent Anthony Hubbard, (Denzel Washington) CIA Officer Sharon Bridge, (Annette Bening) and Army General Devereax, (Bruce Willis) form a somewhat strained coalition as they combat a rash of terrorism in New York City.Each party has an agenda and the fight for power becomes ruthless and in the army's case, very un-American as Martial Law is declared. Desensitized New Yorkers have seen just about everything, but tanks and armored troop-carriers rolling through Times Square takes the cake.This is better than most of what Hollywood is throwing at us these days, and this is due to some good performances and some very slick directing. The use of slow motion is effective and the scenes of chaos and confusion as bombs explode all over New York are very convincing.Edward Zwick attempts to introduce a strong human-element to the violence and in general terms succeeds. The usual macho heroics where brutality has no consequence is traded for failure, anxiety and frustration.Even after all its good intentions, 'The Siege' still feels like a studio picture where the suits  were definitely calling the shots, and this becomes apparent in the editing. Pedestrian cutting numbs what could have been powerful scenes of human drama because in the true tradition of formula film-making, the powers that be concentrate more on the action.I have little doubt Edward Zwick went for broke on this picture but was hampered by the clones who make a career out of hobbling good film-makers.Denzel Washington is in fine form and Annette Bening is always worth the price of admission. However, this film does manage to answer the question we have all asked at one time or another. Yes, Bruce Willis is actually human. His portrayal of General Devereax is intelligent and very intense showing none of the android like qualities that represent his past performances.All in all, 'The Siege' is a very enjoyable picture despite its conservative editing and suspect continuity. One can nitpick all they want, but because this film falls under the classification of good entertainment, most shortcomings should be ignored in favor of allowing this movie to entertain you. "},{"Title":"Could be better, could be worse","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't all that bad an action flick, although it's easy to see why Arab people were upset about it.  Despite the hurried, stupid ending, I think it's a real portrayal of the type of terrorist violence that could easily be perpetrated on North American soil.  Denzel Washington has never played a bad role in his life, Annette Bening is strong as a worn, slutty CIA agent, and Tony Shalhoub shows he's more than the jackass cabbie from Wings.Taking all Arabs captive was going way too far, but I think the movie's producers were angling at the U.S. government's history of secretive, often brutal operations.  There's no way that could ever happen, but as a former resident of NYC, the possibility of mass terrorism stays in the back of your head all day. "},{"Title":"Credibility stretched almost to the breaking point","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is not a badly-made movie, but the whole premise it's based on falls apart about two-thirds of the way through.  There's a big disconnect between a rash of terrorist bombings in New York and an Army takeover of the city.  I just didn't find it believable that a US president would allow the military to take over the largest US city, discarding all pretenses of constitutional rights within 24 hours, for the sole purpose of finding 20 suspected terrorists.  This is something the FBI could accomplish much more effectively, and without shutting down a whole city.  In fact, the Denzel Washington character correctly points out that the Army's round-em-all-up methods will only make the job of finding the terrorists that much harder. What does the Army really know about surveillance and investigating terrorists, anyway?  This is what FBI agents are trained for, and the movie itself seems to be leading in that direction until the Army is abruptly thrust on the scene.  Once again, Hollywood has taken a rather simplistic, and often erroneous, view of the US government for the sake of shocking us about its seemingly omnipotent powers.  If Hollywood really wanted to raise red flags about federal intrusions on the freedoms of Americans, they should make a movie solely about the powers of the FBI itself or the IRS.  Stirring a bunch of claptrap about the CIA, NSC and the Army into a movie like this just doesn't hold water.The flawed premise of The Siege aside, it is watchable and fairly entertaining, at least for the first two acts.  There is some real tension in the early bus explosion scene.  Annette Bening is captivating to watch, and is fortunately spared the lame dialogue that Washington and Willis must utter later on.  The Siege does raise important questions about how far we as a society should go in infringing on personal freedoms for the sake of ensuring personal safety.  I would recommend it on that basis.   "},{"Title":"Only The Peacemaker beats this one!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie a piece of thrash. The plot is one of the most silly I have ever seen. Bruce Willis is terrible. A CIA agent and terrorist trainer (Annette Benning) cries when she realizes all the evil she's made...(!!!) The best thing in this movie is still Denzel Washington. He's getting better with every  movie he stars. However he must try to accept better scripts. But I also comprehend that the money must have been good...  "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very unnerving, very relevant, and uncannily prescient.Consider for a moment1) Terrorist bombing by Muslim extremists of a major building in downtown NY, 2) Multiple terrorist cells operating in NY, 3) Disorganization within (and) in-fighting between federal agencies, namely FBI and CIA and NSA, 4) Military presence in American cities post-bombing, 5) Detainment of US citizens without due process (think Guantanamo Bay, Cuba)Now, consider for a moment that when the lights go up and the credits roll, the Hollywood version has come to a happy ending... but this situation is still alive and well in the USI don't want to start getting into politics here, this film was excellent not only on a stand alone basis, but also because this could have easily been written post-9/11. The fact that it was made pre-9/11 makes one think that WE DID NOT DO ENOUGH to stop 9/11...This film should have put a fire under the asses of the FBI, CIA, NSA, INS, etc. but it didn't.If there were enough warning signs to create a fictional 9/11 (particularly post-the first WTC bombing in '93), then there should have been enough warning signs to catch those responsible for 9/11. Why? "},{"Title":"Remarkably prescient","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this movie in 1998, it scared me.  It felt so real.After September 11th, I saw it again.  My heart stopped.***some Spoilers***I've read most of the comments on this film, and also the reviews, and I'm genuinely surprised at how negative people are.  People said this movie was over the top, unbelievable, the performances were too dramatic, the events unreal, etc.  And yet, every single thing that happened in the film, happened in real life.  In fact, real life surpassed the film.  Protecting the Arab population, military at the airports, the FBI's reaction, the loss of retail sales in NYC, the politics, the relationship between the FBI and CIA, the names of the countries they cited that support terrorism. In the film they bombed a theater.  In real life, they took down the World Trade Center.There are people out there who love to criticize everything Hollywood.  But in this case, Hollywood not only predicted reality, it showed us in graphic detail what it would be like.  That's what movies are supposed to do give us an experience in a theater that simulates life in a meaningful way.In this case, the simulation became reality. "},{"Title":"Post 9/11 viewing confirms this film's excellence.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Much has been made of the films topic of terrorism and the likelyhood of the events occuring in real life. I remember when the film originally released, one major gripe was the unlikely events that occur.But I submit that this is not the major revelation of this film, rather, it is the amazing detail and research that went into it. Words like Hamas and terrorist cell and jihad were paramilitary terminology when this film originally showed, and the techniques and doctrines of terrorist groups, now so familiar to us thanks to CNN, were the knowledge of a few military buffs.Yet this film explores these things with great accuracy and surprisingly fresh relevence, all in a well acted, well developed plot, which, at the enthralling conclusion, hits at (what I feel) is the very heart of the issue that is terrorism. And without being too offensive to either side of the issue.Please see this film, it is exactly the kind of movie that needs to be made now more than ever, but never could be made again. "},{"Title":"All too real","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out, and I thought it was a good, exciting film.  I even rented it on video afterwards, which is not something I do often.  I thought it's main point, which it made well, was that what goes around, comes around.Several days after September 11, 2001, this movie kept coming back into my thoughts.  I remembered some general parallels, like the attacks taking place in New York City.  One news show I watched even showed an excerpt from the movie where General Deveraux basically says, This is war, and, The fact that the battle is taking place on our own soil only makes it a new kind of war.  This and the other things he says in this speech make a fascinating parallel to President Bush's characterization of the conflict we are in today.So I rented The Siege again to see what my subconscious was trying to tell me, and I was surprised by my own reaction to it.  At certain points in the film, I became more emotional than I had when watching the same scene before 9/11.  Some of the scenes, images, and emotions shown by the characters are very evocative of what actually happened on 9/11 and the weeks afterward.There are little pieces of audio or dialog planted throughout the movie, seemingly thrown in as general commentary, or afterthoughts, which are very similar to what I've heard said and reported on news shows in this day and age, and which are talked about at great length now.  I noticed all of these little details, which I used to just gloss over.  It's as if the creators of this movie REALLY thought about the scenarios surrounding, What would happen if there was a terrorist campaign taking place in New York City? What would our reactions be?  How would the country react?  I think they read this country, or perhaps just plain humanity, pretty well.Even though the events in the movie do not exactly match the events, much less coming nowhere near to the enormity of what happened in real life, you can see parallels all over the place.  It's truly amazing when you think about how it came out 3 years ago.*** Spoiler warning.  What follows will give away some of the plot ***The movie presents two extremes, for which I give it the benefit of the doubt.  Had the writers compromised on this, I think it might've made the movie less interesting Either the U.S. stays status quo with respect to the government using its traditional police powers to go after the perpetrators, or it abandons police powers altogether in favor of martial law. Thankfully, the martial law scenario has not come to be in real life, though as Curly in City Slickers once said, The day's not over yet!The movie shows the progress of FBI Agent Hubbard, learning by experience how to face the new threat.  He goes from utter shock and bewilderment from the first attack, to a wise warrior who finally understands what Elise, The CIA operative, had been saying all along, It's lose-lose either way you look at it.  You either lose little, or you lose big, and The most committed wins.  By the time you reach the end of the movie, you, the viewer, will come to understand this as well.Where I thought the movie fell down in the area of art imitating life is in the happy ending.  My first thought was, Oh if only it could be that simple.After viewing it post-9/11, I felt the movie was giving the viewer a couple of instructive messages 1) When directly confronting a terrorist attack, we have to risk the possibility that innocent people will be killed in our efforts to stop the attack from succeeding (it addresses this indirectly), 2) In the fight against terrorism, we must be careful that we do not lose our American soul--our principle that those among us who are not endangering anyone else should be free to live their lives.  Though I never got Agent Hubbard's theory that martial law is just what the terrorists want.  I saw it as a side-effect of the attacks, not an objective of the attackers.The overriding theme is betrayal of trust, and betrayal of our sense of insular safety.I recommend this film for film buffs.  If you saw it before 9/11, watch it again.  If you haven't seen it before, get it.  For those of you who are close to the 9/11 attack--if you lost loved ones or were there when it happened, this movie will hit close to home, and you may want to put off seeing it.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie, but not flawless","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing this movie was a highly enjoyable experience to me. Having said that, let me also say a few things disappointed me about it. I do think this movie is a good source for discussions on international terrorism, and I do think it's a good one in a relatively vertical genre (Arlington Road and countless movies about Ireland spring to mind) but there were a few things about it that weren't very realistic. I'm a moderate fan of the political thriller genre, but I do enjoy watching films like Patriot Games,  The Pelican Brief and this one, and this film's plot - if you choose to accept and believe it - is fascinating. Although there are a few things about it that really take an effort to believe; things - aside from pure cinematographic discrepancies - that distract from the film's theme. To be frank, I was expecting Willis' character to be another character (besides Elise and Washington's FBI agent) whom we, the viewers, would come to know as someone who believes he's doing what's best for his country. Sure, that's his mantra throughout the film, but the screenplay does not allow for Willis' general to come through as a good guy, partially because the president seems to impose the state of martial law too easily. To me, this is a major potential lost in the script. It kind of lacks nuances in this regard. Another golden opportunity for depth in the script would have been exploring what happens when the armed forces (shouldn't it really have been the national guard, and on a related note, do CIA really operate inside the USA?) take on a city and drag their people into the streets. Remember, we're not talking about gun-controlled Poland under German occupation here. We're talking about a part of the USA where there is most likely at least one gun per apartment building. Now, I'm not dead set on gun-control issues, but I've heard stories (sorry, no references this time) about this one Polish ghetto where abuse and rape was kept at a minimum because it's very difficult to keep soldiers motivated when they're facing civilians with guns. In short, I would have appreciated somewhat more of an elaboration on this issue in the movie. Plus, I have to say, the title is beautiful in its ambiguity. To conclude, this is a good - but not great - movie for a thrill, although not entirely credible. And the theme is interesting. I gave it an eight out of ten. I'll definitely watch it again. "},{"Title":"An interesting, thrilling and subtle movie - Go see!","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is a film that, I believe, has been misunderstood and underrated. Much criticism has been levelled at the movie by Arab and Islamic groups, due to its allegedly offensive portrayal of Arabs as Islamic fundamentalists. Particular attention is directed to the events which occur when martial law is declared the army, led by General William Devereaux (Willis) take control of Brooklyn and lock up all young Arabs who fit the potential profile of the terrorist attackers.This event, however, is shown to be wrong and a clear subversion of human rights. The film is especially engaging because of the manner in which it is clearly based on a number of real-life events - from the bombing of the US Army base at Dhahran which opens the movie, to the alleged terrorist networks run by Osama bin Laden, to the role of covert US activities in creating and perpetuating terrorism.Washington's character, FBI Agent Anthony Hubbard, considers himself to be a force for universal good. However, nothing in this film is clear-cut while he criticises the army's activities for their infringements on personal freedoms, we realise that his own investigation is also likely to lead to infringements, albeit of a less visible and painful degree.Not only is this movie interesting and thought-provoking for anyone with an interest in the issues it raises, it is also superbly acted by all involved, and well paced and executed by director Zwick.On the whole a film that raises interesting questions, gives some fairly clear answers, but leaves many smaller issues open for the audience to think about and consider on their own. Rating 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A deep, political action thriller - I liked it!","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I have read other user comments, and when I'm not hearing good film I'm hearing racist garbage!!!!!.Get over it people.I liked the film, and found it gave unique perspective to the plight of the Palestinians and other minority groups in the MidEast (although it could have used more detail on these), and the machinations of various service operatives within the onion that is the US undercover world.It had everything - people dying for what they believed, US cover-ups that we've all become accustomed to, and things blowing up!!! As someone said in the movie What if it was black people? Or any other people?. This film is NOT AIMED AT MIDDLE EASTERN CULTURE!!! There were references to the Oklahoma bombing, and was THAT race-based crime?This film merely uses these people as an example of what ANYONE, no matter the colour of their skin or place in the world, is capable of. It is telling one chapter of a story about terrorism, and it could be anyone from Muslim seperatists through to the cults that seem to spring up and burn down overnight.Highlights for me were the character development. Denzel Washington is always a pleasure to watch, and his portrayal of the guy who just wants to keep his city safe is great, and similar in some ways as Crimson Tide - the ExO reluctant to bomb the world into oblivion. However, I feel he is becoming a little typecast in this upstanding hero role. Try something else Denzel!!!Bruce Willis played very well the man set to do his duty. His ulterior motives remained pure, but his methods went a bit astray at the end. Refreshing to see Bruce Willis playing a 'bad' guy for a change. Not so much 'bad' as 'human'.Benings' first few scenes were a little wooden, and her swearing isn't convincing (she can't say f*$k and sound like she means it). But her character came along nicely at the end.Disappointments the gung-ho, testosterone flag-waving that we have come to expect from the USA. But being a cynical Aussie, that's only natural. Some of the lines were a bit corny.I give it 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well worth the watch.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A harrowingly realistic intellectual movie with a good dose of action. Almost everything about this film was believable - so much so, in fact that I'd say it makes a pretty decent modern commentary on the new terrorism. Strong performances by Denzel Washington and Annette Bening make the film that much more enjoyable, and Bruce Willis didn't hollywood-ize the film either. Entertaining and educational - it is a must see. "},{"Title":"This is the first movie in ages to make me forget I was watching a movie","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Three things struck me about this movie1. How it sucked me in.  At one point, when they were herding Arab-Americans into the stadium/prison camp, I thought to myself, Wow.  When this is all over, this country is going to have some serious problems dealing with the repercussions of this.  Then I realized it was just a movie.2. How completely and totally believable it was.  I can see something like this happening in this country, especially in light of the assumption after the Oklahoma City bombing that it had been done by Arab terrorists.3. How little there was in the way of special effects, and how they weren't necesary.  This movie carries itself on its premise, story, and incredible acting. "},{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege, by all means, is not a horror picture.  It will, however, shock and disturb you more than any teenage slasher picture.  The Siege is about what can happen when our freedom is taken away from us, and we are forced to declare war on ourselves.  I won't reveal the plot, because the surprises start from minute one.  I will say that The Siege is one of the best movies of its kind, if there is one of its kind.  The best part about it is that at first it seems so different of a movie that you believe it to be total fiction.  But when you get out of the theater you realise that the events in the movie could happen tommorow, or next week in your own city.  Instead of relying on big explosives and mass destruction to make this movie they decided to go for really creative ways to tell the audience that something big has happened.  Like all of the FBI agents' phones ringing at the same time.  The thing that puts the cherry on this sundae is Denzel Washington, who's performance is so riveting that he alone will keep you on the edge of your seat.  I pity the person who doesn't see this movie.  I can't wait to get to the theater to see it again.  "},{"Title":"NOT FUNNY!!!  This could happen, scary.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  NOT FUNNY!!!  This could happen, scary. Maybe I forgot this was an entertainment movie not a documentary. It made mockery of the CIA, (which I believe is inept anyway,not so much in concept but in application). Seemed the FBI was in the Hoover years, lawless. Although the threat of terrorism today is ever present, this movie showed how easy it is to accomplish. I don't know how, or why, to condone these acts of these religious zealots. I hope the civilized world can find a solution without mass killing. NOW WE ARE SENDING OUR TROUPS TO THE FAR EAST TO DO JUST THAT. God help us.solution "},{"Title":"A movie that shows society  What could happen.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie shows how the United States Government and Civilians react to terrisom acts.  The performance by Annette Benning was absolutely remarkable and Denzel Washington, as usual, delivered the goods.  Bruce Willis also added the extra kick in the movie.  This is not a family movie, but I do strongly recommend people to see it. "},{"Title":"More than I expected, this film is as complex as is intense...","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"   From the commercials I thought that this movie would be like Independence Day, only with Iraqis instead of aliens.  With this low standard in mind, I was quite impressed.  Not only is this movie full of well directed action and intense explosions, it also addresses America's fear of immigrants and government intervention.  I think what impressed me the most, however, was its open-minded portrayal of Middle Eastern peoples living in America. Not since the Cold War ended has there been such a complex look at the enemy.  "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  You would be hard pressed to make a film much worse than this. All that seems to be happening is that the FBI, CIA and the Army seem to continuously be arresting each other. Bruce Willis got a well deserved Golden Raspberry award for his part in this film and as Denzel Washington is a good actor but he has a remarkable talent for choosing to appear in crap. Everyone else doesn't really rate much of a mention. Everything crawls towards an unsatisfactory conclusion and by the end, you're just glad it's all over. "},{"Title":"Dem chills","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Let's not talk about 9/11.Let's not talk about all the great points about freedom this film makes, let's not be captain obvious.I think what we need to focus on here is the theater, and this is good theater very action packed and filled with drama.It contains all the elements romance, humor, shooting, mystery, suspense, terrorism, clever film techniques, Denzel Washington AND bad guy Bruce Willis.The scale of the film? Unbelievable (but in a positive way), every time the film hinted at something and I was like they're not gonna do that, but then the subsequent scene happens and for a moment I am amazed by the big budgetyness of this big budget film.The film wasn't afraid to shy away from repeatedly murdering innocents, which is good. Although one murder in particular was too gritty, and the sort-of feel good ending couldn't make up for it, but again - in a good way.What I didn't like was the negative portrayal of the army, that aspect of the film was clearly story driven (although I do imagine the army's intellect might have come along a bit in the past 15 or so years? heh)Not to give away anything, but the ending also had a certain Deux Ex Machina element to it, there were probably also tons of other inconsistencies that I didn't notice, but most of them are negligible.Verdict? This isn't your average Call of Duty patriotic circlejerk, this is a sophisticated and thoughtful reminder of what Murica's constitution was made for and why it should be upheld, and the hyperbolic hypothesis presented by this film will send chills through your spine, making you rightfully paranoid about how paranoia can affect democracy.Also, it is really fun because there are lots of things that go boom, so you should watch it either way. "},{"Title":"The Siege","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Explosions rock New York City as Arab extremists desire for a certain holy man named Ali Waziri to be let go. We see early on that a certain military general has that very man hostage in secret from his government which puts him as a threat himself. FBI man Denzel Washington and CIA operative Annette Bening are trying to get to the main terrorist cell before tyrannical Major General Bruce Willis can further damage what this country has stood for.When a federal government building(which holds the very task force Washington is over)is blown to pieces by a van carrying large cargo of explosives, the government declares Martial Law giving Willis the power to round up all Arabs for interrogations and imprisonment. That in itself has a nation of all beliefs in uproar as civilization is challenged at it's very core. Willis proves he'll take extreme methods in gathering terrorist information executing one man after he can not surrender any info(..because he simply doesn't have any). Washington and Bening know that Willis must be stopped and that they will have to sniff out the cell themselves..which won't be easy as military personnel sweep the streets in tanks and have surveillance within vans following Washington everywhere he goes.The key to finding the cells is an Arab named Samir(Sami Bouajila)..but can he really be trusted? Also, as the film develops over time, Bening's shady past regarding the Muslims is finally brought to the forefront. To explain just how bad it was getting, Willis even commandeered Agent Tony Shaloub's son and placed him in the imprisonment camps within a stadium.As often in Edward Zwick's films, it is preachifying and the message that is conveyed is so loud it decks you one across the chops. But, the excellent performances of Washington, Bening, and Shaloub make the material much more powerful. Willis is an uninspired block of wood, but that's how Zwick wants this type of military tyrant presented so we'll know he's a cold bad guy to root against. The film does have that immediacy and tension as our heroes race against time trying to find the terrorists before Willis' antics really get out of hand. I think the film has a greater potency now than it did in 1998 because of 911, but it's hard to believe anyone, much less Washington and Bening, would be able to get away with their heroics with so much military strength within the confines of New York City. "}{"Title":"How to Moralize with a Sledgehammer","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I rarely go into theatres with any sense of expectation. I tend not to let reviews affect my judgment. I do prefer thoughtful films, I'm more of a drama fan than an action fan. So when I went to see The Siege I wasn't set for a great action film, or lots of explosions. I had not read any reviews, so I didn't know much about the film.I loathed it. Intensely. I hated it so much that I actually threw popcorn at the screen, which I had never done before. I'm not kidding. The response from the people being attacked with me was enthusiastic, so that gives you some indication of what the film is like, if you haven't yet been subjected to it.My reaction had nothing to do with racism, or lack of action, which non-Americans seem to assume is the only thing keeping the Yankees spending money on cinema. The Siege is one of the better examples of how film makers today feel it necessary to subject you to Clockwork Orange type treatment in order to make a moral, intellectual, or political point. I felt like the old man in Kurosawa's Ran, sitting in the castle looking haggard and horrified, my mind under siege.I don't mind unlikely, inventive plots. But please, let them be intelligent, and show some respect for the viewer. I'm tired of being condescended to whenever I go to a movie, so much so that I decided, since I was being taken for granted, I'd stop going. I haven't gone to any this year. The Siege played a part in that; I'm watching foreign videos instead.The acting was bad. Why is Denzel Washington a star? He hasn't been in a decent movie in six or seven years. Willis' character was abominably written. The screenplay was vile, particularly the ending and the confrontation between Washington and Willis, which was insulting.If this is what the studios consider a thoughtful script maybe we should petition the government to declare martial law in Hollywood. We could put all the screenwriters in cages and sell tickets. I'd pay $7.50 for that. I'd even give it two thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Failed to keep me interested.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is really, a good idea materialised into a bad movie. While being excited by the potential of a movie involving application of martial law to today's NYC and the army taking over a big city, I was disappointed to find out that the forementioned siege was only a smaller part of the siege, the movie. In fact the army does not move into NYC until the second half of the movie.There are many lame aspects to the movie, like the fact that Willis' character is instantaneously morphed from the good clean-cut patriot to the unlawful bad guy. Willis' appearance in the film is also limited.The entire film reminds me of cheap made-for-television movies that get aired after 3 o'clock in the morning. The plot is cheap, the effects, with the exception of the bus explosion and the chopper firing at the building are nearly non-existent. Although most of the dialog goes by unoticed, some of the dialog that takes place is truly worthy. However, the only thing that saves this movie from failure is the great performance of the three main actors. Do note that both seasoned action movie veterans, Willis and Washington, are both outperformed by an outstanding Tony Shalhoub as Washington's FBI partner. "},{"Title":"Please read this!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I was on the movies and looked at The Siege, Let me tell you this, my favorite movie was Braveheart, but not any longer, it's The Siege.Why? Because first I thought that It's an ordinary Action Movie where you can see that USA is the greatest, but not. really it's damn good, because It's a  touching movie, I almost cry in the end because you could see the children, men, women, eveybody walked down the street like free men. And You can see the reality in this movie too, it's so crazy with that terrorism stuff..They say that they die for Allah but why does they kill 200 people at the same time does they die for Allah too? Well look at this movie and you will understand what I mean... It's good, really good.... "},{"Title":"fine political drama but some thrills would not hurt","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The siege is a political drama about terrorist attacks in America. It all starts after the U.S. military covertly kidnaps an Arabian terrorist in a Middle Eastern desert. Anthony Hubbard (Denzel Washington), the head of the joint FBI/NYPD terrorism task force, along with partner Frank Haddad (Tony Shalhoub), immediately step into action. When Hubbard learns that Elise Kraft (Annette Bening), a CIA operative, is snooping around a bus destroyed in a recent attack, her presence immediately arouses his suspicions. Knowing that she's out of her jurisdiction, Hubbard detains her, but soon realises her knowledge of American/Arab relations will prove helpful since the terrorists appear to be part of some militant Arab group. As more terrorist attacks occur the US President declares a State of Emergency and orders the decorated and honoured General William Deveraux (Bruce Willis) to declare a state of Martial Law on New York City, seal it off and squeeze it until the terrorists are caught. Soon suspected citizens are thrown into stadiums, armed soldiers are marching down every street, and General Deveraux seems to have his own personal agenda which the two agents find frightening. Who is more dangerous, the people who threaten our freedom or those trying to enforce it? And where will the line between the rights of the individual and the best interests of the State be drawn. I did not suspect a fast action thriller but I did expect some thrills so I was disappointed because this is a political drama not the political thriller I was hoping for. Denzel Washington (He Got Game, Fallen) is as good as ever and delivers a solid take on his character. Annette Bening (The American President, Bugsy) is all  so great in her role as some superwoman. But Bruce Willis (Armageddon, the Die Hard films), is good in the role of William Deveraux and delivers what's expected from him but is not much in the spot light and should have been used some more. Supporting performances, including that from Tony Shalhoub (Big Night, TV's Wings) that slips in the jokes which are thankfully well timed are also decent. While clearly not a bad film by any means, it does not tell the compelling story to well and is a bit boring from time to time. "},{"Title":"US-army shown very good! In the end too much patriatism","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Although I first didn't want to watch this movie (because I don't like anyone who's to blame for legends of the fall - less the director...), I payed to see this film. It wasn't that bad, I specially liked the way the us-army is shown here - really good! But the end is typical for american movies - patriotism rules and wins... I'm full with this stuff!! Take 90 of 100 american movies, cut away the last 10 or 15 minutes and you have very good movies, but ... very many directors over there are able to change an excellent movie into a movie you would never watch again - and this just because of the end! "},{"Title":"Disappointing. Fragmented and poorly written.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Not even Denzel can save this movie from mediocrity. There is little or no cohesion in the plot, and while it does a good job of portraying paranoia and the ugly but undeniable face of xenophobia in the US, unfortunately it fails to follow this up with a flowing script. Dialogue seems forced at best, and just bad at worst. The plot appears to be a sequence of independent events rather than one plot as a whole, and it just left me feeling rather bemused at the end.A shame, as a lot more could have been made out of this.  "},{"Title":"Interesting enough","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect from this film.  The 3 main actors are damn good and the idea of the film seemed interesting.  Although there were parts that lost my attention, overall it was an experience.  For me, the best part of this was the presence of one supporting Bruce Willis.  For him not to be the hero but the bad dude was something else.  I think when he is acting next to 2 superb actors like Washington and Bening he rises to the occasion.  Great explosions, a few twists and turns and brilliant acting makes this a definite watch for 1999.  "},{"Title":"A great acted, directed and written movie.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts with frames of terrorism of real life, Clinton saying They'll be punished blah blah. What is good about this movie is that it isn't about shooting all the time like The peacemaker or Air Force One, or  a bunch of explosions and stuff like that. In an action movie, shooting and explosions is good, but this is a thriller terrorist movie. There is investigation, surprises, a few funny jokes, suicidal terrorists.Acting I've always saw women talking about Denzel Washington on TV, and that make me thought that he's just famous because of his look. I saw Corage Under Fire, Denzel acted great, then I saw the movie with him and Gene Hackman (I don't know the title), Denzel acted very good, Fallen, good and then... The Siege, his acting was great as a FBI hotshot (Hub), his good acting can be proved when the bus exploded (as we can see in the Trailer), when he's interrogating the terrorist with a cigarette in his hand and others moments. Annette Bening was perfect for this role. The funniest and the most dramatic acting was from Tony Shalhoub, he was the only one with the jokes on the movie, he plays Denzel's best friend. Bruce Willis act good FOR HIS ROLE on the movie, he just there for about twenty minutes, the problem is that everybody watched him as a hero, but not here.I think those bad reviews about the movie was there because the polemic that the movie made. But I still didn't get it, the movie said that the Islamic religion is not a violent religion.But how can I trust you about this you said? Well...See my other reviews about other movies you liked and the ones you hated.This is a good movie, there is some explosions. In one or two moments of the film there's shooting what makes the movie more intense then already is.I'll give a 7.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"My thoughts on the movie","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In previewing the movie The Siege I was quite disturbed at the previews. The scenes of the Islamic Religion made me upset.  I thus decided to see the movie to see how the religion was depicted.  Once again I was upset.  I believe that movies like the Siege make the religion of Islam appear like a Terroists religion, which it is not.  There are groups of people (organizaions) have terrroists beliefs and perform those actions.  There may be a majority of those people in those organizations that have the Islam religion, that is true.  However to show so many scenes of people praying and to hear the Islamic prayers throughout the movie made it appear that the whole religion is full of terrorists, which is not the case at all.  I strongly feel that movies like the Siege put a bad reputation on the religion of Islam and its beliefs.  I am a Muslim grown women who has grown up in the U.S.A. and truly have an understanding of my religion and its beliefs.  It truly upsets me when I see my religion and the religion of many hundreds of thousands of people throughout the world, be shown as a religion of terror and hate.  It is just the opposite and I wish that more movies would demonstrate this to the world. "},{"Title":"ho hum","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege promised the characteristics of a typical suspense thriller.. action, plot twists and realism.. it did deliver that... HOWEVER, it was totally devoid of one critical aspect.. depth.. I left the theater feeling like I just watched a two hour newscast.. Denzel Washington (not to fault his 'adequate' acting) could have easily been replaced by Sam Donaldson.. the story plays on typical stereotypes.. bad mid-east terrorists being eliminated by bad government agents.. and the citizens of New York are caught in the middle.. in the end, you don't know what the point of the film is.. are the terrorists bad or is the US government? I went to see it because Bruce Willis starred.. unfortunately, his 4 notable scenes were possibly his 4 dullest in recent years.. overall, I'd say the problem was not with the actors, but with the director.. out of 10 stars, I'd give it 5 yawns "}{"Title":"Action Adventure with a Message","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is an action-adventure movie with a message.  It is about terrorist attacks in New York by Arab extremists and our government's reaction to it.  I understand that Arab American groups have protested about this movie.  I don't understand why because, on the contrary,  the movie does much to promote understanding by depicting the result of over-reaction.  Indeed, Brooklyn is put under siege. Arab-American young males are rounded up.  And democracy flies out the window.  A chilling thought.The casting is perfect.  Each character really gets into his or her role. And the budget is big enough to have overhead airplane shots and special effect explosions.  I was caught right up in the story as the tension mounted, waiting for what would happen next and thinking about the hard choices that the characters had to make.  Many reviews have suggested that this movie missed its mark and that the action got bogged down in the message.  I disagree.  "},{"Title":"Much better than expected, it doesn't just gloss over the tough issues","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is much more than your average action film. With Denzel Washington playing a main character, one has to expect some examination of moral issues, and it is there. It is not just terrorists verses America, with the sub-plot of US military verses CIA verses FBI. It is also an allusion to one of the greatest travesties of American justice, the internment of American citizens by race by the US government  during WWII. All of that as a backdrop to the oh-so-cool Denzel and the still HOT Annette Benning.  "},{"Title":"Guns and lots and lots of bombs.","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is extraordinary because it's about terrorists wanting revenge on the US and New York City especially. I like this movie because it has war weapons, guns and lots and lots of bombs.  This movie should win best picture at the Oscars.  "},{"Title":"Great Idea, Good Characters, Poor development","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I appreciate the concept behind this film, and there is a lot of potential for stirring up patriotic spirit and philosophical debate here, but it goes sadly untapped.Washington delivers a standard performance, though a little melodramatic at times (his emotional scenes are played up a little too much), certainly nothing spectacular.Willis is the perfect actor for the role, but the writing gives the role so little development its barely worth his time.  His entire character is supposed to be elucidated in two confrontations with Washington, where he gets upset that his 'patriotism' has been questioned, and then everyone smolders for a while.It's a shame, because it did have potential, for that it gets part marks. But that's all it gets. "},{"Title":"Predictable tripe.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, Hollywood has given us the product of a meatgrinder industry. With characters and a plot so predictable, I felt as if the audience was under siege by the implausibility of the whole story.  Granted, the director and writers did take great care not to stereotype all Islamic Arabs as bad guys and that was refreshing.  The hasty, contrived ending destroyed any credibility the movie had. "},{"Title":"Best damn movie I've seen in years","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I am normally not a lover of action films (especially Brucey Willis), but this is definitely good.   Similar in intensity to The Professional (probably last good action flick I've seen).A bit of spy stuff, a bit of thriller, an obligatory sex scene.   But Denzel Washington probably has done his best performance here, and I'm not sure he was trying hard.   The plot was made for him.At its core, it's kind of a good vs. bad vs. grey movie.   But Denzel shows us the way, and does it with real style.  If I were a thespian, he'd be my hero! "},{"Title":"A Taut, Intense Thriller Where Things Blow Up Good","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't enter the theater with much hope for this film, but I had faith that this cast couldn't all be in the wrong place at the same time.  With that, I found The Siege to have some really  slick, tight directing and excellent acting especially from Bening and Shalhoub.  Things blow up real good and the suspense between CIA and FBI players is often intense.  The plot is believable.  Although the resolution is unsatisfying, I couldn't think of another way for it to end someone has to die and everyone else must live happy ever after.  With a subject so tragic, the hope that Americans can rise above racism and zenophobia to enforce our belief in freedom is a theme that, though somewhat trite in this film, should be celebrated. "},{"Title":"An Intense Thriller!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ed Zwick's Siege is everything a good movie should be. Great actors, awell written script and intense drama, that will keep you captivated forthe film's length. Denzel Washington gave an A+ performance as the hero.He was cool, caring and smart, much like his character from CrimsonTide. The movie was believable. It wasn't just another one ofHollywood's What can we blow up next? type of movie. It had a storyand to complement the story, there were several excellent anddramatically intense explosions. It was a movie where, even though youdid not know the people who were being blown to pieces, you felt forthem and it made you remember past events, such as the Oklahoma CityBombing. For me, one of the most memorable scenes is towards the middleof the movie, when a lone terrorist, brandishing a gun, takes aclassroom full of children hostage and threatens to detonate a bomb.Denzel Washington's character, Anthony Hubbarb, at this point is filledwith anger and pain because of the other bombings. Instead ofnegotiating with the terrorist, he grabs his gun, cocks it, bursts intothe classroom, where the terrorist is and blows him away. At that point,we knew that he wasn't gonna take the crap anymore. I actually heardpeople clapping and cheering for him. I was clapping and crying at thesame time, because it was so real and sad.Four Stars!  A great movie! "},{"Title":"not what i expected","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting an action movie, albeit a good one.  I was somewhat disappointed in that it ended up being more of a political statement relating to the oppression of the muslims in the general population because of the actions of a few.  However, the plot is involving, albeit not as explosive as you might expect, and the acting is reasonably well done.  Don't go if you just want to see a lot of explosions, but it's allright if you want action with a little bit of questioning mixed in. "},{"Title":"Good movie worth seeing but very American.","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is a really good movie that tells an interesting story and I'd recommend seeing it.  It would help if you were an American as the American Spirit seems to be one of the focal points of the movie.  As a Canadian I had some difficulty with some of the sentiments Denzel Washington was espousing no matter how convincing.Annette Bening was intriguing, interesting and an excellent addition to the cast.  I thought Bruce Willis performed quite well.  He has been branching out lately into different identities with movies like The Jackal and this one. Don't get me wrong, Bruce is still Bruce but he's definitely expanding his skills as an actor. "}{"Title":"Good beginning, Bad ending","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The movie The Siege starts out well. It shows how the Federal Government would react to a terrorist campaign in New York city. That ends about two-thirds of the way through it when we are left with liberal politicaly-correct speeches and a politicaly-correct ending. The actors do a good job but Bruce Willis is only in the movie briefly.  "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is Denzel's best picture since Hunt for Red October. Superb support from Annette and Bruce! Tony Shalboub's performance was intense and funny at the same time. This story dealt with thought provoking issues and fears with amazing clarity. It was even better than I imagined. This is one to add to the video collection. "},{"Title":"The FBI must stop Arab bombings of NYC or else they will take down the entire city.","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege was a movie about Arab bombers who were targeting vulnerable targets in order to get their wacky agenda across.  Denzel plays Hubbard, an FBI agent in charge of finding out the identity of these bombers and putting a stop to it.  Annette Bening is an enigma to Hubbard.  She knows a lot about the bombings, but won't tell Hubbard.  He thinks she is CIA.  Bruce Willis is the Army General who, upon martial law being declared, takes over the city and imprisons Arab people, irregardless of their guilt.  Hubbard's partner is an Arab who has his son imprisoned.  He is the character most will feel sorry for, as he is an innocent who is persecuted because of his nationality. The Arab community was mad at this film, as it portrayed them in a negative light.  I can see that view, but what are you gonna do? "},{"Title":"A good exploration of an explosion of simmering racism","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under the guise of a terrorist action flick this movie is really an   exploration of what might happen when events unleash some of the   simmering racism that exists in this country. We've all heard people   say Oh, something like Hitler and the Nazis could never happen again,   because people wouldn't stand for it, but this film shows how must a   few events can be used to justify even the most extreme racism.    The first hour is just really a set-up for the second hour, when Bruce   Willis' forces impose martial law on New York City, imprisoning EVERY   Arab-American. There are a few small details throughout the second half   that reveal that Willis' forces are acting mostly on racist ideas in   one instance, Denzel escapes Willis' forces by substituting another   black man for himself because of course to Willis' men they all look   the same. The key line in the second half is where one of Willis'   soldiers sneers at Denzel Be careful, or I might classify you as   Ethiopian. This comment would stand on its own in a regular action   movie, but Denzel replies You know, you're stupid enough to think   that's an insult, and it turns the comment around. When I saw this,   with a largely black and hispanic audience, this line got a HUGE laugh.    Reviews have said that this movie is even-handed in its portrayal of   Arabs, but I would say it bends over backwards to let you know that   only a very few Arabic people turn to terrorism. At one point a   reporter is heard to ask What if it were Jews, or Italians? and it   underscores that something like this would never happen to a group that   there already wasn't such underlying racism toward.    In terms of sheer action thrills, this movie is only so-so, but it's   decent enough and the serious part of its subject matter makes it worth   seeing. Denzel is good as always, but Annette Bening really can make   every line and gesture of hers really vivid and interesting. Willis is   the same new role, new hairpiece. It's nice to see a lot more of Tony   Shaloub than usual.   "},{"Title":"Wish it were better","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw the film this afternoon.  I was really looking forward in watching The Siege.  Denzel Washington was real good(always).  I wish they could've introduced Bruce Willis's character a little bit more. The movie wasn't half bad at all.  The plot was good, it made you think of what the necessary steps you'd have to make if you were HUBBARD(Denzel). Maybe the film was just too long, yeah that's it.  The Siege might have been better if it were shorter. Word of advice, those who are seeking a really splendid film, seek else where.  Watch Private Ryan before it's too late.  E-mails are always welcomed. "},{"Title":"A first rate political thriller that shows the true horrors of terrorism","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege, directed by Edward Zwick (Glory, Courage Under Fire) is a look at the true nature and horror of terrorism. The movie does not spare anything and just when you think things are going to get better they get much worse. I unfortunately missed about the first 15 minutes but what I did see was very good. This is not just a typical action film, but a true first rate thriller that does not always end up the ways you expect it to.4 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"The Siege is a half of a good movie.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The first half of The Siege is an excellent action film with a good interaction between FBI agent Denzel Washington and CIA agent Annette Bening. Each knows things about a terrorist attack, but neither are willing to share information. We know up front that an Arab sheik has been kidnapped and the US military led by Bruce Willis is somehow involved, but that thread doesn't come into play until late in the second half. Unfortunately, the action story that starts in the first half gets weighed down by political plots and half-baked themes of military intervention and internment camps for Arab Americans, including the son of Washington's partner, Tony Shalhoub. When the military action starts, the movie action virtually ceases and attempts to provide thoughts for the viewer become plodding. There are also a few other plot points that are also weak, including the sexual involvement between Bening and an Arab counter-spy that are never reasonably explained. "},{"Title":"Seen Better, Seen Worse","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  'The Siege' was your typical FBI agent action flick, complete with big stars, big explosions, and a predictable ending. The movie mainly follows the ups and downs that the CIA (Bening) and FBI (Washington) agents encounter while working with each other to track down terrorist bombers in New York city.There are a lot of seemingly unimportant sub-plots that occur before the climax that anyone and everyone who saw the previews knows is coming. Also, While the commercial leads you to believe that Bruce Willis is a major player in the movie, be prepared to see him for only a few short scenes. There is nothing really special about this movie, but if this is your genre, chances are you won't be disappointed  "},{"Title":"pretentious action flick fizzles","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege tries to be the thinking person's action movie.Too bad that good intentions don't make a good movie. Terrorist attacks lead to martial law in the Big Apple. The movie wants to be taken seriously and lapses of logic that might be overlooked in less ambitious fare torpedo this effort. I give it 5/10.   "},{"Title":"A siege of stereotypical proportions","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance, The Siege is the classic American action-thriller style movie with all the elements of a blockbuster gunfire, explosions, government agencies, terrorists, etc.  While the movie has all these elements, certain flaws drown out any subtlety in the script one, the characters are almost entirely one-dimensional and have no depth to them; two, the Arab terrorists are completely stereotypical, as are is the FBI agent--the Arabs are all bad and evil while the FBI agent is a shining example of American glory; three, the plot is also completely one-dimensional with no interesting twists or new aspects to it.  The dialogue, however was fairly good, as well as the special effects and extras casting, which appeared enormous.  The suspense, at least in certain parts, is well developed, but the movie still tended to drag on a bit.  So while this movie has some good scenes, it really does not deserve much attention because of the lack of depth in the characters in plot.  The bottom line? Only see this movie if you really want to, because if you don't, you'll be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Good, but not great.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege had a great trailer, so then I wanted to see the movie right away. The movie did not live up to my expectations.  The movie was good, but I was expecting something more.  Denzel Washington (Crimson Tide, Fallen) stars as an FBI agent who has recently had a flurry of terrorist attacks happen in New York.  Annette Benning (The American President, Regarding Henry) plays a CIA agent who knows a lot about the bombings.  After they are not able to stop the attacks, the President orders a General to go to New York and set up martial law.  The General is played by Bruce Willis (Armageddon, Die Hard).  This presents an issue about how we would react to this situation and the real enemy is.  The movie is well-directed by Edward Zwick (Glory, Legends of the Fall).  The movie lags and gets a little boring in the middle, but picks it up towards the end.  Denzel Washington is strong in the lead role.  Annette Benning gives a respectable performance.  Bruce Willis is great as the General, but has a fairly small role.  Finally Tony Shaloub (Big Night, TV's Wings) gives an excellent supporting performance as Washington's partner who is Arab, just like the terrorists. "},{"Title":"Action, acting, and ideas do mix well!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege combines action, good acting, and some consideration of the price we pay for policing political dissent.  This may not sound like a workable combination, and some reviewers seem to want only the action.  This is not the perfect mix, but it is both fun and thoughtful.   "},{"Title":"Denzel New York","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting this tale of arab/mussulman terrorist who terrorize - yes sir - the city of New York with bomb. The story is good and the action is exciting. Denzel Washington plays well, as usual, his part of the leader of the FBI agent team. Annette Bening is little bit nebulous in her role but good. Once again Bruce Willis try to be the great Bruce, the man without fear. Oh, not this time Bruce, you're eclipsed by Washington and Bening... and Shalhoub.So, the movie is great but we wait too long to see the siege in New York. It's long 80 minutes to understand the title correctly.Oh... here, in Quebec, we don't see Star Wars previews!!!!8/10 "},{"Title":"You see me laughing, General?....,","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" After the abduction by the US military of an Islamic religious leader, New York City becomes the target of escalating terrorist attacks. Anthony Hubbard, the head of the FBI's Counter-Terrorism Task Force in New York, teams up with CIA operative Elise Kraft to hunt down the terrorist cells responsible for the attacks. As the bombings continue, the US government responds by declaring martial law, sending US troops, led by Gen. Devereaux, into the streets of New York City.....Its a topical film for sure, and it was made before the tragedy in New York, and for fans of the film, its a good job, because there is no way it would me made today, it's just too close to those events.But regardless of its political message, and its patriotism, it's just too dull in some places, and even though Washington is as good as ever, and Willis plays a convincing hate filled General, it just doesn't deter you away from the blandness of the outcome.Plus the fact that after the visually stunning scene with the bus, it's as if Fox has said to the producers 'look guys, you've had your big key scene, any other incidents with the film will be cutaways, or a noise in the background', and that is just what happens.And Benning is totally miscast in this, whenever she utters anything specific to her job, or becomes authoritative, the film verges on parody.But its worth watching for its message about xenophobia, the impressive set piece, and of course, Washington.Good, but bland.... "},{"Title":"A great portraying of Beirut in Brooklyn","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The story is yet another commonly found one based on an also common premise of terrorism and investigation. The story is built quite nicely, having the viewers thrown right into the action with the fake bus bombing scene right as the opening scene. What makes this movie stands out from others of its kind is the invoking of US army presence within the national borders of NYC in a martial law situation. Though it has elements of the espionage agency and the army, but this movie is able to keep the focus to stay strictly on how the FBI operates. The acting is nicely done by Denzel Washington and also Bruce Willis. All the other significant characters also being done quite well. "},{"Title":"A cinematic prophecy that was taken too lightly.","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The so called war on terror is far from over. Films like THE KINGDOM and TRAITOR (2008) will tell you just that. Although these films are inspired by actual events arising out of this war on terror, we need to go back a bit, precisely three years before September 11th 2001.Co-written, co-produced and directed by Edward Zwick, while adapting from Lawrence Wright's screenplay, The Siege was released late in autumn 1998, but holds a very prophetic and uncanny resemblance to real events that would occur just three years ahead. As expected, Zwick's corner stone here is Denzel Washington as FBI Special Agent Anthony Hubbard. Hubbard uncovers a plot where the Central Intelligence Agency has abducted a suspected Jihadist terrorist leader, resulting in a wave of retaliatory terror attacks in New York City. Just when Hubbard's task force zeros-in on a lead, he encounters mysterious CIA operative Elise Kraft (Annette Bening) who eventually starts a deadly game of catch and release, while recalling the fact that she trained militants to oppose Saddam Hussein. But before Hubbard can connect the dots, he must deal with an over-zealous Army General (Bruce Willis) hell bent on eradicating terror cells, even if that means disrupting the American way of life.In retrospect, this film appears to be a decent enough warning of things to come. And boy, did those things come! Not only did 9/11 happen, it happened with striking similarities to that scripted for the film. If you study the film well enough, you will find that both the film and 9/11 are similar, resulting in devastating attacks in New York. Perpetrated by jihadist terror cells, their main objective in the plot, mirrored in reality on 9/11 2001, remains true to the fact that this type of attack has no motive, except a calm and calculated channel for causing maximum panic, devastation and disruption. Well embedded in the plot yet gazing straight at us is a question that boldly asks what the price of freedom is these days. However, what is seen as a thrilling piece of story-telling today was met with controversy during its theatrical release. Aside from questioning its political correctness, critics thrashed what was then considered racist when equating Arabs to merciless terrorists. But before the credits go up, Zwick's final message is that neither Arabs nor Muslims are terrorists. However, almost nine years later, Director Peter Berg seems to think otherwise in his gung-ho propaganda THE KINGDOM.Having worked with Zwick before, Washington delivers that tour-de-force performance we have since come to expect by default. In presenting some of the most cinematic and vocally intense scenes of the film, it's a wonder why he wasn't considered for any major award. The same goes for Annette Bening with a commendable performance in not just supporting Washington, but as a launch of things to come. Easily seen here during the prime of her acting career, Bening would be nominated for an Academy Award just a year later, along with a BAFTA Award for American BEAUTY. On the other hand, Bruce Willis's army general is as arrogant as he is conceited, and single-handedly portrays the trigger happy persona of the US war machine. Although Willis fits into this role with ease, there is a glimmer of sleepy-eyed enthusiasm that seems to lack proper characterization.Another mention also goes out to Tony Shalhoub, supporting Washington as his FBI partner of Lebanese origin. Best known for his role in TV's MONK, Shalhoub's character emerges during the second half and makes for a one-two punch before the end. There are various films out there trying to shed light on terror spawned by Jihadist extremists. While some have excelled, others have failed to keep up. What we have here is a film that hits the mark, not only as a well made caper, but one with a terrifying premonition. "},{"Title":"decent movie got better as it goes along.","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie was pretty good but at first I was really put off mainly because Annette benning was so terribly awful. I usually love Denzel but it seemed even his performance was lacking in this movie probably mostly due to the director. Though as the movie progressed and got more intense it actually turned into a very enjoyable watch which I could not tell from the first half hour which kind of seemed like a cheesy low budget TV show.This movie is about an abduction of an arab extermist by the American government. Arab extremists all over the world are outraged and this causes massive terrorist attacks in new york making the president enforce martial law in the city.This movie was pretty good it got really good once they started martial law and everything got real. Its neat how this was made a couple years before 911 and it seemed like they had everything right. Ironic how muslims were outraged at this movie for portraying them as terrorists then 911 happens pfffft "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When you're watching a film describing an act as the worst since Columbine you know it's pre-9/11. And that's what makes The Siege even more interesting than it might have been, because in its way, it foretells, three years in advance, what this country would be facing.In the scenario of The Siege, New York City is a target of various terrorist attacks on buses and in theaters, with bombs going off everywhere. FBI Special Agent Anthony Hubbard (Denzel Washington) and his Lebanese-American partner Frank Haddad (Tony Shalhoub) are on the case, and when a suspected terrorist, Sheikh Ahmed bin Talal is captured, terrorists warn that he must be released.A CIA officer comes on the scene, Elise Kraft (Annette Bening), with whom Hubbard comes into conflict. The terrorist incidents escalate.The President declares martial law and an Airborne division under a man named Devereaux (Bruce Willis) seals off Brooklyn as he tries to find the remaining terrorist cells. All young males of Arab descent, which includes Haddad's son Frank Jr. are detained in Yankee Stadium. There are violent demonstrations against the army that are met with violence from the army.Pretty terrifying, with the empty streets, racial profiling, sanctioned torture, and people staying home all too reminiscent of 9/11. The film takes the WW II scenario of rounding up the Japanese and putting them in places like Manzanar.All this is the way we clearly could have gone. There is some mention of noncommunication between departments, which was discovered to be a big problem in 9/11.Washington, Bening, and Shalhoub are excellent in their roles. Their frustrations are palpable as is their desperation.A cautionary tale, but prescient at the same time. "},{"Title":"A Chilling reminder of what was to come","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Following the first attack on the World Trade Center and the attack in Oklahoma City, the threat of high profile terrorism on American soil was at one of its highest. With threats like these now entering the public eye, a film had to be made to demonstrate the possibility of a Terrorist cell working within one of America's most populated cities and the possible ways in which it could be managed. I feel this move depicts it well.Basically, the story begins in the Arabian Desert, where a high profile terrorist leader is captured by American forces and held in custody by Bruce Willis' character. We then cut to New York where an FBI agent played by Denzel Washington is on the trail of a terrorist organisation working in the Tristate area, starting with the faked bombing of a busy New York City bus. Working with Annette Bening, an agent who has infiltrated the Terrorist cell, he tries to uncover future plots being made in the city. However, the terrorists strike again, this time with another Bus Bombing, this time it's for real and several people are killed in the devastating attack. Soon afterwards, a theatre is bombed, and whilst away in Washington DC, a van bomb is driven into the lobby of the FBI headquarters in New York, killing several agents and close friends of Denzel Washington. Whilst in the Capital at a Joint Session of Congress, Bruce Willis discusses with the Cabinet the consequences of imposing Marshall Law on a US City, but following the truck bombing at the FBI headquarters, Marshall Law is imposed and Army troops are sent in to patrol the streets of Manhattan day and night. Meanwhile, thousands of young Muslim men are gathered into concentration camp style prisons so that any possible suspects are locked up. But things soon become unjust in the eyes of Denzel Washington as he watches Bruce Willis personally torture and execute a suspected Terrorist leader. Eventually the leader of the Terrorist Cell is found to be none other than Annette Bening's lover and someone they had apparently trusted as a source of information the whole time. During a final gun battle, both he and Bening are killed and therefore the Terrorist Cell is left leaderless. With no more need for Marshall Law, Bruce Willis is arrested on charges of torturing and executing suspects and taken before Congress.This film is perfect in almost every way, the acting reflects the characters they are trying to play, the story is really very gripping and it's all within the point of reason and logic, that theoretically a situation like this could have occurred in the 1990s. What's more chilling though is that the number 9/11 rings through our minds whenever we think about this and especially when we see the frequently shown shots of the Twin Towers. The producers probably felt that showing the World Trade Center numerous times would make the audience reflect on the previous attacks that happened in New York and to show what landmarks are vulnerable in the city, and this leaves those who remember the dark events of September 11th thinking something ironic. It's a great film with a real grip on the situation and at least a grip on reality. I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I very much enjoyed this movie when it came out. I felt it was thought provoking and entertaining, I even purchased it. Then 9/11 happened. It's been a little over 10 years and just now, today, has been the first time I have been able to watch it again. It's still difficult, and it makes me sad. Trying to distance my emotions enough to watch the movie without thinking about 9/11 through the whole thing.... well let's just say that I failed at that.This movie does a good job, I think, at portraying negative aspects of all sides included in this film. It's not just about Islamic terrorists. Bruce Willis' character isn't exactly a peach either. This movie made me sad when it first came out and does so even more so now all this time later. I suppose when something as horrendous and unbelievable as 9/11 happens, a film like this will always make me stop and think. Maybe that's how it should be. "}{"Title":"most interesting are the reviews!","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" excellent and kind of prophetic film. There is holes in the script, but such a pro-telling film it is awesome to watch!i enjoyed it but what surprised me most were the reviews of simple people written before 9/11, that it was a scenario unreal that never could be real! Pity, that is why 9/11 happened, because no one believed that the fear could intrude in his life and did NOTHING to prevent it, NOTHING to prevent power been held by evil people and when the evil intruded the US was too late. Neither Arabs are all fundamentalists nor Americans are all stupid and racist. The problem for our society is to find them and do anything, with every cost, to show them the reality and make them responsible, peaceful people. "},{"Title":"Far from thrilling, far from anything.","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Siege is one of those movies where they employ realistic ideals and then try to amalgamate those ideas with some far fetched, semi-ludicrous plots and action scenes. Bruce Willis is wasted in this film, maybe I've seen too many Movies where Willis is the good guy. Denzel Washington is always money every role he ever takes on in film, Annette Bening was testing my nerves in the film, I really didn't appreciate her presence in the film. Yes I can see the controversy and all that stuff but think about it...do you think filmdom would go on through its finite existence without making a film of this nature? Of Course not. I felt this film was an utter waste of time with cardboard cutouts, yes there is the touchy topic but jeez look in the world we live in now!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly relevant today!","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" My Take A convincing thriller that proved far more effective in time. Edward Zwick's THE SIEGE is a 'what if' terrorism scenario, that is until the recent topical 9/11 events which is the closest we'll every get to a full terrorist attack on American soil. Still, even before the said events ever occurred, THE SIEGE is already a realistically portrayed thriller, packed with excellent performances and terrific camera work, and there's Zwick drawing out drama and thrills at every turn. While the pace draws out some sluggish turns, this is still a winner for every thinking-man action viewer in the audience.Denzel Washington, who last worked with Zwick in COURAGE UNDER FIRE, plays Anthony Hubbard (Hub for short), an anti-terrorist expert who is lead to a series of bombings, including a bombing of a pedestrian bus, after a suspected terrorist is abducted by US troops, which marks attack by terrorist on American soil. Hub gets a little help from mysterious FBI agent (Annette Bening, excellent in the role) and his partner (Tony Shalhoub). Bruce Willis in an underrated supporting role plays the headstrong yet stubborn Maj. Gen. Deveraux, the military officer assigned to take his troops in an unexperienced strike against the terrorist, wrecking almost as much havoc.Zwick makes very little use of explosions and stunts. The result is a more engrossing thriller that isn't about action or special effects, but about characters and plot, and although the plot is a little hard to follow, Zwick makes the film as realistic looking and convincing as possible as it could. Performances by Washington, Bening and the rest of the cast are fine, if not essentially breaking. It ain't the best action film in years, neither the best thriller, but it's above-average and it works, especially during these troubled times.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Oh well (if you've nothing better to do)","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What is it with Hollywood? Do the studio accountants have too much of a say in shaping the script? Are they all &#151; even the ones with an undeniably high level of talent &#151; so addicted to cliché that they are unable to let a script run true? Are they really only so concerned with satisfying the demands of the lowest common denominator and thus maximising box office sales that fundamental flaws which must be obvious to almost all those involved in a production are ignored? Here in The Siege we have production values of apparently the highest order, yet the sum of the parts most certainly doesn't add up to the whole. At the end of the day, and despite dealing with what superficially might be regarded as important 'issues', The Siege is nothing more than a cartoon presented in the style of a painting by some old master. The characters are two-dimensional and outlining their motivation &#151; important I would have thought in that Bruce Willis as a gung-ho right-wing army general imposes martial law in half of New York &#151; is utterly ignored. Story lines in the old Batman comics have been more plausible. At the heart of The Siege is a fascinating scenario could the threat of terrorism on American soil ever really eventually lead to martial law being imposed in a city such as New York? And I should imagine that when the plot was first conceived and subsequently pitched to the suits, excitement at what this film might be was high. In the right hands with the right producer this had the potential to be an intelligent film. But then the corporate machine got involved and the whole thing was bent and mangled into shape to suit the supposed demands of Middle America's movie-going public, and out at the end of the sausage maker came a film which resembles any number of other pseudo-exciting, pseudo-intelligent films. What a shame, (tho it's a living for some.) "},{"Title":"The Siege","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The film The Siege directed by Edward Zwick was made in 1998. The movie although made then had very strong relations to the attacks and the terrorist problems we faced after Sept. 11, 2001. The movie I felt was suspenseful and definitely caught my attention, but I feel mainly that way because it was made before 9/11, you can tell the screen writers did their research. The movie is based on Islamic extremists whose main attacks were on New York City. If only this movie were to come out after 9/11 I feel it would have received a different view, because in the movie the only difference in reality is that they rounded up the Arab-Americans in large numbers and were subjected to harassment and violence, more then what really happened in real life after 9/11. Ultimately I felt it was a good movie with an important issue that America has to face. "},{"Title":"The film is a film that has resurfaced after certain events and is now compulsive viewing but do not expect a Zwick masterpiece.","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It's very difficult to watch and really have a stone wall opinion about a film like The Siege; yes, the film has become a lot more noticeable since September the 11th, 2001 and yes, on its own the film is an interesting look and development about terrorism and how terrorism is (or should be?) dealt with if it gets to that certain stage. But whereas 9/11 was a one off major terrorist attack on an American landmark that represented Capitalism as it towered over one of the west's major cities, The Siege is more about several smaller attacks on things like building foyers or public buses that unsurprisingly, drives the American authorities crazy.What's also interesting and somewhat disturbing is that the film was made only a mere few years before 9/11. The Arabs that inhabit New York (of all places) are rounded up and kept in a holding area that resembles a zoo as America desperately try to stop the terrorism but this comes a lot further into the film once an internal problem is identified. The only other thing worth mentioning about the film's idea is that Die Hard With a Vengeance was made another mere few years previously to The Siege and it too dealt with terrorism around New York only in a, forgive me if I'm wrong, but more 'light-hearted' manner &#150; both films also star Bruce Willis, funnily enough.There was definitely an eerie feeling going on inside me when I watched the film. There is mention of Shiites, Muslims and Sunnis all within the first thirty minutes not to mention a couple of shots of the World Trade Centre itself as it looms in the background &#150; one popular idea is to utilise the World Trade Centre as a massive piece of iconography in some films since you know it's New York if the director gives you a long shot of the building in question &#150; in The Siege, director Zwick leaves it in the background and only has it on screen for a mere few seconds; keeping the action concentrated. The Siege may be a film about terrorism and about rounding up the enemy within but it shouldn't be seen as a film that is stereotypical or careless in the sense that 'all non-white Americans are evil'. The character of Anthony Hubbard (Washington) is Black, of course and he has two accomplices; one of which is a Chinese woman and one of which is an Arab male himself who is so outraged by the developments later on that he feels he 'belongs here, with the rest of them'. Needless to say; Hubbard, Haddad (Shalhoub) and Osu (Pai) are all highly respected, educated and skilled government agents trying to stop the terror with Haddad in particular since he himself is an Arab.There is also an interesting feud going on throughout the film. This usually involves Hubbard and begins with his dislike of Elise Kraft (Benning) who interferes at an early stage. There is no room for romance in a film like The Siege; Kraft carries certain masculine traits in the sense she has very short hair, is as smart and fast as the rest of the male cast, doesn't wear much jewellery and wears jumpers and other such clothes; interesting how when romance is hinted at between Hubbard and Kraft when they start to dance, a major plot point in the form of an explosion happens thus shoving the film back into its respective groove. In fact, the only romance in the film is a short sex scene between Kraft and a character who is not only an Arab himself but just so happens to have a major say in who partakes in the bloody and unpredictable final confrontation. As far as feuds go, Hubbard's with Kraft seems to peter out and yet disagreements continue with Bruce Willis' character Major Devereaux who has some harsh ideas of his own and that creates another feud altogether Americans with Arabs living in New York although ethnic groups of people do have something to say about it.The Siege isn't really a bad film but I can see how it drifted off into an abyss of nothing-ness following the release as it was probably deemed merely another 1990s political thriller with an all star cast and a few explosions and gunfights. The Siege does make you appreciate other films in the genre more so than the Jason Bourne films do but watching it now, there is an eeriness unmatched by few other films after what happened on and following 9/11. The Martial Law idea is a little anti-climatic in the sense it didn't happen in real life but the terrorism isn't really an internal problem to Americans &#150; it's an external problem out there in countries like Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan. I could recommend the film for its interesting plot, character driven scenes and now uncanny ideas but once/if the War on Terror ever goes away; it'll probably fade away into that abyss it was once in, once again. "},{"Title":".....holy Nostradamos !!!.......","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent film which portended the infamous events of 9/11. The performances were first rate, particularly Annette Bening. Denzel Washington's soliloquy in the lavatory, directed at Bening and Bruce Willis' characters as the torture of a believed terrorist captive was being contemplated, sent chills up my back when I first saw it and produces the same reaction in me when I see it now. This movie should be viewed if for no other reason than this one scene alone. It is very powerful and Denzel's delivery is flawless. It's interesting to read the change in tone of the reviews in this venue, from the initial release of this film, to the reviews post 9/11. When I first saw this film I was overwhelmed by the thought of the types of events portrayed actually occurring on U.S. soil, particularly after remembering the first, largely unsuccessful bombing of the World Trade Center a number of years earlier, which occurred in the garage of the building. I remember thinking what would have happened if that building had fallen over?...a lot of people would have been killed. The U.S. should have taken steps to beef up national security beginning THEN. If you recall, there was a boycott of this film by Muslim factions world wide, and if I remember correctly, a theater was bombed because the theater insisted on showing trailers of the upcoming release of this film. Let's not forget about people like Timothy McVie and also groups like the Branch Dividians. Terrorism can be home grown too.Anyhow, this movie is great with fine performances by Washigton, Bening, Willis and especially Tony Shalhoub (in this pre-Monk performance) as the agent torn between duty and heritage. The story unfolds well, screen play, dialog, editing all first rate. In particular I admired the display of the internment camps, the scenes where Marshall law is declared for New York City, portrayal of the lack of communication and sharing of information between governmental agencies, the erosion of civil liberties in the time of extreme crisis. Much loss of civil liberties has occurred since 9/11 in the U.S. and world wide. Current airport security measures is the first example that pops into my mind.I think this film should have garnered a much higher initial reviewer rating in this venue and I'm quite surprised that it didn't. This movie is a must see, if you can cope with the possible sorrow and anger it may cause you. "},{"Title":"9/11 aftermath predicted in this film","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Like I said, 1998 was not a good year for Bruce. He won a Razzie for worst actor for this film, along with Mercury Rising and Armageddon. That should not mean that it is a total loss as it has Denzel Washington, Tony Shaloub and Annette Bening, in addition to Willis.Of course, people find this movie much more believable today in light of the current administration's actions regarding torture and rendition, and the suspension of our rights under the Patriot Act. It probably seemed far-fetched in 1998.Denzel Washington was great as a caring FBI agent, and Tony Shalaub is always good, in my opinion, and was excellent here.Check it out for no other reason that it's future view. "},{"Title":"Prophetic and troubling","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Eight years after its release, The Siege is remarkably prescient in its depiction of the CIA's general ineptitude and its Middle East intelligence failures. It's even more frighteningly accurate in its prophesies about leading government officials' willingness to abandon long venerated American principles and trash the Constitution in the name of countering terrorism. The humiliation and degradations of Abu Ghraib, Baghram Air Base and Guantanamo are eerily foreshadowed, as is warrant-less surveillance of American citizens, counter-productive conflicts between competing US government organizations and the government's tendency to stigmatize and oppress large numbers of innocent American citizens. Where its prophecies fail is in not anticipating that horrific civil rights abuses and un-American behaviors will originate in the White House no less than the Congress, and in supposing that underlings far from the halls of power will ultimately show sufficient strength of character to end these abuses. "},{"Title":"He he","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Yeah this movie is quite underrated. At the same time, lets not fool ourselves by saying that this movie is not anti-Muslim or more specifically anti-arab. Whether it shows Muslim extremists as a minority of their religion or not, the end result is that Arabs get their asses kicked left right and center in this movie. I really can't get my brain to disassociate the name Tariq Hussain (trying saying that in an American accent lol) with Terrorist now. The terrorists are really depicted in their full sick potential.The direction is good, the story and screenplay are good and the Denzel's performance truly kicks ass (you know whos). Tony Shaloub also gives a great performance but giving him Muslim connections is just a dumb and vain attempt to prove that this movie is not anti-Muslim. But do keep an open mind while watching this movie as it is filled with stereotypes. "}{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" One of the good movie that I've ever seen. I watched it on television just now, when the condition of most of the countries in the world are similar like the situation in that movie, especially in the middle east and Indonesia (Aceh) where a lot of soldiers are put in the cities.The story was similar to the reality. Most of the Arabian were suspect as terrorists in that movie and it happen until now. Danzel Washington's performance always perfect, he is one of the talented actor that I've ever known, and so is Annette Benning.What's so good about this movie is the ending, when they released the Arabian people, that scene was touching and it put a lot of afford to shoot that scene.Really feel touched by this movie and it's really an excellent movie, means it's worth to be watched. "},{"Title":"Pre  9/11-terrorism","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie was released several years before the 9/11-bombings, but it's about almost the same thing, Arabian terrorists bombing buildings in New York City. It's a really exciting movie with Denzel Washington in the lead. This is a typical late 90's Washington-role, where he plays law-abiding policeman. I think that this was a good period of his career, because he fits these roles very well. We also get to see Bruce Willis. He hasn't that much screen time in this one, but that's OK since he played a major asshole from the military. Although the story is quite interesting, it isn't that original and gives us few surprises. Still, it does what it should do, and that's entertaining the audience. A good movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best, if not the best terrorist thriller ever made.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Siege.....I have no idea why it got a 5.9/10....I only saw this movie yesterday and I was like DAMN, this and the peacemaker are one of the most underrated movies today....both predicted in some way or another something similar to what happened on 9.11.01.....wow...and this situation depicted in this movie even though unlikely to happen, can happen....I love this movie...and recommend anybody who likes political or Terroris thrillers to watch it....one of the best films I have ever seen....Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis round up a superb cast with some of the best acting I have ever seem....whoever wrote this movie is a genius...One of the best movies ever....10 out of 10....Supramaxx. "},{"Title":"Good thriller, some flaws, but chilling in reflection of current events","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'd seen this film some time ago and forgotten about it until well into the first ten minutes. Afterwards I noticed that I had voted it a six out of ten on IMDb, but it wasn't until watching now, after the Twin Tower attacks and during the Iraq war, that it lifted itself in status for me.It presents a lot of the feeling that is coming from the West right now towards the Islamic community, and is indeed echoing the actions of the West. Some of the comments made from the officials in the US Government earily mirror those made during this film, and not in a good way either.This film shows what might happen if a number of terrorist cells locate themselves in the US and execute a plan of repeated attacks. In this case it is to try and secure the release of their illegally (and secretly) imprisoned leader by the US Army without the knowledge of the US Government. These attacks continue with no apparent end, and without any of the agencies involved knowing how many cells are involved. The FBI head the investigation and try to discover the cells, meeting resistance from mainly their own Government and Agencies, and not the Islamic community.Denzel Washington provides a strong and emotionally charged FBI Special Agent in charge of the team of investigators, Anthony 'Hub' Hubbard. He is strongly backed up by Tony Shalhoub playing Hub's partner an Islamic FBI Agent, Frank Haddad. Annette Bening provides strong support in her role as a CIA operative as does Bruce Willis in his role as the Major General in charge of the US Army.Despite some flaws of Agent Hubbard being allowed to continue to investigate despite the major terrorist attack and his lack of resources, his single handed saving of the school children and arresting various CIA and Army soldiers throughout the film, it does do a good job of showing the steps of escalation in a city dominated by rising terrorist attacks.The tension is built throughout and is most effectively shown during the sequence where Hubbard is briefing the security community in a lecture hall and a page goes off. It's excellently timed.The film also shows the intolerance, paranoia and uprising of the general public when events take their worst turn and New York is placed under martial law with the US Army carrying out house to house searches and placing a large portion of the Islamic community in secured camps in football stadiums.A good thriller, with some flaws, but still effectively shows the issues faced by a Government introduced to a rising terrorist threat. It does hold a very unflattering mirror to some of the current events. "},{"Title":"prescient and smart, but ends too easily","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  made in the nineties and even more (obviously) relevant since September 11th, this one is up there with three kings as a startlingly topical and engaging movie.the writing and the concept are excellent, as are the performances by most actors (with the exception of bruce willis, whos character is underdeveloped, though that may be as much the fault of the writers as of the actor). the utter plausibility of nearly everything depicted is terrifying, as is the prospect that some screenwriter in 1998 was able to anticipate so many of these things while our government was completely blindsided in 2001. the camera work was lovely too, and the director really used the setting of new york to his advantage. vague spoiler in this paragraph unlike independence day or other pre-September 11th mass destruction flicks, the devastation is depicted extremely realistically. the pandemonium in times square during the aftermath of a bombing was particularly gut wrenching, not to mention quite easy to imagine in a news broadcast.another vague spoiler i expected this movie to end truly disastrously. it didn't. I'm not sure id call it deus ex machina, but the solution was far too simple and superficial to be a real solution in anything other than the immediate short term. i was left feeling like there ought to have been another 45 minutes or so in which things continue to get worse, and then...well, i suppose a lot more people die and the movie ends unresolved. thats the problem with making a film that so closely mirrors reality for so much of the film when it breaks with reality its really quite obvious. the siege deals with a problem, or rather, a whole host of problems that remain unresolved, and the artificial resolution provided us by Hollywood comes off as a lie, and the wrong lie, especially for the end of a movie.all in all strongly recommended, particularly to any American living in a major metropolitan region. what could happen if we start seeing regular acts of terrorism in American cities? this is a pretty damn good guess.  "},{"Title":"Impressive prediction","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is definitely not a great movie in his genre, not even with two great actors like Bruce Willis and Denzel Washington. When the movie was released in 1998, it was another story about Islamic fundamentalists trying to hit the western world. An old story in Hollywood, but looking at it after 9/11, it appears to be an impressive prediction of the future, which is in a way quite scary. "},{"Title":"Action/thriller wich comes close to reality.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie might be one of the best and realistic I have recently seen. While being released long before the terrorist attacks on America on September 11, the film comes close to reality to this tragic date. In my opinion it is a movie wich is absolutely  a must to see. All the people who have made this movie possible did a good job! "},{"Title":"much better movie than the reviews would lead you to believe","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Peter Travers wrote of this movieThe Siege is not a documentary but a glossy Hollywood entertainment that is prey to all the exaggerations, simplifications and acting histrionics that come with the genre. It's difficult to sustain a responsible subtext when you're delivering the jolts required to keep butts in the seats.The critics, like Mr. Travers, had a hard time with the movie mostly for reasons of political correctness, but it is eerie how much the WTC bombings resemble the terrorist bombings in this movie.  Native New Yorkers will see enough similarities to send shivers up their spines.If you don't want to be graphically reminded of 9-11, don't watch this movie.  If, however, you want to experience a rare case of life imitating art, you must see The Siege. "},{"Title":"incredibly relevent in post-9/11/01 American society","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I find it quite amusing to read the comments of people that state the movie really struggles in its message.  After the tragedy of September 11th, it has only become more relevent.  One thing that I have yet to notice in anyone's comment is the simple fact that the government did in fact declare martial law in some aspects of our society.  Have we already forgotten the National Guard troops posted at our nation's airports, carrying M-16's nonchalantly?  How about the F-16's flying around our nation's airports waiting with fingers on the triggers to shoot down a plane that has gone astray?The simple fact is that the government has begun to control multiple aspects of society that they previously did not.  Federal marshals are now on every domestic flight.  All airport screeners are now federal employees.  I realize that my examples to this point are just regarding airports, so I will branch out.  Just this week, I heard of cases in Colorado where the FBI has jailed foreign Arab college students for not meeting the minimum standard for a full load of credit hours, typically 13 hours.  In one case, the student had received permission from the school to drop a class, which put him below the level.  This is unprecedented.  Are we to assume that some individual is acting in a shady manner just because he/she doesn't take enough classes one semester?  It follows precisely what Colonel Devereaux's troops were doing by rounding up all Arab's between 14 and 40.  Take them all and we'll eventually find one who's got a hidden motive.We as a society are scared, no question about it.  However, as The Siege shows, fear often brings about unwanted conclusions.  It's not farfetched to imagine the government declaring martial law over a city or state. People may say that the Blame Americans First ideal is lame, but there is a strong segment of our world that agree with it.  In addition to devising ways to combat such terrorist cells, we should also refrain from granting carte blanche to those who seek out these cells.  It's in the interest of the American people to see that this is done.  The Siege presents a very convincing scenario of what may happen if we don't attempt to do something now.  Granted, we may not succeed every time, but at least we gave that effort.  At least we can say, I did my best for my country and we as a nation are better for it.Think about it.  I don't want to wake up some day and see that the local stadium has been turned into a massive jail cell, but I know the possibility exists.  As I and other American's learned the morning of September 11th, anything is possible.  I remember waking up that morning and just shaking as I listened and saw what was happening.  Terrorism is real and, therefore, we must do our best to combat it.  However, if in doing so, we stray from our ideals lain out in the Constitution, we become no better than the terrorists themselves.  Taking the law into our own hands has never worked.  Agent Hubbard had it right.  So we kill one, how about two, or six.The Siege works because it presents an all-true scenario for the future of our society.  It also raises questions that should be answered regarding the use of military to defend our borders and the limits to infringing on the unalienable rights we as Americans possess. "},{"Title":"The Siege turned out to be a much better film than I anticipated. It was thrilling, had action, and it made you think. And I firmly believe that Denzel Washington is one of the greatest actors living today.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  New York City is hit by terrorists. At first it's harmless. They blow up some paint on a bus. But then it turns deadly. From blowing up another bus, to blowing up a theater, to killing 600 people in a bombing reminisent of Oklahoma City. The President feels he has no choice but to declare martial law in New York, and put the city under siege. Arab-Americans are taken from their homes and thrown into camps to sort out the good from the bad. It makes you think, what do you do when your neighbors are threatening to destroy life as we know it? Are you willing to forget our Constitution, the one document that makes this country what it is, to get rid of those who might harm you? These are the questions that you need to ask yourself. What would you do?  Denzel Washington plays Anthony Hub Hubbard, the head of a terrorism task force for the FBI. After he successfully finds the people who blew up the bus, he, and the rest of New York think everything is ok. But he's wrong. Terrorism doesn't follow a set plan. You get some, but you don't get the others. Just 9 hours after killing the bus bombers, another group blows up a theater. Then another group takes children in school hostage. And yet another blows up One Federal Plaza. Throughout it all, Hub always sticks to his belief that we live under a Constitution and that we should do things only allowable under the law.  Hub, along with his partner Frank Haddad (Tony Shalhoub) want to figure things out their way, without any military involvement. They are joined by Elise Kraft (Annette Bening) who I still can't figure out, who is CIA. She has some strange connection to the terrorists, or people who know the terrorists, or something of that nature. Her name changes half way through the movie, and her motives are never fully explained. Bruce Willis is General William Devereaux, a man who doesn't want to take over New York City, but when he's called on to do so, he takes matters into his own hand.Denzel Washington gives another powerful performance in The Siege. He has an incredible screen presence where he just takes control of every scene he's in. Whether he's yelling orders or negotiating with hostages, he can control a scene like no one else. Tony Shalhoub (better known from his days on Wings) does a wonderful performance as an Arab-American FBI agent caught between two worlds. While no one can condone terrorism, when his own son is taken to an internment camp, he has to decide whether to stay with his people, or help take then down. I don't really like Annette Benning, and her character in the movie didn't make much sense. I never got a real feel for what she was supposed to be doing. Bruce Willis's character started off thoughtful and ended up a monster. I'm not a military man, so I don't know how they act, but I thought he did a good job portraying what it might be like if the Army was forced to come into a major U.S. city and police it.Overall, I thought the movie was well paced and thought provoking. The part I didn't like that sort of took away from the film was the entire story line with Annette Benning. Even after it was explained somewhat near the end, I still thought they spent too much time with her, and didn't let the audience understand what she was doing until it was too late. Still, The Siege turned out to be a pretty good movie.   "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review why you MUST see this","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'm so surprised that The Siege has such a low rating. Here's my take on who will and will not like the film.The Siege is a blockbuster action / thriller with all the fast pacing and stunts we expect from such films.But at the same time, it is a compelling drama that has something real to say about terrorism. For those living with grief or worry about global terrorism, you will learn something real here. The acting, directing, and writing are all terrific.The film is in no way campy. The cultures of various subgroups of Arabs, Americans, and others are respected and treated as serious subjects. There is plenty of deep thinking, but it does not detract from the action if you want to see the film solely as that.I won't spoil the ending for you, but don't expect a feel good generic Hollywood moment. It's not exactly a feel bad, it's more like you'll finish with a satisfying feeling that you have an understanding of a topic that will put you in a bad mood if you dwell on it too deeply, which you just have for the last two hours. This is probably the reason why some disliked the film, so if you are in a bad mood, rent it next time, not tonight.Who should see this film-- Action movie buffs who won't mind just a dash of sentimentality-- Drama / art film types-- Anyone who's watched too much terrorism on TV, is calm but trying to come to grips with an understanding of it allWho should not see this film-- Anyone who is easily given nightmares or has watched too much terrorism on TV and cannot handle the topic right now-- Action buffs who object to somewhat high-minded intellectual themes cluttering up the punching, chasing, and stuff blowing upI'll rate The Siege a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've just seen the movie again last night on TBS Superstation.When I saw the movie for the first time, I thought it was a pretty good action movie. Naturally, on Sept 11, I first thought about Tom Clancy's Debt of Honor and then this movie. Last night, after Sept 11, the movie came out in a slightly different light. The dialogues were insightful, just like what everybody  was talking about in this country after 9/11, especially regarding the balance between the need to find the terrorists quickly and bend the law, shred the constitution a little bit. Denzel Washington was excellent. Tony Shalhoub and Annette Benning were great. Bruce Willis was being his regular self there. The scenes hit very close to home. The shot of the bombed FBI office bring memory of the twin towers. I would recommend this movie to whomever is interested in the war on terrorism we're in right now.  "},{"Title":"Comparing the military, FBI, CIA, and the bad guys","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is the only movie you'll find that contrasts the priorities of the military, FBI, CIA, and the bad guys.  True, the movie goes to extremes, but it does leave you with an insightful civic lesson.According to The Siege, the FBI values American law and order.  The military values American lives.  The CIA values American interests.  The terrorists value their grievances against the CIA and the military.  The public is like sheep.  The way these five groups mesh is insane. Even though The Siege is unrealistic and overdone -- too Hollywood -- I recommend it for its unique portrayal of government. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie With Recent Implications Though a Lot of Hollywood","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  	The Siege is a very strange movie, made even stranger by preceding events I don't think I have to remind you about.  There is so much that seemed to predict the future, yet there were also many flaws that were revealed by the recent terrorist attacks.	****Slight spoilers ahead****The biggest eye soar is the how security forces reacted after the initial bus explosion.  Now, after a terrorist attack, it would make sense that an opera house full of a who's who list of New York celeberties would be under heavy guard and have constant safety checks.  This didn't seem to be the case in the movie.  	That said, the movie is a mostly effective look at terrorism and the complications that come with it.  It's good that some people remember this movie and that its box-office failure didn't cause it to be completely forgotten.  Some people call it leftist, saying that we are the attackers and they were the victims.  I personally don't feel that's the case.  To me, it seems to state that, there's a whole lot more to this.  That we aren't completely innocent and they aren't all villains.  Yes, the piling of people into Shea Stadium was heavy-handed, but at least they didn't put them into Yankee Stadium and make the symbolism outrageous!	The acting is good.  Denzel Washington adds a human side to what normally would be a badge-flashing fed just looking for the facts.  Tony Shalhoub is great in a supporting role as Denzil's partner. However, I'm not sure of what to think about Annette Bening's character.  I don't know whether it's miscasting or poor writing, but I have absolutely no idea of who she is.  One thing's for sure, though; she seems a little ditzy for someone who's been in and out of all of the nooks and crannies of Mid East military movements.    	The story moves about very well until the final act.  There are very effective scenes such as a meeting of important government figures being interrupted by an erruption of pager and cell phone noise.  However, when the last third of the movie develops, it is handled in a sloppy way to tie it all together.  One person is killed for no apparent reason other than to give another character reason to be arrested later.  The movie leaned heavily on some conventions and scenes that seemed way out of place.  Its steel temperment wore down.	Overall, it was fascinating to watch before and it's even more so today.  Many of things said have happened.  It is especially relevant to note that the government has passed some anti-terrorist laws that are somewhat exploiting one certain ethnic group as an aftershock, so the twists of persecution aren't just bad dreams that are born from the imaginations of liberals.  Still, one can't ignore some it is a little too over-the-top. "},{"Title":"A nightmare that became true.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When i first saw this movie at the multiplex a  few years ago, not in my wildest dreams would i ever imagine that this could actually became true, but the heinous events that took place in New York and Washington on tuesday september 11, 2001 prove the opposite, becoming this into a nightmare. Let us hope that America, guided by the hand of President Bush, the support of the leaders of the free world and the sympathy of millions around the world rise victorious once again.From México we send our love and simpathy to those who had lost a family member or a friend on tragic events, and our respect to the heroes of the NYC fire and police departments who struggle to retrive those traped undergrond. "},{"Title":"Another Wag The Dog?","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The comment I saw on the overview page referred to this movie as being criticized unfairly by Arab Americans, unless it becomes another Wag the Dog (a movie which describes a manufactured war to draw attention away from a presidential affair, which came true in a rather roundabout way several months later). In The Siege, American (specifically, New York) targets are destroyed by Arab extremists as retaliation against American policy. A few days before this comment was written, American buildings (specifically, the World Trade Center and the Pentagon) were destroyed in acts of terrorism. The perpetrators are as-yet unknown, but signs do _seem_ to point to Arab-American extremists retaliating against American-Israeli support policy. So in a roundabout way, parts of this movie have come true. Though I desperately hope that many other aspects (internment, martial law) do not. All in all, in my inexperienced opinion and given I saw it on network television, it seemed like a taut, very plausible thriller. Though I'm not sure whether to applaud the director and writer for the realistic situation, or be afraid that it was so realistic. "},{"Title":"exciting","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie follows the siege of New York City from an Arab attack. While it tends towards the preposterous and is a little stereotypical, I found it to be an exciting film with good performances by Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, and Bruce Willis. You might like it.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The plot that got lost","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The siege has what it takes to become a great film. First of all, the plot is excellent, taking up a new angle of the well-known terrorist movies. The movie brilliantly focuses on the inability of modern military to fight terrorism, and displays how vulnerable we are to terrorists.Unfortunately, this excellent plot is lost in the usual Hollywood US/patriotism dump, where so many potentially good movies have ended their days. In addition to this, the acting was fairly weak. Better acting - and better drawn characters - would have been an immense improvement to this mediocre movie.My rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disapointed with this film. I thought that with a cast with Denzel Washington, Annette Bening and Bruce Willis in the movie credits it was a sure winner. I was wrong. At first, the movie started out pretty good but after the first 30 minutes it just got lame. Annette Bening was sorely miscast in this role (why did she accept it?). "},{"Title":"Missing the Issue","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Judging by many user comments on this site, this movie is sorely misunderstood. Just take a deep breath, and say slowly'THE SIEGE' IS NOT ABOUT TERRORISM.It isn't. Neither is it about Islam. It's about Americanism. The siege refers to the premature martial-law declaration. The fact that the terrorists are Muslim is peripheral to the movie's message.The point of the movie is that we Americans can get very scared and closed-minded, and when mob mentality sets in, we can get neurotic. We're simplistic in how we deal with world problems (i.e., Hussein's a spoothead, so let's bomb and sanction Iraq.). And for those who think the racist gathering-up of all Muslims into that stadium is unrealistic, remember what we did to the Japanese Americans in World War II - in exaggerated terms, our own little holocaust. "}{"Title":"A fascinating look at America's reaction to Islam","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A quantum leap for Edward Zwick, The Siege leaves behind Courage Under Fire's relatively flavorless tale of American heroism in the Gulf War for this maddeningly ambiguous story of terrorism in New York City.  The Siege puts American society and international Islam at opposite ends of a supercollider, and pursues the most subtle results of their impact.Hubbard, the FBI's top terrorism fighter, finds evidence that suggests a Hizballah-style terrorist cell has begun operating in New York, not the least of which is a group of American intelligence types interfering with the FBI's investigation.  The smug leader of the intelligence group, Elise, reluctantly supplies Hubbard with information on her own investigation of the terrorists, but none of it is very satisfying.  Zwick suggests the genuinely American response to crisis is to establish ineffectual spy-chains; military intelligence observes the FBI as it spies on Elise, who plies her Arab informant futilely.What's fascinating about The Siege is the way it intermingles Islam (identified as alien by most American viewers) with things so utterly familiar.  One of the opening scenes features a muezzin calling prayer from a minaret; as the camera pulls back, we find we are not in the Middle East, but the center of New York.  Central to this effort (and equally fascinating) is the film's refusal to allow its characters to collapse into stereotypes.  A terrorist pursues life as a liberal American intellectual, an arabic-speaking FBI agent struggles with issues of loyalty, and even Hubbard flirts with torturing an immigrant suspected of involvement with the terrorists.  Identities are painfully intermingled. Hubbard leads one character through the lord's prayer as she dies, only to find that at her last exhalation, she calls on the name of Allah; few cinematic moments in recent memory have left me feeling so emotionally blindsided. "},{"Title":"Excellent premise somewhat undermined by poor writing","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In 1989, Edward Zwick and Denzel Washington collaborated on the best movie made in my lifetime, GLORY.  They've made two more together since then, COURAGE UNDER FIRE and THE SIEGE, and while both were pretty good, neither approaches the excellence of their first effort.  The fault in this case is not Washington's, who continues to prove himself the best American actor of our times; blame falls squarely on Zwick and on screenwriter Lawrence Wright.THE SIEGE is the story of FBI agent Anthony Hubbard (Washington) who forms an uneasy alliance with secretive CIA agent Elise Kraft (Annette Bening) in an effort to stop a string of bombings by a cell of Muslim fundamentalists that is terrorizing New York City.  When they catch some but not all of the terrorists, and the bombings continue, martial law is declared in Brooklyn and a military contingent headed by Gen. William Devereaux (Bruce Willis) comes in to finish the job, starting by imprisoning every young man of Arabic ancestry in the borough.Although THE SIEGE is disappointing, it has many good points.  Hubbard is an admirable character very well realized by Washington.  Watch him fight off tears when he fails to rescue the hostages aboard a bus, and see his literally bloody intensity as he sends his subordinates racing after suspects - The first twenty-four hours are the ONLY twenty-four hours!  These scenes show Washington is still the best in the U.S.  Hubbard has been unfairly called too perfect, but we see that he too has dark urges, as at one moment he uses a lit cigarette to threaten a suspect he is interrogating.Annette Bening is very good in her role also.  While she looks oddly haggard and unpretty, she still has a smoldering, sexy air to her.  Her feeling of sick dread at the tense bus standoff is palpable - They were waiting for the cameras.Not to be overlooked is Tony Shalhoub in the role of Frank Haddad, Hubbard's Lebanese-born fellow FBI agent.  He personifies the tragedy of the unjust internment of the Arabs and Arab-Americans when his own son is imprisoned.  I could feel his sense of betrayal as the government he has served for his whole life turns on him simply for his ethnicity.The major problem character is General Devereaux. I don't think any actor could have done a decent job playing Devereaux, since the part is written as if for two completely different characters.  At first he begs Congress as a card-carrying ACLU member (!) not to send in the army.  But when martial law is imposed, he not only accepts the mission with gusto, but displays not the slightest concern for trampling every law and civil right in his path.  It's a schizophrenic character, and Willis is not to be blamed for failing to make him convincing.This leads into the next major problem, which is that the movie's interesting premise, martial law and prison camps in New York, really never goes anywhere.  It's a horrifying possibility, and not unrealistic as some people pretend.  Something very like it happened less than sixty years ago, when Japanese-Americans in the West were interned against their will, and when Hawaii was put under martial law.  The trouble is, it just sits there; nothing is done with the idea beyond the first five minutes of its occurrence.  Consider what might have happened if people started escaping from the camps, and the guards were put on the spot to shoot them or let them run.  This sort of idea is never explored.(Spoiler below).As the movie goes on, it keeps running out of energy, and the discovery of the last terrorist is tacked-on and unconvincing.  The final action sequence is further marred by an annoying editing error where one person is clearly shown being shot in the chest, but then is said to have a stomach wound.  I was one of the few people who actually liked the final confrontation between Washington and Willis, but its tension could have been improved if Devereaux had stood fast and his men had been put on the spot to disobey him or murder Hubbard.Despite the flaws, Zwick still shows a master's hand in certain scenes.  His use of the simple device of a pager to generate suspense has been deservedly praised.  Overlooked, but very well done, is his decision to score the scenes of the innocent Arabs being locked away with the mournful tones of the muezzins' call to Muslim prayer; most of us can't understand the words, but the voice seems to cry out against the injustice.  Some of Hubbard's lines underscore the difference between life in America and in other countries more victimized by violence; precisely because we Americans are accustomed to safety, we tend to react more hysterically and irrationally to terrorism than do other people to whom danger is an unavoidable fact of everyday life. I would like to dispose of some unfair criticisms of this movie.  The charge of anti-Arab racism is so absurd, and has been so competently addressed by others before me, that I won't dwell on it. It is true, but irrelevant, that the FBI and CIA are far better suited to fight domestic terrorism than is the U.S. Army; in fact, Devereaux makes that very point.  Zwick is illustrating the fact that stupid policies like declaring martial law are often followed, not because they are likely to succeed, but rather because politicians always want to foster the impression that they are doing something spectacular to address the people's concerns.THE SIEGE is worthwhile despite its flaws.  Just don't expect GLORY, and be prepared to grit your teeth several times through the last half of the movie.Rating *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Above average, moralistic thriller.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has been criticized for it's so-called Anti-Arab stance. Having seen the film twice, I think that such a claim is unsubstantiated. The movie does not explicitly label all Arabs as violent radicals with terrorist agendas; scenes involving the character of Frank Haddad (Tony Shalhoub) are done with professionalism and respect.On the whole, the movie is a notch above most action films. Director Ed Zwick, in his third collaboration with Denzel Washington (following Glory and Courage Under Fire), gives us a political thriller with just as many moral questions as pyrotechnic effects. When faced with an onslaught of terrorist aggression, how does one counterattack? In this film, the answer lies in martial law. But the methods employed by General Deveraux (Bruce Willis), incl. rounding all Arab males who fit the profile, prove to be unjust. FBI agent Anthony Hubbard (Denzel Washington) is forced into a situation where the liberties of a select few conflict with the capture of dangerous individuals. He's aided by CIA operative Elise Kraft (Annette Bening), whose agenda is never clear.All of the elements of the film come together, thanks to great pacing by director Zwick. The film presents us with scenes of disturbing terrorist violence; bomb victims stumble, bleeding, often missing limbs. These images numb the viewer; we are left thankful such scenes don't occur too frequently in the film. The interaction between the key players is what makes the film work. An early scene where Hubbard and his colleagues work on obtaining leads is well-done, as each actor bounces off the other.Put aside the polemics and the controversy and see this film. It will make you wonder what TPTB would do if a situation like that were to occur. "},{"Title":"A very good film that makes you think..","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I had read the very negative reviews given to this film, and I think I assumed they were true. However, I have just watched the Siege, and I found it to be a very excellent film. It is a commentary on US and its powers. It shows us that too much power is a problem. It shows us the consequences of freedom. Many of the scenes are powerful. Denzel Washington is excellent, Annette Bening is very good, and Bruce Willis is fine. He plays the hard-a** General better then I would have expected, but its nothing new for him really. The big stand out here is Tony Shalhoub, who plays Denzel's partner. He is funny and then very believable in his later scenes. He was very very good. This is a very good that may show you how lucky we in America are. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It attempts to provide moral instruction, but fails.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There are just too many holes in this plot, and of course the real villains turn out to be the US Army and the CIA (what a surprise!) while Arabs are evenly divided between regular people and one-dimensional fanatics. Anyone from New York would know that the climactic scene where the combined races and ethnic extractions of Brooklyn are marching together to protest the Army's incarceration of the Arab men of the Borough in the name of the Constitution (as Manhattan lies in virtual ruin) was the least realistic part of the whole mess. They would more likely have been demanding public executions - if not performing them.  As one of those Hollywood producers used to say, If you want to send a message, call Western Union civics lessons and Constitutional Law debates weigh down this already overloaded bore. (By the way, why is Annette Bening the only CIA person involved in the investigation as half of New York gets blown up?). It's a waste of time. "},{"Title":"don't be so quick to bash this average movie.  There's a lot of deep thinking that a lot of people obviously missed","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people trash this movie and rightly so, because it is at most an above average movie.  Others were offended because it portrayed Arabs as terrorists, when in reality only a miniscule portion of Arabs are terrorists and terrorism is not an Arab thing - it is a people thing.However, what was so good about this movie is that it made you think and wonder.  This movie showed the negative effects of a bad U.S. policy.  The Arabs were not terrorists, they were merely retaliating at the U.S. government because the government reneged on a promise to help them out. The result is that the Arabs get slaughtered.  Then the U.S. gov. makes another bad move and declares martial law and thus suspending all the freedoms that Americans hold dear to them and view as sacred.This movie makes you wonder because the world is becoming a dangerous place and it makes you wonder the what ifs.  What if this happened.  Would we declare martial law and would it be the right thing.  If you just take it at face value it's an average movie. But if you think about the dilemma it deals with I believe it's a highly intelligent movie "},{"Title":"A smart, new look at  terrorism, *** out of ****.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I liked The Siege not because of its boldness, but because of its point of view. I say that frankly and aggressively because I really liked the way this movie looks at terrorism. In other recent action feast, (Ronin, Rush Hour) the story has two different perspectives on the villain plot. The first takes a look at the bad guys from the good guys point of view. The second is the opposite. Now, what The Siege does that makes it so original is completely eliminating the scoundrel's position in the story. Taking only into perspective the good guys. It defiantly has its problems, but it is a fresh feeling idea.The story involves a continuous act of terrorism in the state of New York, committed by the Arabs. At first sight, this would seem like a simple crime. But as the destruction cost rises, and as the body count increases rapidly, soon, there seems to be a bit more to this scandal then meets the eye.Denzel Washington and Annette  Bening play New York City cops in a race against time to find out the truth behind these acts. After a disastrous bus incident, they come to the conclusion that these people only want to be heard and seen, not necessarily negotiate.Soon, however, a state of martial law is declared, and the movie awkwardly tries to change villains. In this act, the head leader of the tanks that are plowing through the streets going from house to house looking for Arabs, innocent or guilty, and putting them in prison camps, is played by Bruce Willis receptively. Although he over-reacts often, I still felt that Willis was quite the expert at his role.But he becomes too involved in what he does and puts a man though torture who refuses to talk. This is taking away the American's freedom and not many people like this. So how is the FBI going to deal with the constant acts of terrorism, and their own army who turns against them?There is one main problem I had with this movie We never find out who the master bad guy is. I mentioned earlier on in my review that there was a couple of flaws to the main original look at the movie. If there is no bad-guy point of view, how do we know who the bad guys are. Figuring that out is very confusing, and shortly I gave up on it.However, that flaw, and the overall film itself, is elevated from the first rate performances. Washington gives one of his better acting jobs of the year. His confusion seemed realistic and his pondering was fiercely involving. Bening, from the utterly bad Mars Attacks is a very effective actress in her role. I liked the way she presented her character in the wild but cautious girl way.I had another serious concern for the films first half The script is often somewhat tedious. And with the dialog these characters have to work with, the entire movie becomes nothing but painful ho-hum. But without warning signs, there suddenly is an action sequence that saves the movie tactlessly. This happens so very much, however, eventually this roller coaster style becomes worn out, and leaves the audience with a want out sensation.By any means, however, I liked The Siege enough to recommend the film to you. It's a good night out and I think you'll enjoy yourself, if you're not looking for a hard-edged shooting spree.  "},{"Title":"A true Sci-Fi. A good movie with meaning.","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is what I consider to be a true science fiction title.  Not only is it a good movie based on current events and absolutely believable happenings, but it has a clear message that rings true.It is a scary movie in that this is a part of our country and a true possiblity.Its only pitfall is some extra irrelevant personal developments in the plot. "},{"Title":"Fine Drama, Action, and Good Ideas","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Washington, Bening, and Willis all put in fine performances in this well written, gritty, thoughtful, action film.Only the most hate-filled could mistake this film as an endorsement of prejudice.  To the contrary, the film's stance regarding the challenges of terrorism is intelligent and life affirming. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very good movie and one the critics have not done justice. I stayed glued to the seat throughout the movie. It is a good story and it also makes you wonder how far would this country go in the name of national defense. It's not anti-American or anti-Muslim. It's about scared people and politics. Denzel Washington did a very good job. Annette Bening was excellent. She deserves Oscar consideration for playing such a convincing role. She won't get it, because it's not a traditional role for women. Regardless this is a movie worth the asking price. I'll see it twice.  "}{"Title":"Reasons to appreciate the Constitution","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a perfect example of why we have our Constitutional system of government and why good law enforcement requires a strict adherence to the Bill of Rights.  The idea of martial law is frightening because it takes away those Constitutional rights that were enacted to protect American citizens from the evils experienced under British martial law over 200 years ago.  The portrayal of the oppression of the Americans in the movie was as good as could be expected from Hollywood, though understated from the perspective of what the average man would feel.  Denzel Washington's character displays accurately the need to adhere to Constitutional safeguards in the performance of law enforcement duties.  A must see for anyone that has an interest in Constitutional law, but don't expect in depth examination of the subject.  What is talked about in the movie are broad philosophical observations of the situation of the characters.  By watching the movie and considering the individual cases of infringement (i.e.-separate violations of Amendments 1, 4, and 5) upon some of the characters, one can appreciate why we have our system of government.  "},{"Title":"Very Interesting","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege was a very interesting movie.  Although it may be hard to follow at times, it delivers a lot of tension and intrigue.  The story centers around an FBI investigation on terrorist cells in New York City.  When the terrorism gets out of hand, the city is put under Martial Law under the command of Bruce Willis' character.  Arab citizens are all rounded up and caged by the military, and suspects are interrogated and tortured.  New York is in total mayhem as the different terrorist cells attack.All in all, this movie has many scenes of high tension, but sometimes moves at a very slow pace.  The performances of Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis are up to par with their usual performances, but Annette Benning's character was so strange I couldn't tell if it was because of bad acting or good acting.  At any rate, I recommend this movie.  It was very suspenseful, well acted, and extremely interesting.  I always wanted to know what would happen if terrorism got out of hand.  I gave this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Action movie about a serious topic...","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is a fairly fast paced, action packed movie, that has many ambitions; but only manages to fulfill some of them.  In the movie, Denzel Washington plays an FBI agent, charged with finding terrorists in NYC; he finds some, but then it becomes clear that there are more...  The public panics and the US Army is brought in to deal with the situation.The movie's main dilemma is, how important are individual rights? At what cost do we ignore or protect them?Although the movie is not bad, it does drag on in some cases, and some characters (Annette Bening's) are just annoying.  The real gem here is Tony Shalhoub, and his protrayal of an American Muslim who also happens to be an FBI agent, he is funny, serious, thoughtful, and understated.  He makes an excellent opposite to the loud mouths in the movie.  May be disturbing to some viewers. (Eg torture/murder.) "},{"Title":"Nostradamus?","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Definitely a film worth watching post 9-11...in fact that's what I am in the process of doing...History Channel Friday-Oct-21-2005 900pm What an eerie film...with several shots of the Twin Towers taken some 4 years before 9-11-01 and scenes showing the CIA and US Army interrogating naked Middle Eastern subjects...Martial Law on US soil could be direction that the Patriot Act would like us to go. Interesting, that Annette Bening, a woman, is seen interrogating a suspected/detained terrorist cell leader completely naked just like the case of the Abu Ghraib's scandal in Iraq...a woman was charged. Is this a prediction from a skillful story teller....or are ideas being given to both sides? "},{"Title":"Zwick - Our generation's Nostradamus?","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It's interesting reading back on the comments on this film.  Comments are mixed - Some like it, some hate it.  Some loved and hated it at the same time.  But most thought it was highly unlikely that this could ever happen in our world as we know it.  Until September 11th, 2001;  The date of the World Trade Center and Pentagon terrorist attacks.  Now this movie gains nothing but praise for it's foresight.I've always found this movie riveting.  Certain scenes have always made the hairs on my neck stand on end.  IE  The scene where the people are all standing on the bus, and Denzel Washington's character Hubbard is requesting that the terrorists release all the children and elderly people.  Seeing the bus explode (sorry about the minor spoiler if you haven't seen it) gave me just a taste of how I felt that Tuesday morning of September 11th when I turned on the news to see footage of passenger airlines slamming into the World Trade Center.I hope that the high-ranking officials of our country including our president himself, watches this movie and uses it as a guide as not what to do.  Martial Law is very much a reality now, and I think any more incidents like what just happened to this country would push the government in that direction.It's ironic that in the movie, the CIA had trained some of the freedom fighters who then turned into terrorists against us.  We're now starting to find out that the CIA had in fact recruited and trained Osama bin Laden and people like him to fight against the Soviet supported government toward the end of the Cold War.  When we do attack Afganistan, we will be fighting against weapons we supplied to them only a few years ago.It would be interesting to find out what kind of premonition writer Lawrence Wright had when he wrote this.  Because it was exactly that - a premonition, even predicting the same city we have now seen this nightmare come true to life in.Sorry I haven't done more of a review of this film, as I felt that it's been done extensively up until this point.  I just wanted to share my thoughts on the obvious schocking parallels between this film and our life now as we know it.  Hopefully in our case, it will be a happy ending.  God Bless America. "},{"Title":"Eerie premonition","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I write this today, September 11, 2001, during the crisis of the terrorist attacks on New York's World Trade Center, and the Pentagon. When I first heard of the attacks this morning I immediately remembered this film, which depicted horrifying terrorist attacks on New York City, and the equally horrifying sights of the Military being called in. While the film takes creative license, of course, it is still an eerie premonition of what was to come.  "},{"Title":"Unrealistic?  Not as of today...","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw The Siege, I thought that something like this was impossible, and unlikely.After today's terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and other locations, the events in this film seem all too likely.  It is interesting to see in the film how a city such as New York might respond to this kind of terrorism.Also, The Siege explores the kind of racial or ethnic implications that go along with such an enormous terrorist action.  As we have seen, those who are responsible for terrorism, if they are of a particular ethnic origin, will forever alter the way their ethnicity is treated.The Siege was an interesting movie yesterday.  Today it is scary. "},{"Title":"I love New York with the Army.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Now let's see, the last time I looked, a movie was supposed totell a story and entertain you. It is supposed to take you whereever the writer wants to take you. Well, that's the case here.And let me tell you that I know a thing or two about films andNew York. If view this film, you will see a modern story un-fold before your eyes. It is an international situation whichwas represented with the latest technology. The cast is excell-ent. The direction brings each character to full bloom and yousoon realize that this can really happen here. See this film andyou will appreciate the art form of film making. Denzel Washing-ton is realistic, Bruce Willis is awesome as a general andAnette Bening shows great ability. Tony Ghaloub is an under-rated and under-used talent. His screen presence makes the wholesituation come to real life. "},{"Title":"Some very effective bits, some stupid bits, some average action stuff and plenty of rather muddled politics make this an average film that may well be more popular due to recent events","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When the US seizes Sheik Achmed Bin Talal, it sparks a terrorist threat where a bus is targeted with a fake bomb. FBI anti-terrorist head Anthony Hubbard gets on the case in time to find that a second bus bomb is not a hostage situation so much as a suicide statement. With the mysterious Elise Kraft floating around the edges of those involved, Hub tries to keep control of the situation but a further terrorist attack on New York City brings a great deal of political pressure to react and hit back &#150; even if the target is a network and not a country. With the military ready to strike anything they are told to and the Muslim community keen to help however they can, tensions are simmering and ready to boil, Hub tries to stop the terrorist cells before they can strike again.I noticed this film be released in the UK in 98/99 sort of time but never got round to seeing it despite it looking like a good action movie. At the time it seemed that controversy over ethnic stereotyping may have had a hand in making it go through the cinema pretty quickly and I know that it has never been shown on terrestrial TV in the UK &#150; not sure why, it just hasn't.The basic plot mixes politics with a more traditional action thriller type plot but, aside from having moments of interest in each regard, it generally falls down in an OK film that is muddled and simplistic. The action/thriller side is OK and it also throws in some very harrowing scenes of terrorism that (at the time) must have seemed impossible to many viewers in the US (sadly in Northern Ireland we are far too familiar with terrorist attacks to be shocked by the aftermath of a bombing in a film &#150; we have seen it in reality for decades) but these moments are few are far between. Instead the standard thriller plot fails to engage because it never really gets going and has to carry so much else at the same time.The politics side of the film is muddled at best. First of all Zwick bends over backwards in order to show the Muslim community standing up to oust terrorists in their midst and also showing New Yorkers supporting Muslims (oh that it were that way in reality in the majority!) but then the script also seems unsure of what it is saying. On one hand it is clever and critical, with Sharon representing the 1980's CIA who 'trained them to make bombs' and Devereaux representing a heavy-handed military using a broadsword for surgery but then we also have the problem where the film is very much 'lets get 'em' in its approach via the thriller route. It has moments that are interesting and insightful but generally it is all far too simplistic and never looks inward in the way any film that preaches balanced politics really should &#150; only a very subtle link via Sharon is a sign that the film acknowledges it may have contributed to itself being a target is a concession but it is one so hidden that those not keen to find it will easily miss it. In some ways it is interesting because, despite being rather simplistic it is still more critical than it would be were it made today it is still rather shy in being interesting and instead just falls into a simple thriller where 'good' Americans try to stop 'evil' extremists (although the only real reason they hate America is because they are 'evil') with only enough balance to prevent it being accused of racism. Without this aspect the film struggles because it tries to do it unsuccessfully but, as with the thriller aspect, it has a few good moments but not enough to really keep it going. The cast try hard but none of them are really served well by the material at all. Washington tries to be balanced but his dialogue is clunky for the most part and it is one of his less convincing performances and, given his recent remake of the Manchurian Candidate, I did wonder how he views this film now in hindsight. Benning is OK but her careful performance is betrayed by a 'happy' ending that takes away even the subtle interest she might have had. Willis is laughably bad in his character who suddenly becomes a big powerful distator of New York without any real reason &#150; I wonder if, made in 2004, this film would be brave enough to have such a criticism of the military's role in fighting terrorism? Shalhoub is OK but is really a big part of the film keeping the Muslim community happy while the support cast is multi-ethnic enough to stop it being too obvious in its subtext.Overall this is an average thriller and an average political film and it never really does that well on either of those fronts. The thriller side throws up an OK story as well as some moments that are all the more shocking now that US audiences have seen how real they can be, but it isn't that good a thriller. Meanwhile the film throws in a few subtle criticisms (although they look obvious in today's world) but not enough to cover the rather simplistic and muddled politics it peddles. Maybe worth seeing due to its increased relevance but it is not a very good film by any measure and is more notable for the targets it misses rather than those it hits. "},{"Title":"Only The Running Man predicted the future better","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't believe the date on this film (1998), when I read it, because I just ASSUMED that this brilliant film was a cheesy attempt to cash in on post-9/11 paranoia. Little did I know that, as with The Running Man, someone was trying to tell us something.Plot? Lame.Cinametography? Lame.Acting? Lame.Depictions? Lame and clichéd.All forgiven due to the psychic brilliance of the film.Bruce Willis and Denzel Washington play bad general and good federal agent, respectively, and the assortment of terrorists, protesters and media round out what could easily have been a TV movie, and what might have worked even better as one. The question of what to do when terrorists use our own freedoms to slither among us and destroy us is not an easy one. At what point do we reconsider what is unthinkable?There is nothing more to say about this film. Just watch it. "}{"Title":"Unreal ending(spoiler)","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Since when could the FBI ever take down the military? I think it's was stupid to have Denzel win the EGO battle with Bruce, by having the FBI challenge a military unit with guns.  They should have shot Denzel, for all they know he could have been a traitor. It just about ruined the whole movie. The military handles military crimes, not the FBI.  "},{"Title":"I thought it was unrealistic...until","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  One problem I use to have with movies (not on all occasions) was judging them because they were not realistic.  I remember thinking that of this film. In all actuality this film was, is ahead of its time.4/5 "},{"Title":"Terrorist strike the city of New York","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In the opening scenes we see news footage of the aftermath of an attack on US forces in the Middle East; the man believed responsible is then captured. The action then moves to New York City when a bus appears to have a bomb on board; police and FBI rush to the scene and discover the bomb is a fake. Anthony Hubbard; leader of the FBI anti-terror taskforce arrives at the scene and finds a CIA agent calling herself Elise Kraft also taking an interest. He isn't happy about her presence but inevitably they eventually end up working together when a second bus is hijacked and this time blown up by Middle Eastern suicide bombers. Clues are followed and it soon looks as if the threat has been eliminated but as the investigators celebrate another bomb goes off. Tensions mount and innocent Arab-Americans find themselves targeted by a frightened population; politicians feel the pressure to do something. There is talk of martial law but General William Devereaux counsels against it but after further attacks the army is ordered to move in. With the Army now controlling the streets and rounding up anybody who fits the profile of the bombers Hubbard struggles to find the last terrorist cell before the next atrocity.When this was made the idea that foreign terrorists could successfully strike against the heart of America's biggest city seemed unlikely but watching this now it is impossible not to think of the events of 2001; especially as the New York skyline of the film includes the distinctive twin towers of the World Trade Center. Equally unlikely seeming at the time was the idea that the US would resort to extra-judicial kidnapping of suspects or torture but now these aspects of the film seem all too believable.The drama is gripping and went in unexpected directions&#x85; I was expecting a routine action drama with the investigator looking for the terrorists without the added twist of introduction of martial law and the portrayal of the US Army as part of the problem rather than the solution. Denzel Washington dominates as Agent Hubbard and Bruce Willis is okay, playing somewhat against type, as Devereaux. Annette Bening is good as Kraft but some of her character's actions seem unlikely, Tony Shalhoub is also good as Hubbard's partner. The action scenes are exciting and well handled. Overall this is a decent drama although some may feel its politics are a bit too obvious&#x85; others may feel these sort of views need to be made clear. "},{"Title":"A decent if heavy handed action thriller","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Siege got a lot of heat back in the late 90's for its ludicrous plot and its stereotyping of Arab Americans. Now after 9/11 and the subsequent wars following it, this movie has a little more weight to it than when it was released. Even on its own merits, it's a solid action thriller although it does have a lot of flaws.Good The performances all around are solid. Denzel does good in the lead and he has a good supporting cast that includes Annette Bening and Tony Shalhoub. Bruce Willis pops up as the military general and he does good also even if its more of an extended cameo. Like I stated, the premise given today's climate seems more plausible making the proceedings more anchored even if its still far fetched. Some of the sequences involving the bombs had some intensity.Bad The one thing that really brings this down is the overly obvious tackle of racism in this movie. I mean, you have Arab Americans getting harassed, thrown in internment camps, and all kinds of forms of racism that its just too on the nose. It;s the kind of subtext that hits you over the head repeatedly that it becomes silly lessening the possible impact a premise like this might have.Overall, solid action and performances aside, this movie suffers from some silly moments and a way too obvious message. "},{"Title":"Murderers murder, Rapists rape, Terrorists cause terror","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Films have the ability to make things black and white. It's easy to have bad guys running around with guns and bombs, and have them stopped by the good guys - using the same tools - but because of the cameras perspective, the latter are hailed as heroes, and the former as villains. The Siege is pretty open minded about the issues, and blurs the lines between good and bad. In a post 9/11 era scenarios like this are more frightening because they are conceivable for a number of reasons.Denzel puts in another strong performance as an FBI agent, with a split personality. He gives the orders, he negotiates, he gives elegant speeches, yet he also charges into situations and is willing to put his life on the line when their are other options available.Bruce Willis's General is more clipped than his hair cut. His cool demeanor and unwavering duty to his country does make him sound like the enemy, rather than the honourable protector. This is no John McClane or Det. Tom Hardy, and Willis also flips between showing trepidation and acting like a dictator, though the former seemed more for show.And thirdly you have Annette Bening, a CIA agent, who starts the film as some secretive chat show host - fake smile and all - and gradually slides down the emotional abyss. Denzel is stuck between the single facial expression of Bruce and the constantly changing Bening.Yet, while those three get most of the lines, the amazing Tony Shalhoub steals the show by having to straddle the fence of being besieged and being seen as a part of the siege as a Lebanese-American FBI agent. Where do your loyalties lie when what you've worked for turns around and spits in your face? There's a very short scene where he's throwing a pig skin with his son in a stadium, that's touching in its banality.This film tries to be both a political thriller and an a action film, with a slight romantic side story, all tied together with a stellar cast. "},{"Title":"Gritty terrorist thriller","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I remember that when THE SIEGE first came out, back in 1998, I had the pleasure of seeing it at the cinema. Back then, as I recall, audiences weren't too sure of what to make of a new breed of terrorist threat, involving sleeper cells and homemade bomb strikes on American cities. It may have seemed unbelievable to some, but what happened three years later would change the world forever and give THE SIEGE even greater relevance, not to mention more than a little prescience given what was to come.The ever-reliable Denzel Washington is excellent as the FBI agent on the trail of terrorists holding New York to ransom. This is a guy who burns up the screen and, even if he does have a tendency to play the same part over and over, it's one you can never tire of. Washington is so powerful that the shortcomings of co-star Annette Bening are easy to dismiss.The movie also benefits from the presence of director Edward Zwick, who over the years has made some truly decent films like BLOOD DIAMOND and THE LAST SAMURAI. Kudos too for the casting of Bruce Willis against type, back when the actor still meant something. I particularly love how the emphasis changes during the last third of the movie when it becomes difficult to say who the real bad guys are.In the end, THE SIEGE is a class act because the set-pieces (the bus scene, of course) are outstanding and the talky bits in-between are equally dramatic and tension-filled. It's a tough and thought-provoking film that may prove uncomfortable viewing for some, but as a movie that shines a light on our world it's up there with the best of them. "},{"Title":"Jaw Dropping","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Virtually dismissed in 1998 by Critics and Audiences, it is now reevaluated in light of September 11, 2001. In fact, it was an intellectual exercise in Philosophy. We have been Philosophizing 24/7 ever since.True, after 9-11 there was hardly Martial Law, although it was implemented in soft form in certain sections of the Country for a time. But it WAS materialized in Document by the Patriot Act that was an out of your face, subtle way of eroding Freedoms. Instead of Military Might it uses Lawyereeze to control and stifle the Constitution.This Film today, is viewed with more considerable appreciation. It was prophetic, and caught Folks off-guard expecting high voltage Action and Heroics. It is a calculating, well Written and thought out Movie that in its time frame was a very difficult thing to pull off. The Nation was teetering on how to handle the terrorism thing that other parts of the World were experiencing with escalating frequency. In 1998 America had not yet found its footing on the yet to be thing called The War on Terror and although we did attempt a foothold after WTC we are still. at this late date, teetering. "},{"Title":"A Knockout!","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Edward Zwick's 'The Siege' is A Knockout Entertainer, that lives up-to the expectations. Stylishly Directed, Well-Written & Superbly Acted, 'The Siege', in short, is a must watch!'The Siege' Synopsis The secret US abduction of a suspected terrorist leads to a wave of terrorist attacks in New York that lead to the declaration of martial law.'The Siege' is arresting from the very start. What follows further, only climbs the ladder step by step. Lawrence Wright, Menno Meyjes & Zwick's Screenplay is well-done & full of twists & turns. Zwick's Direction is Stylish. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are good. Action Sequences/Stunts, are top-notch.Performance-Wise Denzel Washington stands out with a brilliant performance. Bruce Willis is suitably restrained in a role that has Grey shades. Annette Bening does exceedingly well, as always. Tony Shalhoub is first-rate. Sami Bouajila is impressive. Aasif Mandvi is excellent. On the whole, 'The Siege' is a must watch. "},{"Title":"Drama","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Although this movie is an old one nevertheless it still remains in my memory because of the exemplary performance of Denzel Washington as an FBI agent. Denzel brings great humanity to his role as an FBI agent, charged with counter-terrorism operations and investigations. Bruce Willis is portrayed as a army general but his role is less significant than Denzel.It portrayed Arab Muslims as terrorist who constantly in conflict with Americans. I watched this movie three times and every time it enhanced my understanding on theme of this movie. Denzel delivered the sharp dialogues with perfect expressions that added essence to the storyline. Some of the scene locations were fantastic, short scripts made a deep impact on the viewer. All those who have cultural exposure to the Arab world can enjoy this movie more than the Americans.I like this following dialogue so much that I memorized it. Willis whatever I did was in the best interest of my country and don't you ever question my authority. DenzelI am not questioning your authority. I am questioning your judgments.Scenes such as the bombings that are carried out by Islamic extremists were well pictures. Core network of the extremist groups were trained by the CIA. Their bombing on the bus loaded with passengers was a spine chilling dramatic centered on New York City. It is exemplified that there was no cooperation between, the FBI, CIA and military. When the Arab-Americans are rounded up in large numbers, and were subjected to harassment and violence due to suspicion appeared very realistic. The images of bodies and debris were shocking to be seen. The US soldiers tortured muslin suspects in pursuit of terrorists. Director Ed Zwick and actor Denzel Washington team up once again for a great one-two punch.Denzel's assistance Tony Shalhoub, who delivers another great performance and some of the best dialogues delivered with a British accent. Annette Benning displays her talent as a CIA operative at the heart of the whole crisis. Roger Deacons adds his wonderful cinematography, The film delivers a predictive cautionary story about how harsh extreme reactions are taken to retaliate terrorism. In this process it is shown that some people can lose his/her freedom due to an emotional strategy taken by the leaders and not a rational one.There is a scene; in which Arab-American citizens are confined in a secured area is gruesome to watch. As depicted in the film, the declarations of martial law by army general, is close to provisions of the Patriot Act, which violates First Amendment rights. Denzel Washington in a scene says even if the suspect is a terrorist he has the right to privacy, and the right to due process. The monumental theme the director tries to explain is by giving up these rights, or stripping them away, Americans become the very thing that their enemies claim they are. Denzel says they have  By shaking the constitution a little bit they have already won.A marvelous way of explaining what the human right violations are to a lay man. I would say it is a movie to educate common man. "},{"Title":"A watered down war on waterboarding","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Edward Zwick directs The Siege, a techno thriller which hopes to shed light on both the West's role in the Middle East and its racist attitude toward Arabs and Persians.It would take a genius to properly deal with this material, and for half the film's running time Zwick does seem to handle things fine. The film's second half, however, quickly degenerates into a cartoon, even if it is correct in introducing a character, played by Bruce Willis, who literalizes the West's paranoia, military hystericism and psycho nationalism. Where the film goes in its second half isn't necessarily wrong, but is just best dealt with in the form of comedy or satire. Furthermore, in the real world, there are none of the clear demarcations (Zwick personalises processes which are ideological and structural) which Zwick paints. One example in this film, terrorist attacks lead to one psycho US general cordoning off a city, imposing martial law, arresting Muslims and engaging in torture, all of which are actions which tick the public off. This is similar to what happened after 9/11, but not quite. The not quites are important. In the real world, the battle and military occupation went overseas, the populace supported it, torture was hidden and there was no cordoning off, just various restrictive public safety acts stealthily implemented and willingly embraced by a scared populace.Like most Hollywood thrillers which try to be smart when dealing with the Middle East, the film is always busily trying to cover its own butt. One example watch how multi-ethnic our hero's team is, comprised of blacks, Lebanese, Italians and an Asian woman. The film's casting is very sneaky, the only all American boy being action hero Bruce Willis, cast as a psycho.The film is instructive in one way. It shows how unsuitable and limited realism is, these issues always best handled indirectly or abstractly. Zwick's literal handling of this material is reminiscent of Spielberg's Munich, both films revolving around heroes hunting down Muslim extremists. And like Spielberg's film, The Siege is supremely didactic. Observe how Zwick is always stressing the way his film doesn't possess racist Americans, the director constantly drawing attention to the fact that his heroes are all multi-ethnic, sympathise with Muslims and are all working together for freedom and democracy. And of course when Zwick isn't stressing this, he's continually pointing out the distinctions between fundamentalism and Islam. The end result is the usual watered down Hollywood Middle Eastern thriller some of them are good, but not the ones you're gonna have fun watching us track down.Still, ignore the babyish moralising and the film is useful in illuminating the fluctuating line between protecting national security and preserving civil rights. It also highlights the uselessness of torture, and shows the state's latent possibilities of repression, stereotyping and prejudice, and the ease at which rights are violated.7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. The shamelessly silly You Don't Mess With The Zohan is still the best mainstream Middle Eastern movie. "}{"Title":"Well made terrorist thriller despite weak Willis and heavy-handed sermonizing","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This film works very well until it's final thirty minutes when it descends into heavy-handed sermonizing. The beginning is impressive as we see New York City attacked by terrorists. Annette Bening is very effective playing a morally conflicted character. Denzel Washington is solid as usual. Tony Shalhoub does well with a clichéd role. Only Bruce Willis disappoints. His military general is a one-note caricature. The events in the film may be far-fetched but with the benefit of hindsight, they leave an impact. This film works better today then it did on first release.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"pretty well done movie","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" for me,this was a pretty good drama dealing with what would happen if there was a major terrorist attack in the U.S.since 9/11,of course we know what would happen,bu this movie was made before that tragedy.it's pretty well made,and fairly believable for the most part.there are some moments which are a bit hard to believe,but those scenes are used mostly to heighten the tension and further the story.there's some star Power here including Bruce Willis,Denzel Washington,and Annette Benning,but they all take a back seat to the story itself.at least i thought they did.none of them overpowered the movie.some people may think it was an overly patriotic movie,but i didn't.i thought it was fairly restrained in that area,compared to other movies.in the end,i thought the movie was well done,and more realistic than many movies before it dealing with the the same subject matter.for me,The Siege is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"A warning","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Whether or not one agrees with what it's trying to say, it's easy to make the point that this is a film with an agenda. Were it not for the events of recent years, this could very well be viewed as simply being alarmist pap... perhaps it was considered so, when it was first released, I understand that it was met with something of an underwhelming reception. Regardless of personal opinion, this does have some pretty realistic events. The plot isn't bad, and remains interesting and reasonably well-told throughout. Writing comes off rather authentic, an awful lot of the way(Hollywood dramatization is to be expected in just about any film coming out of there). Pacing is somewhat solid for the duration. Acting is good, with few, if any, real exceptions. Cinematography and editing are mostly good, with some stand-out great moments in them, here and there, though some of the action could have been filmed better, where it can be a tad difficult to tell what's going on. This can be intense and effective when it tries to be, though, if not reaching the highest level of either that I've seen in a film. Believability tends to be note-worthy. Dialog varies, but is mostly in the positive end of the spectrum. While at first, and on the surface, this comes off as more of a typical action-thriller, the message of it does become obvious. To some, the overall enjoyment may wind up depending on whether or not they agree with it. I won't reveal what it is here, though. It could be called a spoiler. Language is present, here and there, and a strong word or two is used, but it's usually not bad. Sexuality is toned down. Violence is at times not the most restrained, but it never really comes off gratuitous. I recommend this to fans of action-thrillers and realism-heavy ones at that, just be aware that it does have a moral, and like some other Hollywood films, it does not leave very much room for the opposing view, within the movie itself. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Promising start, doesn't deliver in the end","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This started out so promising, but devolved into a predictable fear mongering mess.Zwick/Wright got so many details right, but once a political slant is unveiled, the performances became transparent and the ending was clichéd Hollywood nonsense.Islamic extremism, FBI/CIA communication failures, terrorists on FBI watch lists entering the country on student visas, suspension of habeas corpus for suspected terrorists and of course rendition and torture of an American citizen that is suspected to be a terrorist. So many elements that in '98 must have seemed alien to the public are now widely understood in a post 9/11 U.S.However, even after 9/11, posse comitatus has not been suspended, martial law has not been authorized (save Pakistan), internment camps for U.S. Muslim citizens have not been created or populated, and politicians of both parties, as well as major media outlets and a groundswell of opposition (activists, truthers and the ilk) to torture/police state/rollback of constitutional rights (as enumerated in the patriot act) have vowed to not let these things evolve to the extent that this movie portrays.Thus my comment on the political slant that takes over the second half of this movie (I'm a centrist anti-partisan). The first half was good...then oh my.Denzel's performance was fine, however his character became more and more self righteous and preachy as the movie went on. Bruce Willis was...OK, I guess...but his character went from reasonable to tyrannical in an unbelievable blink of an eye (key word - unbelievable). Tony Shalhoub was fantastic! No criticism here. Then there's Annette...ugh! Ughly character (ignorant CIA agent of course) ughly performance - did she pay somebody to get this roll? And finally the military, portrayed as bullying automatons with no conscience or soul...please haven't we had enough of troop bashing? **Spoiler Ahead**In the end...well, the self righteous wins out and Willis stands down, but at least Annette got shot ;-) I still recommend the movie for the first half, and as a commentary on how to avoid the second half. "},{"Title":"Prediction of 9/11","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Considering the fact that this movie was written by Middle East expert Lawrence Wright (who later won a Puliter Prize for his work The Looming Tower), it can be considered a prediction to what happened in September 11, 2001. It was a warning of what could happen and nobody listened. Just like the book, this movie described the problem of the lack of cooperation between FBI and CIA. And I don't consider this lame, I consider it the truth (otherwise WTC would still exist). The movie anticipated the conditions of post-9/11 America the loss of civil liberties and torture as a response to terrorism (caused by the Patriot Act), the inability to identify quickly or easily enough those engaged in terrorism on USA. Predicting the future, this is what this movie really is about... "},{"Title":"Excellent Film About Terrorism, That's Often Very Tense And Suspenseful, With Brilliant Storytelling And 2 Amazing Performances From Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis!","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent film about terrorism, that's often very tense and suspenseful, with brilliant storytelling and 2 amazing performances from Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis!. All the characters are great!, and the plot is quite gripping as well, plus Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis are simply amazing in this!. Denzel and Annette Bening had great chemistry together, and some scenes disturbed me quite a bit, plus i loved the ending, and thought it fit the film just perfectly!. The scene where Denzel is reasoning with the Terorist to free the passengers on the bus is extremely tense, and Bruce played a huge asshole, and i loved it!, plus it's unpredictable and surprising throughout!. It Really makes you think, and all the characters are very likable, plus i think this should be much higher then the 6.0 rating it has on here. Tony Shalhoub is excellent as Washington's partner, and i thought there were some fantastic emotional scenes as well, plus the finale is very exciting. This is an excellent film, about Terrorism, that's often very tense and suspenseful, with brilliant storytelling, and 2 amazing performances from Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis and i say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is awesome. Edward Zwick does an awesome job here, with great camera work, awesome angles, and keeping the film at a gripping pace!. The Acting is amazing!. Denzel Washington is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, intense, is fantastic in the acting department, had great chemistry with Annette Bening, had some great dialog, and was just perfect for this role!(Denzel Rules!!!!). Bruce Willis is also amazing as always, and is amazing here, he got to play a different role and to play a major asshole, and he excelled perfectly at it i loved it, he was cold heartless and emotionless, he deserves a lot more recognition for his amazing performance here! (Willis Rules!!!!!!!). Annette Bening is excellent here, she is very pretty, had great chemistry with Denzel,was focused and was just excellent overall i really liked her. Tony Shalhoub is great as Washington's partner, he was very likable. Sami Bouajila had a memorable role here, and did wonderful. Rest of the cast are good. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A good urban thriller with a nice cast","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A good anti-terrorist action film of FBI and CIA tactics in rooting out terrorist cells, shadowy figures and the establishment of concentration camps for people of Arab descent. The movie has several action scenes sprinkled throughout the story and also raises questions about martial law, the Constitution and the feasibility of the army policing its own citizens. Profiling of Arabs is a major theme as the good guys search desperately for illegal aliens and explosives experts bent on destroying the American way of life. Great work from Denzel Washington, Tony Shalhoub and Annette Bening in the key roles and the scenic ambiance of New York City. Bruce Willis throws his weight around as the army commander of the detention camps in Brooklyn. A picture of this type is bound to be noisy and chaotic but the feature has its gripping moments, good CGI, stunts, lensing and music score. "},{"Title":"Strange foresight...","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this movie shortly after it came out, as it looked like a decent make-you-think movie, and I enjoyed it for that at the time.  A bit slow in the beginning, but definitely worth watching.I saw it again last night, and it took on a whole new dimension.  It was creepy how much foresight this movie had in light of the 9/11 situation. It became far more eerie.I'd recommend this movie as one of those whoa, that could (has!) happen... flicks. "},{"Title":"Thanks for the tip, Willis","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, so now it's clear where the terrorists who attacked the WTC buildings got their idea from. At one point in this movie, after 1 Federal Plaza has been bombed, Willis says something like he wonders what the next building will be, or whether it will take another building to be blown up to make a case. I guess those (real) terrorists took a hint from that, and voila. The Siege has a very low rating. It was probably too unbelievable for words, when it came out. Ironically, it can now pass as a visionary, powerful film about terrorism, ethnic issues, and the way in which we deal with it, or want to deal with it. Amazing.Rating from the Dutch judge 7 (out of 10).ps in my comments on The Patriot, I accidently forgot to give a final judgment (shame on me -). Well, here it goesThe Patriot; Rating from the Dutch judge 4 (out of 10).  "},{"Title":"5 years later","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie, on a friends recommendation, for the first time. I did not see it before since the trailers gave me the impression that this was an action(packed Bruce )movie, but it actually is a darn good thriller. The frightful thing is that the terrorism in NY is an scary but unlikely scenario in 1998 that became such a reality now. Indeed, NY is not under marshal law, but this is not the point. The scary thing is that how a few terrorists can put all the western world in such a state where civil rights are so under threat. In Europe politicians are now openly talking about putting the counter-terrorism in the hands of the military and the legalization of torture. The difference is that there is no need for a martial law as in the movie. The acting is very convincing and the characters are convincing, since they all have their flaws. I give it 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Exciting political thriller about Middle Eastern terrorism on US soil","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  As you first start watching this movie, it is easy to confuse it with yet another epic New York City Bad Guy/Good Guy thriller, especially since it opens with the appearence of Bruce Willis.  It is nothing of the kind and this becomes more apparent as opportunities for heroism on the part of the lead character, Hub, (Denzel) are unfulfilled.The plot revolves around several terrorist suicide bombings in New York City.  Hub is not a cop, he is an FBI agent.  He trips across a CIA agent also investigating the terrorists and there is some tension between them as both are reluctant to share information.  As the terrorists become dramatically more successful, a general (Willis) steps in and declares martial law in the city.The plot is not bad, and considering the film was made in '98, somewhat prophetic except for the terrorists themselves.  The performances are good, with Willis doing very well with the role of the general falling for the temptations of power and politics in a city cowering under terrorist attacks. "},{"Title":"Signs of the future?","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not fantastic, but easily shows how out of control a government (thankfully, not my own) can get out of control when fear is pressed upon it.Eeerily foreshadows September 11, 2001 and its hysteria but luckily the USA did behave more after the terrorist deeds than the military in this movie did --- interesting to watch after the fact to compare reality and possibility and what could have happened. "},{"Title":"Who would have thought...?","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I don't remember reading the reviews for this movie before I saw the movie today. If I had, most probably I wouldn't have watched it (talk about having no personal opinion). True, as a movie, it has a bunch of plot holes and unbelievable developments (though most of those not where you'd expect them). Enter 9/11... I can't come up with anything more than what has already been said - premonitory, visionary... This film takes on a whole new meaning after the attacks last year. Scary doesn't even start to cover the fact that this fiction became a reality. I'm as sceptical about premonitions as the next guy, but this makes you wonder which movie could be next to be implemented in our world - The sum of all fears? "},{"Title":"Our modern day world as seen in a 1998 movie","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't even interested in watching this movie until after 7-11 and the more recent US sniper  shootings happened.  Then i wanted to know how hollywood would protray this now sensitive subject matter of terrorism in New YOrk city  and random acts of terror that paralyzes a city.The opening sequence is all to chilling now a days.  Even the clip of the former president Clinton talking about terrorism and hunting down those responsible  is deja vu like Bush jr after 7-11 and US sniper attacts.Then the movie takes on a typical hollywood  suspense path with the plot line.  The interplay between fbi agent Hubbard and cia agent Ellese is good and entertaining. One thing I don't like about this movie is the that Denzel Washington character seems to be self righteous and his acting seems one dimensial and flat. Another chilling scene (post 7-11  and US sniper attacks) is hearing the news coverage after the first terrorist act and then the speech Hubbard gives his troops to find who did this act. THe movie moves at a slow pace when the search for the terrorists begins and dosen't pick up unntil Bruce Willis enters the scene about half way through the movie. One more unnerving scence in terms of recent events is the terrorists hi-jacking of the theater (see recent happenings in Russia) and how different it could have ended if the Russians hadn't done what they done. Also after this scene you see how a whole city  is gripped with fear of another attact, that  a bus backfiring sends everyone to the ground (see recent US sniper shooting coverage). To me  the best line in the movie in terms of revealing how the US deals with such a crisis  is when all of the government people are sitting at their round table trying to figure out how respond to these bombings and one of them says find out who they are and bomb the s**t out of them. This movie speaks volumes of how many ways a commited terrorist bomber can attack a city.  It shows that they are always planning/carrying out the next bombing even while the search for them is taking place.  It even shows that they will go after the heart of a nation  (as they did with the Twin Towers IN NYC and the Pentagon on 7-11) and here in the movie  With the FBI headquarters (harkinng back to the  Okahoma City incident). THe movie takes a dark overtone once the army moves in and starts rounding up a whole ethnic group of people. THe most chilling moments in the movie occur when the background news reports report on the terrorist  bombings and we see that this kind of stuff can and is all  to real in our world today.  Also the many fly overs of New York City  especially  the ones which feature the Twin Towers are sad to watch  because of what is no longer there. The best  performer is Bruce Willis as a army general hell bent on fighting the terrorists even if it means breaking some US laws. There is a very good plot turn concerning who is the head terrorist planning all of these bombings but a very typical hollywood ending that I disliked. As a movie by itself pre 7-11 it gets 7/10 for having some suspenseful moments and for BRuce Willis scene stealing moments in the film.As a mirror of our present day world, intentially or not that touches on all of the present hot buttons such as terrorism in NYC and US retaliation of such acts it is a 9/10.  It is unnerving to to think of how much our world has changed since this movie first came out so many years previously and that a film that was made to be entertaining and an escape from our real everyday life now is now a reminder of some very recent and real tragic events (7-11, US snipper shootings).  It is no longer entertaining to watch because of it's subject  matter (terrorism/random acts of killings) location (New York City) presentation (highly   realistic news coverage soundbites); fly overs of NYC skyline with Twin Towers visuals NYC finest rushing in to help the victims and the shot of the whole in the blown out building ( alot lot like the shot of ground zero site) but should be viewed anyways because it is a  snapshot of our world circa 2002.  "},{"Title":"This movie wasn't given enough credit...","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I remember hearing about it and hearing bad reviews on this movie. Most of the people said it was unbelievable. Fast forward to September 11th, 2001...how unbelievable is it now? Do you think that NYC could have been under martial law? Should it have been? While the movie had many extreme moments (such as detaining Muslims and Arabs), it was eerie. I rented this movie shortly after the events of Sept 11th after reading the reviews here on imdb.com. What I saw just gave me chills up and down my spine. The sad thing is...there are still so many people out there who would do that for their beliefs/causes. Overall this movie was great in my humble opinion...and eerie. A premontion as some may have called it? Who knows. All I know is that the person who produced, wrote and directed this film was brilliant. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Seeing into the future","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It was scary watching this film, now, after the September 11th attack.  The casuality of the subject, the Hollywood fantasy characters, the story line &#150; it all stings you a bit now.  This film would never been made today, where the Army is portrait almost evil, due to enforcing Martial laws on New York in attempt to find the terrorists.  Watching the film when it came out, I'm sure that I like many, felt that this was not right, that civil rights were greater and that the army was out of line.  Seeing it now, I can't help thinking about the reality of USA attacking another country in order to find the terrorists.  There is a question one might ask himself &#150; do we see anything wrong with that?  And further more, was Bruce Willis character really evil in his attempt to rid New York of terrorists.  Anyway, I throw these up as questions or thoughts, as it is interesting (though extremely sad) to see a film like the Siege becoming so close to reality.  The film itself is full of flaws, and manages at no point to be exciting.  It doesn't offer any action, and the interaction between Denzel and Annette was strained, and changed from scene to scene.  The film did (and does) raise interesting questions, but somehow having the world picture changed for us, has also changed the answers to those questions.  7/10 "},{"Title":"A gripping, shocking picture ... ever since the events of the 11th of September 2001!!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Just like Wag the dog, this film was nothing special when being released in 1998 and ultimately an average attempt, but just like Wag the dog the film got really interesting when the fiction became facts!Every single soul on Earth will watch this film through a different perspective after the horrible events of the 11th of September 2001!  I only got to see this film on television yesterday (27 april 2002) and I must admit that I was both shocked and awestruck by this film which gained real interest and real importance after the 'Twin Towers-incident'.  If I would have seen this picture before, I wouldn't have given a damn about it, but now I do.  Because what I saw in that film (or at least 85 to 90% of what I saw; leaving just 10 to 15% Hollywood-material to keep things commercial enough to sell it), would eventually really happen.  And after a situation like that, you see things differently.The same happened with Wag the dog.  Before the incident, it was merely an average picture (with some very fine acting though), but it wasn't until after the incident that that picture got the full attention for telling the truth BEFORE it actually happened.  The same goes for this one here.Acting performances are great.  Bruce Willis isn't bad, but he's nothing comparing to Denzel Washington who gives one of his best performances ever.  The rest of the cast (especially Tony Shalhoub) is believable too.Watch this film (especially when you're American) and you'll notice that you'll be shocked by what the film has to tell you (in case you didn't like the film a couple of years ago). ... the horror ... ... the horror ... ...  "},{"Title":"FBI against Terrorism in New York","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film was done before 11 September 2001, but it showed clearly some terrorist acts, which could have been copied by those who committed that barbarian act in New York. The film shows some aspects to think about them, for example, the internal disputes between FBI and CIA when it is to chase guilty people of terrorism, the behavior of a general when too much power to combat terrorism, the excess against innocent islamic people living in USA. The end of the film is positive and constructive. Denzel Washington played as usual very well, and Bruce Willis did it well too acting as a very despotic general.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but at the same time political!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Two words come into mind before I begin.  .  .September 11th. Why? well lets just say this film wasn't exactly a popular choice since being released 2/3 years before the events in the US.Yes, I'll even say that it was true for this film to be disrupted and protested against since labeling muslims as Terrorists not mention a horrific scene featuring a military blockade of all muslims locked and caged like animals. It was nice though seeing Denzel Washington's character on a more diplomatic side with the muslims giving a questions first routine before responding to last resorts. However Bruce Willis does deliver a rather vicious performance as a military leader taking a more brute force response towards his suspects, which I obviously won't get into.It's not surprising to learn why films like this and Rules Of Engagement have come under heavy fire from religous groups and critics as it's only encouraged the World to believe that are Muslims really terrorists and Americans providing a more negative portrayal of what they believe is the truth? This is something that begs to be argued from the impressions viewed within the films' content.Although fictional it did however drew up a frightening conclusion that could something like this really occur?.  . .Sadly it did!I just hope that there won't be too many biased films that often tend to cast muslims in rather negative spotlight. "},{"Title":"Where are the oscars?","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Intelligent, informative political thriller which should have won oscars or at least nominations  for Denzel Washington, Annette Benning, Tony Shaloub, Ed Zwick, Lawrence Wright and whoever did the music! Simply the best movie I've see in a long, long time!  "}{"Title":"Watch it post September 11","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you who watched it before 9/11, watch it again and you will find that many of the words being used in the media today already existed. But this time, it will be a different experience depending on who you are and where you live. A glimpse of the WTC towers adds a nostalgic and sad feel to the movie. "},{"Title":"strong acting","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When FBI agent Washington and CIA operative Benning are unable to put down a series of terrorist bombings in New York City, tyrannical army general Willis imposes martial law but crosses the line when he establishes Arab concentration camps. Well-crafted story has a tendency to drag, but is redeemed by three strong leads. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Frighteningly realistic","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege seems underappreciated -- it was a fantastic film, with realistic characters and dialogue, but in light of the tragedies of September 11, 2001, it might be a little too close to home.The writing is superb; the terrifying thing is how close this 1998 film seems to be -- at least for the first two-thirds -- to our own experiences in 2001.A bit of a Hollywood ending, maybe, but the suspense is fantastic.  "},{"Title":"This seems like a picture of the future","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this movie in the Theater I believed it was nothing more than a worst nightmare for Arabs. I never thought there would be anything like this. But after the events of 9/11 this concept doesn't seem to far fetched and that's truly a scary thought "},{"Title":"Chilling to even think of this movie as I did on Sept. 11, 2001.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I recalled scenes from Siege, The (1998) immediately as the terrorists' attack here in NYC took hold on all of us weeks ago.  What's remarkable is how excessively reality here trumped the fictional violence in this prescient movie. In The Siege, the worst acts of Islamic terrorism include (merely) the explosion of a bomb on a city bus with some passengers still aboard and an explosion in a crowded Broadway theater one night. Total casualties--a few hundred. The movie's impact, however, remains powerfully memorable, with its effective depiction of the death and carnage of civilians, followed by a traumatized, petrified and deserted Manhattan. Fortunately, in this case, the demise of faith and spirit in New York has not succumbed to the movie's most dire predictions. And this particularly in regard to the film's quite believable internment of thousands of Arab-American residents of NY/Bklyn(a la WW II Japanese camps), which--to the credit of all--has never yet to be even hinted at. "},{"Title":"Chilling to even think of this movie as I did on Sept. 11, 2001.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I recalled scenes from Siege, The (1998) immediately as the terrorists' attack here in NYC took hold on all of us weeks ago.  What's remarkable is how excessively reality here trumped the fictional violence in this prescient movie. In The Siege, the worst acts of Islamic terrorism include (merely) the explosion of a bomb on a city bus with some passengers still aboard and an explosion in a crowded Broadway theater one night. Total casualties--a few hundred. The movie's impact, however, remains powerfully memorable, with its effective depiction of the death and carnage of civilians, followed by a traumatized, petrified and deserted Manhattan. Fortunately, in this case, the demise of faith and spirit in New York has not succumbed to the movie's most dire predictions. And this particularly in regard to the film's quite believable internment of thousands of Arab-American residents of NY/Bklyn(a la WW II Japanese camps), which--to the credit of all--has never yet to be even hinted at. "},{"Title":"awesome, poignant","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It was a very good film good for those who like action, good for those who enjoy drama and suspense, with a bit of who-done-it involved..it has a very neutral and truthful view about the peaceful ways of Islam versus the Fanatic terrorist mind that is manipulated with Islam belief, intense FBI investigation, Denzel is superb as Hub.. "},{"Title":"A better hollywood thriller than most, but still flawed.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Bruce Willis & Denzel Washington go head to head in this big hollywood production, yet they play their standard template characters. The story is good enough, and at least Annette Benning is very good in her role. Unfortunately there are some major holes in the plot and, yet again, it seems to come down to one character against all odds. Otherwise good plot and exciting. Worth the hollywood flaws. "},{"Title":"gripping until it loses its grip","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege has a problem it shares with many other big-budget Hollywood films it cannot relate to the military.  The first three quarters of this film are sharp, engrossing, and exciting.  It's when martial law is imposed and Bruce Willis comes stomping in as a VERY cliche tin pot dictator that the movie disconnects from reality.  It goes overboard in portraying soldiers as mindless, robotic zealots.  If only more writers and directors had spent a hitch in uniform, their portrayals might not so easily slide into comic book stereotypes. "},{"Title":"O.K. but not great.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It was pretty good the first time I saw it. Denzel was excellent. Bening was O.K. Bruce was lame. I think that anyone who thinks he's the law (Bruce in this film, or Stallone in Judge Dredd) doesn't deserve much credit. The ending wasn't that good as well, but the bus explosion was, just as bruce's attack on the garage.  What I did realise in this film was that they critisised the US court system. When Shalhoub mentiones that they let these criminals go in the US, opposit what they do in Irak. 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A big mess","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I found the movie poorly written, and miscast and generally dull and mind-numbing viewing. In response to claims that those who suggest the movie is racist are misguided, I wouldn't say that the movie is racist but certainly that it is insensitive. In the simplest sense, the juxtaposition of scenes showing (often inaccurately) muslims praying or performing ablutions with scenes of terrorism is in poor taste. The movie is most offensive, however, in its portrayal of American sentiments towards Arab-Americans. To suggest that a large constituent of the American government and population would readily villify Arab-Americans or buy into stereotypes to the point of reviving detention camps in this day and age, is really only hurtful for Arab-Americans, but offensive to the general population - who are shown splitting predictably into xenophobes and the open-minded, each engaging in their own protest marches. To then argue that we should not make stereotypes against an entire group as though this were great moral reasoning is trite, if nothing else.  I can certainly see how many Arab-Americans fail to be flattered or grateful to a movie that says Americans have stereotypes about Arabs and could end up persecuting them all, but this would be wrong.  "},{"Title":"an alright film","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not much 4 governmental issues. Frankly, I don't give a goat's left nut about it. I just want 2 watch a movie. Denzel does a good job & so does Bening. Willis was alright, he didnt have 2 b in the movie. Maybe Bruce wanted more money so he decided 2 b a supporting character here. Well, its about terriorts bombings & stuff like that. If u want 2 rent it, go ahead if u dont-dont. "},{"Title":"Willis spoils this film","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The siege starts really well and it has you on the edge of your seat When the F.B.I are confronted with the evil Arab terrorists then what happens? Bruce Willis comes along and changes a superb film into a stupid one. Who decided to make this film into a believable one to a ridiculous farce wants shooting! You will see what i mean when Willis comes along. I would have given this movie a 9 out of ten for the first half but a 3 for the second. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":" Trips over the plot","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoliers ahead)This movie had alot in its favor for the first half or so. There was some suspense and action and drama. Washington and Shalhoub perform their parts well and ground it in realism. Bening also does well at first but then falls victim to the movie's tangling plot. By the second hour you get the feeling that everything's still being set up and this results in confusion and not suspense. Bening's character seems to be everywhere at once and during the course of the movie apparently was on everyone's side. I was relieved when she was killed in the end, but of course her last words melodramatically had to be Inshallah'.The General played by Willis is pretty much the stereotype of the hard-nosed soldier led astray by his duty to his country. Anyone could have played him and Willis is as good as anyone,  so they put him in. If the Siege had tried not to put so many things into the brew - Islamic terrorists and ethic stereotyping, Bening's baffling character and Willis' General, and tweaked the ending, you may have had a really good movie here. If you want to watch it go ahead, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Classy reminder of Americanism","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  For the most part, The Siege fits the standard template of the action/thriller genre.  Lots of explosions, hints of evasion and deception, more hints of romance, high tech-gadgetry galore.  And all beautifully produced.But The Siege is about the US Government, in the form of a mad Army general, fighting its own people, who is stopped by the determined FBI agent Tony Hubbard, played stoically by Denzel Washington, terrific as usual.  His partner is played by the always able Tony Shalhoub, whose own Lebanese roots add irony to the plot.The plot set-up is simple Arab terrorists, enraged by a secret US kidnaping of one of their leaders, launch a series of bombings in New York City.  The crippled FBI is pushed aside by frightened politicians who favor a military solution.  Woven throughout the plot are the actions of a CIA agent, Annette Bening, whose name might be Sharon or it might be Elise.Why did I like it(an 8)?  Because Bruce Willis is the bad guy, a role he should always play.  And the last third of the movie, while a bit corny, reminds all of us why the US is the greatest nation in the world. "},{"Title":"Sucked.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This ultra-P.C. blockbuster reeks of upper hollywood having a pretty crappy idea to begin with, picking up on a dead news story, and hiring a few stars to be in a typical action movie with absolutely NO twists.  You can see what's happenning as it happens, because it takes about 15 mins for the twists to take full effect.  An action movie for people WITH heart conditions...no risk here. "},{"Title":"Very good+ as a rental movie","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad I didn't pay $8.50 to see this but I did enjoy the rental. The Willis character spoiled an otherwise interesting story. Possible spoiler follows This movie has the best death scene I've ever seen, I was very impressed. I won't say who dies but when you see it, you'll know who I mean. General comment on comments I would enjoy reading these comments much more if the authors wouldn't take it all so personally. Many people act as if their person has been assaulted when some editors does a bad job or a screenplay isn't up to par. Maybe it's movie-rage. Relax out there, it's a MOVIE! "},{"Title":"six movies in one","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A good movie that accomplishes what it sets out to. A lot of criticism aimed at this movie suggests this movie could have been much more. I agree, it could have been much much more.It could have portrayed  Arab politics, and terrorism in a realistic way, like in a documentary. A movie that does a good job of showing FBI anti-terrorist methods would be nice if it were fast paced and showed the real hurdles involved in that kind of work. An intelligent movie about the suspension of civil liberties and use of martial law in a crisis situation would be kind of boring. I read about suspension of civil liberties and use of gestapo tactics by law enforcement in the newspaper ever day. A thoughtful and intelligent movie about the difficulties of bring these people to justice in the real world might be more interesting, especially if it revolved around a true story (Waco, Texas). An espionage thriller that has everyone sleeping with everyone else, at least three motives for everything they do and leaves you guessing at the end about loose ends, who's who, and what's what or a solid movie about that spy who recruited his son to steal the cypher codes aboard the aircraft carrier. A movie that explores in depth the supposed psychological motives and reasoning behind individual terrorist thinking and actions, or the same about the high school students who recently gunned down their fellow students and rigged their school with explosives. And last, a movie that realistically explores the 'possibility' of individual acts of death and destruction on a mass scale, like the Japanese cult who used poison gas, Jim Jones, Idi Amin, The Killing Fields, The Trade Center Bombing, Schindler's List, Auswich documentaries, Uni-bomber etc.The Siege did get me to thinking, again, about what we should do now and when the arab terrorists (or the home grown variety) wise up and not only send three or four cells over here who don't know each others names, locations and e-mail addresses but don't even know the others exist and each is armed with chemical/biological or nuclear explosives/weapons. Fortunatly, we all know this won't happen in the world we live in today. Maybe a drama about the the military 'standing down' after martial law is declared and the crises is over. More food/fantasy for thought? (Seven in one and a good ending?)A must see for; Escapist; Denzil Washington; Bruce Willis; Annette Bening; army super-patriot as badguy; semi-doomsday plot; and your local government employee as ultra goodguy, fans of Hollywood Movies. I'd pay again.P.S. Your local library has lot's of realistic and informative reading material on these subjects. And lots of lies, dis and mis information in the ongoing war for the truth, that does more than just insult your intelligence and bore you to tears. "},{"Title":"Ouch--big time.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see this movie because you liked the look of the trailer, forget it. Actually, if you want to see this for other reasons, still forget it. But back to the trailer. It makes this look like a heavy-duty-action, super-tense, the-government-has-gone-too-far, conflict-between-leaders (re Crimson Tide) type thing. That might have been cool. Or at least mildly entertaining. Instead, you have to sit through a good chunk of the movie before Bruce Willis and Denzel Washington even meet. As my bro asked halfway through, When does the movie start? Good question. As to Willis and Washington, as well as the rest of the cast....Poor Denzel. What on earth are you doing in a flick like this? Denzel, my favorite noble-headed hero (portraying Agent Anthony Hubbard of the Fibbies), who has gracefully handled everything from amusing fluff like The Preacher's Wife to the intriguing drama Courage Under Fire--ouch. Even this boy can barely give life to the dead script here, although he still manages to escape with a small modicum of grace.And Brucie-Boy, my man! What's with the whole I'm-gonna-get-a-bad-haircut/rug-and-then-channel -Kevin-Costner thing? Man, be BRUCE, not Kevin! Why on earth would you want to emulate the original Man Without a Chin? That's not what we watch you for--we see your movies for the whole spiky hair, shirt-with-one-sleeve-ripped-off-and-a-hole-torn-in-the-chest, blood-running-down-an-arm thing. Not for this General William Devereaux, twitty Army dude, way overboard on the patriotism. Think Die Hard, my man, think anything but this.Annette (Elise Kraft/Sharon Bridger), dear--what happened? Here, as I see it, the idea was to make a role prominently featuring major contradictions such as which side am I really on? am I a government agent or a woman in love with my Arabian contact first? But it was too much contradiction--sorry, babe, but anyone with as inconsistent a life as Elise/Sharon's would be in an asylum. I can accept that as the fault of the screenwriters, however. Still, you could have tried a little harder (I hope).Now for the good part (please note the use of the singular) thank God for Tony Shalhoub (of Jeebs, the memorable pawnbroker in Men in Black fame)! Playing Hubbard's Arabian partner Frank Haddad, he alone is seriously engaging and has a motive OTHER than patriotism v. non-patriotism. He also provided the intentional (ahem) laughs of the film, specifically in his on-going desire for microwave (the technology, not the nuker/cooker).Oh, one last thing, as a note to director Edward Zwick (producer of Shakespeare In Love and Legends of the Fall) it is very rarely a good idea to go for the Serious Political Message (re Primary Colors, which was amusing until they committed the grievous sin of the S.P.M.). Bad mistake, man. Shoulda left it as it was--forgettable, but at least not laughable.On November 6 our freedom is history. Hmmm...or our will to live, anyway.Hey, I really wanted it to be good! Honest! Interesting idea, good cast, terrific tagline--it sounded like a sure thing. If you want a Bruce Willis-in-charge action movie, go get Armageddon. At least you'll have a few giggles at the overall stupidity of the movie, instead of just sitting staring, praying dear God, let it end--please let it end.  "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege is entertaining and worth watching. But it goes too deep. The storyline tries to be complex but with such amateur writing it is impossible to pull off. Bruce Willis' character was an unnecessary addition to the plot and without him the movie would have been a lot better. Denzel Washington was ok. He hasn't chosen the best of roles in the past couple of years. Annette Bening actually was good in this movie. Her character was interesting and different. Go and see it but don't get drawn in to it. "}{"Title":"Good theme,no plot.","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A string of terrorist attacks hit New York , and matters are'nt helped when General Devearuex (Bruce Willis)employs methods of resolve which don't rub well and arouse suspicion with experienced and dedicated FBI agent Hubbard (Denzel Washington,on his usual high powered persona). It explores it's themes of Arab terrorism well,and presents an original idea in an intriguing enough tone.But it's a strangely unexciting film,lacking in any real cohesioncy,plot or continuity. "},{"Title":"Fast paced movie that is worth the rental.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If you're walking around you local video store pick this one up it won't leave you disappointed. Its just simply a good old action movie, nothing more nothing less. "},{"Title":"One of the best!!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie! This movie showed what a good movie was made of the only thing that I did no like about the movie was that I don't think that Bruce Willis should have had such a small role I would have liked it better if he was in it more.  Anyway it was a good action packed movie and I think every one should see it I gave it a 10 for sure.  If you like this movie I think you should see more of Zwick's movies like Glory also with Denzel Washington as the star. "},{"Title":"High marks for EFFORT...","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege gets a high mark for effort, even though the viewer may not see the result.  Zwick et al tackle a difficult subject, made more difficult by the fact that the demise of the Soviet Union has left popular film without a consistent demon.  Unfortunately, various Middle Eastern nationalities have been chosen to periodically fill the void.There are several major themes here, including the supposed reaction to domestic terrorist bombing by foreign nationals, the standard FBI get the bad guy story, how martial law might be imposed to resolve a large-scale terrorist event, and persecution of a minority group based on the actions of a small contingent of the group's extremists.  Time constraints leave each theme sketchily developed and partially resolved with no room for character development, and the result is an unsatisfying film with a neat 20-minute happy conclusion.  The acting is unremarkable, which is a disappointment from a cast with Washington and Bening.I would rate the film a 7, but with 2 points added for effort. "},{"Title":"Critics haven't been fair with The Siege","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I don't agree with the negative reviews on this film.  The Siege gives us a good lesson  too much power can be dangerous. Denzel Washington is an excellent actor, one of my favorites, and Tony Shalhoub is simply great. I'm giving this movie 8 out of 10. Please, ignore the bad reviews.  Go and see The Siege today! "},{"Title":"One more Hollywood movie with an interesting idea at the beginning, sorry realisation and an awful ending.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  One day a scriptwriter sold a story that went What would happen if New York becomes target of terrorists and President introduces martial law? However, when he actually tried to write a convincing and intelligent story he came against an obvious obstacle - FBI, and not the Army is the one to fight terrorism. However the fact that in this story there was no place for Army or martial law was of no importance since the story was already sold...The movie was staggering somehow until last third, and then it simply collapsed. I don't even want to try to remember all the places in the movie where story is inconsistent, or to try to understand why were some of most tragic and emotional scenes directed so bad. Is this really the same director that made Glory (one of my favourite war-movies)? In the beginning of the movie, when I still believed we're going to see an interesting hunt on terrorists, or be given some reasons why are they blowing up buses, I didn't want to pay much attention to some small story-problems, but when Bruce Willis entered on the scene and did his same-old-act I knew this is going to be a really sorry movie. "},{"Title":"Where is Bruce?","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In a movie starring Mr Willis one would expect to see him for more than 5 minutes. Washington plays the role of the righteous FBI agent. He is so swell that it almost makes me sick to my stomach. "},{"Title":"Better than the press says!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised.  This didn't seem anti-Muslim or anti-Arab to me, although I can see why many don't find it a politically correct movie. The real bad guys are (some of) the Feds, of course.  A lot better than a standard cardboard action movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty good film, but wait for rental.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Siege was a reasonable film. Denzel Washington is great.  Bruce Willis plays his character so well that I took an intense dislike to him.  Annette Bening was in a word, hopeless. Frank Haddad(played by Tony Shalhoub) was a good. Some of the explosions were good.My rating 6/10. My advice Wait for Rental. "},{"Title":"The Siege is more than Star Wars' trailer","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Lots of films have been released in this month here in Brazil. Many of them seems to be good, so, in normal conditions, I would have waited for The Siege to be released on video. But I couldn't wait no more time to see Star Wars' trailer.Well, in the beginning I found it hard to forget the emotional impact caused by a little more than two minutes of Star Wars, but when I started to pay attention to what was meant to be the main attraction there I discovered a very good movie.All the protests from the Arabians about the script seemed exaggerated to me. The movie states clearly enough that there are good and bad people in all human race, despite their origins or religious beliefs. Shall we remember that one of the villains is an American General...The story is very good, although it gets too absurd sometimes, special effects serves to the plot and not the opposite. Annette Bening is amazing, Denzel Washington is good and Bruce Willis, despite all that you usually read and hear about him, is good too. Actually, I think that acting is like any other activity, and if the actor can hide behind the character then he's doing a good job, no matter if it seems always the same character film after film. The soundtrack is particularly a great factor and the villains are frightening enough, even when you don't know exactly who they are.What about the trailer? Well, I cannot judge, I would have loved it even if there was only a second to be seen. It's about a legend that's attached to my life since my childhood; something too personal to be rational about. "}{"Title":"Good first part,terrible second","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Us Army kidnaps a islamic leader,which unleashes a wave of terror in New York.Unable to stop the escalating terror,the government declares martial-law in the city.The movie starts well,but gets sillier as it goes on.Bruce Willis is totally wasted in a one-dimensional part.Denzel Washington does the typical hero part,which doesn't tax his acting abilities.Only interesting person is Annette Bening's CIA-agent.She does a good job.    Rating ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Gets worse and less interesting by the minute","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film took an interesting (albeit fairly implausible) idea and simply allowed it to spiral out of control. The characters themselves change so much that the actors don't know how to play them, the plot gets less plausible with every scene, and the ending is a complete waste.I'm glad I didn't see this in the theater. Watching on my system at home, it was quickly apparent that this is the kind of movie that makes you think about fixing things around the house, maybe re-grouting the tile in your bathroom... you're willing to keep it on as background noise, but that's about it.For those that feel this is a great idea turned into a bad movie -- it's not. The idea is flawed with problems that make it impossible to suspend disbelief. This is one of those things that you discuss with your friends in a bar some night. It falls into the same what if category that Red Dawn falls into. Interesting to talk about for a beer, but after about 45 minutes everyone agrees it would NEVER HAPPEN.Forget the Army occupation. Look at the terrorism itself as portrayed in the film. It misses the entire point, the reason, the insanity behind the act itself. It's obvious the writers of this film did little, if any research into terrorist acts themselves, rather focusing on technical details such as how Mossad criminal reports look.And in the end, we're supposed to be left with this Care Bear attitude that look, even in America we can see Arabs, Jews, Blacks and others all getting along. Isn't America great?Give me a break.ps Oddly enough, someone is credited as Hairstylist for Ms. Bening -- this goes beyond bad hair day. (if you see it, you'll know what I mean)  "},{"Title":"One of the dullest movies ever","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the cast list and previews I thought this movie was going to be great. Wrong, it was terrible.  There were characters in the movie that I still have no idea what they were supposed to be doing, the only action sequences in the movie were on the tv previews.  I can honestly say that the previews for this movie were much better than the movie itself. Annette Bening's character was a complete waste of her talent and we never did figure out what she was or whose side she was on.  1/10 "},{"Title":"2 hours of 'eh'","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The end of this movie left me with a rather deflated feeling.  I can't say that this movie was really bad - bad movies make you want to puke while watching it.  This movie was fairly watchable, but it was only after the movie was over that I felt like puking.  The story here doesn't amount to much, and is confusing at best. The closing of this movie is horrible. Bruce Willis was a joke.  Denzel turns in an okay performance - he can't help having tons of charisma; he just can't pick good movies. "},{"Title":"Very funny comedy","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I had a good time laughing at all the clichés in this movie. This movie is stupid, the actors are bad (especially Bruce Willis) , the characters are dumb (man, Annette Bening sleeps with a suspected terrorist and Denzel still trusts her), the dialogs are stupid and pointless, to think there was actually a pro-American speech by Denzel. I was just thinking it was as bad as Judge Dreed when Bruce Willis said I am the law. Very funny, if it is supposed to be a comedy but, pretty stupid if it is a thriller. "},{"Title":"Wasted Talent","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In New York City, Arab terrorists are setting off large deadly bombs causing much carnage. They topple buildings; blow up crowded buses, that sort of thing. The American government's response is to lose it's cool completely, declare martial law, round up all of New York's Arab-Americans, and place them into concentration camps. This is the backdrop as agents of the FBI (Washington) and CIA (Benning) race to catch the culprits before the forces of evil naked militarism (Willis) grind America's freedoms into the ground.  Even with an A-list director, actors and a big budget The Siege can't overcome it's plot's many implausibilities. The script is way too over the top, and that keeps the movie from succeeding. C- "},{"Title":"Contrived, predictable GARBAGE","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I went to The Siege expecting an intelligent, entertaining actioner.  I wasn't expecting a lot because I know the genre is limited by our American audiences' need for an explosion / action sequence every 15 min or so but, I had a few expectations.  I was sadly disappointed.  The first 15 or 20 min. seemed like the usual Hollywood terrorist in major city flic. Now I don't mind this at all. I love the blistering action sequences as much as the next guy.. But what I hated was how the movie was TRYING to be so much more than it was.  The declaration of Martial Law in NEW YORK CITY of all places could have been an explosive and thought provoking topic if treated properly.. Did we really care that a main character was murdered?  Do we feel anything for the characters?  The last few minutes seemed torn directly from Washington's Crimson Tide.  Bruce Willis also seemed to be reading a tele-prompter.. Oh yeah, notice how in the interrogation scene, Washington was screaming What was the money for or something like that, and while the inmate UNDERSTANDS Washington perfectly, he spoke arabic and had to be interpreted.. I think that's kinda silly.. but the movie was rather silly too.. "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I was why because I would like the know what the movie tried to show. Now the movie illustrates a few things. One there were a lot of people being murdered in New York by terrorists. Two, the FBI and police were inept at stopping the killing. The movie was meant to appeal to the civil liberties aspect of such an event, in other words the movie suggested that doing nothing to stop these attacks was the proper route, the proper course was to allow the killings to continue and allow inept persons to continue to be inept because the greater good The acting was good which was the only saving grace, but the message was rotten. "},{"Title":"Denzel's character was way too preachy to be real","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If a movie is called The Siege, I expect to see a siege.  There were so many foibles in this flick that its hard to know where to begin.Beware the following comments have to do with the climax of the film  At the end of the film we are treated to another one of those hostage situations where our hero doesn't know when to shoot to take out the bad guy. (There is just way too much slow-motion in this film.) The melodramatic performance of Annette Benning was more than a bit hard to stomach. Warren Beatty's wife was not convincing as a CIA agent.  The end of the film has FBI agents coming into a U.S. Army General's headquarters and placing the general (Bruce Willis) under arrest.  I don't even know where to begin to tell you what's wrong with that picture.)I was hoping for a lot more drama and conflict with Bruce Willis' character. Instead, the viewer gets a straw-man, two-dimensional character from Bruce Willis.  He is an easy paper target for Denzel Washington's over-acting, preachy civil rights message.Be warned.  This is NOT a good film, if you happen to like more than a little credibility from your screen characters.By the way, the screenplay is so contrived, don't even bother trying to follow all of the author's mental gymnastics. "},{"Title":"A Disgrace to Film-making Industry.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I have read other's comments and I would like to start out by saying that I resent the term Hollywood Movie. Firstly it was a New York movie and I, as an Angelino in the film biz, am offended to be associated with this movie in any way. There was so much defiance of character that I had no idea where anyone stood, though it did not matter because there was no character definition to begin with. Hub seemed nice enough but... he had no life! No one did. Everything they did had no real motivation other than to get to the part where people are separated from their limbs. I was shocked to see a writing credit, for I had not suspected that there had been any form of script more than a brief one-page outline. The only slight bit of good I could find (by trying very hard) was the point that Arab and Terrorist aren't synonymous. But that was poorly upheld, and anyone with an IQ that of an eggplant knew that already! Thank God I rented this one, or I would be begging the theater to refund my ticket so I could go see something better, such as a Pauly Shore movie. "}{"Title":"Zwick Can't Handle The Themes","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A terrorist cell is operating in New York . After a terrorist attack on a bus FBI special agent Anthony Hubbard tracks down the terrorist cell to a tenement where the terrorists cell is eliminated . Celebrating a victory against terrorism Hubbard and his team get a call that a Broadway theatre has been bombed There's a good film in here somewhere . At its heart there's a conflict in how much do you sacrifice the American way of life in order to combat terrorism within American borders , but this theme remains very poorly developed and the film seems to searching for a genre identity . Is it trying to be a hard hitting cerebral thriller dealing with political machinations ? Possibly but it's never very clear on screen and there's the occasional scene that crops up giving the impression THE SIEGE wants to be an action thriller but this often jars with the rest of the movie . There's a slightly cynical feel that the film is constructed to merely give a strong role to a central female character . You can see this movie being released and the marketing publicity saying Annette Bening is a shoe in for best actress at next years Oscars which didn't in fact happen , probably because the film tries too hard and doesn't do anything very well Undoubtedly the person to blame for all this is director Edward Zwick . Film making is a collaborative effort between many people but for some reason if a film is good it's because of the director . Well let's take a look at Zwick's previous films. One was LEGENDS OF THE FALL that meandered all the place almost like the 1990s version of THE DEER HUNTER . Likewise COURAGE UNDER FIRE and the film that first brought Zwick to everyones attention the 1989 epic GLORY which tried a bit too much to be epic . Situations , themes and characters come and go but Zwick fails to tie them in to a cohesive whole There's also another unfortunate aspect to all this and three years after its release 9/11 happened and I remember round about the same time as that atrocity this page was bombarded with retrospective opinion on this film . Most of these reviews have now been deleted and looking back on this film years after it was released THE SIEGE seems nothing more than a star vehicle with Denzel Wshington playing the good guy , Bruce Willis playing a baddish guy and Adrian Monk playing the guy with a funny foreign accent "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings...","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The execution of the movie is good. It's got chases, action, intrigue... It's fast-paced and engaging. It incorporates motifs those of us from the Middle East recognize and appreciate.Unfortunately, the message it disseminates is unpalatable. The rhetoric of the movie is little more than blatant leftist propaganda. Even bearing in mind that the picture was shot before 9/11/2001, the whole doctrine being imparted is so simplistic as to border on the offensive. A Few Good Men is a movie that epitomizes how questionable practices and tendencies in the U.S. Armed Forces can be addressed without portraying the entire institution as a bunch of thugs no better than some two-bit rabble in a third-world banana republic under a crackpot junta dictatorship.Oh, and the notion that even in times of existential war various legal niceties have to be observed to the letter can only be advanced by people who have never seen war even on T.V., let alone experienced it in real life. I hope America never finds itself in a situation in which the sanctimonious Hollywood intelligentsia actually has a chance to get first-hand experience of what war is really like. "},{"Title":"Terrorists","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Too bad that us as American didn't heed the warning that this movie gave us.. Bruce Willis is excellent as the overzealous general of the Army,, Denzel Washington is our lead character from the FBI, he is the assistant Director. Tony Shaloub is his partner,, and Annette Benning is a CIA mole. Basically the general goes in and secretly kidnaps the Sheik unbeknownst to the President ,, which is typical here in America anyway, seeing how our own Government operates.. it is easy to see how 9-11 happened anyway,, just like in the movie,, we let anybody in the darn country,, we are too lax. back to the movie though it was excellent in portraying what COULD happen if America doesn't open it's eyes very very soon and start paying attention. This movie has lot's of action ,, and a little bit of romance,, ie. sex scenes, "},{"Title":"Sad to Watch Film","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This film was shown on TV the night before 9/11/05 and it sure was nothing compared to the actual horror of what really happened to many Americans. I cannot really say that I enjoyed watching this film, simply because of 9/11 and many facts which people knew, that could have prevented this attack on American soil. However, the great performance of Denzel Washington,(Anthony Hubbard),The Preachers Wife'96, who was an FBI Agent who got mixed up with Elsie Kraft,(Annette Bening),In Dreams,'99, who portrayed a gal who slept with spies in order to get information and enjoyed every minute of her job. All of a sudden, Bruce Willis,(Major General William Devereaux),Tears of the Sun,'03, appeared on the scene in NYC and decided the Army would pull all the strings in stopping the terrorists, and stepped on the FBI and everyone who crossed his path with TANKS. Some of the photography was great in New York, but a great deal of the NYC photos were taken in other cities. New York's downtown City Hall looked like some place in Philly, Pa. I just can't say it was entertaining, just something to watch in order to pass the time of Day. "},{"Title":"A price for freedom.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Politically this movie ruffled more than a few nations feathers. This action thriller gets quite busy, but doesn't sustain interest. NYC is placed under martial law as bombers evade capture by federal agents led by Assistant Special Agent-in-charge of FBI Counter-Intelligence(Denzel Washington). F/X more than adequate. Supporting cast includes Annette Bening, Tony Shaloub and Bruce Willis.  "},{"Title":"This is poor cinema","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The last half our of this movie is so lousy I cannot grasp how on earth any intelligent human being can even think that it is going to work. Bruce Willis as the general is so-so-lousy I cannot believe it.The first one-and-a-half-hour is almost all right if it had not been for Denzel Washington, who does a very bad job of acting like Mr. Pursuit - Tommy Lee Jones. He - Denzel that is - has one facial expression and he uses it in every scene. He does not convince me at all that he is capable of pursuing a man.Annette Bening is the only living thing in this poor movie.The closing redeeming scenes are very unbelievable and seems like hurry - hurry - we need to wrap this thing up.Rating 3 of 10. "},{"Title":"Not what you expect, two halves and one stinks.","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the start of this film, I was captured by the story and slowly lead by the hand into the plot. I was just about to smile and declare it a winner when everything just stopped entertaining me.Good plot interesting story and fine actors and then Bruce Willis turns up (I like him but boy did his entrance signify death to this film) and everything dies. Sorry to say it missed the mark in the last hour or so, great till then. "},{"Title":"Hollywood pours more gasoline on the bonfire of hatred and ignorance.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong...I liked the movie.  The action and suspense was well done.  The actors, with the exception of Bruce Willis, did very well at developing their characters. My problem with the film is this It paints an all too common misconception about Islam, Arabs, and their beliefs. Like many of the other voters, I was able to take a step back and say, All Arabs are not terrorists.  How many other moviegoers in North America can make that distinction? Hollywood and our news media use propaganda every day to give us distorted views of society. The movie gave us one example of a successful Arab (Frank Haddad).  Why not round up all the Arabs working on Wall Street as brokers or lawyers? Because Hollywood tells us most terrorists are of low income, living in mostly ethnic areas (Brooklyn, in this case).  More stereotypes. I don't claim to be an expert on Islam, or terrorists, or Arabs, but that's the point; 'The Siege' will be the fundamental knowledge base of much of the moviegoing public regarding these topics. If you want to know about Arabs and Islam, pick up the Qur'an, not 'The Siege'. "},{"Title":"Entertainment at cost of, not by the movie","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is pretty much predictable after the first minute; after this, if there wasn't American patriotism there would be pretty much nothing to make a movie about. Some not so spectacular special effects are in good company with  the mediocre acting. The bad guys get killed / arrested and the really good ones just barely manage to survive. Didn't we see this already before? "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Denzel Washington is the protagonist whilst Bruce Willis is the antagonist in this feature film which is basically an excuse to put Denzel and Bruce together in a film using the sensitive situation in the Middle East as the framework for the plot. "}{"Title":"False, unreal, bad","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Story is very unrealistic, Bruce Willis is BAD in evil,serious guys roles,(as he was in Jackal ) . Film also is boring, You know what will happen. So, if don't want to have wrong impession about terrorism , do not watch this movie ( I know I am from Israel ) Waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"My God can a film be this bad and released in the Cinema ...","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie having seen a trailer and i was expecting a mildly paced action/intrigue film like In The Line Of Fire... I was disappointed. I should have read a review... I didn't. This film sucked. It sucked so bad it was physically painful. All through the film i could feel a good movie trying to shine through. The film tries to make a statement, i don't know what the statement was they had a main cast of evil white General, black hero, ugly white Cia woman, arabic sidekick this moves away from the beautiful white cast we see in lots of other movies but the equality message was overdone against the evil arabs background. I didn't like this film, it's the worst cinema experience i have ever had the dialogue was laughable. i've seen cheap horror vids with higher quality scripting (how does the Siege convey the pain of the prison camps emotive music ha ha ha why not just use screams of the tormented they did). This film seemed to steal heavily from other films I am the law hmm didn't Judge Dredd have this line before General bruce borrowed it ... bomb on a bus ... reminds me of speed.. watch this film on tv and laugh at its crap quality with a good budget setup do not pay to see it "},{"Title":"Zwick the Sticky","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Obligatory spoiler warning.Since 'Glory', Zwick has relied on Denzel as Mr. Right.  This is the same mentally that Redford adopted in the late 60s, an actor whose trademark is always being the pure-hearted purveyor of truth and justice in all he does.  Redford never changed, maybe Denzel will.  What's funny here is Willis playing against his 'Die Hard' self.Oh well, on to 'The Siege'.  Before 9/11 it would be considered an unremarkable film.  Several other similar films would have to include 'Black Sunday', 'Die Hard 2', and (yet again) 'Manchurian Candidate'.  Terrorism has never been a bigger concern of the trillion-dollar machine known as Hollywood.  The big question remains Who cares?The point made here is the same homily from 'Glory'.  We Americans in authority love to stereotype and be racist and oppressive monsters.  So how do you get a society to hate another society?  Dehumanize the opponent, of course.  No better place is this basic knowledge of sociology displayed than in 'Aliens' where we dehumanize to the point of making the opposition, literally, into aliens.  If only Zwick picked up on that theme.  In the end, we become the very demon we are trying to make other people into.  The American love to hate.Oh, yes, the movie.  There was a movie and it avoided most of the big questions that arise with its topic because of probable PC worries.  I guess they didn't want to worry about the stereotype of 'True Lies' and risk offending anyone.  In that perspective, 'The Siege' isn't a movie.  It was a load of baloney.Overall, to all you political aficionados, I say skip this movie.  A filmmaker is part politician and Zwick needs some American history lessons first, 'Last Samurai' has proved that big time.  1.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Awful Movie","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was such an awful movie, I had to register here to warn others of this film. The whole premise is unbelievable, the terrible acting by annette benning, and the director was just as awful. The idea that 1 individual, a lowly peon knows everything that is going on with all the terrorist cells, The FBI is runned by 1 guy (Washington). A 5 star general interrogates and shoots a suspect himself, LOL. The dialogue was just terrible. The lobby of One Federal Plaza a building that houses the FBI offices is blown-up. Yet 600 died. an FBI agent arrests a 5 star general. It is unbelievable on so many levels. Unbelievable how Denzel Washington read this script and still signed. "},{"Title":"The way it was - before 9/11 changed everything","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" There are a LOT of political and politicized comments on this film, understandably. So let me be no different.This is a snapshot of lame-brained Clinton-era thinking about how to deal with international terrorism. Terrorism was exclusively a police issue, a matter for local cops and the FBI. The military were mad, crazy, power hungry and eager to torture anyone for anything - I mean, just LOOK at Bruce Willis, the mad general - when in fact all one had to do was trust the cops and the FBI to weed out all the terror cells. Sure J. Edgar supposedly wore a dress. But you can count on Agent DenZEL.Well, history didn't go that way. Whether advisable to coordinate as they did after 9/11 in 'homeland security', and who in this entire country came up with the word - homeland - instead of - national (which always had been used, previously) - the fact is that the FBI not only didn't know, the CIA didn't know, just as in the film, but they didn't stop anything either, without such coordination. Not in real life. No running down the street. No brave heroics. Rather, four teams of hijackers managed to board domestic aircraft, full with fuel for long flights, without the FBI saying - boo. That's what happened in real life.As for the film, it doesn't make a lot of sense. The pretty, cute Benning, outspoken anti-USA activist in real life, shows up as a sort of narrator in the film, and almost 'love-interest'. What is it she actually does, other than parade around screen as Miss 'super-secret-agent'? - and I can make that phone call, she says. Of course, Willis plays an ever sillier character, who is for it, against it, for it before he was against it or vis-versa. Perhaps if the film is 'prescient' as some want to say, it foretells the saga of John Kerry's Presidential bid.True enough, Benning does have some useful intel. She seems to know that there are exactly four terrorist cells operating independently of each other. How she knows, isn't revealed. Just move the plot along. The play's the thing. Gotta get to those detention camp scenes. That's the money. But she apparently mistakes yet another 'love interest' for a 'civilian' without realizing that he, alone, is the 4th cell? I think.The '4th cell' is shot by DenZEL, and she gets her lingering death scene with a gut shot. I think they missed a bet with manipulation. That same evening, the Cold Case replay, a TV show, had an e-ville nun story about electro-shock and abuse in a convent back in the 1930s. And the final scene is strings as background to a funeral, with fade-in/fade-out quick cuts to the victims as kids, running free, playing. It was to bring a tear to the eye. After '4th cell' got his, I half expected to see just such a funeral scene with strings, and half faded flashback. But, no.Anyway, for a snapshot of why Clinton DIDN'T seem to think terrorism was international, but a job for the FBI and local police, watch this film. Understand why the towers fell. Understand why taking the fight to the enemy, instead of relying solely on the FBI just within this country alone, has probably been responsible for no more falling, for no theaters getting bombed, for no buses being bombed, etc, or even whatever else they wanted to include in the movie but lacked time or budget. In The Siege, a Clinton fantasy, America is rocked on its heels, at home, practically ready to accept surrender or offer terms to the terrorists. In real life, in a non-Clinton world, the terrorists are begging and pleading not to be shot and/or kicked out of neighborhoods right in Iraq, itself, by their own people, likely no thanks to Benning and the usual sort who would most probably have opposed such opposition to terrorism every day, every month, every year and every step of the way. "},{"Title":"More Sewage from the Hollywood Left","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Once again we get Leftist Hollywood's stereotypical vision of the leaders of our armed forces -- that they're right-wing fanatics just waiting to create a military dictatorship if given half a chance. I've known many generals and admirals in my time, and NOT ONE even remotely fit Hollywood's slanderous depiction. Folks who've served in the military recognize this demonization as pure drivel; hatched by Leftists who've obviously never served, themselves. Not sure where this trend first started; perhaps it was Seven Days in May? Well, at least that picture was well-made and entertaining, even if extremely far-fetched. But The Siege has none of these virtues -- it just stinks like sewage.The way The Siege depicts our armed forces really says far more about the producers & screenwriters than anything else; they must really hate America and our men & women in the military. Even murderous terrorists are shown as the lesser of the evils compared to our military. And quite predictably their hearts bleed all over the screen for the supposed innocent victims of the General's martial law, which they somehow depict as illegal. The fact that the President ORDERED the martial law, as is completely within his constitutional authority to do so, seems to have escaped everyone in the movie. What the heck is Agent Denzel doing defying his superiors, anyway? Since the FBI is part of the Executive branch of government (Department of Justice), Denzel is subject to Presidential orders like anyone else in that agency. And since when are ANY military policemen gonna defy the orders of their commanding officer, and take the orders of some civilian who just waltzes in? No way. Again, the complete ignorance of the screenwriters shows through! A realistic ending would of had Denzel's ass arrested by the Military Police, then fired from the FBI and very possibly prosecuted.Frankly, if terrorists ever launch THAT intense an attack on an American city, which local cops obviously can't handle, then I'd damned well WANT martial law declared! I really think the producers and screenwriters of The Siege should read up on the American Civil War and learn the executive actions taken by President Abraham Lincoln, who we venerate today as perhaps the greatest president of all, before they preach to the rest of us. These Leftists might be surprised to learn that Lincoln DID order martial law in much of the Border states, to keep them from seceding from the Union, and DID order martial law in ALL the territory of the Confederacy taken over by Union armies. Many constitutional rights were abridged in these areas, including habeus corpus, speedy trials, trails by civil jury, freedom of speech and of the press. And Lincoln was right to do it. These actions were upheld by Congress and the Supreme Court. And were continued, in many cases, in the South long after the war ended, during the Reconstruction era. Are these Hollywood Leftists gonna get on Mr. Lincoln's case? Or is it just the supposed right-wing extremists who they imagine populate the hierarchy of our Armed Forces? (P.S. Annette Benning was as sleazy in this movie as she always is. Do us a favor, Annette, and retire already! We're sick of your ugly face!) "},{"Title":"pbblllttttttt!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Some great actors in a movie that is just plain howard the duck dumb.cheers! Docafterword i have to write ten lines in order to review this abysmal movie.... you know like when the penguins all carried the corpse of the penguin back to penguinland? that kind of scene would improve this flick... I can't think of any movie that had more promise to it that bombed quite as hard in my reality sensors. bruce willis as a two star general... this movie is like reviewing something for 'jump the shark' you know it's bad... but how bad? my answer? penguinland bad. bluesbrothers2000 bad is a step up. why put my two cents in? because this flick is so freakin' bad that i'd rather be reviewing it then watching the tail end of it.... we're talking' this flick makes lethal weapon 3 look like 'ran'. i'm going to go watch some scooby-doo episodes to raise my intelligence level after watching this flick... that's how bad it is. cia chick sleeping with a palestinian guy with terror ties and the fbi guy letting him run around free after a NUMBER of half-truths from him. i've seen 50s horror movies that are more plausible. now... i stick by my initial review... Some great actors in a movie that is just plain howard the duck dumb. but since IMDb requires 10 lines here they are.  "},{"Title":"Fake, weak, stupid, vague...Well, some scenes may be fine.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Clearly lack of good plot, na'ive storyline and finally full of cliches - this movie really disappointed me. I went to see cool thriller about politics, espionage and warfare with  Bruce Willis. What I have seen is a people trying to act cool and each make the story even worse. Bruce was close to be cool, but somewhat not real. Finally - I thought to see something like DIE HARD, RONIN or ENEMY OF THE STATE. Well - abandon all hopes, who wants to get this... This one is a heavy looser. Far much heavy than ARMAGGEDON. "},{"Title":"Liberal Propaganda","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie started out fantastically. It was realistic. The FBI was doing what would take place in real life.Then this whole martial law thing came into affect.The movie then took a horrible spiral downwards. It became more BS, made by liberals, the typical freedom of religion, we have rights.THE STUFF THAT HAPPENED IN THIS MOVIE WILL NOT HAPPEN. And they aren't happening. We learned our small mistake with the Japanese in camps.But, it offends me when people compare what we did the Japanese to the Jewish concentration camps in Europe. And the ones made for the Chinese in Japan and China.Just more propaganda from the liberals of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Boring lawyer movie","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Minor spoilersI thought it was The Negotiator (which I later saw and enjoyed) http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0120768/ when I accidentally rented it. I saw the cover art and mistook it. They made it look like the other movie. Anyway, I watched it. The villain is way too obvious. Why didn't someone just shoot him in the first 5 minutes? There was very little real action. It's a boring lawyer movie where the lawyers spend all day worrying about legal loopholes and seem completely uninterested in the fact that terrorists are running around killing people. It may be even worse of a movie now, in light of the events on Sept 11, 2001. "}{"Title":"JAPS - Just Another Political Statement?","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Just like Steven Spielberg's Munich, this film is a political statement before anything else.It puts up very clear lines - We Americans are for freedom and civil right, we have some lunatic who want to hurt us, and we have even bigger lunatics from the right wing of the political map who would like to take over our democracy and turn it into a madhouse.For me, the major problem with the film came just to the end, when the The CIA agent was telling her FBI friend about the way the American's betray their friends in Iraq.Oops...the American indeed did so, but they betray the Kurds, not the Sunni Wahabist who forms Al-Quaida.Throw on people pieces of the truth and they will believe they see the truth itself.So taking up Al-Quaida, putting the blame for their actions on the Americans themselves is not a twist of reality, it's a lie. and Like Munich the hell with the truth, all we care is to pass the left-oriented message that everyone to blame in the situation.You know, based on this insane twisted mind-set Roman Polanski's wife Sharon Tate who was murdered in 1969 by Charles Manson gang would have been turned from a victim to a person who asked to be raped and murdered. After all, everyone are to blame "},{"Title":"fooling people with the words liberty and democracy","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Awful and boring movie... because nothing happens after 115 minutes of running (?) time. One explosion (previously seen on its infamous Making of) and that's it. After a promising beginning, all this firework collapses because of a lack of script/story, in which two tired and bored actors crawl along a huge propaganda storyline the FBI overwhelms the Army and loves the poor black/arab/towel-head oppressed people. Unbelievable. Grow up. If you ever work for the military people or the government, you'll realize that Mr.Willis would say Fire... No good F/X (the blown FBI building looks like the work of an Animator Studio's first year student), no characters' development (you know nothing about the good guys)... The only good thing is that you may be able to enjoy the Star Wars Episode I preview. And I finish both Washington and Willis laugh to death at your face when you pay to watch this. Don't do it! I warned you... "},{"Title":"IT'S DA_BoMb","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  and it has bombsIt's kind of like AIR FORCE ONE. Some European country wants to screw with the US.You should see it, i'ts a little long, good effects, and performance. "},{"Title":"Puerile, Politically Correct, Liberal Schlock","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Arab terrorism is used as a backdrop for the usual leftist, politically correct cliches. The terrorist have been excused for their wanton murder because they were once allies the CIA betrayed. The only US government organization portrayed positively is the FBI. The FBI almost always gets a high pass from the intellectuals and policy wonks in Hollywood. Both the Army and the CIA are portrayed as sleazy operators and brutal bumblers. The FBI heros; Black Washington and his Arab sidekick Shalhoub, are both non-white, which means they are both morally and intellectually superior to the whites in other agencies. The Army, with conservative Willis as the General, proceeds to round up Arab youths like Japanese in 1942 California, including the Arab sidekick's son. Also, Willis murders a prisoner in one of the stupidest excuses for an interrogation ever portrayed on screen. One might think our Army has learned some more subtle techniques over the years. Our FBI heroes spend more time arresting and fighting the Army and the CIA than the terrorists, this in a city under attack and under martial law. I could go on and on, but the climax is when our shining knight arrests the bad General and all the good Arab citizens are released. After 9/11, this film is so off base, it's ridiculous. Today, Ashcroft can't even interview Arabs without the whole liberal establishment going bonkers. But Hollywood conservatives have some roll, they are often quite willing to play soulless dispensers of rough justice, like cartoons such as Dirty Harry or the Terminator. "},{"Title":"Pretty Boring","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" If you are thinking about watching this film, don't. The entire film can be summarised in the trailers, seriously people, the film is over two hours long and NOT MUCH HAPPENS. In fact this film is now my least favourite film ever and as an added bonus the film contains the most annoying character ever conceived... the female one, sorry I cant remember her name I was nearly having a mental breakdown by the middle of the film due to how boring it truly is.The worrying part is, after sitting through half of it you are compelled to watch the second half simply because you have spend so much time and effort getting into it in the first hour and a half.So, to conclude; Don't watch this film... PLEASE. "},{"Title":"Good ol fashion silly Hollywood thinking","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  America haters will love this film. It has everything they demand slick Hollywood action (which they claim to sooooooo hate, and yet can't get enough of), plus a story that slams America as being responsible for everything, including the high price of bread and the rain (or lack thereof, depending on where you live). Europeans will adore the film, especially the French who has, supposedly, known all along that the U.S. is inherently evil. Canadians will no doubt also love the film, since their silly little country has been overshadowed by the monolithic cultural imperialism of the Americans for so long.It's your standard Hollywood film, complete with big budgeted action that is more concern with choreographing every explosion and flying debris rather than write a decent screenplay. The movie has an intriguing premise, but it all goes downhill from there. If you liked THREE KINGS, you'll like this movie. Like THREE KINGS, America gets another black eye from -- gasp! -- the same people who enjoys its freedom, the Hollywood filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Looked Good The First Time, But Not After That","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Here's a film I found fascinating the first time so-so by the second viewing and annoying by the third, in which I turned it off before it was over. The more I saw of it, the more insulted I was at the propaganda and at Annette Bening's foul mouth and attitude. Regarding propaganda, can't filmmakers - 99 percent of whom are way left of center - make an objective film once? And can they stop making the U.S. military the bad guys all the time in anything past World War II. Here is the plea for tolerance for the Muslims in America. Well, fine. Let the good people alone and don't play favorites. What's to argue? Unfortunately, modern-day Liberals take it to the extreme and bend over backwards FOR the terrorists or against profiling, preferring to have some terrorist blow us up rather than perhaps offending someone. It's so sick and twisted.At least they did make the FBI guy look good in the film, which is a rarity, but that's only because Denzel Washington played the role. Politics aside, it's a slick film with Washington interesting as always. The same applies to Bruce Willis, who plays villains almost as much as heroes. Benning is just profanely despicable and not entertaining to watch even though she's a fine actress.Despite the negatives, it's an interesting two hours to view if you haven't seen it before and the excess profanity doesn't bother you. The early scene with Washington and the bus is a memorable one. "},{"Title":"Fantasy","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS This movie is propaganda film making at its finest, which doesn't make it a good movie. It advances the predictable Hollywood notion that the CIA is responsible for terrorism occurring on our shores, and that the US military would strip us of all liberties if given a chance. (Actually, only certain types of people are rounded up and put in soccer stadiums as though they were Chileans supporting Allende back in the 1970s.) The movie features a few terrorist cells bringing their brand of evil to New York City only as the result of the actions of some rogue agents in our own intelligence sector plus the military. Many have discussed how prescient the film makers were in showing terrorism coming to America a few years before it did. Well, there have been a few (hundred) other movies that depict the same theory, going back as far as Black Sunday in the late 70s. In terms of action, there are some interesting technical points about the movie such as the bus explosion. And there are a few attempts at irony with perhaps the best being the last terrorist planning to blow up protesters who are complaining about the police state actions of the military attempting to keep the streets safe of terror. The ending (a shootout in a Turkish bath! followed by the Denzel-Bruce Willis showdown) is ridiculous. The bottom line is that the good old USA is at fault for the terrorism because we left these people high and dry by not taking out Saddam during the Gulf War. This film is highly recommended for Blame America Firsters who like to mix in a bit of violence with their outrage.  "},{"Title":"Stupid, Stupid, Stupid","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I guess if you have enough money and little intelligence, then you can make a movie and show people how stupid you really are.Well, this movie is that movie.Do not waste your money to see or rent this crap.Totally implausible and dumb.This movie needed Godzilla to make it more plausible.The writer, director and producer obviously do not live in the United States and have never read or understood the Constitution. So, they make up a story, get Washington to star in it and then cram it down our throats as if we are really stupid.Washington! Wake up, did you need the money that bad? Loss of credibility here. "},{"Title":"downright pitiful","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I must say that this movie was down right bad no worse, It was disgusting! I found it racial and disturbing. It transforms one good actor Bruce Willis Die Hard, and many other awesome actors into savage racists! I feel the director hated Muslims with a passion so he took it among himself to create such a horrible movie! Seriously I find him as well as the siege disgusting! In my books this movie is awful All this movie will do is spark attention and anger somebody will probably make a movie only this time the Jews or Christians will be the bad monsters. Its a vicious circle that will go on and on and the best way to spread it would be through movies. I say ban the siege and any other nonsense like it with a different name from the big screen and put on shows that are worth watching! "}]