[{"Title":"Spiritual, surprising movie","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Your love's mother gets married to your father, she becomes your sister and you grow up together as brother and sister. What a story!!! And Julio Medem is a great director who made a very good film from this story. The movie is full of original ideas, this uncommon relationship requires an uncommon way of telling. The story builts up from mosaics so it keeps you interested in until the last minute because you have to put the pieces in order for yourself. It's a fantastic idea that we can only see the children (Otto and Ana) at the back seat of the parents' car going to school. They don't meet each other for years just at the car and they don't even talk to each other because their love is so deep and spiritual that words are unnecessary. Just secret touches, stolen moments. When the teenager Otto moves to his father's and stepmother's house because he wants to be next to Ana, they become real lovers. The first night together, when their spiritual love becomes physical, is a so gentle, innocent and discovering journey into the world of sexuality, that never been better put on screen before. The next scenes, where we can see them as secret lovers hiding from the parents are so beautiful that the last one hour, when Otto leaves Ana and works as a pilot and they don't meet for years, is one of the most sorrowful one hour in the film history. They are crossing each other's lines, but they never meet, and it causes a physical pain to the viewer. During these years they're getting to know more about themselves and their family, relationships, have some accidental meetings. Finally, years after they meet... The ending is as unusual as the whole movie, Julio Medem had enough talent to make a good ending which is the biggest risk of the movies - and he doesn't fail, leaves some doors open, because life doesn't finish, when curtain goes down. Full of surprises, one of the best film of the 90s. I highly recommend it to everyone who is tired of pink, unrealistic romantic films, and wants to see a really good, modern romantic film. "},{"Title":"Deep into visual poetry","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's really difficult to understand European cinema after watching thousands of American-Big Studio films.At least that's what looks clearly apparent when I read many of the comments in imdb. But for some of us, who are in contact with a different way of making films, this one excels at the visual poetry from the very start.And from a cinematographer's point of view, as a real jewel in filmmaking. What Los Amantes is about, is love, and only that. The way this story is portrayed is quite original, in a way some directors have tried and done pretty good jobs (Alejandro González Iñárritu, for instance, in his two films Amores Perros and 21 Grams). It's a compelling way to explain simple things in reverse. Thoughts, and internal processes are not directly understood or apparent to the viewer. Medem demands his audience to think (remember Abre los Ojos).It's really sad to think that linear and flat plots that only demand to sit and watch are what most people see as good films. When something catches them out of balance, sometimes they refuse to stay tuned and think.The revelation, as is with this film, comes at the very end. And it deserves a second session to go through the small details -which are plenty in Medem's work.It's a long film... some argue. What is a long film when everything is like a whirlpool that draws you in? I don't think this is a long film. Me and many of my friends have pored through it many, many times. So many, in fact, that we had to throw away the original video. A pity, because it was in it's original widescreen version, not as the recently issued dvd that's been murderously cropped.Whatever it is what you like to see, take a look at this film. It can open a lot of possibilities to widen your taste, and your approach to long films. "},{"Title":"One of Medem's masterpieces (again)","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For people who do not like Medems work, it will be hard to watch and boring. If you liked any of his other films you will love it. Otherwise you will have to sit and be patient to let Medem touch you. Everyone will recognize some parts his own falling in love, or his relationship with his parents. Medem describes all this in a poetic and heartbreaking way, edited in multiple viewpoints. If you can open up yourself on these subjects, this film will make you think over your own life, love and parents. It is also nice to see that this film fits exactly between Tierra and Sex and Lucia, Medems other masterpieces made before and after this movie. Absolutely great stuff.  "},{"Title":"Geometric Cosmologies","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is so beautiful, it hurts. Tender.It is a lacy filigree in what it is, essentially a story about longing, urges and space. But that filigree extends to the nature of the space that surrounds the story on screen. And the motion of weaving extends further to the shape of the narrative threads which present the story and urges.Some viewers will be put off by the structure. It may seem contrived or mechanical, though hardly more so than the usual way which rigidly starts at the beginning and rolls in only one direction. To others it may seem like a lot of unnecessary work. Well, it does require some engagement, but that's the nature of poetry. And unlike Irreversible and Mememto there's more to it than merely sharing the discovery of knowing with the main character.I'm convinced that there is a mode of storytelling, the deepest, richest, most rewarding mode... a manner of structuring narrative in such a way that we are folded into the story, both watching and participating.I further believe that the most powerful of folds have geometric structure. We are after all geometric thinkers at root. We think we live in a world of shape and form and reason about that world in the same way. All this is underscored in cinema, which reshapes that real world in ways that we can handle and examine. I'll go so far as to posit that the best art has a story, a presentation of that story and an annotation of the nature of art and presentation, all using the same strokes and shapes.Geometric folds, cosmologies, readable structure.Medem is our current master of this. His Sex and Lucia goes much further than this in the complexity of structure and the circularity of urge weaving future pasts. But this has an appeal in its simplicity.As with Lucia (a scrambled Alice story), you can start anywhere Hopscotch -wise and build from there on reflection after leaving the theater. Were the lovers related? Was the girlfriend his mother? Did they even ever meet on the plaza? Did he die in the trees after weaving a happy virtual life? Or was it one circular boyish ejaculation under his bed? Along the way, look for airplanes starting with a zillion paper airplanes thrown out a window with a message so dear that it changes everyone it touches. Overlap that with the image of having the courage to come back in through the (same) window and touch someone with love.There are a few patterns in the lace here that you will take with you for the rest of your life. And anything that can do that, and do it using the language of dreams in such a way that makes love more lucid &#151; if it can do that, you'll want to see it, handle it, co-invent with it &#151; turn it over in your mind, a golden woven solid of wires as geometric urges.And it is so much richer if you know the story between the filmmaker and his father to whom this is dedicated. And that Medem's own son plays the boy. Start with Lucia. Its a masterpiece. Then absorb this.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Living on borrowed time","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERSWhat many film-goers fail to understand is that &#145;Los Amantes del Círculo Polar' is poetry in images. That simple. I've had other people's opinions thrown at me, and none have pointed this out. What I find too ridiculous (and depressing) is when I find myself going through those who say the film fails to achieve historical accuracy about Spain's past, and that the film is an insult to Basque national identity. That's just hilarious. The film has nothing to do with Spain's history, or anything like that, it's just a love story, told following a personal poetic style, that's all. Medem is perfectly conscious that the German airplane pilot is a Nazi, as he has one of the parents point out in the background. What he wants to reflect is how the teenage Ana accepts a childlike fantastic reality, and how the process of growing up involves a construction of realities that may not be completely true to physical or social realities, but nevertheless are to emotions.Other people talk about how Medem's telling of the story from different perspectives undermines the ultimate truth. What they fail to see is that this is just poetry, and that poetry sometimes isn't a search for this rational truth you'd look for in something like science. What's more, this film deals with human emotions, which are to my knowledge of the most irrational thing ever. Emotions are, just like this film, an intense accumulation of inexplicable wandering half-lost half-found images and words. We're not looking for the real truth, and even less from a normal perspective or linear narrative. It appears that those who protest about this film want a nice, and informed, objective view of a relationship. But where's the good in that? How can someone tell a love story from the outside if he hasn't lived it himself? The &#145;endless' repetitions just bring up an immensely fresh way of telling a love story, which I am more than willing to appreciate. The slipping in of the child Otto into the grown-up Otto is just as great as any others, despite what some people say. The scene where he discovers his dead mother, the grown-up Otto is the one who wants to leave and ignore the reality, but it's the child Otto, with his child-like curiosity, that turns round and heads for the kitchen where his dead mother lies. If you didn't like this slipping in of each actor into different phases of their lives, you failed to see that this is a mere reflection on how people don't change. If emotions haven't changed throughout human history, they're not likely to change now, are they? Every person always keeps a bit of their child feelings in them, precisely what a cold-blooded critic is just as likely to fail to see.Some think they can strengthen their argument by pointing out the absence of story-line, and what in their eyes would be a more conscious production of art. However, the immense strength of the film is in aspects that aren't in the writing, but rather in the direction. Just admit it, some great films have incredibly simple story-lines and this is one of them. It's as if you set out to define the word &#145;love'. While one person can come up with a dictionary definition, another does so with an infinite number of images. The first person would complain that the story-line is only about one word, and the artist who's translated the word into those thousand images gets no credit. Please&#133;I was thinking of a definition someone gave me once about the meaning of poetry, which was that it was about trying to give justice to every word. Image poetry, just this film, is the same; every image in the film tries to give justice to every word in the story. So what's more important for a film, the image or the word? It doesn't matter, not here at least, but just in this case it's the images. The film is about presenting the words, and then giving them the justice they deserve in images. Most of the time, in this film it's about giving justice to the image by itself, and forgetting about the words.Now, comparing this with another director, like Kieslowski, is also approaching the issue in the wrong way. Everyone's different.. Medem thinks his way, and Khrystzov his, and they're both great. The latter was a very unhappy guy who gave his films an ironic touch by looking for life's beauty, a concept he was constantly doubting in real life. The former believes that love stories like in his film don't exist, but that it's good to think they do. They're both subtle in their own ways. They both reflect things even we may not understand. What's more, this film would be inappropriate for Kieslowski, because it has too much movement, and this director had a more static way of presenting his poetry. So just let things like these be. Each auteur brings his own viewpoint, and however underrated many of them are, and ignored and insulted, they're what I'm in this thing called cinema for. Back in Theo and Cleopatra from 5 to 7, they discussed whether art was worth it. Is it? Thousands die everyday and art doesn't save them. But what it does do is immortalise a person, an emotion, a feeling, an attitude&#133; Its there so that when one dies his thoughts aren't forgotten. A photograph remains even if the person is dead. Otto and Ana will remain even if we all die. I say respect every artist in cinema, and learn to appreciate their effort. And with this film, Medem contributed to film and to emotions at the same time, I'm not sure to which of the two he's done most for. We're living on borrowed time, people, so all I can say is that I hope that the nightly wind Medem created in &#145;Los Amantes' blows forever!  "},{"Title":"A philosophical movie about love and life, about coincidences,... Interesting, but probably not to everybody's taste.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Los Amantes del Círculo Polar is probably not a movie to everybody's taste. If you want to see a lot of action, great comedy or some astonishing special effects, you better don't even think about watching this one. In fact it hasn't much more to offer but some philosophical thinking. Thinking about destiny and how we can't escape from it, thinking about life and love, thinking about coincidences...It starts with a young boy running through a forest because he wants to retrieve a soccer ball. A girl of about his age is running through the same forest. She's running because her mother told her that her father has died. He follows her and she falls on the ground. She sees him and immediately recognizes her father in him, he on the other hand immediately falls in love with her... Because of some coincidences his father and her mother start a relationship and they become brother and sister. As they grow older their love for each other doesn't fade, but their lives separate. In the end they meet each other again, not in Spain, but in Lapland (Finland).Los Amantes del Círculo Polar is shot in a very original way. First you get the scene from the point of view of one of the two characters, than you get the scene again, but this time from the other character's side. Even though the director has paid more attention to the story and the way it was told than to the performances of the actors, this still is a very impressive movie. I give it an 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A movie about true love","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that the less you know about it the better-- but GO SEE IT. This is one of the most romantic movies I've ever seen. It's a really magical, intricate, intense and beautiful film.This film is also very hard to describe. You flip/flop from one perspective to another, learning what the events of the movie MEAN to each character. The connections are so intricate and complex, the visual storytelling so compelling, I was just blown away by this film, and I felt the rest of the audience was right there with me.If you've seen and liked THE LOVER you'll like this-- it's one of those slow, languid, dreamy and beautiful movies about a true love that lasts beyond all circumstances. It's so intense one almost swoons watching it. The only other thing it reminded me of was the novel THE WHITE HOTEL. I know I sound like a huge flake, but I'm not! GO see this-- and try not to hear too much about it. You'll be converted. Really an EXPERIENCE. I'm saying it's the best of 1999 so far-- and I doubt I'll see anything better. GO! Now! Take a loved one!--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Movies that challenge the mind....","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" And this one does. The names of the protagonists are palindromes, Otto and Ana.Life may be a palindrome. There is much talk of circles. The beginning of the movie may be the end.Coincidences abound. Missed chances, never more exemplified than by the two lovers sitting unaware of each other in a cafe and moving along on another path for a while.Haunting images of caribou, planes crashing, red buses, accidents that may or may not be happening. Newspaper headlines that could cover many similar events.Destiny. Can we create our own? Is there just one soulmate out there for each of us? How does this movie end? All unknowns.I was challenged, uplifted and mystified. Technically, the subtitles were very poor in places - white on white, frustrating.Musically, very sombre, rather unnecessary. Children Ana and Otto beautiful, understated.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A bit cold but still clever and interesting enough to give time to","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Ana and Otto met when they were children. She was running in the woods after hearing of her father's death; he was running to get a football. When they met, he fell for her immediately and she could see her dead father inside him. Sadly coincidences lead her mother to fall in love with his father and, before long, they are brother and sister. Over the years though, their affection grows and they begin a relationship that is so secret that they barely know it themselves. In this circle of love and life, strange things occur that they see from different perspectives.This film is the sort of foreign art-house cinema that will make some viewers pull their hair or fall asleep with boredom, so maybe be careful if you are the type of viewer more at home with Porky's rather than anything cerebral; but for everyone else this strange yet engaging film is well worth a look. The plot is about a stepbrother and sister who are sort of in love but to just describe it as that is to do it an injustice. It is much more than that, not all necessarily good, but all interesting enough to watch. The plot movies in little circles &#150; like their names, it has a palindromic effect with one large circle and lots of little ones within; it is very smartly written and I did enjoy it for this. This doesn't help the heart of the film though, and at times I did find it very cold and uninvolving &#150; the characters weren't really real enough and I found the coincidences to actually stop the story being moving and occasionally did make it feel gimmicky. It is also knowingly weird at times and that also put me off; but the overall effect is good.The cast are little more than players within this tricky little film and, as such, they mainly struggle to deliver real characters. Ono and Anna are played pretty flat and cold but it is at least good that they were played consistently over the generation jumps and each acting partnership. It is not really their fault because the film is more interested in the ironies of the circling life and coincidences rather than getting to the heart of the characters &#150; they try hard but this is not a film to watch for strong acting performances.Overall this is a good film but one that may leave many viewers cold and unimpressed by the gimmicks; however many others will be won over by the clever delivery that is filled with mini circles within circles all within the overall palindrome of the total product. At times the cold telling is a bit distracting and the coincidences are not as deep as the film would have us believe but generally it is worth a shot and is a memorable little film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Romantic Coincidences","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Lovers of the Artic Circle (Los Amantes del Círculo Polar) was basically Next Stop Wonderland crossed with Map of the Human Heart about a couple who fall in love as children and continue star-crossed throughout their lives. The critics decried the theme of coincidence but it does in fact happen, so it was sweet here. And yes they are both easy on the eyes and maybe that it's in Spanish makes them seem even more romantic.I liked that the parents were real people who have problems and lives and grow and change. The story line goes from each's perspective in flashbacks and current, illuminating thoughts and motivations, which seems to be a trend in movie-making.Quite beautiful cinematography.(originally written 5/2/1999) "}{"Title":"A sun that never sets","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is marvelous, evocative stuff. One of the most valuable films I've seen in a long time, rich in all the parts with space perfectly aligned to contemplate; ideally this means for me a still point that grounds us in some latent emptiness, usually an image or images of some purity, here a midnight sun, and arranged on top of that a universe in concentric cycles, each one a kind of life, that turn with motions invested by us, love, desire, hate, whatever we put into life, each turn a kind of fate that we have set in motion.There is all of that here, life as we also know it, with the mechanisms that control it, structured to palindrome from one end to the other like the names of the participants.At the surface we have a kind of Kieslowskian construct of sliding narratives and melancholy lushness, expressed with a capacity for spontaneous magic that was in the 80's the turf of Raoul Ruiz; we have lives full of tragic detail, powered by invisible fates that trick, break, seduce, create the yearnings of a lifetime, mirror up and down, fates because we only have these eyes to look at the world, and look once as we pass through, though recalling many times over in our journey, so everything must have a deeply cosmic import. It could not be otherwise.From her eyes, she sees in the boy running after her her father visiting again; but we know that he's merely chasing after a ball kicked with just the right strength to bring them close.From his eyes, he perceives that she decided to jump from the sled at the last moment to save herself; but we know that she was only snatched away from him and would have gladly stayed for the fall together.Everything must come to pass though, this is the nature of the whole thing. All things move towards their end. Paper planes are sent flying through the window, and they all come crashing after a short flight; but now and then, one of these fleeting gestures can sling together entire lives.Now peel away time it is a story of a boy and girl falling love, mirrored many times over, in youth through old age. There was nothing else that kept the fleeting world away from these two people but the image of each one held in the other's eyes. So long as they could hold that, the sky could come crashing down. There are two ends in the film, both viable; is he dead, or is she? is he drawing from the story of his grandfather's rescue to imagine their final embrace, or is she from that man who rescued the grandfather?Now peel away space peel away the whole damned thing, the world supplying reflections that are meaningful because we're there to see, the rooms mirroring minds seeking punishment or solace, the many lives deeply intertwined by callous fate, with all their familial drama and memory of touch and hurt, peel away the very fabric that would support such a world in the filmmaker's head from his own recollections about father and sister, with all the hope that would keep the dark away.Everything must come to pass, this is the nature of the whole thing. Hold just the capacity for spontaneous love as everything is stripped away. What then?A sun that never sets. But from where you can harken at the silent roar from the engines of the universe as they grind out the cycles. Just a paper plane sent flying out a window is enough to stir the whole thing again into motion. It blossoms again, maybe this time a little less tragic, maybe more.Something to meditate upon. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Beautiful Films About Love You'll Ever See","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's hard not to rave about this wonderfully written masterpiece.Los Amantes del Círculo Polar stars Fele Martínez (who was in famous movies like Tesis, Abre los Ojos, and La Mala educación) and the heartbreakingly beautiful Najwa Nimri (who made her star-turn in Lucía y el sexo) as Otto and Ana who fall in love with one another as children and try to carry this love through their whole lives. They look for a place to live their love, and finally find it at the Arctic Circle where the sun never sets in summer. They discover that some things never end, and that love is one of those things.Julio Medem, the director of Lucía y el sexo, wrote and directed this highly spiritual and modern movie about love and destiny. It's packed with impressive, original ideas and is full of romance. Great performances, a stunningly beautiful cinematography, and Medem's masterful direction make Los Amantes del Círculo Polar one of the most enjoyable Spanish movies ever.If you like this one, I also recommend Reconstruction and the movies by Krzysztof Kieslowski. "},{"Title":"MEDEMA GENIUS¡¡.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Do you like good cinema?.Do you believe that all cinema´s genius  are dead?.do you believe in love?.SEE THAT MOVIE¡¡¡.   PLEASE. "},{"Title":"Great!!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Poetic, moving, PERFECT!!! "},{"Title":"Films like this are why we love cinema!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have seen, I could say, in my entire life. I don't usually comment if it isn't that way. The film is a masterpiece, a very strong union of every thing that we could want and ask of a film. The story is complex, yes, but it has been set for our eyes in a simple, yet involving way. Then the spectacle really begins, when you feast your eyes on the images passing in front of you. You feel the cold, the warm, the lonely, Ana, Otto, the love.... you feel the story as if it were yours, and believe me, it is. The images achieved by director Julio Medem and cinematographer Gonzalo Berridi are breathtaking, they arouse and touch you, you have the sensation of having seen all that beauty before or the contrary, of never having seen images so beautiful in your entire life, or both.Is life a constant clash of coincidences? I don't know, but watch this film even if it's not by coincidence. You will breathe, love, think, love, see, love different afterwards. This is poetry, this is art, and this is one of the reasons why I am so passionate about cinema, and why it will always be so.My vote?.... Would a 10/10 be enough??? I'm not sure, make that 11. "},{"Title":"In love of outside locations","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Since I saw the Spanish film The Lover's of the Arctic Circle, http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0133363/ , I was in love of Rovaniemi and Lapponia. (The outside locations of that movie were filmed there) In the film appears a hut whom it's traversed by the Arctic Circle line (painted in the wooden floor). My favorite scene is when a girl sleep down, waiting for her lover, by the shore of a great lake. The sun is hiding down, but the sunset never comes yes, this is the Arctic Circle )Great, great, great, film...about luck and destiny "},{"Title":"Dream Lovers","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Lovers Of The Arctic Circle When Map Of The Human Heart is one of my favorite movies, I can't fault this film for almost stealing the entire concept.  A Spanish language film about two children who meet at school and fall in love with each other.  Through the years, the two manage to carry out a sexual relationship even as their respective parents marry each other and outside forces try to separate them.  The rest of the film is nearly a scene by scene recreation of 1993's Map. But I stress that I liked this film.  Cinematographer Gonzalo F. Berridi and Director Julio Medem make a very specific effort to make their film visually memorable. Some of the shots on display here are breathtaking.  Leads Najwa Nimri and Fele Martinez do a wonderful job as the two lovers.  Their scenes of courtship are fascinating to watch and Medem sharply chooses to show both sides of the story.  By understanding the two perspectives on this plot, the film is that much more satisfying.  I enjoyed this story. I applaud the effort the filmmakers made to not tell this story in any way I might have suspected.  It's a slippery slope when it comes to melodramatic romance, yet the film is graceful and competent. ---------------- 8 "},{"Title":"Everything moves in circles (!!!SPOILERS BELOW!!!)","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW...This is second Julio Medem film that I have seen, it is very similar in style to Lucia y el sexo, but Lovers of the artic circle touched me more, it had more of an effect on me for some reason. I rank this movie high on my list of favorites, because it was beautifully acted, shot, scored and written. It was so dream like that it is hard to tell where the real lives begin and the dreams end. The ending is the best part, again it reminded my of Lucia in that the end seemed to be sucked into a hole and altered, but the viewer is left with the choice, do the lovers live and finally complete the circle or, and this is the more likely conclusion, did they both die and meet in a Heaven of their own? The silence in the film is what makes it so perfect, the main characters do not have that much dialogue and yet, they say so much with their eyes and their gestures. I have no complaints about this film it is one of the greats. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest of all time.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the greatest love stories of all time.  Medem has truly created something astounding and innovative.  This film is truly one of the best films ever made. I also suggest viewing IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE.  These are my two favorite cinema love stories. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest of all time.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the greatest love stories of all time.  Medem has truly created something astounding and innovative.  This film is truly one of the best films ever made. I also suggest viewing IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE and AMELIE. These are my three favorite cinema love stories. "}{"Title":"A great movie to see","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  You have to watch this wonderful movie about love and destiny. Everything is perfect; the plot and the picture match in an unique way. This movie will make you think about your own life and all the coincidences that surround it. "},{"Title":"superb visions of cyclical nature of love/life","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  painted in short, sweet brushstrokes, direct as a paper airplane's flight, straight as the sun's course on the summer solstice  at the arctic circle, this movie is vast as the skies and whole as a heart. the translation is excellent. all of them. love stories. this is a mythic movie. ¡Qué bueno! "},{"Title":"An epic rollercoaster, if you let it take you.....","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This captivating film can draw you completely into Ana and Otto's world. The magic of their lives and relationship presents a heart quickening circuit of emotion.The theatre was totally involved to the extent that when one person cried out there was almost perceptible relief from other cinemagoers that they were not the only ones so captivated by this story.A must see for romantics anywhere. "},{"Title":"It doesn't have to be original to be great","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't think of a better title for the timeless story about love. The same is true for THE love as for the midnight sun they never set.Movie has been R-rated in US since one does get a glimpse of a beautiful body, but there is no trace of lewdness in it. It's not about lust, its about love in the purest sense i.e. about searching and finding a soul mate.Although the movie bears some resemblance with some of the movies I've already seen, for instance the trilogy 'Three Colours' and the contents is not without comparison with Bronte's 'Wuthering Heights' I'd still proclaim the amalgam of great acting, beautiful camera that's in some scenes on the verge of absolute perfection (I mean in danger of having no flaw at all) and poetically told story from 2 angles (well in my opinion 3, since I'd consider Polar Circle's part a third angle) a true work of genius and I rate it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Coincidence Explained","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In a wellspring of seeming coincidence two lovers are united.This movie was the most fabulous love story I have ever witnessed/ it culminates in a circular ending that qualifies the beginning and leaves questions answered and yet answers all questions. This is the paradox of perspective and the crux of the picture. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but...","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed the clever surface intricacies of this film, but what do we ever know about these two lovers?  Who are they?  Why do they love each other? We never know, which leaves this film a major step behind the similar Unbearable Lightness of Being. "},{"Title":"Witty , intelligent and tragically romantic motion picture splendidly played by a marvelous  couple","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Julio Medem directed this inspired film for Sogetel and producer Enrique López Lavigne and it was released in 1998 . Lush and dreamily beautiful flick from the filmmaker of Sex and Lucia . Spanish production with sharp acting , colorful cinematography , excellently interpreted and rousing as well as delicate score by Alberto Iglesias . Strange story about a rare and uneasy love story between two half-brothers . Otto (Fele Martínez) and Ana (Najwa Nimri) are kids when they meet each other . As Otto is just eight years old when falls in love with Anna . Their names are palindromes . Both of whom meet by chance, people are related by chance . Otto's daddy , Alvaro (Nancho Novo), too falls in love with Ana's mummy , Olga (Maru Valdivieso) . They make a family with a faultline running through their heart . A story of circular lives , in which young lovers settle into a complex and dramatic emotional orbit . Both these youngsters with circular names love and live inside their heads . It revolves around a kaleidoscope of circles surrounding circles . Their relationship is almost telepathic , a secret from their parents and virtually themselves . As they get older and look back , there's also much play on their records . Captured at moments of crisis and separation, these characters are forced to confront the precariousness of their secret and the great black of their breaking up . And they end on a circular place where the day never ends in the midnight sun . There are things that never finish , and Love is one of them . Destiny cannot denied .Intense as well as allusive loving drama with top-notch acting , superb photography and sensitive soundtrack . Plenty of symbolism , enjoyable scenes , emotion , romantic incidents and ineffably dramatical . It is a accomplished film with a fabulous realization about a love story which burns like ice . Medem shot this film after getting divorced, because it was the first time he experienced heartbreak and he wanted to write a movie about the love as the most powerful force, something that never ends and it's forever between two people . This brooding picture contains shrewd interpretation by a wonderful couple , Najwa Nimry and Fele Martínez , and a good support cast full of prestigious players giving alright performances . In 1998 Medem released  The lovers of the Polar Circle , considered his best movie by most of his fans and is also Julio's most deeply felt picture to date . It also became a box-office hit with more than one million spectators in Spain and was also released worldwide . It is a thought-provoking film dealing with a story of solitary people , as a strange , unsettling young , well played by Fele Martinez , and his lover , subsequently suffering a sad separation , being rivetingly performed by Najwa Nimri . This is a thrilling , exciting , elusive , deliberate though magnetic drama ; it is closer to Jane Campion than Carlos Saura . It contains marvelous photography , breathtaking musical score and enjoyable production design . It is a fascinating film though sometimes a little boring , slow-pace and overlong . Anyway, the film is interesting , thematically intriguing and weird ; Medem has his own style of telling a story . Thrilling as well as distinguished musical score mirroring well the scenery, its people and the story line, it was superbly composed by several times Oscar nominated Alberto Iglesias , Julio Medem's usual . In addition , a spotless pictorial cinematography by Gonzalo F. Berridi and a willingness , almost perfect of the elements of each shot , every sequence , every space . The motion picture was well produced by Enrique Lopez Lavigne and Fernando Bovaira and originally directed by Julio Medem . Julio has a sharp eye for human relationships and about peculiar love stories . Medem alternates various points of view , relating events from several perspectives . He can't resist games , pattern and stratagems . As he directed Ardilla Roja or ¨The red squirrel¨ released in 1993, it was selected for the Cannes Film Festival and it confirmed Medem's talents and won prizes in Fort Lauderdale, Bogota and Bucarest . Medem had been making short movies with a super-8 camera owned by his father until he received a call from a new production company called Sogetel and executive producers Fernando de Garcillán , José Luis Olaizola , Enrique López Lavigne . They were interested in his script titled Vacas . It won the Goya Award from the Spanish academy for best new director, and won prizes in the festivals of Tokyo, Torino and Alexandria. In 2001 his fourth movie, Lucia and sex , became a huge hit and began the career of actress Paz Vega who won the Goya for best new actress . Although in 2003 failed with the release , The Basque ball , a documentary that portrays the phenomenon of nationalism and terrorism in the Basque Country of northern Spain , it was very polemical and partial . In 2007 directed the flop ¨Caotica Ana¨ and in 2010 , ¨Room in Rome¨, a successful though with not sense film , filled with nudism and only starred by two gorgeous naked girls . Julio Medem is for sure one of the the most important and original Spanish filmmaker. Well worth watching if you get the chance . "},{"Title":"Flawed Medem masterpiece - too much air, not enough earth.  (possible spoiler)","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Julio Medem's brilliant films thrive on enigma, obfuscation, tease and irresolution.  LOVERS is his most playful yet, because it seems his most lucid.  There is the usual pattern of proliferating doubles, connection of motifs, bending of time; yet, rather than confuse or complicate like before, each separate entity seems thrusting towards the linear, Unified Whole of the conclusion, which is satisfying in an old-fashioned romantic way, until it too is irreversibly, indeterminately split.The plot is Medem's simplest yet two young children, Otto and Ana, are brought together by the affair between their parents which eventually grows into marriage.  Otto continues to live with his mother, but increasing love for Ana causes him to move in with his dad so they can enjoy furtive lovemaking.  Otto's mother, presumably ins reaction to a double abandonment, commits suicide; depressed, Otto tries to do likewise, fails, and leaves Ana and his family to become an air-messenger pilot.  After a failed relationship with an old teacher, Ana goes to Lapland to live in a cabin owned by the father of her mother's new lover.  A series of extraordinary coincidences seem to bring Ana back to Otto.Anyone who has seen a Medem film will know what to expect surface realistic observation is rejected in favour of an excessive formalism, artifice and patterning that allows access to greater emotional truths.  The doubling is astonishing - male/female, mother/father, son/daughter, sister/brother, earth/air, North/South, death/rebirth, lost/found, concealment/revelation etc.  Two halves should make one whole, but it never does in a Medem film, leading only to further fragmentation.  The two main leads are played by three different actors each, leading to a triple splitting of self which is further underscored both by the permanancy of the actors playing their parents, and by the different actors playing them slipping into the wrong time frame, e.g. the young Otto appearing in the adolescent Otto's plot.Further dislocation occurs in the formal patterning of repetition and coincidence.  The same scenes are repeated in different historical moments with different characters.  The same events feature different protagonists, depending on the subjectivity of the teller.  The main formal device is to have each lead tell in turn the story, but instead of clarifying, this only further confuses, because each sees differently from the other.  Medem then undermines this obvious truth by showing a kind of innate bond between Otto and Ana the palandromic fact of their names, the way each uses the other as a representation of a beloved dead parent etc.  And yet again, THIS is denied in the film's most excruciating scene, where, years apart from each other, the two finally occupy the same space at a few feet's distance, on a cafe piazza, and fail to realise.There is no such thing as a key to Medem, as his labyrinths are Theseus-proof, but the opening credits bear close scrutiny, revealing images of fragmentation - the crashed plane - and rupture, and an intimation of subjectivity that drives the film.  LOVERS' ending suggests that it is Ana's striving for wholeness, after the ultimate dislocation - death.  This reading, though, is questioned throughout - how, for instance, do we account for Otto's voiceover.  We are forced to question how much of what we see is, if not literally plausible, than related.  Most importantly, it makes us question the past, a history, and how it's told.Medem's films, especially VACAS, are concerned with the difference between literal history, as told by the winners, and the messy, interior, emotional history of people as they live.    VACAS featured a character named Peru, the name of Medem's son to whom TIERRA  was dedicated, and who stars here as the  young Otto.  LOVERS is dedicated to Medem's father.  The film is obsessed, like VACAS and, to a lesser extent, TIERRA, with family relationships, with tradition and continuity, with a saga that seem linear (generation follows generation) but is actually circular, as the past is continually replayed and distorted in the present.A crucial subplot here is the meeting of Otto's grandfather with a Nazi bomber during the Guernica atrocity, an act that reverberates throughout the film, and touches, for good or ill, every character.  The duality of the film is linked to the duality that split Spain apart throughout and after the Civil War.  Another historical layer is linked to Medem's own work, as I outlined above, issues of continuity, which include style, cast, doubling, scenes (especially that of a photographer capturing his family), animals with supernatural powers, unresolved, or a proliferation of, endings; as well as discontinuities (e.g. for the first time, no Emma Suarez).For all its brilliance, this is my least favourite Medem film.  It spends a little too much time in the air - its matrix of meaning is not as grounded in the blood and earth of his previous work.  This is probably linked to the acting.  In the earlier films the almost naturalistic truth of the actors clashed fertilely with the formal artifice.  Here, the callow acting of the leads fails to achieve this, leaving one a little unsatisfied.  The older stars are magnificent, though, especially Medem regular Nancho Novo, the loveliest man on film; his OWN abandonment is heartwrenching.  There is also a great deal less comedy than previously, again, I fear, due to the acting.  These are serious quibbles, but ultimately irrelevant - this is easily the best film around at the moment. "},{"Title":"Delightful movie","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The latest release of Julio Medem is the confirmation of his significant presence in the business. A great love story perfectly told, with an excellent casting. I wish Hollywood never know about him, to keep his touch & style just like it is.   "},{"Title":"Excellent pictorial","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie deals with the eternal history of two young lovers trying to find themselves in a common place. Medem's script tried to show this fact in a dual way, seeing the other's universe using the eyes as a camera. The movie never falls. Great score and excellent photographical work.  "}{"Title":"An engaging, beautiful story of passion and tragedy","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is somehow yet another rendition of the Romeo and Juliet story, where fate and passion are the real protagonists. It is decidedly over the top, very stylish looking, very romantic and passionate, full of symbolism and metaphors, with no pretences of realism, yet it does work rather convincingly - unlike Medem's following work, Lucia y el Sexo, which also uses a magical realism style with a circular plot (even more confusing, or rather, with a lot more artificial twists and a far less clear conclusion than this one), but which I found too contrived, annoying and disappointing. Los Amantes is a stronger film, the protagonists are far more believable and engrossing, also because the fated aspect of their relationship is set up clearly from the start and there's a feeling of inevitability that manages to support the whole artifice of the plot structural symmetry.The lead actors are very good at portraying the fragile, adolescent beauty of their story, and the supporting roles add touches of realism where needed. The settings are carefully chosen to add to the ethereal atmosphere and mythical references in the story. Perhaps it plays too much on symbols and coincidences, but that is after all what great tragic stories have always been made of. It is romantic in the epic sense of romance, managing to be emotional without cheapening emotions. In some ways the theme of fated love stories reminds me a bit of Kieslowski's Trois Couleurs series of films, but it is a lot less heavy and more enjoyable. There may be more style thansubstance overall, but it's good style. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but falls apart near the end. 7/10","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was loving this movie for the longest time, but near the end it was trying too hard to maintain its palindromic structure. When filmmakers put style over substance, it detracts from the film. ****MILD SPOILERS****It would have been perfect if they had just met up at the end and stayed with each other for the rest of their lives. If you think that sounds cheesy or cliched, just think to yourself what the last drama was where a couple actually fell in love and stayed there. You might say that that never happens, but this film was stressing the magical aspect of life. It would have made more sense if they had lived happily ever after at the end.****MAJOR SPOILERS****Besides, I'm not even 100% sure what happened at the very end of this movie. Again, the filmmaker was stressing his construction too harshly. But I'm pretty sure Ana died (and her meeting with Otto was just her dying dream). This is an incredible let down! The film still had potential to be great until the very end. There's just no payoff. Even though the characters were not particularly well developed (and they didn't need to be, really; like I said above, this film was more of a magical fairy tale than a piece of realism), I had an emotional bond with them (or more likely, with their situation). I was feeling rather elated throughout the whole movie, but after it ended, there was no feelings to be felt. I would have given it at least an 8, and maybe as high as a 9 on the imdb grading scale, but I have to give it a 7/10. It was worth watching, but it will dissolve quickly from my memory. "},{"Title":"a bit boring and slow","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have seen all Medem´s films and I have to say he´s quite original in the treatment of plots, direction and so on, but I found this film a bit boring and too long. There was little action, it´s not that I like only action films but I felt as if it didn´t progress, everytime the same. I hope Lucia y el sexo is different because I have´nt seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Casualties","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie five times and none of those the story has lost its magic, the chance of love between Otto and Ana turns out to be a whole odyssey that leads us to think about fate that so much importance and influence has in our life. The exciting about this tale is that this is something that could happen to anyone in his life because love itself is an enormous coincidence between two human beings coincide in time and space, and set in each other.The plot posed by Julio Medem is shocking, surround and intriguing, anyone as a viewer is trapped by everything that happens along the entire life of both characters and is moved by the tragic outcome of the lovers in the title's Arctic Circle, ending sealed by the destination, such as Romeo would say in the history of Shakespeare, makes them become in simple toys of life.Unfortunately the film has some technical details that tarnished the mastery of story and remain the value of certain scenes, some examples are when Otto is pilot or the sleigh accident. Details that could have been more careful and they have helped to strengthen what it is. Similarly, there are some inconsistencies in the screenplay that make see exaggerated and forced some situations presented, because there are casualties to casualties.A good love story, well played and well directed, a good example of Spanish cinema. "},{"Title":"Geometry, Karma and Repetition wreak havoc on parents and children.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" WOW! A film of beauty and depth. Mant thanks to Sr. Medem, his cast and crew. And many thanks to those who offered their thoughtful comments. Repetition may eventually cause circular paths to intersect and form completed circles. We are given several possibilities with the lives of at least three generations of two families. This film had me emotionally enmeshed. But the one completed circle I wished for was not to be. I was left dangling out there in the ether with a feeling of Pathos, of unresolved tensions, of a tragic incompleteness. The heartbreaking end of Knut Hamsun's novella, VICTORIA, elicited similar emotions. Finally, every time I hear it, the Debussy Prelude, DES PAS SUR LA NEIGE, does pretty much the same thing to me - the footprints in the snow go off in the distance and disappear. "},{"Title":"An authentic masterpiece, most definitively A MUST!","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Julio Medem's Lovers of the Polar Circle is a victory of the Cinema Español, a triumph of romance and love. For Romantisism 's Lovers, some movies can be watched on and on, and after each time, we are left we that nice taste of an excellent wine, coffee, tea or a great cigar. A list that always grows, counting Saint Exupery's Nocturnal Fly; Christhoper Reeve's Somewhere in Time, Vincent Ward's Map of the Human Heart; Krzysztof Kielowski's Three Colors, Ondataje's English Patient and Steven Sodeberg /Stanislaw Lem's Solaris. When Dylan Thomas wrote (fragments) The ball I threw while playing in the park has not yet reached the ground&#133; Though lovers may be lost, love shall not and death shall have no dominion &#133; Doctor Julio Medem's Los Amantes del Circulo Polar (Lovers of the Polar Circle) is one of the best movies ever&#133;Chance, fate, law of attraction...everything is never as exactly as we wish...But quite often, we come to see clearly the most beautiful moments of our lives, just only when those moments have come to be the past&#133;To summarize the movie in a romantic manner, I wrote this little poem from Ana's perspective My darling, I was running madly in love looking for you, and though I never made it -to the other side of the street, I did manage to see your face the most beautiful image my eyes ever saw&#133;please look carefully in my eyes; there You Are&#133;Forever! Signed Ana. Bravisimo Doctor Medem! If this movie is ever re-mastered, I believe the inclusion of the song &#150;same title as the movie- of La Oreja DE Van Gogh would be a deep magic touch mixed with the original soundtrack, when the credits appear on screen. By Jorge Escolan Suay. Vancouver, Canada "},{"Title":"young love","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A beautifully done film, if a bit unconventional.  But the various dramatic devices that are employed really dont interfere with the sense of the movie, i.e. they don't creak. Overall, very moving and beautifully seen. "},{"Title":"When the red bus fate crosses, you stop!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  - NO SPOILERS -A delightful film about fate, about our choices in life, about the power of our emotions.The story of the lives of two lovers that are brought together by fate, or not? It is not clear, perhaps it's two options of the same coin, being able to dictate or accept one's faith. Passivity and activity are both required to create life, and neither has a bigger contribution to the future that awaits us.Through a series of relentless flash backs we are driven around in a palindrome fashion between past and present, only to verify that the future is unknown. Cyclical, true, but unknown in regards to its break from the circle.A film shot with directorial integrity and coercing exquisite performances from the cast, impeccably clean as fresh snow. A beautiful soundtrack combined with haunting cinematography.Relax, and enjoy the romantic story that isn't.   "},{"Title":"Very Beautiful","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely beautiful.  It reminds me very much of V. Nabokov's Ada.  Like that book, it is about a life-long love with incestuous overtones.  The screenplay is intelligently done, obviously with great care, tying the plot together with coincidences and cyclical, repeating themes.  In Nabokov's words, it makes ornaments of possibilities. It is entirely free of sentimentality, but I found it very affecting. "},{"Title":"Movie equivalent of a Bullfight","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Any film buffs willing to watch a foreign subtitled movie please see if your local Blockbuster has Julio Medem's LOVERS OF THE ARCTIC CIRCLE. Actually the film has a minimum amount of subtitles as it is mostly visual. It is in Spanish. One of the more romantic films I have seen in a while, Medem plays the film medium as a classic bullfighter plays with the animal. There are moments of throat clutching intensity and I found myself glued to the screen as it unfolded. Two warnings, the film is put together in pieces and requires some time for the story to unfold and the ending will either soothe or kick your heart.  "}{"Title":"An amazing movie which leads you to question all coincidences","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Coincidences are often either ignored or taken for granted. This movie evaluates all coincidences good and bad. It proves that fate does exist, otherwise these two people would have never found each other. By showing the movie through perspectives of both Ana and Otto shows exactly what that person sees. From one perspective things seem totally different from the other.An example of this would be when Otto and Ana were on the sled headed for a cliff. From Otto's view, he thinks that Ana gets scared and jumps off. But in reality she is pulled off which is shown in her eyes. The most amazing piece of this movie is the beginning is the end and vice versa. However you can't understand the beginning without seeing the end also. This is not one of those movies where you can get up for popcorn and miss a few minutes and get right back into the film. Every minute is crucial and cannot be missed or else the plot will never pull together. All in all a great film which more people should see. "},{"Title":"IT IS A WONDERFUL FILM - SAVE FOR THE ENDING","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I heartily concur with the praise heaped on this film. I found the story engrossing and captivating - but oh dear, I think there was a little stumble at the last fence.  As the climax loomed I realised exactly where we were going - only the fatal mode of transport caught me out. For all its tenderness and humour elsewhere, the last minutes were leaden footed. Enjoy this film in all its glory, for it is a gem, but be prepared to finish with an 'oh, come off it'. I wasn't expecting happy ever after, there was enough previous pain and angst to indicate that this was not a likely outcome, but my disbelief was being suspended for a rather more original ending. "},{"Title":"beautiful imagery","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Los amantes del circulo polar stands as a riveting film. The pace is perfect, the story structure is interestingly well developed and the language is just wonderful.  "},{"Title":"Love, the only trick to deceive solitude","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Medem has been trying for years to show how two solitary beings can glimpse at each other's solitude. His three previous films are all interesting, but on the verge of being uncomprehensible and even pretentious. Los amantes del Circulo Polar is as beautiful as Tierra, as suggestive as La Ardilla Roja, as moving as Vacas, but so much better. Coincidences lack the mystical character they have in his other films. What Otto and Ana can see of each other, what Otto and Ana make of each other, is not a result of destiny, but of our constant attempt at not being alone, at finding meaning on a meaningless world. When you come out of the cinema, your life seems fuller and more significant. And, somehow, one wonders whether the lives of those already gone is not also meaningful from the life of those who remember them. "},{"Title":"Me gusta Julio Medem !!!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I think Medem is one of the best 'new' directors of European cinema. I saw all his movies and his visual style is unique. The stories of his movies are well-structured although it is not a thing that really stands out. Los Amantes del Circulo Polar is a very romantic movie where fate playes a big part. The style of Medem turnes this otherwise totally unrealistic lovestory into a movie which sweeps you of your feet. Realism and surrealism are integrated in a way that the unbelievable becomes believable. A movie where Medem does this better is 'Tierra'. Although this movie is very good in my opinion it is not Medem's best. His best is still 'La Ardilla Roja'. So overall a good romantic movie. It only has one 'flaw' I liked Najwa Nimri a lot but where is Emma Suarez??? Estoy enamorado de Emma! Well, too bad maybe in his next movie.   "},{"Title":"TOO MUCH COINCIDENCE","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  An interesting if fractured treatise on the nature of coincidence. No question that Medem has style, not to mention an interest in breaking up the film's narrative which is quite intriguing.Seeing all the action not only through the eyes of the tempestuous Otto and then through the viewpoint of the more patient Ana (so we not only see the reality of situations but also the imagined fantasies beyond them) is a process that works but which actually takes a bit of getting used to.Ultimately though there is a nagging feeling about whether this really was a story worth telling.  "},{"Title":"Magic Convergence","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I find very interesting point of view Medem's films.It is different in the sense that gives importance to the subtle perceptions such as intuition, premonition ... and above all the unusual fact of being irrational, following this signals. Having the ability to listen to oneself and (more difficult) let go with that call.The film may have depth, both in form and content. And the story may seem simple, but the effect it have had on me is the excessive attention we give to events that seem very obvious, and the little attention we give to events that seem random or without a logical explanation.It seems to be filmed from the corners of the subconscious, where the intuitive qualities lies.Music, camera work and film-making intensify this dreamlike atmosphere, yet realistic.7/10 "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" it could be a modern fairy tale. or a love story. in fact, it is only a Julio Medem admirable work. the delicacy of nuances, the breathing of movie, the beautiful scenes, the precise script, each, all does a splendid show. it is not a surprise. only honesty exercise. it is something magic in this film. and the performance of lead actors represents only the wings of that. a film about the life in its pure forms. Fele Martinez in a seductive role. the sparkles of dreams, feelings, emotions. as seeds for a meeting. and force of two palindromes.a film like a refuge. melodramatic, tender and, in few scenes, refreshing. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie.","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie is so poetic, deep, and soulful. It all started from Otto's point of view where he was in school throwing paper planes and asking a question. This movie is about coincidences and how the world goes around. After that, we get to Anna's point of view where she is in school with her mother after hearing the news that her father just died. Anna ran away, tripped, and saw Otto, who reminds her of her dead father.Their names are both in palindromes.The only thing that I have problem with is the ending. I didn't feel satisfied and I don't really know what happened. In Anna's version, she gets ran over by a red bus in Finland and saw Otto while in Otto's version, he and Anna reunites. I didn't get a resolution.The biggest coincidence of all is that Anna's mother broke up with Alvarro and left him for a man who is also named Alvarro. The other Alvarro is the son of Otto, a German pilot from Otto's story while Otto is the son of Alvarro.The sad part in this movie is when Otto's German mother died of depression. I felt really sad for Otto. She must've thought that her own son abandoned her when he left their house so that he could be closer to Anna.This movie is a work of art and I can tell that the director really worked hard on this craft. He deserved all of the awards that he got for this film. This is my first Julio Medem (last name is in palindrome) movie and I became a fan thanks to this. "},{"Title":"unlike anything else","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Otto and Ana met each other by fate and immediately knew it was love. Throughout the film you see that their love grows for each other.This is a film which is quite unlike any other love story i've seen,the love between Otto and Ana is so touching and beautiful.You could really tell that these two actually loved each-other.The film tells the story through Otto's and Ana's perspectives.Which I think is very original and adds to the depth of the film. A recurring theme that this film has is that life and faith are like circles. This is one of those films that a review can not do justice to the material, because it's quite unlike any other film. And has an ending you will never forget; For those getting into foreign films I strongly recommend this film and you will swear that its a film that you will never forget. A very strong recommendation for this film "}{"Title":"Compassionately written drama...","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Spanish screenwriter and director Julio Medem's fourth feature film which he wrote the screenplay for, was shot in Madrid, Spain and on different locations in Finland. It tells the story about Ana and Otto, two eight-year-old children who coincidentally encounters one another in a forest outside of their school. Otto immediately falls in love with Ana who is still missing her recently deceased father and who chooses to believe that her father has gone on living inside of Otto. Ana and Otto's lives are strangely intertwined when Ana's mother Olga and Otto's father Álvaro falls in love and moves in together. Over the course of time their profound relationship grows stronger and they become lovers, but their emotional bond is disconnected when Otto becomes a pilot and begins to travel between Madrid and the Arctic Circle. This intriguing, fast-paced and finely edited fictional tale about an affectionate, secret and close to telepathic relationship which spans over several years, is a character-driven and plot-driven metaphysical drama. Told through various perspectives which shifts between the two protagonists point-of-view and a brilliant circular narrative reminiscent of those used in the films of Krzysztof Kieslowski (1941-1996), this distinctly directed Spanish-French co-production draws two merging studies of character while examining themes such as coming-of-age, family relations, destiny, grief and love.Julio Medem's partly autobiographical story about the ambiguous nature of coincidence and love has a distinct visual style and a shifting atmosphere which is reinforced by cinematographer Gonzalo F. Berridi's beautiful cinematography, Alberto Iglesias' score and the significant use of sound. This geometric and romantic journey through the circumstantial lives of two destined lovers is a compassionately written drama with empathic and engaging acting performances by Spanish actor Najwa Nimri and Spanish actress Fele Martínez. A very moving and memorable love story which gained, among several other awards, the Turia Award for best Spanish film at the Turia Awards in 1999 and the Audience Award at the Athens International Film Festival in 2000. "},{"Title":"Love, Arctic Cirle & happenstance-A beautiful love story","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's a splendid movie from Julio Medem. This will leave you wondering and stunned at the end.It shows that the life goes full circle and full of surprises at every moment denying the fact of reasonability.Two people madly in love with each other will drive you crazy in every frame of the movie. This is beautifully shot movie with non liner screenplay taking the occurrences and surprises into the account. You will be amazed with the portrayal and delineation of the story.I think Julio Medem is one of the finest directors and have a great sense of story portrayal. Having seen Lucía y el sexo & Vacas , I am waiting for his new movie 7 días en La Habana (2012).This movie is recommended to the people who don't bother see such an open to interpretation creation. "},{"Title":"A Love Story Around The Arctic Circle","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Right from the opening sequence of 'Los Amantes del Círculo Polar' mesmerizes the viewer. It hints that the characters are doomed (though not in the way one would predict it to be) and with some captivating visuals, Medem keeps your eyes hooked to the screen. His storytelling is as poetic as a beautiful song yet at the same time he uses a lot of restraint. He keeps the viewer completely (well, as completely as a movie can) involved in the lives of Ana and Otto (the movie is shown through their perspective). His execution brings a kind of supernatural feel. There's something about the splendid lighting, stunning photography and delightful score that contribute to it. The juxtaposing images form a rich geometrical tapestry.In addition to that there are the fantastic performances of Fele Martinez and Najwa Nimri who are supported by a competent cast. This is among their finest works. They are brilliantly supported by a first rate cast.'Los Amantes del Círculo Polar' is one of the most effectively told love stories. But, it is more than a love story. Medem brings up plenty of philosophical elements and sensitively handles themes like desire, space, longing, time. The voice-over makes the viewer feel like a participant. It's as if Ana and Otto are directly talking to you as they narrate. I am sure to visit 'Los Amantes del Círculo Polar' again just to be a part of Otto and Ana's world (as a silent but involved spectator). "},{"Title":"Beautiful and totally unusual","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I'd be giving 10 points if this movie was only about visuals. The pictures are absolutely beautiful and creative. Also the music was totally pretty. The cast was quite good - especially Najwa Nimri. The story was unusual, but interesting. You could call this movie an experimental love-movie. - Isn't that something very unusual?How is it possible that I did rate this movie only with 7 points after praising the movie so much with the above? This movie has one big problem for me. In the details of the story, that means, in the conversations and situations, the characters behavior is unconvincing. Some conversations really angered me. Sometimes emotions have been overdone, sometimes emotions lacked where they should have been. Sometimes characters have been drawn into the extreme so much, that it simply was totally absurd. This may happen in a experimental movie, but not so much in a love-movie. Everything felt so artificial, that is was really hard to care about the love story. (Maybe my problem with the conversations partly occurred because I watched the German dubbed version &#x96; but I doubt it.)I also had a problem with all the weird, unrealistic coincidences that happened during the movie. In the end of the movie though, they made totally sense. One of the few movies that is actually trying to say something, This almost made me give the movie 8 points.If I'd be watching the movie a 2nd time, I can imagine that I'd like it much better. I didn't understand everything the director (and writer in one person) wanted to say directly. I understood it in the last third of the movie. In that last third the movie improved a lot for me. Before, I had little fun watching. "},{"Title":"very moving (and hard to understand) movie","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Otto and Ana meet when they are kids. By coincidence, their parents decide to get married, so they must keep related as brothers. This not avoid Otto to fell in love to Ana, which will keep in secret until Ana fells in love too. After that, their lives will never be the same with findings and loses where luck will conduct their fates. It is one of the best love stories I've seen in a long long time, directed in a very daring way. THe story is told to us form tow points of view (Ana and Otto) at the same time, which can result a little confusing at first (but it is VERY well done). In addition the fact that the movie has continuous flashbacks (you have any warning about change of time) can make it more hard to understand. Anyway, actors are great, with a totally inspired Fele Martinez (probably its best acting) and Najwa Nimri, who is not worse. Moreover, the soundtrack has the perfect sound for any moment and it results the perfect company along the movie. On the other hand, the very confusing mixing of times and points of view can result disappointing, but watching it a second time, as you know what is happening can make it much more understanding. Highly recommended for anyone that wants to enjoy a good film and is able to think a little about it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful love story evolving around fate, chance, palindromes - it's Otto and Ana, Ana and Otto","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Is the film itself a palindrome to run it backwards again? Lovers of the Arctic Circle (1998 Spain) is finally available on DVD, and with the option of Scene Selections, one would be able to literally do the palindrome of immediately going from the last scene back to the very first. This DVD feature pays off especially for the appreciation of Spanish writer-director Julio Medem's creative storytelling in Lovers of the Arctic Circle. His approach is likened to a visual Web, presenting to the viewer the back and forth links/viewpoints between Otto and Ana, their thoughts/narration, love/feeling towards each other, and the surrounding/peripheral relatives and coincidental individuals in their encounters. At the heart of it all, it's a quietly intense love story between Otto and Ana since childhood - involving three stages of their lives age nine, adolescence, and adulthood (portrayed by Najwa Nimri as Ana and Fele Martínez as Otto). It's poetic, romantic and contemplative all at once. The anticipation and near/misses are too accidental, or are they? Music by Alberto Iglesias is haunting, especially with his keyboard strains. Cinematography by Gonzalo Berridi is enchanting - the Arctic sun, the hailing wind and snow, aerial or after dark. Film editing by Iván Aledo must be challenging to manage the integral repeats of 'exact' replay with same subtitled wording. Of course, master of it all is Julio Medem. This film does remind me of The Map of the Human Heart 1993 by director Vincent Ward, with Jason Scott Lee ('Dragon The Story of Bruce Lee' 1993) and Anne Parillaud ('La Femme Nikita' 1991) as grown-ups of the childhood lovers. In fact, at times, Najwa Nimri's Ana looks rather like Parillaud's face/profile. Also reminiscent of French filmmaker Claude Lelouch's Chance or Coincidence 1998 (aka 'Hasards Ou Coïncidences'), which employs a more colorful and musical/magical approach to fate and circumstance between two persons' love encounters. If you are drawn to Medem's Lovers of the Arctic Circle, you may want to follow up with yet another fascinating imaginative writing-direction of his 2001 Sex and Lucia (lead actress Paz Vega, with Najwa Nimri). Music also by Alberto Iglesias - his quiet melodic piano notes complement the various moods of the multiple plot line. This film may be more (soapy) dramatic but not short of engaging if you follow with an open mind. It will all come together - yes, fate and coincidences are forever part of the lives of Medem's characters. "},{"Title":"review","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILER  Julio Medem's Lovers of the Arctic Circle not only have the word `circle' in the title, and not only mentions circles several times throughout the film, but moves in a cyclic manner. Even the characters names are circular.  Ana and Otto can be read the same forwards and backwards, also known as a palindrome.  The movie ends in the same place as it begins, with Otto in Ana's eyes, creating a circle of the film (not to mention the circle of Ana and Otto's eyes themselves, emphasizing the importance of the circle). However, as mentioned in the film by Otto, just because the film is set up in a circle, doesn't mean the circle is complete.  When Otto is flying to the Arctic Circle to see Ana after several years of being apart, he says to himself that his life is a giant circle, but it just isn't connected yet.When the film ends, we are left with what seems like an ending from one of those `choose your own adventure' books.  In the beginning of the movie, Otto goes over the different ways a situation could have turned out if a tiny, seemingly meaningless different move had been made.  This seems to be what we get in the end of the movie, only no one spells it out for us like Otto did in the beginning with the soccer ball kick. It's refreshing to watch a movie that doesn't tell you exactly how to feel in the end.  The end makes you think, and you can decide for yourself what happens to Ana and Otto in the end.  Does Ana really get hit by the red van? Does she really die?  Does Otto actually die in the crash?  Is any of it real, or is it all a dream?  Medem seems to leave it up to us in the end. "},{"Title":"Great Use of Dual Narration","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Los Amantes del Círculo Polar by Julio Medem combines several modern cinema techniques in a way that makes a unique movie.  The film has reoccurring metaphors such as the caribou and the red bus.  It also breaks the laws of physics a couple of times to make a point (i.e. skiing upwards and the drawn out skid after Ana is hit by the bus).  Of all of the techniques, Medem's use of dual narration is the most notable and possibly most effective technique in the movie. Several recent films use a similar form of narration.  Notably, Pulp Fiction  and Run Lola, Run are famous because of there narration.  Medem uses dual narration differently than these films.  Most films uses multiple or dual narration to show two different points of view of the same action, or to explain interesting details of one story through the point of view of another.  Medem, however, uses dual narration to show how two different people think about the same actions.  By doing this, the audience learns how each character reacts to similar events.  It also shows what Ana and Otto think of each other at different stages of their relationship. Another effect of Medem's use of dual narration is that it adds to his cyclic theme.  By having two points of view, the film can make a cycling pattern by alternating between Otto and Ana and Otto and Ana again.  If the film had just been Otto's complete story followed by Ana's complete story, the narration would not have had this same cyclic rhythm.  The question of whether or not ever thing in life is cyclic is one of the main themes of the movie; the use of dual narration makes this more obvious. A final important aspect of dual narration in the film is its context. All of the narration takes place during the sequence of the film entitled The Arctic Circle.  This is evident because whenever there is narration earlier in the film, the audience is shown Otto in his plane or the sunset that Ana is watching.  Thus everything after this sequence, including the alternate endings, is unknown to the narrators of the film.  For example, twice in the movie Otto says that his life has not yet come full circle. He says this before he has met Ana again which might be the completion of his life's circle. In closing, Medem has made a unique film using several techniques.  Dual narration is one of the most effective of these.  The narration is done in a way unique to this film in which the audience is shown what two people think about the same actions.  The narration also has many stylistic aspects that add to the film, including its cyclic rhythm.  Finally, the context of the narration is an important aspect when reflecting upon the film.  These and other aspects of the narration help make the film as effective as it is. "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is not your ordinary love story.  Lovers of the Artic Circle is very similar to a classic love film in the fact that a man and a woman fall in love with each other from around the age of eight and continue to love one another throughout their lives.  The difference of this film is that the man and woman are stepbrother and sister.  With that being true, the audience may be declined to think that this is incest for the fact that the couple had feelings for each other before their parents even got together.  The film also helps denounce the fact of incest by narrating the film through the eyes of the two lovers, Otto and Ana and not some other narrator. 	In films there is always something that creates a turning point that helps establish the plot.  In this particular film, it's a big red bus and knowledge of running out of gas.  The film starts off with Otto looking in the past where he and his parents are on the side of the road with no gas and father just got picked up to get some more.  All of a sudden the film is back to the present and Otto's father slams on the brakes and almost hits a big red bus.  After this incident, we learn that Otto's mother and father are divorcing which is a major turning point in the film.  We see this again when Otto and Ana are riding home together like normal with Ana's mother and she runs into a red bus.  Otto is then resorted to walking home and barely gets to see Ana except for on the weekends and the time frame shifts to the two being older.  The bus incident happens one more time at the end of the film when Otto is trying to get to Ana when Otto and another character almost hit the red bus, but this time the red bus hits Ana in the process. 	The bus is a significant symbol because it brought Otto and Ana together when Otto's mother and father separated, but it also broke them apart when it killed Ana.  "},{"Title":"Film review","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!!! Lovers of the Artic Circle by Julio Medem could easily been left thought of as a unique film of love, life, coincidences, and destiny.  Medem through spectacular editing and directing take a simple and maybe disturbing love between a stepbrother and stepsister and turns it into a epic love story leaving viewers to be influenced by the two's deep connection and not their status in relationship.  Medem masterfully depicts the main theme of the film through non-conventional methods of editing and directing.  This can be seen by the fact throughout the entire film the point of view of both Otto and Ana are both shown giving the overall film more character and depth. His overall theme of that in life there are circle that repeat themselves is not easily lost.  This repeat of certain aspects of life is seen through many aspects of the film.  The film contains many aspects of live and uses this circle of life theme if you will in telling of coincidence, fate, love, and finally death. In the beginning of the film, there is a shot of the artic circle where Otto gives a brief narrative explanation of his life and how his circle is not yet complete.  From there the film follows the interaction of Otto and Ana who meet through pure coincidence and how through their meeting the film takes form.  By the interaction of Otto toward Ana the two's parents meet making way for the eventual marriage of Otto's father and Ana's mother. Mede takes a scene of Ana's mother driving them back from school many times over replaying it, yet with the storyline of time passing until a red bus almost hits their car, which is displayed in other scenes, in which Mede finally shows Otto and Ana as adolescences.  The love between the two siblings is started in one scene in which the two are reading of the artic circle.  From there the film continues on its course relaying its theme of circles.  As Otto's father left his mother, later Ana's mother left Otto, and along with the death of Otto's mother separates Otto's and Ana's relationship for a time.  Over this time each sees other people and do not make a connection.  Though the film places them in a position where they could coincidentally meet again as before fate seems to make guide them elsewhere.  Finally, in the end Ana leaves her companion and decides to live in a cabin in the artic circle.  At this time Otto is actually flying mail back and forth between Finland and Spain.  Ana sends a package to Otto's father which is found by Otto, whom coincidently actually brought the package through air to himself.  Otto decides to fly to see Ana.  As she waits to see him, she finds that a plane from Spain crashed near her. She panics and goes into town.  As this is happening Otto who flew the plane decided to parachute out to see Ana and he is stuck in a tree.  The scene is the same as the beginning where Otto is telling of his circle not being complete.  Finally, with aid Otto gets down from the trees and follows Ana to town where he finds her hit by a red bus.  Yet in Ana's eyes, she finds the paper and runs to the office of the German Otto when there is a shot of papers flying then her coming to the office only to find Otto there. Therefore, by this unique point of view between the eyes of Ana and Otto, this open ending leaves one to wonder what the film is really trying to explain about these circles in life with love, fate, and death.  It also allows for self-interpretation leaving, I feel, one more fulfilled in the end, giving one's own answer to the meaning of those questions of love, fate, and death.  "}{"Title":"a tremendous accomplishment in editing and story telling","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoilers Lovers of the Arctic Circle is a film about cycles.  To drive this point home, the narrative is edited together in interconnecting circles.  The story is told from two perspectives, Ana and Otto.  The stories go off in each perspective, focusing on one or the others point of view (occasionally both at the same time) and eventually coming back together.  A good way that I understand it is like a chain link fence.  Each circle makes its own rotation, but the links all meet at common points and you can continue on to the next link, circling around and around.  Or it could also be looked at like an infinity knot.  Maybe you think your getting somewhere but really you just keep circling around in an endless figure eight.  Lovers of the Arctic Circle tries to convince us that this is what life, and endless circle of coincidences.  As philosophy I find it less than convincing, but as a film it comes off great.  There are rare films that can't simply be viewed by a passive audience.  There are films that strive to be much more engaging than popcorn for the mind.  This is one of those films.  From the opening we know that this movie is going to be a challenge to the viewer. We see a crashed plane, we see brief images flashed before us, and then it jumps to a little boy.  We expect to have the opening imagery explained to us, but it isn't.  Instead we begin the narrative of Otto as a child, and how he first meets Ana.  It is easy to forget the image of the crashed plane.  Even when the imagery of pilots is brought back up in the narrative, you don't think back to the opening, only in the end when we see the same image in a newspaper do we realize we've come full circle, or at least that we're on a circular trip from the beginning.  Pardon me if I ramble, but this movie leaves so many things to be discussed that it's hard for me to organize my thoughts.  Of course I ramble anyways, wait, there I go again. So anyways. Lovers of the Arctic Circle definitely pulls off cyclical editing extremely well, it is the highlight of the film for most viewers (especially the first viewing when it is such a shock to the system).  On subsequent viewings, it is much easier to analyze other parts of the movie, things that you don't think about at first because you are so caught up in figuring out if Ana is dead or connecting the dots between things or finding small details to theorize the meaning of (for example as time moves on, Otto's hair is always getting longer, while Ana's gets shorter).  But there is a lot of other things to think about that aren't cyclical, things you think about most `normal' movies.  For example the characters; how well were they put together/pulled off?  I think in this film the answer to both questions is excellent.  The actors all do very good jobs (especially the two leads) at conveying the reality of emotions displayed.  The ferocity of Otto's anger when his mother dies is intense (this is helped out by the shaky handheld camera, bringing us closer to the explosion) and the close ups of Ana after Otto leaves really show you the depth of her pain, blaming herself. Other good moments are the expressions on the faces of Otto and Ana while sledding towards the cliff, and the look in Ana's eyes after she is hit by the bus. It is very hard to express emotion through the eyes alone, but the actress definitely pulls it off in this important shot that gets repeatedly shown. The music was outstanding.  The low deep tones played throughout the film give it a morose tone.  Not to say the music is morose, it ranges in feeling, but there is always a subtle moroseness to it.  Even the overtly happy tune played in the beginning and in the final scene from Otto's POV (yet another circle) has a somber undertone, even before we think everything is going to work out, there is a sinking suspicion that we are in for sadness, and I attribute that feeling to the music.  My only gripe with the movie was the pacing.  Maybe I should complain about the scope of the picture being too broad, but I thought towards the middle of the picture (after Otto runs away) the story dragged.  The director did his best to show as much as possible of the main characters lives and keep it moving, my favorite example of this is the scene where Otto tells his various meaningless girlfriends about how his mother died in one continuous story that spans girlfriends, apartments, and years.  But unfortunately, I think it still drags at points.  It could be argued convincingly either way as to whether we needed to see as much of the in-between being together lives of Otto and Ana to get the right emotions when they finally see each other again.  I personally think it was probably necessary to show everything, there is no bad scenes that seem forced or of place in the narrative, I just found myself losing interest at that point in the movie.  I think it would have been better with fewer scenes and more montages.  Beyond this point, I find Lovers of the Arctic Circle to be an extremely fine film.  "},{"Title":"Sublime choreography in architectural visual poetry","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Whereas certain coincidental circumstances might seem a little far-fetched, one should bear in mind that life is simply a series of fortuitous occurences which only lead to what fate has lined up for you; there is no point in quibbling with destiny. When you bump into an old school-friend whom you have not seen for years on the corner of your street and you learn he married the girl who you yourself first enjoyed in the ferned and foxy woods and your eldest son went to the cinema with his eldest daughter some months back and you just did not realise it then, and you accept that as quite plausible, even possible, then you might find that the series of fateful events surrounding Otto and Ana from their youngest childhood up to young adults are not so improbable. Amid such coincidences, however improbable they might seem, tender adolescent love matures between comings and goings Madrid &#150; Roveniemi (Finland), as well as what may appear to be incoherent use of flashbacks and flash-forwards seemingly haphazardly, but in effect works a tremendously appropriate tool in developing the story, as told alternately between Otto and Ana.The intricate architecture of the film might make following the story-line something like a bit of guesswork in the early stages; but an intelligent viewer will soon cotton on to the disjointed sequences and even end up admiring the technique for being somewhat original. This seemingly jump-about technique is due to the different events being remembered out of sequence by the two leading characters. However, for people who do not understand Spanish and have to rely on subtitles, I can easily see that the amount of concentration needed might well be pushing up rather high on the intellectual scale, making any kind of empiric judgement rather hazy, to say the least. Oh, well watch it again. At least we can say it is worth the effort. Which cannot be said of most `stomache-churning' love-stories.      "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I love Spanish movies and this is one of my favorites. The plotline is not linear so it might not be to everyones taste. It shows how coincidence is indeed a strange thing and the lengths that some people go to for love. Sometimes these ingredients make for a sappy movie but Spaniards seem to find irony to mix in to keep it from getting too sweet. "},{"Title":"Strikingly beautiful film","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Lovers of the Arctic Circle is a Spanish film about two lovers, Otto and Ana, who meet by chance as kids, split as adults, only to have one more chance at love in the end.  It's a movie about coincidences and circles involved in someone's life and unfolds like a good Spanish book.  I wasn't sure if it was a movie that could hold my attention at 3 a.m., but this one sure did thanks to a quick editing style and a fast paced love story with some wonderful transitions that put to good use the visual medium of film. Recurring images, both verbal and written, run through the film like symbols in a book and these are used to emphasize the coincidences - the caribou, the concept of circles (arctic), concept of mortality, planes, names, occupations, near car crashes, and fuel.  There are striking uses of fades and cuts - most memorable is the scene where Ana is almost killed by a sleigh falling from a tree - she looks up, sees the sled as it comes down, closes her eyes, the camera fades to black, then she opens them, still looking up, then looks down to see the sled in the snow beside her. Another nicely setup scene is the flashback to where Ana's father dies - while never actually SHOWING her father, it shows us behind the wheel of what we presume to be a sports car (engine roaring) as it passes a big truck.  We see an oncoming truck and anticipate the accleration, but then the engine sputters and the camera looks down at the instrument panel, then we cut to the fuel guage reading empty as we hear the truck blare its horn and the guage's glass crack.  Wow.  Here's another one  Ana's mom Olga is in the front seat of a nice looking car (I'm presuming a Volvo) telling the kids that their father is busy.  There is a cut to the back seat of the kids, still under 10, as they look on.  In a repeat of an earlier near car crash, we watch from the back seat as a bus pulls in front of the car.  Changes happened overnight is the voice over as she slams the brakes.  We cut back to the kids who are pitched forward by the brakes, then back to their seats, suddenly as teenagers.  Whoa.  Helped by a wonderfully thought out script, this film propels us into the lives of the two young lovers as they journey through self-discovery and growing up from their first meeting to their anticipated reunion after splitting up many moons before.  Moving between the viewpoints of both Otto and Ana, we are given insight as to how the two lovers view the situations and each other.  It's a good device, but can get confusing to someone who isn't paying attention.  I had to watch the film twice to catch all the recurring symbols and images and I'm still not sure I caught them all.  Also, I loved the way the film is set up where the opening shot is of the downed plane and the opening scenes are of a grieving Ana, which sets up the conclusion.  If I have a complaint about the film is that the conclusion, though well written, falls somewhat flat because the acting falters and it's almost played too comically in tone for the rest of the film - and it jars too much between serious and comic.  Still, the acting and writing really work well in a unique visual style that really made good use of subjective camera.   "},{"Title":"High and dangerous ground","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I liked the idea of this intensely romantic story - two lovers inextricably linked by a series of coincidences.  It flatters the notion of romantic love as a force which dominates our destinies.  I just wish that premise had been handled with a little more delicacy.I think the difficulty here is one which plagues many films tackling the dangerous ground of high-romance the incompatibility of the styles used in its realisation.  For example, this film was not helped by its melodramatic score, which was occasionally beautiful but more often inappropriate and at times even titter-inducing.  Nor was it helped by the cinematography this film would have played far better if it was more beautiful - but it looked everyday to me, and that made the unrealistically coincidental plot more difficult to accept.I still enjoyed the film, but it makes me wonder how much better it could have been in the hands of someone like Krzysztof Kieslowski, whose Trois couleurs Rogue involves a somewhat similar premise but delivers on it with so much more subtlety and care.  It succeeds due to the economy of Kieslowski's and Piesiewicz's writing, Preisner's music, and Sobocinski's rich and radiant images.  Everything works.  But it's more than that - everything works together.  The elements are entirely complementary.  So I was entranced by Rouge.  There was never a moment when I thought, This is ridiculous, even though if you write the plot down on paper it seems absurd.  I wasn't entranced by Los Amantes.  Reason kept objecting because the images and sounds seemed incompatible with the plot.While still a good film, for me Los Amantes suffers from the same problem as the similarly-themed Map Of The Human Heart - the production doesn't fully deliver on the promise of a wonderful premise ... 7/10  "},{"Title":"The mystery of love and coincidence","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film gives the viewer a healthy dose of magical realism as it journeys between different times and different viewpoints. Steeped in metaphor and infused with the natural beauty of barren places. First rate acting from all the cast contributed to the power of this movie. If you enjoy wondering...see this film. "},{"Title":"Spectacular!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  To be quite honest I had never heard of this movie or of Julio Medem, the director. I went to watch the movie without having any idea of what I was about to see.As I watched the first few minutes of the movie I started getting into it more and more.  I adored the characters of Ana and Otto as children. The story of these two children begins to unravel when the parents of these two accidently meet and fall in love.  Otto and Ana become brother and sister because Otto's father marries Ana's mother.  Otto lives with his mother but he has fallen in love with Ana and in order to be close to her he decides to move in with his father and stepmother.  At this point is when Ana and Otto begin to sleep together (they begin to have a sexual relationship).The two live very happy because they are together.  However, things change for Otto because of his mother's death.  He decides to leave everything and everyone behind.  He becomes a pilot for a mailing service. Ana,too,decides to leave everything and leaves to go and live in Lapland, Finland.  Otto and Ana end up meeting here.The film was full of twists and turns.  It portrays the perspective of the way Ana sees life and the way Otto sees it.  According to Ana, life is full of coincidences, life is a train of coincidencesis what she always says. Otto sees life as running in a circle.  One begins at a certain part of the circle and at the end has to end where he/she began.Overall, I really enjoyed this film.  I enjoyed it because I had never seen this type of film before and it was like an adventure for me to watch it. I really enjoyed the actors in the movie, I thought they were excellent.  I was fascinated with the beautiful scenery in the movie.The Lovers of the Artic Circle is a wonderful movie to see, if you have not yet seen it, you should definetely check it out....9 "},{"Title":"The most wonderfully weird movie I have ever seen","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Some movies are created to captivate while others accomplish this just by the way they are directed,  Julio Medem's Lovers of the Articc Circle is one of these films.  The film is a drama/romance based on the lives of two children, Otto and Ana.  The director arranges coincidences throughout the story that attempts to show how linked these two characters are.  The characters of Ana and Otto are played by three different sets of actors as they grow and mature throughout the movie. The story begins with Ana running away from her mother because she has learned that her father has died in a car crash.  Otto had been chasing a soccer ball that was kicked by a school mate.  They encounter each other with a stare and that begins the strange movie-long relationshp between these two individuals.  A young Ana views Otto as a reincarnation of her dead father.  She never listened to what Otto said.  She always was talking with her thoughts not her mouth.  Conversely, Otto loved her from the first time he saw her.  Once Otto learned that his mother and father were getting a divorce he began to question love. This movie is filled with strange coincidences, with one of the strangest being that Otto's father and Ana's mother marry each other. This situation helps the love of the two young people blossom.  Ana finally comes to the realization that she wants to feel love for Otto and they become lovers.  Otto soon leaves his home to live with his father so he can be wtih Ana every night. Many coincidences follow this from Otto's mother dying and him leaving home because of this, to Ana and Otto sitting behind each other at an open-air cafe. The story is wonderfully directed by Medem, although he did not write it all that well.  The plot was very strange and hard to follow.  At the end of the movie all of the coincidences became too much to believe. "},{"Title":"Menem's gorgeous and passionate film","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Julio Menem's latest film,Lovers of The Arctic Circle,is a complex,visually arresting effort fraught with symbolic imagery. Tragedy,coincidence and fate play major roles as well in this beautifully crafted and well acted film.Lovers is about two children,Ana and Otto,who meet as eight year olds and are drawn together by love and a series of coincidences as lifelong soulmates. Played by three sets of actors throughout the various stages of life-development,Otto and Ana meet while running in the same direction but for entirely different reasons.This is significant as it signals a film-long theme of viewing major events of one's life from two entirely different perspectives. Otto is running to chase a soccer ball while Ana is running having just found out that her beloved father has been killed in a car accident.Despite this tragedy or rather because of it they are soon thrown together.Otto's father separates from his Germanic mother and moves in with Ana's mother.Henceforth, the film is told from alternating perspectives of Otto then Ana.These chapter-like vignettes play out in a narrative style that accentuates a circular rather than linear pattern.Otto sees life as a circle thus in his scenes we see a circular pattern. Ana sees life as an ongoing train of coincidences and so her perspective of the same events differs accordingly from Otto's. Menem's talent for beautiful imagery and his manipulation of sequence and the unique depiction of time passage all combine to enhance the feeling of a circular narrative.Intertwining the real with the surreal Menem effectively spins his tale of romance and tragedy.Despite an unabashedly honest portrayal of all his characters human foibles and shortcomings,Menem remains a romantic at heart and as a result the film maintains a buoyancy.Perhaps this is because the lovers are so determined to to transcend or shape their own fates.Ana sits in a chair positively willing Otto to appear in Lapland near the film's conclusion. She has had enough of life's sad coincidences and she means to shape a happy one for herself and her lover,Otto. Menem ties up all the loose ends by film's ending and the cleverness and attention to detail are admirable.Adding immensely to the overall film is Gonzalo Berridi's gorgeous cinematography and the haunting score of Alberto Inglesias.Although his interesting directing tool of manipulating time sequence has been done before by director's such as Quenton Tarentino,    Menem adds his own unique vision and passion.The film concludes as it began thus completing a perfect circle and a perfectly satisfying film experience.Menem spans the globe both emotionally and geographically in this multi-layered thought provoking romantic drama. "},{"Title":"A love story through the eyes of each lover.","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is the story about Otto and Ana, two children that meet at the school, whose life is full of coincidences. One of them makes that they live together as they grow and fall in love of each other. One day, Otto escapes from home, and their lives seem empty through several years. Until, suddenly, they almost meet again... "}{"Title":"A pretentious film.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Why did the main characters' names have to be slapped on the screen every 5 minutes? It was all to obvious and yet confusing for me. The way Julio Medem glorifies his characters and their involvement in the story just doesn't work. The two main characters are called Otto and Ana two names that are the same if reversed. This is suppose to justify why they are attracted to each other when it is in fact a meaningless detail. To make this even more obvious, Medem has to put their names up on the screen every five minutes to remind us who is narrating and to show how much they love each other. At the end there is a close up on Otto's eyes, reflecting Ana's face so naturally they have to superimpose Ana in the eyes of Otto over the symbolic image. The finale is semi-interesting as a result of the crafty editing but I won't spoil it for you if you're a fan of the pretentious but nevertheless innovative director of Earth, The Red Squirrel and Cows. "},{"Title":"Leaves me frigid","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Although there is some thought that went into the movie, most of it must have been written when someone was high on more than life. It's way too long on coincidences and short on logic. I suppose we could follow around a collection of such people who are always running out of gas or hitting buses, or being hit by them and then claim that it's just coincidence things didn't work out. I suppose some love all the juxtapositions and how they determine the characters' lives. Frankly, I think it's just silly. And I have a great deal of trouble feeling empathy for the hero who jumps out of his plane (which he is piloting) with a parachute on, instead of merely landing the plane in the town where his lover is. That would be too pedestrian. He'd rather hang in a tree to create a parallel to earlier events. Such writing ploys, when abused, make plots seem ridiculous, as it does in this movie. But it's all part of destiny, isn't it? Or so the Spanish would have us believe for this movie would only really appeal to them. The overriding force of fate is obviously so much a part of Spanish thinking. I was reminded of Ángel de Saavedra Don Alvaro o La Fuerza del sino which Verdi used for La forza del Destino, to much better advantage. 5 is generous. "},{"Title":"I just didn't like it.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Unlike all the other comments here i didn't like it. This movie just didn't seem to get a grip on me. I found the Ana/Otto narrative boring, and didn't care much for the characters.  The whole coincidence theme was very much to my dislike.It was a very long sit thru this one. "},{"Title":"Opinions from an uncultured country boy","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I am the typical uncultured small town American (Texan to the core) that everyone seems to refer to when commenting on this movie. I have had enough from pompous east coast liberals looking down their noses at the rest of the movie-going public. Every time I read reviews here there are several reviewers who must tell me how i do not have the sophistication and/or appreciation of art to understand or like the movie of the moment. A movie whether it is die hard or an art-house Indy is in fact art and only the individual can determine its value as art, or entertainment etc. This particular movie i loved despite it flaws from the actors - I feel the director put much more emphasis on the mosaic(yes i stole that word because i like it)he was painting than individual performances. Great movie, i would recommend it to the unwashed masses as well as the more typical east coast critic wannabes. You will be taken in by the young lovers and the intertwining yet rarely connecting fabric of their lives through to the end which was exactly what i expected knowing the origin of the film> So once again to you pompous blow hards how exactly is it better that it ended as it did vs the Americanized version that JUST as predictably would have had the two live happily ever after? Both predictable, both satisfying to a particular segment of the population. yes this review is more about you reviewers than the movie. I apologize........you darn yankees "},{"Title":"A good film that can hardly fail to disappoint","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There IS something magic about the Arctic Circle.  (Can you imagine anything good entitled Lovers of the Tropic of Capricorn?  Of course not.)  And this IS an interesting film.  That's my problem, really.  An enchanting story, an unenchanting film something obviously went wrong.How many films have you seen in which friends, allies, lovers, etc. have been within striking distance of one another without realising it?  It's an irritating device, isn't it?  Here are Otto and Ana, sitting back to back at an outdoor café.  Look!  Otto turns his head thirty degrees.  WILL he catch her in his peripheral vision?  No, false alarm.  Now Ana is distracted by some sound or other.  She glances around.  WILL she notice Otto ... almost there ... no, didn't make it.  Now Otto scratches his elbow.  WILL he...  Bah.  There's a limit to how much of this contrived suspense I can take, especially when, in the end, it leads nowhere.Now is the time to stop reading if you haven't seen the film...  But what takes the cake is the ending.  The merciless, gloating torture to which Medem subjects his characters in the café scene is nothing compared to this.  Okay so Ana is in Finland, Otto knows that Ana is in Finland, and Ana knows that Otto knows that Ana is in Finland.  How long can it take to bring them together?  As long as Medem can keep the cameras running, it seems.  I've never seen such a protracted denouement.  If that were all, though, I could yet forgive him...So, DO they meet in the end?  I've spent some time thinking about it and I still have no idea.  They end up in the same place, but we've just seen how many times THAT can happen without result.  My GUESS is that Ana dies.  I can't see why Otto (the Spaniard) would calmly wait in Otto's (the Fin's) kitchen afterwards while Ana's life was hanging in the balance; so probably that entire sequence DIDN'T really happen, after all.  In any event, I don't see the POINT of all this uncertainty.  Why not just tell us what happens?  That is, after all, what story-tellers are meant to do; it's what Medem had in fact been doing all along before he decided to get clever.  (But note that if Ana dies, we have every right to feel sour, after sitting through an hour of when-will-they-finally-meet-up beforehand.  Medem made us an implicit promise, and broke it.)I'm glad I saw it, and there are moments of pleasure.  But it's as if Medem injected a good dose of quinine into the story simply in order to prevent us from getting TOO much pleasure.  It's hard not to be haunted with a sense of how much better it could have been. "},{"Title":"A beautiful mess of a movie","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Lovers of the Arctic Circle tells the love story of Ana and Otto from childhood into adult life with a carefully crafted precision which makes a simple romantic tale an inordinately complex jigsaw puzzle. An example of a high-minded director's selfgratifying egocentric palindromic production which forsakes the audience, Lovers... is a beautiful film wanting for almost nothing except coherence. Recommended for those into over-the-top Europics. "},{"Title":"Mildly interesting Spanish love story","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Ho hum, another foreign language film with sub titles and advance publicity suggesting beautiful imagery.The reality was much more ordinary, the plot too contrived to take seriously.  Wait for the video to come out and enjoy it at home. "},{"Title":"Reoccurring Theme, With a Twist","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is a constant and reoccurring theme in romantic cinema that rings throughout the world.  Boy meets girl, problem occurs, and some driving force brings them back together by the end of a 90 minute production. Often times they are brought together to live a happy and fulfilling adulthood. If not, they are united together for an emotionally uplifting adieu.  In the film `Lovers of the Arctic Circle' the latter of the previously mentioned occurred.  Whether Otto and Anna finally came across each other's paths in reality, the afterlife, or in a dream state of mind the imperative aspect is that their characters were relieved upon sight of each other in the apartment.  The movie could have been interpreted in numerous different ways but even those whom thought death had resulted should see liberation in knowledge that they were eventually together again. Throughout the entirety of the movie the theme of coincidence surfaced. Every few moments an element of coincidence played its card and brought Anna and Otto a hair's width from each other's arms.  In the movie `Serendipity', with John Cusack and Kate Beckinsale, the term destiny was coined to help promote the movie.  After more thought the term destiny and coincidence become harder to differentiate. The two movies themselves pertain many of the same themes and characteristics.  Both of which revolve around searching for love with a theme of nature to nurture the plot along.  `Serendipity' tended to with the seasons in a year and `Lovers of the Arctic Circle' manipulated by the sun never setting and a day never being felt as complete or whole.  In both films the character's journey onward but reluctantly miss out on `golden' opportunities in finding each other.  What makes the difference then in whether the film should be marketed with the terminology coincidence or destiny. The word choice used for marketing indeed makes a world of difference in portraying what the director or writer is trying to exhibit.  Destiny alludes to the fact that the ending more than likely is going to be happy. Coincidence on the other hand leaves a more open format for interpretation. As proven in `Lovers of the Arctic Circle' the ending is unknown and leaves the audience both baffled and arguing amongst themselves.  The difference between these two words is what primarily attracts a given audience into assumptions that only the writer or director would be able to facilitate. While the reoccurring theme of boy meets girl, problem occurs, and some driving force brings them back together will continue to occur.  How they are brought back together may not always be summed up in one word. "},{"Title":"Tears -- of boredom","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most boring films I have ever seen. It fails to engage the audience on any level at all. There are no jokes, the tragedy is too pretentious to be human, and the dialogue reads like a bad homework assignment on *The Ice Storm* of which it is clearly derivative -- similar music, similar themes (nearly next of kin incest, destiny of chance, snow). Some of the dialogue is even mildly plagiaristic of *The Ice Storm*. 'The cold slows things down', for instance, becomes, 'The cold speeds things up'. So, Ana and Otto have palindromic names. Big deal. And there's an Otto who is a piloto. So what!? The film just drags on an on like this, a bad and incoherent series of free associations. Life can be like running out of petrol hey presto -- a scene of a roadside breakdown. It's like watching someone else's psychoanalysis, only his subconscious mind isn't very interesting. Worst of all, the film reduces the bombing of Guernica -- the Hiroshima of conventional weapons -- to a gimmick. Did benign Nazi parachutists really dangle from trees and smoke cigarettes with Basques? No. What they did do is murder several thousand Basques at the behest of the fledgling Spanish regime, a fact relegated to background noise in a TV documentary briefly glimpsed in the corner of a room. Franco's avant garde Nazi parchae are made into cuddly nouveaux Finnish emigrees, another fantastic abuse of history. Marred by a stupid and pretentious plot, the film's horridness is capped by its attempt to fantasize away the gruesome facts of the prototype for Hiroshima. Almost none of the actors in the film is Basque and while we hear plenty of Finnish, three's not a word of Euskera. Of course, world cineam is *saturated* with Basque language films and the Spanish film industry by Basque actors, so that's Ok then. Globalize before you've even got round to localizing, is that this film's only message? If it is, it's pretty pathetic, and an insult to a culture and language that are on the verge of extinction. Looking at Picasso's Guernica for 100 minutes would probably be more intersting than this film, and certainly a better history lesson. "}]