[{"Title":"Much better than its reputation has it, but no gem","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"109 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A deep space ambulance ship receives a distress call from a mining outpost on a rogue moon (it's been removed from its orbit) 3 thousand light years away. Normally, that wouldn't be so unusual, but the distress signal was specifically hailing this particular ship (like calling someone inside an ambulance directly instead of dialing 911) and when the source is revealed, female crew member Kaela Evers (Angela Bassett) realizes that she knows the person who sent it. Worse, it's someone whom she's had an extensive personal history with and whom she considers a walking nightmare. Before she can warn Captain A.J. Marley (Robert Forster), they're in hyper drive on their way to the moon and unwittingly headed into trouble.This film was plagued with problems--the originally attached director, Geoffrey Wright, quit. The replacement director, Walter Hill, had creative differences with the studio, which demanded re-shoots and new cuts from none other than Francis Ford Coppola and Jack Sholder. Hill ended up requesting that his name be removed, and used the new version of the infamous Alan Smithee designation--Thomas Lee.And that wasn't the end of it. Upon its release, Supernova received a critical drubbing. Rotten Tomatoes, for example, a website that collates professional and semi-professional reviews on films, showed a 90% negative reading on Supernova. The reaction from everyday viewers mirrored this reception, with mostly negative comments right here on IMDb.But Supernova isn't that bad of a film. It's no gem, but it does a lot of things right The premise is certainly stimulating. The transition from a stock, Alien (1979)-like sci-fi film to a thriller in space is well done. The characters are interesting. The suspense level gradually increases until the very end of the film.There are thoughtful subtexts about giving oneself over to a feel-good substance, survival of the fittest evolution, and cyclical regeneration. The fountain of youth device is intriguing, and even though the Ninth Dimension stuff is gobbledy-gook, it's good gobbledy-gook--it makes some sense as fantasy material, and it provides a lot of suspense. There is a subtle social commentary/criticism on attitudes about violence in the media, population problems and eugenics.A lot of the cast is also good--I like Robert Forster a lot, although unfortunately he disappears from the picture too soon. I'm also a fan of Lou Diamond Phillips, even if his presence more often than not signifies a C, D or lower film. James Spader's characterization of Nick Vanzant is nice and complex. And the rest of the cast is at least decent, even if Peter Facinelli overacts a bit towards the end--but the role calls for that.However, as a 7, Supernova has its share of problems, too. I don't usually subtract points for a film being clichéd, but it's difficult not to do so in this case. The beginning of the film is right out of Alien--with the ship waking up a crew member unexpectedly, after running some tests. This is saved a bit by funny dialogue at the end of the scene. The computer, Sweetie, is reminiscent at times of Hal from 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968). The holographic chess game is right out of Star Wars (1977). The distress signal scenario is again out of Alien, and the exploration of the abandoned mine on the rogue moon is similar to Aliens (1986).The dialogue in the opening of the film is also a bit too jargonistic and quickly delivered for its own good. It can be difficult to get the gist of it without subtitles. There are a number of editing problems, most prominently during the near miss of the out of control ship with the moon--shaky cam cinematography doesn't help, either. And for so many directors being involved, the direction, while not incompetent, comes across as primarily flat.Is Supernova worth seeing? If you're a huge sci-fi fan (meaning that you watch and like most sci-fi films) and you do not mind familiar material that's slightly clunky at times, yes. There are enough positives to make it worthwhile. Like usual with 7s, the film is best approached with lowered expectations. Given the reputation of this film, that should be no problem. "},{"Title":"Good movie despite the line noise above.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"80 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The title may have been a bit misleading... but the movie really did a good job of conveying a mood.  The technological picture is well developed strikingly original and interestingly conveyed.  Many underlying themes of what happens to humans in the presence of all kinds of environments (psychological, sociological, spatial and otherwise) are touched upon.  It is not a mindless drivel action movie which is probably (I know I'm not being very nice...) why so many people really didn't like it.  Aside from the ending which was rather humorous and may have left some with a groan, I happened to like it though it was a tad cheesy.  This movie really touched on so many things in so many ways that it deserves a much better rating than what it got.  The mood conveyed was dark and very horiffic.  I would say in a more psychological way than a gut spilling sort of way.  The performances of the actors in this film shine, perhaps with the exception of Lou Diamond Phillips, though not to his detriment as he is capable of better work, and his part was really rather small.  Tight shots on the crew contrary to earlier comment, really conveyed the emotion of each situation as well as the compressed environment of the ship rather than hiding all of the technological wonders in the set.  Sweeties voice being criticized is a non-issue in my opinion, female voices are supposed to (supported by scientific study) command attention better than male-sounding ones.  In no way did Sweetie come across as a phone sex operator to me.  Quite to the contrary, I submit the scene in which she begs for the additional passphrase from Benjamin in order to be able to save his life.  This was one of the most touching scenes I have ever seen in a movie.  Between a computer and her Sys Admin there develops love of a kind, really.  Marvelous.  On par with Event Horizon though somewhat lesser than it for the psychological horiffics, but really different movies with different objectives.All you people trashing this... Go watch a heartwarming coming of age movie and waste no more of your time trashing this fine piece of work. "},{"Title":"If they left this movie alone, then it would've been one of the greatest sci-fi movies I've ever seen","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"79 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova is a perfect example of a studio screwing up everything. MGM had their minds on a 'sexy and hip' type movie while director Walter Hill was making a dark, 'logical' sci-fi movie. After the studio screwed with his movie, he took off. The movie was then taken charge by such directors as Francis Ford Coppola, and Jack Sholder (The Hidden). Well to make a long story short, MGM directed this movie, not as they say in the credits, 'Thomas Lee'. The movie ended up being about an entire crew doing nothing but screwing each other (literally), while bad stuff happens around them. That's it.I highly recommend everybody who has seen this movie to check out the DVD. There they can see all the deleted scenes that the studio cut out. Check them out, then you think about it. Would you like to have seen the type of movie portrayed in the deleted scenes, or in the current turd that was released to the entire world? IMHO, I'd like to see the movie in the deleted scenes. Let's just hope that MGM has learned it's lesson with such flops like this and Rollerball. "},{"Title":"Supernova is not a film about Supernovas","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"70 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My physics teacher mistakingly thought that this was a film about Supernovas and showed it to our class. Let's just say that that day in class was a romp.The movie is probably one of the strangest movies I've ever seen. It's not supposed to be a comedy (well i don't think it is) but it's gonna have you rolling with laughter. Watch it with a large group of friends and do a little Mystery Science Theater type commentary on it...you'll have a blast.You should see this movie just for the ending. I'd have to say that it's one of the best bad endings of all time.Everyone in this movie is either talking about sex, having sex, thinking about sex or putting their hands in things and moaning like their having sex. You wouldn't think that sex would be such an integral part space exploration...but then again...what else is there to do? "},{"Title":"Good fun for sci-fi action fans.  Not recommended for others","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova is legendary for is production problems and poor critical reception. However, the end result is an entertaining action sci-fi film which fails to live down to its absurdly low expectations and also fails to live up to its very high potential. in other words, it's better than most people say, and nowhere near as good as it should have been.A rescue ship manned by several paramedics, a hot shot pilot just out of a drug rehab, and emergency personnel, patrols the frontier of human exploration, serving mining colonies, etc, far from earth's solar system. Just as we are learning the personalities in the film, and just as they are starting to become interesting, a distress call is picked up and the ship responds. Enigmatically, the distress call seems to have come from somebody out of the chief medical officer's (Angela Bassett) past, with a lot of problems. The patient, however, is just the beginning of the mystery, as a strange object with the potential power to destroy the known universe is eventually found.The first problem with the film is that it bites off much more than it can chew - developing compelling characters, a very interesting, detailed and original plot, excellent special effects and some great sets, but never permitting any of them to grow, expand or become fully realized. The second problem is, I suspect, the fault of studio mismanagement. Rather than contributing to the film, the cinematography and editing are so poor that they, in fact, distract and detract. The production problems - switching directors, mismanagement by the sponsoring studio, inartistic and uninspired re-shooting and re-editing - suggest a couple of simple explanations. There are so many wipes and fades in the second half of the film that I began to wonder whether they were supposed to signify something (such as the passage of time, switching of dimensions, etc) which the audience was not privy to.Contrary to popular belief, this film had a great deal of potential, however, it would have made a much better TV mini-series or even a premise for a TV series than a cinema release. Why? Because the story and especially the characters needed a lot more time and a lot less editing to develop properly.The story line can be seen as totally inept or quite brilliant. Though I am no fan of black-box pseudoscience explanations such as 9th dimensional matter, I prefer the 'quite brilliant' interpretation. If you think a lot about what goes on in this film, you can easily link together what seems to be a mess of loose ends and detached subplots and really 'get' what the story is meant to convey. Facinelli's character can be seen as a guardian or simply a power-addict; Spader's former drug addiction can make his attempt at heroism seem a resolution of his inner demons; his relationship with Bassett can be seen as the resolution of the entire set of problems the film poses. However, realizing all of this requires more though and energy than the film itself suggests, and depicting it so that it could have been easily deciphered by the audience would have required at least a few more hours than the film was allowed.The acting is actually quite good. Angela Bassett is, as usual, excellent, and Peter Facinelli and Wilson Cruz are both worth watching. James Spader's often maligned performance is perfect for the character he is playing - a former drug addict on a quest for redemption. I generally do not like Spader's work very much (there are already too many Clint Eastwood and Robert Downey types in the acting world today), but I do respect his talent. It is unfortunate that the characters were not permitted to develop as they should have, and though the reasons why are almost certainly the lack of decisive directorial control and the studio's post-production mistreatment of the film, this does not excuse Walter Hill from partial responsibility. Hill, after all, used some of the same signature structural plot devices in the over-rated Aliens and the weak but under-rated Alien3 - both of which were better films. the problem with the direction here is, predictably, simply one of consistency. Two to three directors and who knows how many editing and post-production teams simply can not make a perfectly coherent artistic vision.Simply put, if you're into Sci-Fi, and don't mind films which favor the fi part of the phrase over the sci, then you might just find yourself quite entertained. If you're no a sci-fi fan and you like action films, you might make it through Supernova. But, if you're not a sci-fi fan and your looking for something important, artistic and thoughtful, you should avoid this film like the plague. "},{"Title":"I don't know why people harp on this movie","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's not the greatest movie ever, no doubt.  But it's not bad.  As far as Science Fiction movies go, this is definitely one of the better ones, maybe the best in recent memory.  It's science was dead on, having a NASA employee as a technical adviser certainly shows.  As for the story, it's not out of the realm of science fiction, which is no more and no less than can really be expected.  It keeps it's pace well and doesn't slow down to wax philosophic like a cheesy 50's Sci-Fi would have done.  The plot progresses logically and doesn't tend to jump around (a thing that I HATE in a movie). It kept me entertained, which is more than I can say for a lot of movies today. "},{"Title":"Big Bomb, Much Like An Actual Supernova","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"50 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova was the beginning of the Downfall for Lou Diamond Phillips if you ask me. Anyway, the movie is about a traveling hospital rescue spaceship, that moves about the cosmos to save stranded vessels and what not. They come across a distress call, and zip off in some sort of warp travel.After arriving there they come across a stranded miner and some strange material, that turns out to be pieces of the 5th dimension. And then the movie finally collapses under its own stupidity.Mediocre acting, nice special effects, REALLY stupid plot, all create a nice mixture to cause minor insanity in the viewer. Some people even lose all conscious memory of having ever seen this movie, confusing it with Red Planet or some other such film.In other words, Run!  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you've heard","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't too bad, to be honest, I liked it. I went in, expecting it to be terrible, but I walked out surprised. It starts off like any sci-fi movie would, the opening shot being a huge spaceship zooming into our view. This shot still looks good even though it has been done too many times. This pretty much sums up the whole film. I can see why people hated this movie, because of the acting (Lou Diamond Phillips!) and the script and the terrible dialogue, but it was so spectacular and the special effects were excellent. The movie's plot was a bit of a mixture of Event Horizon and Dead Calm. The action scenes weren't that great, and the whole guy with healing powers thing wasn't great. Overall, I'd say it's worth the ticket price for sci-fi fans who are bored. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Failed Science Fiction Thriller isn't as bad what critics said it was.","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the 22th century... an medical space vessel received an distress call from a supposedly abandoned planet. The Captain (Robert Forster) and his crew (James Spader, Angela Bassett, Lou Diamond Philips, Robin Tunney & Wilson Cruz) decides to take the mission as a search and rescue. When their captain died accidentally from the dimensional jump in space. Now it is up to the crew to do their mission but once they rescue the mysterious stranger (Peter Facinelli). This man isn't what he seems to be and he might danger the entire crew from getting home.Directed by Thomas Lee, which is actually action filmmaker Walter Hill (48 Hrs, Last Man Standing, Trespass) made an interesting if failed science-fiction thriller that has an intriguing premise. Production Designs and Terrific Special Effects are the highlights of this odd sci-fi tale. The cast do their best with this wildly uneven material. There was so much problems making this picture that director Hill disowned the film after MGM edited their version. When the studio had problems, they hired B-Movie Filmmaker Jack Sholder (A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2Freddy's Revenge, Alone in the Dark, The Hidden) do to the re-shoots and then three-time Oscar-WinnerFrancis Ford Coppola (The Godfather Trilogy, Apocalyspe Now, Garden of Stones) edited an version for the studio but nothing worked. Since the studio originally hired filmmaker Geoffery Wright (Cherry Falls, Romper Stomper) to make the movie but he quit before production begins.The DVD is the Unrated Version of this picture. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also includes an collector's booklet, deleted scenes (Life Form Found is a fascinating deleted scene that should have been in the final cut, which it would explain the film's logic better), stronger alternative ending and the original theatrical trailer. Supernova is a failed Big Budget movie but it does has some great ideas that never really comes to life. Fans of Science Fiction films will be more forgiving than others. Supernova is certainly an oddball curio that is worth a look. William Malone (Creature, Feardotcom, House on Haunted Hill 1999) received an Co-Story Credit. Super 35. (*** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"So-so sci-fi.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A forgiving aspect of the sci-fi genre is, if your story paints you into a corner all you have to do is paint a door and walk out. In Sci-fi, anything is possible. To the probable dismay of the realists in the audience, Supernova takes advantage of this fix as it's weak plot unfolds. The movie has the obligatory sex, action, adventure, suspense, special effects, etc. However, it doesn't equal the sum of its parts and the earnest acting it offers isn't sufficient to get this very forgettable drama over the bar. "}{"Title":"Recycled Space Junk","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I give it a 3 only because the actors at least did what they could with the material, and they did bother to work out and at least not look stupid AND fat in space. The premise is a medical rescue ship that apparently has only one doctor on it (Bassett) who just happens to be a super computer and space dimensional scientist too. You find this out later when Bassett is talking 9th dimensional Star Trek mumbo jumbo with the computer Sweetie. Spader is out of his element here. He does freaky movies well, but this is run of the mill star trekkin complete with scientific gobbledygook which he is unaccustomed to spewing. The plot is simple, murderous weirdo with a bomb in space. Done about 1000 times before, but now done 1001 times....in blue! Yes EVERYTHING is blue. We get it already, its a blue giant! I don't think I saw any other color other than a flash of red on a control panel and some purple in that 9th dimensional alien suppository. I didn't understand why that guy got into a busted pod and ended up inside out, I didn't understand why the so-called rescue ship people are so incompetent they nearly kill themselves trying to rescue others because they don't know how to calculate a jump, and I don't know why Lou Diamond Phillips is in it. Okay, so lately he's not getting many roles, but Lou Diamond Phillips? I was expecting him to pull out a guitar anytime and play some La Bamba. Poor Robin Tunney, cute as a button, body so hard you can bounce a quarter off her breasts, and of course destined to not make it completely through the film. What is it about sci fi and the obsession with airlocks? Watch the movie you will know what I mean. Angela Bassett is as always a bad bad actress. She plays the same sexually frustrated angry black woman she always plays. Just have sex with hunky Spader already and relax a bit. Heck I would and I'm a guy (not in a gay way, I just respect Spader for his hunkiness). Facinelli makes a terrible space psychopath, not good for his career since the easiest role any actor can play is murderous psychopath. In the end I just wanted my rental money and 1.5 hours of my life back, but I won't get it. Luckily no brain cells were harmed during viewing of this film for which I am thankful. "},{"Title":"Awful, there's no other way to put it.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  * out of **** (review of R-rated version)In case you never noticed, there was a glut of science fiction films released in the year 2000 (kind of like the outburst of horror films the year before that) and the first one released was Supernova, and it's arguably one of the worst.  At least Battlefield Earth provided a barrage of unintentional laughs.  Supernova features hackneyed writing, mostly uninspired acting, as well as choppy and mishandled direction, all at the hands of Mr. Thomas Lee (AKA Walter Hill), which now seems to be the new choice of pseudonyms for directors ashamed of their work.Supernova begins in a strange enough manner.  There's an opening shot of outer space without the usual opening credits or title sequence.  We are introduced to the Nightengale, a search and rescue medical vessel led by Captain A.J. Marley (Robert Forster).  The rest of the crew are co-pilot Nick Vanzant (James Spader), medical technician Kaela Evers (Angela Bassett), and three other crew members who are obviously easily dispensable.The ship receives an S.O.S. signal coming from an abandoned mine.Through a method of travel known as the interdimensional jump, the crew arrives at this abandoned mine, and they pick up a stranger named Karl Larson (Peter Facinelli).  X-rays show he has some sort of strange bone growth, which could be due to contact he had with an extraterrestrial object he brought along.  According to the computers, the object (which is pink and resembles a giant glowing egg) is capable of destroying all matter and creating new life as well.Larson eventually reveals his true colors and begins to eliminate the crew one-by-one, as well as stranding Nick on the mine.  It becomes a game of cat-and-mouse as Nick and Kaela do battle with Larson, whose contact with the alien artifact has now made him seemingly invincible.You might notice I didn't mention anything about a supernova.  Well, that's because nothing of the sort comes into fruition until the last 5 minutes, and even then it's only a minor plot device used to generate some false tension.  As for the rest of the movie, does this thriller ever generate any suspense?  Nada.  There are a couple of cheap thrills at the end, but this is hardly the tense and scary film I'm sure director Hill had in mind.From the stories I've read, Hill's version was butchered, cut by over a half-hour because MGM preferred a sexy space adventure over his idea of a sci-fi thriller.  Well, I'm not exactly sure what MGM had in mind, but Supernova is far from sexy, featuring several scenes of bare breasts (mostly Robin Tunney's) and a couple of zero-g sex scenes that are painful to watch. Heck, you'll get far, far more outer space sexual titillation (cheap as it still is) from the straight-to-video movie Alien Files.What the end result of all the studio cuts is a film that I still don't believe would have had a chance for critical and commercial success even if all the cut material was inserted back.  Of the 91 or so minutes I viewed I can't possibly see an extra 30 minutes improving it by a whole lot.  The version I saw was the R-rated video release that only adds in a few more scenes of bare breasts.  Trust me, you wouldn't be missing much if you saw this movie in theaters.  I'm surprised the studio didn't just end the whole production when things began to go all wrong.How did it all go wrong?  Let me begin with the direction.  Walter Hill must have felt obligated to direct in Blair Witch fashion, because a good portion of the movie is shot with shaky camera movements.  This is acceptable during the action scenes, but he even does this during normal conversations.  Simultaneously, he also shoots much of the film in a tilted angle, similar to what we saw in Battlefield Earth.  The combination of these two elements serve only to create headaches.The script is also to blame.  Written by William Malone and Daniel Chuba, Supernova doesn't make a very interesting small-scale film.  The idea of an extraterrestrial object capable of destroying the solar system is more fitting for a larger scale film, but the writers seemed to be satisfied placing it within a story that is Alien-lite.  The plot holes are also apparent.  Think about this, there's a six person crew aboard the Nightengale and they have six chambers for the interdimensional jump.  They're a rescue vessel; exactly how do they bring back survivors?  They certainly don't share the chambers (as explained in the film, since they have to get nude to go inside and there's the possibility genetic material could be fused together).  There's a moment when a Nick mentions that only five of the six chambers work, but the computer later states that there are seven total chambers.  Hmm, seems like even the writers can't count.There are three decent performances.  James Spader, looking and sounding a lot like Jeff Goldblum, is pretty good as the buff hero.  Angela Bassett exerts the most energy and seems to look involved.  Robert Forster is also decent in the scenes he appears in.  Lou Diamond Phillips, Robin Tunney, and Wilson Cruz are mostly forgettable.  Phillips is there to go crazy (a la Sam Neill in Event Horizon though not to nearly as memorable an effect), Tunney is just eye candy since all she does is bare her breasts, and Cruz definitely shows that the Star Trek expendable crew member syndrome is very much still alive and kicking.  This guy pretty much has dead man tatooed on his forehead the moment we see him.  Peter Facinelli is easily the worst.  Part of how effective the movie is requires we be scared of him. Not only is his acting bad, but he looks like a cross between Tom Cruise, Chris O'Donnell, and Matthew McConnaughey.  Tell me, is that scary? (Perhaps, but certainly not in the manner the film makers intended)The visuals don't add up to a lot, either.  Though the outer space shots are pretty-looking, the spaceship design is far too obvious a special effect and everything else inside the ship is fairly standard looking.  There aren't any particularly memorable effects in this film.  Even the explosion at the end doesn't create much visual spectacle.All these problems could be somewhat forgiveable if Hill could have only injected some tension and adrenaline into the proceedings.  For a movie that aims to thrill the audience, it's a dull festival.  The pace drags and all attemtps to create excitement fall flat.  A few weeks after this film's release, Pitch Black arrived in theaters, which is everything this movie is not thrilling, well-acted and directed, and some amazing visuals with a script that knows how to twist the plot into something unpredictable.  "},{"Title":"This May Be The Most Boring Science Fiction Movie I've Ever Seen!","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seriously. One word describes this - boring. Actually two words might describe it more effectively - painfully boring. The adverb may be necessary to capture the dismal nature of this film. The story is silly, the script is weak, the character development is non-existent and the performance are largely uninspired. When I sat down to write a review of this I was thinking I would give it two stars. But then I started thinking - and I realized that I didn't have a single good thing to say about it.Such as it is, the story is about a sort of medical spaceship named the Nightingale set some time in the future (if the time period was mentioned I missed it.) After the Nightingale receives a mysterious distress signal from over 3000 light years away, the ship's captain (played by Robert Forster) decides to respond. They have to go through something called a dimension jump (a way of travelling from one place in the universe to another very quickly) and discover the sender of the message, who has a strange artifact he wants to take back to earth in order to get rich quick.Painfully boring. Yes. The leads in this are James Spader and Angela Bassett. Both are decent enough actors, but neither could save this, and even their performances were far from their best. It was handy that in order to go through a dimension jump everybody has to strip naked. To give credit to those responsible for this, aside from a clear topless shot of Danika (Robin Tunney) and some blurry naked shots of Dr. Evers (Bassett - or, more likely, her double) this aspect of the story wasn't exploited. The ship has a rather strange robot dressed as a World War I fighter pilot because the captain is a history buff and a talking computer with a personality - sort of like HAL from 2001 except that this one is a female named Sweetie (please) and it's fallen in love with crewman Benj (Wilson Cruz.) I said that I couldn't think of anything good to say about this. Actually that's not true. It's less than an hour and a half in length. Someone took mercy on those - like me - who would choose to watch this. (1/10) "},{"Title":"Could have been a sci fi masterpiece....","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  People who have badmouthed this film totally missed the point.  Supernova was a terrific, and (gasp!) an original sci fi movie.  It may have been a little cheesy, but wasn't that what made the Star Wars films so great?  The story was very well developed and the characters' relationships were constructed almost flawlessly, especially between Benj's and the ship's computer, Sweetie.  The bond between the two gave the film a a kind of sweetness and light-heartedness that's rarely seen in a lot of big budget sci fi thrillers these days. The technical aspects of the film have to be seen to be believed.  The film has an almost magestical look to it, and some of the shots are just dazzling.  How this film was passed up for visual effects in the Oscar race is unbelievable. The only problem I had with the film was the fact that it was so short. It has a running time of only 91 minutes.  The DVD features 20 minutes of wonderful footage was that was cut from the final film for reasons I cannot understand.  They really fleshed out the characters and added a lot of understanding to the film's story.  There's also an alternate ending which adds a lot to the film's overall depth, but it makes the movie more of a downer that it already is.  But all in all, the movie is great, and if you are looking for something with a great story, nicely developed characters, and amazing visual effects, Supernova is the movie for you.  My grade B+ "},{"Title":"A study in how studios screw up movies....","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this in the theater when it came out in 2000. at that time, the studio obviously knew it had a stink bomb on its hands, and released it without showing it to the critics first.The plot line is that a medical ship responds to a distress call from an abandoned mining colony on a rogue moon that is about to fall into a supernova. Okay, works well enough. For some reason, the ship barely has enough working life-tubes to protect the entire crew from a hyperspace jump (which begs the question, how would they ever get patients back to where they are going.) After killing their captain, played by veteran actor Robert Forster, the recovering drug addict pilot played by James Spader takes over. After some needless sex scenes between Spader and a perpetually angry looking Angela Bassett, and even more needless sex scenes between Robin Tunny and Lou Diamond Philips, they rescue the lone survivor of a team that was scavenging the moon. Yes, this ship has zero gravity rooms on the sides that seem to provide no other function than giving characters a place to have sex in zero gravity. We discover that this survivor has found an alien artifact that looks like a giant sex toy, and is apparently the casing for a ninth-dimensional matter designed to destroy our universe. Meanwhile, it grants super powers to the survivor, who proceeds to go into Jason Vorhees mode and kill the rest of the crew.Now, if you watch the deleted scenes on the DVD, you can see that the writer/director had a very different film in mind. Probably a director's cut would make a little more sense, but not much. It has a lot of science fiction conventions (like the life tubes and a huge ship with a small crew) that make little or no sense. It also contains clichés like a malfunctioning android and a computer with a quirky personality, which are more annoying than helpful. The worst, of course, is the acting. One can only conclude that the actors realized fairly early on that this was going to be crap, and started phoning it in. Bassett is the worst of the lot, and I've seen her put in better performances in much cheaper movies.Even the trailer is instructive, as it tried to almost portray the movie as a light comedy which it clearly wasn't, scoring it with music that didn't belong in the film...Perhaps when they do the director's cut, they will explain how bad they screwed it up... "},{"Title":"Kick butt excellent","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this vid thinking it would stink based on what I've read here.  Wrong.  Original story line, excellent effects, good acting.  I enjoyed the entire movie.  It was not entirely predictable and was a heck of a ride.  Sci-Fi fans will like this movie a lot more than some other higher profile movies such as Mission to Mars. "},{"Title":"Lapse in Logic","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I didn't check to see if another user commented on this, so excuse me if this has already been noted upon. The whole idea is that the characters are on a rescue mission, to see if there are any survivors on a remote base. Their ship travels through space using a form of warp drive which is potentially damaging to them, so they must each enter a protective cocoon, similar to suspended animation. It is noted there are exactly the same number of cocoons as there are crew members. One character is horribly killed when a cocoon chamber is damaged, and said character is exposed to the warp effect during the trip. When a lone survivor is found at the base, this creates an opportunity - with one crew member deceased, the now-repaired chamber can be used to bring back the survivor. Here's my problem - how did they INTEND to bring back a survivor, much less a group of survivors??!!! They had no extra chambers to bring anyone back!!! They weren't equipped to rescue anyone!!! The movie doesn't dwell on this long enough to let it register, but when this dawned on me I just spent the rest of the movie shaking my head. "},{"Title":"A better film on DVD","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Like some movies that are released, I wanted to see it but had no desire to go to the movies to see it; so I waited for Supernova to hit the rental phase.  As I viewed the DVD, I was impressed with the performances by Angella Bassett and James Spader, and thought the story was unique. However, certain aspects of the film just seemed typical, like the ending pure Hollywood garbage.  Then I watched the bonus section of the DVD, and found the movie that should have been released.The deleted scene section of the Supernova DVD, there is an alternate opening and ending to this film.  It is these alternate scenes that turned a movie with potential into a film that showed some substance.  I will not disclose the theme of these alternate scenes, but I add that I will only view this movie watching those un-used scenes.I give this movie a 6.5 out of 10 for the theater opening and ending, and a 8 out of 10 for the alternate opening and ending. "},{"Title":"First Latino In Space","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When a film gets held up for release and the directors refuse to take credit for the final product, in fact if there's more than one director that can be taken as a sign that the product is a Thanksgiving delight. When you've got all those these happening as they are in Supernova, you know Thanksgiving is coming early.The film is a lot like a Doctor Who episode and I kept hoping Tom Baker and a companion would drop in with the TARDIS and straighten everything out. The film did need it.A medical rescue vessel, a futuristic space ambulance if you will gets a distress call from a mining planet lots of light years away from Earth. Off into hyper drive they go and when there they meet a rather strange young man played by Peter Facinelli who's got a strange kind of element he's found and wanting to take it back to Earth.He's determined to get it there and when James Spader the captain says no, Facinelli starts killing everyone around him. That element is making him both younger and stronger so those that remain have a fight on their hands.I happen to meet cast member Wilson Cruz at a conference about seven years ago and he said while he was not exactly thrilled with the final product in Supernova, he said the film was memorable to him because he became the first Latino in space. And the first openly gay man at the same time. He does have the best dialog in the film with a supercomputer along the lines of 2001, A Space Odyssey's HAL. Wilson's computer is called SWEETIE and she has a sultry feminine voice built in.Supernova will not make anyone's list of the greatest science fiction films ever done. Or even the 10 best in the new 21st century. "},{"Title":"I Give Supernova a 'Meh' out of 'Whatever'","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I find the lone ship stranded in space routine to be a plot device too often used upon. I also find that, after one finds out they have 17 hours to fix something or they die, having sex in zero g, while that may be enjoyable, doesn't really solve things. So these are small potatoes, I realize that. But what really puts this movie into my list of Possible Reasons to Go On Murderous Rampage is that nothing that goes on in the movie seems to resonate with the entire crew. This I chalk up to Walter Hill saying adiós due to creative differences, leaving the studio execs and outside help (Coppola apparently has nothing to do on a Saturday than edit something he has absolutely no interest in doing) to try and piece together something that probably looked really cool written down. The end result is a bunch of really good actors who look bad in space. Not to mention, it's the really bad kind of space.If you haven't seen the movie, SURPRISE there's a supernova in it! Well, it's a bit surprising to me, because they mention it, something about a degrading orbit, +17 hours till everyone is incinerated, yada yada, and that's about it. Not joking, that's the attitude everyone has towards this but Lou Diamond Phillips, who decides he'd rather go hang out with the weird alien 9th dimensional yadayada. Robin Tunney can't stop thinking about sex, so she's kind of turned on by the new guy (Peter Facinelli), till he kills her. There's this other problem where James Spader is sabotaged by the New Guy. Turns out the New Guy is the Old Guy, Karl Larsen, the one they thought they were coming for in the first place. So New Guy kills everyone except for Angela Bassett, who he tries to convince this 9th dimensional stuff is the bee's knees. He's forgotten one thing, though, and that is the inevitability of a Plot Hole re-materializing as Deus Ex Machina; James Spader found a rescue shuttle (how New Guy doesn't see this coming, who knows) and the two battle. Well, not really battle. Spader gets tossed around a bunch, Spader lops New Guy's hand off, Spader tries to lock up New Guy, New Guy escapes, rejoins his hand (makes sense, right? 9th dimensional schtuff is better than super-glue) and then dies because he's an idiot. Spader and Bassett leave the galaxy by a space-hair and accidentally melded part of their DNA code, giving Bassett a baby and Happy the end. There, I saved you a lot of time. I made a mistake in not following general consensus on this one being really bad, and now I've told you how ridiculous this movie is. Gosh, I almost forgot to mention, ROBERT FORSTER's in this movie! Well, he knew it was gonna be a bust, so he gets out of the movie before things go to pot. I've heard a lot of people say this movie isn't that bad, but that's I suppose in comparison to night terrors and muggings. No, this is not the worst movie in the world, but does that mean it should be excused? Why should you see it, when you can watch something as bad as AVP and be 10 more times as entertained than watching Supernova. Supernova is a film that had been given up on by its makers, by people who wanted to do right, but inevitably gave it the Hudson reply of That's it man. Game Over, man. Game Over. "}{"Title":"Star Trek Enterprise III ?","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie would have been great as a Star Trek Enterprise III series. James Spader seems to be an excellent but slightly foolish captain and he's convincible in his role. Beside Peter Facinelli, whom really sucked at trying to convince any viewer he's more then just a weak, if not bad, actor, the other actors performed rather well. As said, if the movie would have been a part of the Star Trek chronicles that is.... As a SF/Thriller though, as which the film has been categorized, this movie is silly, slightly pathetic in a way and incredibly stupid. As a SF/Thriller the actors take themselves way to serious and the whole thing gets rather sad, then again, it ain't that bad if you don't have Thriller demands; "},{"Title":"alien meets sphere meets...","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although this film has had many knocks, it really isn't that bad.  The special effects alone are worth the rental fee, and both Spader and Bassett are always reliable to make the most of the material.  The plot concerns the recovery of an illicit miner/scavenger who has sent a distress call to a space ambulance.  Once this miner is on board, with the bounty he has retrieved, all hell, so to speak, breaks loose. Although nowhere near Walter Hill's best (Southern Comfort, anybody?) this is still better than the best of many current action directors. "},{"Title":"1/2 star","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dumb, soap-opera of a science fiction film about a medical rescue vessel called to a distress signal from a distant abandoned mining planet.  Truly a soap fan's dream with romance, infidelity, interracial love, scars from the past, and, through it all, the captain studying for his PHd.  Borrows every idea it has from past sci-fi successes like Alien and 2001 (with a modern, female version of HAL named Sweetie), but achieves none of the same results.  Terrible set designs and costumes coupled with inadequate special effects.  Truly a disaster for such good actors as Spader, Bassett, and Phillips. "},{"Title":"Surprising Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had never watched this movie from the beginning all the way through until yesterday. Up to now, I had always felt this movie (the scenes I watched several times more than midway through) was pretty lame and dumb and nothing of note. But, strangely when I saw the entire movie for once, late a night, I discovered myself immersed in a scary, haunting outer space, sci-fi movie that avoided the usual stereotypical traps and attempted to play it straight, somewhat like Alien (1979) though not with as much perfection and authenticity. I really enjoyed the twist towards the end which I had forgotten about and the fact that a number of a characters will dispatched without much fanfare, much for typical for the character involved than in most movies, making the movie all that more riveting. The beginning sequence of brief get to know scenes of the various character were way underdeveloped, though whether or not a more developed beginning of the movie may not have really contributed much more to the movie. The beginning was both ordinary and intriguing. The storyline, somewhat like The Sphere (1998) in outer space, was decent enough and James Spader actually did a remarkable job with his character. He avoided the general likable character with charisma and popular appeal and actually played one of the most straightest of characters in recent memory, though some would consider his character boring and flat. Some of the scenes that might be considered derivative were just that, but really didn't detract from the movie as much as contributed to the overall eerie sense of foreboding. One of the more memorable scenes was the 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968) Hal 2000 moment but with a particular emotional twist. What made this movie a decent and above average thriller was a decent script and plot along with characters that were acceptably remarkable in themselves, a suggestion of emotional connections and intimacy without overdramatization. This was a straight-forward no spectacular over the top attempt at just haunting and ominous story telling along with some unexpected dramatic moments that defied traditional convention. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Better than expected after reading the reviews","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, all critics really hated this one. They really took most effort to tell how bad this all is. However I don't think it's all that bad, I even enjoyed it! Yes, Walter Hill took his name off the movie. Yes, Francis Ford Coppola was not credited. Yes, it was released in januari, one of the worst months to release a movie. Yes, there were no early screenings. Yes, dialogue and plot is lame. Yes, it's no crowd pleaser, but that's no bad thing The bad thing about it there's a part of the movie that's forcefully trying to be. But, there is still something interesting in this movie. All characters are a bit bland and bored. They all have sex that seem to be very UNpassionate, it's just a means to pass the time. To deal with extreme boredom of space travel. Even one character that doesn't have sex (benjamin) is in love with the ship's computer. It's all very sad, really. And it kind of works for the movie. Like I said, the plot is not great; it's just a rehash about some stranger trying to kill everyone on board, an alien artefact and an imminent supernova. You've seen it all before. The strong points of the movie not the plot, but is its strange style, it's weird feel to it. Even though there's lots of evidence of post production present, the overall feel of the film is still interesting.Now I don't want to make you believe it is an excellent film. It's too flawed for that. But I would be interested in seeing a director's cut of this, because it shows promise. But you have to want to see through its flaws to see it. "},{"Title":" There was a time when I looked forward to Space Jumping the Universe  ","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As a Sci-Fi fan, I enjoy futuristic film of tomorrow. In this film,  Super Nova , the audience is taken aboard the Nightingale, a 22nd century Space craft designed to act as a rescue/emergency Hospital ship. It's commanding officer is A.J. Marley (Robert Forster) an experienced individual who despite his obvious credentials in many films does not remain long in the movie. His Co-Pilot is brash and cocky, Nick Vanzant (James Spader) who constantly and dramatically spars with Dr. Kaela Evers (Angela Bassett). Lou Diamond Phillips is surprising as Yerzy Penalosa a medical technician who is so curious, would risk himself to touch the edges of eternity. The story centers on a strange and desperate call from Moon Miners the Far side of the Galaxy requesting emergency assistance. The Nightingale responds immediately only to discover they have damaged their ship, failed to find the Miners and have instead taken aboard Karl Larson, (Peter Facinelli) a lone survivor who fails to inform his rescuers, he has found a 'Dooms-day device. The power of the Alien device is to replace the existing galaxy with one from the Ninth Dimension. As the crew begins to fall prey to Larson's devious destructive measures, Vanzant seeks to find answers. The special visual effects in the film are incredible as are the interactive action sequences between the space crew and their passenger. The brief nude scenes are tidy at best and do not hamper the plot. Indeed, the final transporter scene is straight out of the novel and leaves one speculating as to 'Einstein's possibilities of two objects occupying the same space. Good fantasy entertainment, fun for Spader and Lou Diamond Phillips fans. **** "},{"Title":"supersucky","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Unbelievably bad sci-fi thriller with a curious lack of thrills. This is one of those movies that thinks its audience is really interested in submarine-like sets and cool special effects of space warping instead of proper characterization. The dialog is so technical, and the cutting so confusing, that I had to rely on the music to tell me what was going on. Truckloads of sex are dumped into the movie in an attempt to make it less sterile than other sci-fi films, but since we don't really know or care about the people involved in these zero gravity hookups, the result is that the movie feels like tacky softcore porn in outer space. Things improve a bit when the villain shows up, but it's a shame that he's played by a petulant brat instead of a proper actor.Good thing Angela Bassett turned down Monster's Ball, eh? "},{"Title":"Needs More Supernova","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ridiculous loud & lazy sci-fi thriller that makes ample use of Robin Tunney's willingness to disrobe but has little time for things like logic and characterization. The plot is that a search and rescue ship in deep space answers a distress beacon. For their trouble, they get Peter Facinelli. Oversexed, overly derivative mess of a film offers nothing you haven't seen before and better. Hell, just a few years before this was Event Horizon, with a very similar plot but a much better movie. A dark-haired and particularly buff James Spader gives the only performance worth mentioning with a straight face. How about that laugh-inducing ending? You wouldn't think a movie that has the names of both Francis Ford Coppola and Walter Hill attached to it could be this bad but it just goes to show I guess. "},{"Title":"An non-realistic projection of anxieties","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In my view the film is non-realistic. Although the story line is good and interesting the direction in which the story develops betrays a paranoid and fearful view (of the makers) on what the future might bring. The first thing that strikes is that the producers/writers find it so frightening that machines could take over and gain power that they gave the main computer a willingness to have emotions and to fall in love with one of the crewmembers! Eventually it is a film in which the computers and machines show more emotions (and are willing to do so) than the crewmembers who appear to be as cold as ice, and very computing. The men and women aboard all seem to be paranoid and seeing bugbears when they stumble on a bounty hunter who shows admirable generosity and love. The hunter also appears to be very wise. Still the director of this movie draws him out as the villain that should be stopped and put in jail. The crewmembers who act constantly out of anxiety on the other hand are at the good side. The most cold and fearful among them will eventually survive and return safely to their home. The villain (just a regular guy that has found something of tremendous positive value) who comes in peace and immediately offers to share his treasure is abruptly rejected and violently robbed of his bounty.Besides the makers of this science fiction film were paradoxically very afraid of what new science is bringing. In the beginning we see a couple, standing on the good side, wishing to have a baby and starting a procedure to get permission from the government. One of them then says Don´t worry baby. We are people who are not genetically modified, so undoubtly we will get permission to beget a child.The makers of this film were obviously troubled by their own mental bugbears. These are the people that we don´t need any more creations from. Luckily there are others, like Steven Spielberg, who do not project their anxieties in their movies as evil phenomena but as things to overcome.  "},{"Title":"alas","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  what obviously could have been a decent movie got hacked into a pretty lame waste of your time.  sadly, even though the film boasts the talents of james spader and angela bassett (who is just too sexy for words), this film makes one of the critical error that so many other sci-fi films makes these days, it believes that the action sequences are the most important part of the film. Walter Hill apparently abandoned his post as director of the film, over what i'm not sure, but the pasted together remains speak for themselves.  the screen presences of spader and bassett, nor a shirtless robin tunney and decent special effects aren't enough to distract you from the feeling that you're having your brain sucked out through your eyes. though, it's not completely unwatchable, just have a movie you know is good to watch after this one because it will leave unsatisfied. "}{"Title":"A movie of almosts","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova is full of almosts.  The special effects are almost good enough to make it thrilling (the inter-dimensional jump was pretty cool).  The acting was good enough to almost save the script.  Yes it is a story about nothing.  This med crew goes on a rescue mission only to have to turn right back around.And if they would have left the deleted scenes in this movie, it might have almost been accepted by the movie-going public.  Nonetheless, it would have been a much more interesting film with the scenes in.As is, it is almost good enough to recommend.  I give it a C+.  If you are a sci-fi fan, it is good enough to watch for the special effects.It is not as bad as the awful wreck known as Wing Commander. "},{"Title":"Space is vast.  Very vast.  And thirsty.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think if this movie has a message, then that message has to be that space is a very big place.  And that in this very big place called space its important to make space ships out of stronger materials then glass.The hero of this film is a bottle of pear brandy that bestows immortality on all who drink from it.  The main bad guy is a giant bottle of anti-pear brandy that bestows super human strength and insanity on all who drink from it.  In fact, the evil bottle is purple which is the color of royalty and madness, so that's a dead giveaway.The ending is kind of ambiguous, with the bottle of pear brandy destroying the bottle of anti-pear brandy, but in doing so, it poisons the well that all souls drink from.  It is sort of suggested that the bottle of pear brandy won the war and everything will be okay, but that could just be the easy Hollywood ending and not what would really happen if two pear brandy titans slugged it out.So this is a deep movie and probably takes a pear brandy theorist to fully comprehend.  "},{"Title":"Can't compete with Star Wars or Star Trek","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this movie in the theaters I was expecting another Star Wars or Star Trek,and I was somewhat disappointed.In Science Fiction movies I usually like watching robots and aliens,but the film did not have any of that.It was all about a ship millions of light years from earth that seems to be stuck in a suns gravity field,that was an interesting plot but I think it could have been way better.I wasn't impressed by the crewman that turned into a superhuman.The only really good parts were the warp drive scenes,they were such awsome effects.The spaceship looked pretty cool too,it looks a lot better than the starship enterprise from Star Trek                                             "},{"Title":"A good example of why Hollywood can't make good SF movies","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mild Spoilers Ahead.Basic overview of this filmImpressive cast, some nice (if often peculiar) sets, some good special effects and some bad.  Annoying camera angles and inappropriate zooms, flat and unrealistic action sequences, and yet another Hollywood SF script that's utter, utter crap.The dialogue, characters, situations -- most of it would have been shamelessly hackneyed trash in 1960, because it'd already been done to death in the pulps.  The big studios, though, are too stupid to hire actual SF writers to work on SF movies, and, as a result, we get one embarrassingly awful piece of dreck after another.What a waste of time and money.  A computer that falls in love with its operator.  Yeah, I kind of liked that little gem the first 16,000 times I saw it -- which was all pre-1980.  The elements of Supernova that are original aren't good, and even the stuff they simply copied from the Hollywood compost heap wasn't very good.I know -- to make a movie this bad, it takes a real committee effort by the studio.  The directors are lucky to be able to cut themselves loose with a pseudonym; the actors don't always get off so easily. "},{"Title":"Gets better when you see it twice.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So far, I've figured that on IMDB, all the movies that are rated 3 or 4, aren't as bad as they seem (The Avengers is the living example of that). Supernova it also. We can't although say that this movie is good, just entertaining. The cast is not bad, exception made for Robin Tunney, increasingly annoying, in every movie. After 90 minutes of film, all we can conclude is that the bottom line are the Special Effects, which are great, and almost make us forget about the laughable ending. Anyway I have to admit that I loved, at the end, the appearance of the title `Supernova', instead of appearing in the beginning, the music behind was also good. 5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Not the worst film you will ever see (spoilers)","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Come on people, lighten up!  This is not the worst film you will ever see.  Not the best, but certainly not the worst.I think that the most derogatory thing that you can say about the movie is that it is derivative, but then again so are 95% of b-movies and that is exactly what this is - a big big b-movie.  Look at what you have.  A pumped up James Spader (very good actor) playing a role that would normally be filled by the likes of Jean Claude Van Damme; Angela Bassett (again, very good actor) as the hard as nails on the outside, soft on the inside doctor; a naked Robin Tunney (no complaints here!) and Lou Diamond Phillips (no complaints from my girlfriend!) and your standard computer whiz played by Wilson Cruz.  Add to that your shape shifting villain, an alien weapon, great special effects, etc. and you have a pretty interesting b-movie, nothing more, nothing less.Considering the fact that four directors worked on this (and no mention of Geoffrey Wright of Romper Stomper fame - shame on you IMDB!), I am surprised that it turned out as well as it did.  I am almost tempted to buy the region 2 DVD with it's promised 20 minutes of extra footage.  Is it worth watching?  Yeah, I think so. "},{"Title":"terrible, terrible film, with an even worse ending","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One user commented How the film showed human's reactions to different situation.  I must be a total idiot because I saw no humanity whatsoever in this wonderfully wasted cast. (Not to detract from his opinion, but he came off as a bit smug). This film progresses with monotone dialogue, gratuitous nudity, and 9th-dimensional matter which, according the film (spoiler coming up), will either destroy the planet earth or propel humanity into new unparalleled bliss and utopianism.  No one gives a convincing performance and Walter Hill made a correct decision in removing his name from the film. gradeF+ "},{"Title":"If you really really have nothing to do","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, sad to say that the movie has to throw the opportunity to be better. The visual effect is quite promising eventhough not really amusing. The storyline is very predictable. Not much hope for the artistic design. Later, all I care about is only how can I finish the movie asap and replace it with other. Thank god I was watching it in video + I really really have nothing to do at that time. "},{"Title":"The vacuum of space is not the only thing that suxs","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  the vacuum of space is NOT the only thing that suxs in this movie.Bad acting, a plot that you could drive a mack truck through, bad dialogue - all added up to one big suxing sound!rated 1/2 star out of 5Wayno "},{"Title":"A mess.  No wonder the director removed his credit.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know you're in big trouble when the litany of comments from other users compares this to EVENT HORIZON, another big-budget sci-fi bomb that also made no sense and also tanked at the box office.  A good cast, led by James Spader and Angela Bassett, flounders through a plot whose incomprehensibility is rivalled only by its complete lack of original ideas.  Two BIG questions  Why was this stupid script greenlighted by MGM?  And why the hell did they decide to spend $70 million on it?  Okay, three  And why did talents like Walter Hill, Spader and Bassett agree to do it?  Must've been the money, I guess.  A typically baffling mystery of the modern cinematic wasteland called Hollywood.  "}{"Title":"Supernovia Sucks.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Between the VERY bad writing, and plot holes that you could fly a spaceship through, this movie is the biggest waste of film and time.  Plan 9 From Outer Space was so obviously bad, that it's good.  Supernova is so bad, it's bad.  Lets start with a rescue ship that can't rescue anyone (No place to put them).  Or a smart ship, that can't dodge debris when it knows that the flight crew can't control the ship.  I don't know if what is done by the actors is over acting, bad acting, trying to fill in for bad writing. It's difficult to rate a movie when the basis for the movie does not work (the script).  This movie is - in the most corny way, predictable.  It is the only modern sci-fi movie, that I've recorded over.  It isn't worth a blank VHS tape to put it on.  It does have one good thing, the special effects. But I can download these from the internet. "},{"Title":"this movie sucks","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova is absolutely the worst movie ever made. The acting is terrible, and the only thing more mysterious than the plot is why I even bothered to see this horrible picture. I walked out of the theater dumber than when I came in. "},{"Title":"Better then average sci-fi with good production values.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK despite its ambitions it's not going to set the world alight. The movie is well made and visually appealing, the acting is good and the basic plot holds together. If anything is below spec it's the screen writers respect for the laws of physics, but who takes any notice of the speed of light these days )The Region 4 DVD contains a few alternate & deleted scenes.Gave it a 6/10 - i.e. worth watching. "},{"Title":"a moments undemanding entertainment","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn´t expect much of this film, and therefore not so disappointed. The story and thematics is a jumbled mess, but instead there is a pleasant, stylish atmosphere which I credit to Spader and Bassett, the score, visual effects and production design. It´s good for a moments undemanding entertainment, shame about the plot, though. It would have been more interesting as a deepspace-mission character study, instead of a half-baked horror/SF/action-hybrid.   "},{"Title":"A waste of great actors","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Director Walter Hill REMOVED his name from this movie and used the pseudonym THOMAS LEE.  Unfortunately the actors didn't have this luxury.A lot of money was spent on top notch SFX, (Digital Domaine and Patrick Tatopoulos are the stars of this movie with no story).  Did the folks responsible for this drivel think the public (especially fans of sci-fi) are just too dumb to care about a good story.  What started out rather promising due to the Herculean efforts of Bassett and Spader, quickly became soft-porn in deep space due to the lack of a story line.It was painful to see James Spader and Angela Bassett trapped in this stinker.  If you like Peter Francinelli watch him in THE BIG KAHUNA and skip this listlessly derivative and predictable nonsense.James Spader is a great actor and deserves MUCH BETTER roles.  I hope he gets to work in a John Sayles movie sometime soon!!  For now, I'll just have to watch sex,lies and videotape to take away the bad taste of this awful, awful movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Action Flick","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this movie in the stores I didn't really care that much for it. But when i actually rented it I was in for a really good and entertaining action flick. It was cool, The special effects where above ordinary (Mark Stetson did them, He also made the effects for The Fifth Element), The acting was not superb but alright. There is one thing though, When you think Action flick you think Guns and alot of Explosions well. The gun part is so so. There's about 2 guns in the entire movie (But I guess that's OK considering their on a deep-space paramedic ship). The explosions, Well yes I guess there are a few. And that's enough. The story is pretty original though. The Deep-Space Paremedic Spacecraft Nightengale 229 gets a distress call from an abandonded moon. When they arrive they find that there is only one person there. His name is Troy Larson (There are some family history between him and the doctor on the ship, But I'm not gonna tell you that stuff. Its actually not intressting.) In Troy's emergency ship he used to get to the nightengale they find a mysterious artifact. An alien artifact. Something from another world. Grr! And you can probably imagine where it goes from here. But you are wrong. There are NO aliens in this movie whatsoever. Too bad. But it is still a good movie, I'd give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not too bad...but...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You really have to wonder about a movie that the directors' don't want to take direct credit for.James Spader and Angela Bassett are both excellent in the film, and the special effects are wonderful.  The movie's just another take on the Alien-type storyline, but there are enough new twists and ideas to make it worth a watch or two. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What the heck?  4.1 for a rating?  Definitely doesn't deserve anything less than a 6 for sure.  Anyone that sees the rating surely wouldn't go out and rent it.  I just watched it on showtime and really it wasn't that bad.  Not oscar worthy, but i'd rent it for the fun and entertainment value.  If you enjoyed Event Horizon, you'd probably enjoy this movie too, not as good as Event Horizon but less gory.  I'd rated it as a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Bad and boring","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is bad and boooring. And the ending is hilarious, bad enough to be included in Mystery Science Theater 2000.I like Sweetie's voice, but I just heard the Spanish-dubbed version. I still don't know how the original one sounds like. I also liked the ship's name Nightingale.My rating 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bad, not even distinctively so, just Bad.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a lousy movie. I rented it on DVD expecting some mindless entertainment. But there is better mindless entertainment out there. I would not watch this if it came on basic cable. It's full of cliches; there was NO suspense whatsoever. How could there be when everything in it is ripped off of another deep space action movie? You know who is going to die and who is going to live from the very beginning. Hello? Come on. James Spader is suddenly buff, Angela Bassett has a body double, Peter Facinelli shows off his booty, Robin Tunney can't keep her shirt on (why, Robin, why?), and there is a laughable scene of Wilson Cruz (yes, from My So Called Life) suddenly acting tough. What is this? Please! I rated this a one; it's not even hilariously bad (like Showgirls or Omega Code). It's just ... lousy. When it was over, I felt a deep sense of mourning for all the talented young writers and directors who get turned down in Hollywood in favor of nonsense like this.  "}{"Title":"It adds a new dimension to bad","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this film I'm very impressed. How could someone with such a bad script ever convince anyone that this had potiention to become a good movie. The script totally lacks the presents of reality. It makes horror movies, there the chicks always runs around with their arms in the air, look like a documentary. I'm glad it only last for an hour and a half so you don't have to suffer that long. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I expected","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film knowing that it had been given a bad review almost everywhere.Therefore I had no expectations what so ever. Supernova has nothing new. Its a story about a journey from point A to point B with some random encounters. Its nothing but old fashion entertainment. "},{"Title":"Very exciting; Spader shines","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie because it had three of my favorite actors in it - James Spader, Angela Bassett and Lou Diamond Phillips. None of them disappoint. I was surprised I had never heard of this movie cause it was pretty good. Very exciting and it kept me on the edge of my seat. It was unpredictable as well. James Spader was especially wonderful as the acting captain of a ship that is damaged in far off space. He has to find a way to save the ship and keep a madman from destroying the crew. He is very commanding and believable in the role. I also love the interaction between the different characters, who each come with a different set of emotional baggage. I would recommend the film highly.  "},{"Title":"A troubled, misunderstood movie...","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a troubled movie right from go. It went through 4 directors, and several different versions; some directors (mainly the cool Walter Hill) wanted violent grotesque horror, while others (Coppola) wanted sexy swashbuckling space romance. Several edits and some major studio interference later, it became the mismatched hybrid that is the final release. This movie was almost universally reviled by critics and audiences alike, one can read the reviews here on imdb and walk away scared to death of the movie. However, allow me to offer a more sane view of the film... ...Yes it is derivative and somewhat formulaic, but hey if you like the Alien sci-fi horror formula, then you would probably enjoy the film. PLOT Space paramedics answer a distant distress call to pick up a stranger. It turns out that the stranger has made an amazing discovery. Things go wrong and the stranger starts bringing the pain. Thus, now the crew must fight for survival. Many sci-fi cliches find their way into the mix (talking HAL-like computer,etc...) but it still manages to come off exciting and somewhat fresh in my opinion. The production is slick and all the sets are very well designed and realistic looking. Special effects are truly top notch. The premise/plot is interesting enough to move the action along despite some Hollywood standard love subplot cheesiness (the contribution of Coppola, I understand). Plenty of nudity (the very beautiful Robin Tunney!) and some cool gore. Basically B Horror fun with A movie special effects. A decent sci-fi horror flick ...but probably for fans of the genre only.  Final Rating - 6/10Noob Aalox "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but not a good movie either.","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It was not a bad movie, but it was not good either. It was just a movie you didn't care about. It was just there. It had a story you all ready had seen, and the action was boring and the acting was just ok, nothing more. It had some good special effects, but thats all. Don't waste your time on this boring and unimporten movie. "},{"Title":"a thoughtfully crafted film","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes I can't understand why people dislike one fine film and wave the flag for some other undeserving wastes of time. While not a classic, this film certainly didn't deserve the 4 that it got.  I give it an 8.  It gets an 8 because the casting was a little overlooked in spots and the ending was a little stupid.  However, the writers were imaginative in their depiction of what an average day in space might be like in the distant future.  It was well-edited, the sci-fi techno babble was interesting, and the acting was, in most cases, believable.  There won't be a sequel, but its worth a watch. "},{"Title":"James Spader murdered my soul","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the sloppiest movie I have ever seen in theaters.  So poorly made, so monotonously acted, so many close-ups and shaky camera tricks; then they threw in James Spader's bare keyster, and I just about ralphed right there and then.  I mean, there aren't even opening credits or a frigging title card!  Then after the climax the word Supernova flashes onto the screen in gigantic letters, mocking you for having endured its many sordid tortures.  In other, more familiar words worst movie ever. "},{"Title":"what was all the (negative) fuss about?","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was not a great scifi film, but its certainly much better than many others. I really like the fact that lots of science was good or better than good. Not much magic realism here. Its true that its not an action blockbuster and its not a thoughtful philosophical piece in the same genre at gattaca, but its really quite good.It really does convey a mood well. Its a fun late night video hire I think. "},{"Title":"what was all the (negative) fuss about?","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was not a great scifi film, but its certainly much better than many others. I really like the fact that lots of science was good or better than good. Not much magic realism here. Its true that its not an action blockbuster and its not a thoughtful philosophical piece in the same genre at gattaca, but its really quite good.It really does convey a mood well. Its a fun late night video hire. Its actually unfair that it doesn't quite reach the heights of a great scifi film, but at least it tries in lots of different ways to do so. Worthy achievement. "},{"Title":"THE worst movie of all time.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the worst movie EVER made. It has bad special effects (and the previews said that it had better FX than The Matrix P), screwed up plot, and sex seems to be the only thing holding this film together. One last thing... Supernova? What supernova? "}{"Title":"Supernova Super Sucked","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Man, this is still considered a better 00' space movie than Battlefield Earth? Wow. I don't think I'll ever see Battlefield Earth then! You know a movie is bad when you don't care that cast members are getting murdered. I was hoping it'd have a daring ending, and have the entire cast killed off before the end, but I guess that was too much to wish for. As my kid brother put it,  One night, while I was sleeping, my @$$ snuck over to the computer and wrote a better screenplay than this. Without a doubt this is Robin Tunney's worst movie. I don't watch many movies set in space, yet I must have seen everyone of them that this movie borrowed from, because I knew what was going to happen next the entire movie. The only bright spot is that Peter Facinelli looks much better in this than anything else I've seen him in.  "},{"Title":"A really interesting and enjoyable sci-fi adventure","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this one on a whim and I am glad I did. The actors are doing a great job (James Spader is *a lot* better than in Stargate), the setting is great and the story works great, despite the re-editing.The movie steers clear from tried and true ways of handling space travel and other clichés without becoming to unbelievable and strained. I like the ending of the released version (I haven't seen the DVD version yet which has an alternate ending) and on the whole the movie doesn't become to cute or predictable.All in all a good sci-fi adventure that deserves a much higher score than the 4 it's been given here. The movie is quite interesting and exciting although the editing has left one or two rough cuts that makes you think twice but nothing that infers with the enjoyment of the movie.If you like sci-fi you can do a lot worse than Supernova (although the title is a bit misleading). Mission to mars, Battlefield Earth and Astronauts wife are all *way* lousier than this one. "},{"Title":"Stop me if you've heard this one before...","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's really nothing terribly wrong with Supernova. It has a good cast, led by a strong performance from Angela Bassett. It has some good special effects, good suspense and so on and so on. The only real problem is that the story is a tired, worn out plot and the movie offers us nothing that we haven't seen many times before.On a mission into deep space, the crew of a ship unwittingly brings a monster on board. One by one the monster kills off most of the crew. Soon it appears there is only one crew member left to try to kill the monster...but...Oh, wait! One of the people you thought was dead isn't really dead, and here he comes back just in time to...But stop me if you've heard this one before.And just what was Francis Ford Coppola's connection to Supernova? It's all a little strange. It's almost as if the producers started out with very high expectations for this movie, but lost interest part of the way through. What we're left with is okay. Nothing that's going to win any awards, but certainly not a bomb either. I gave it a 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"I loved it...sexy and exciting","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Don't try to dissect these sci-fi films too much, just enjoy them.  Angela Basset is excellent as the strong leader of the crew.  James Spader is fabulous eye-candy for the ladies as the very buff, charming and heroic bad-boy of the crew.  C'mon ladies, you loved it when he gave her the raised eyebrows and sweet smile.  Who wouldn't love to spend some quality time in a zero-gravity chamber with him?  Lots of fun on a Saturday night.  I liked it a lot...give it a try. "},{"Title":"Not quite as bad as I was expecting, but it still wasn't all that good.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova is quite a strange film. My friends and I watched it on DVD and the almost 20 minutes of extra footage show that quite a different film was originally on the planner. The problem with this film is that it's story has been told a million times before and it lacks any real sense of urgency nor excitement.SPOILERS The basic plot is yet another rip-off of the plot of Alien. A salvaging crew receives a distress call from a distant mining planet, they go to investigate it and end up picking up an unexpected passenger. The new person naturally isn't what he seems to be, and so on and so on.....Some of the special-effects are actually quite good (the ship models and the hyperspace) while others fall curiously flat (the ending sequence). All of the actors involved do about as good of a job as they could have with such flimsy and non-developed characters. The plot is also sometimes a bit hard to follow at times. The R-rated DVD version runs 91 minutes, but the film is actually only 83 minutes long with 8 minutes of credits.Fans of the beautiful Robin Tunney might want to take note that she has a couple of topless scenes during the first 10 minutes  that really show off her perky breasts.Not really as awful as I was anticipating, but it still wallows in mediocrity and will soon be forgotten.Rating4    "},{"Title":"Well same ol' same ol'","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is actually an easy movie to describe. Average with a couple of good moments which make it a bit more than average. There are things though, I must have missed here, cause the version I saw, actually only lasted for 87 minutes (according to the package). Well I guess it was not that important, what was cut out. If you want terror in space, watch something else, watch something that brings INFINITE TERROR, watch Event Horizon. And if you want to see a bad space movie see MISSION TO MARS!!!!6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A review that doesn't give anything away from the film...","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Enough with the chit chat lets dive right into the review... Oh I really liked Supernova very very good for a Sc~Fi film I take it you know that it stars James Spader (Good Actor in my opinion) and Angella Basset and if not you do now. I shall not explain the film as this will spoil the whole thing... Well the film is set within space in about 150 years time if my memory serves me right and Nick played by James Spader is a new arrival on the ship. Now there are some very good twists and plenty of them in this film, although if you are incredibly awake you can spot them just before they are reveiled so its also a challenging film to watch if you like brain testers... There are Action parts within the film and if you watch the deleted scenes it adds a whole new level of twists and potential twists for you to work out which could change your perception on the film. Now the back of the box makes the film sound outstanding and the Trailer makes you think that its probably going to be okay and maybe aims your view about the type of genre towards 'Family Viewing'.  Now this be not the case, well in my opinion anyway... The film is done very well including all of the Graphics done by the team who did the Titanic and there are also parts of comedy that turn up throughout the film between Sweetie (the ship computer) and Nick (James Spader) which are quite good as it adds in a level of humour, but the humour does know its limits and so there isn't that much in the film which probably makes these parts a great bonus for the film. Now there are other twists which don't happen but you feel that they could easily do so if a few circumstances change... Now the DVD on Region 2 has a trailer, a 2 page booklet explaining about the Production of the film and around 30mins of deleted and Alternative Scenes... Now I do Suggest that you buy or at least rent this film as I can easily imagine that I could watch the film quite a few times. "},{"Title":"Oh, dear.......","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I picked this up on DVD at the video shop never having heard of it, I certainly don't remember it being released commercially in the UK.There may be several reasons why. Firstly, the plot is hackneyed - this is the stalker in the big dark house, or perhaps 40 years ago Alistair Maclean would have set it on a wartime submarine. In any event it is a bit of a rip off from 'Alien' with none of the style, sense of fear or panache of that picture.Secondly this seems to have been hacked about a great deal. The deleted scenes on the DVD (complete with alternative ending) shows that a completely different film may have been contemplated.Thirdly, so many formulaic elements have been included as background for the characters it seems this film could have been written by a committee. However, I didn't think the SFX were too bad actually and it all looked very expensive. A turkey, not the worse you'll find, but definitely clucking loudly. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some make out, but not great.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't think this film was as bad as some people had said. The male baddie was quite weak, and the story a bit thin, especially the whole 9th dimensional bomb bit. But James Spader was OK, the SFX were fantastic and the concepts not too bad. It's just that some things were brushed over too quickly, like who made the bomb, what would it's effect be on Earth, why did the bad guy regenerate, etc. "},{"Title":"Better than most people say it is","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that was just screwed from the get go. From the change of directors and rewrites and reshoots, its no wonder this movie didn't work the way it should have. This movie had the potential to be truly excellent, great plot, well thought storyline, excellent actors, and superb SFX. This movie was mean't to be so much more than it really was, which is very nicely displayed on the DVD. If you can't see it on DVD then don't bother seeing it at all. YOU NEED TO WATCH THE DELETED SCENES. There are more deleted scenes in this movie than I have ever seen on any DVD before. The scenes give you better understanding of what we should have seen. I also believe that alternate ending (the original) was much better and much less campy feeling. Overall if you look at what the movie is, what is was supposed to be, and how good it truly would have been it makes the movie alot better and calls for a remake of the movie as soon as possible. "}{"Title":"I BOUGHT THE DVD ! And i´m glad i did.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I bought the dvd, i confess. I was curious to find out what was wrong with this movie, when i read about its reputation, and as i love sci-fi i decided to buy the dvd, specialy after reading all the bad comments around here. As many  people compared Supernova to Event Horizon, i was sure i was going to love it, because i still think Event Horizon ranks among the top best sci-fi movies of the last two decades despite its plot-influences.Well, Supernova trully disapointed me, but that doesn´t mean that i think it´s as bad as many claim. Actualy i think it is an excelent sci-fi B-Movie.Altough it costed a fortune it still looks like it was filmed by Roger Corman, and that was what appealed to me despite everything.And as i wasn´t expecting anything spectacular to begin with, i didn´t got disapointed.Actualy the only thing that disapointed me was that Supernova is not even half as good as Event Horizon despite having everything to be a good adult sci-fi movie. By watching the deleted scenes on the dvd, i can´t help to feel that somewhere there was a brilliant idea here for a sci-fi, but someone decided to throw it all through a window and i can bet it wasn´t its creators but some Hollywood executive who did the damage.It´s sad to see how the good ideas that the movie still shows glimpses of, were wasted and replaced by action scenes and happy endings, leaving nothing of the great disturbing feeling that it was set to build up in the scenes that were deleted from the final cut of the movie. This is realy hard to describe, specialy to the people who only saw the theatrical version, but the original initial (deleted) scene with the captain´s introduction realy show us how special this story was being set up to be, and it must be one of the most simple and beautifuly shot introductions for a sci-fi movie ever. As the original ending must be one of the most disturbing and original endings ever filmed. Just for these concepts this (dvd) movie is a must see for everyone who trully loves science-fiction. If you can take the pain of watching a good sci-fi movie being totaly trashed through out 80 minutes of its duration, you´ll love the wasted ideas and concepts present in Supernova. But this is just for sci-fi fans only, not for the general audiences who made Matrix a sucess.Speaking about Matrix, if you get the Supernova dvd, don´t miss its theatrical trailler, for it´s trully a work of Art, and totaly gives the idea that Supernova is going to be something like a cross between Matrix, Scream, Terminator and 2001. It even has a contemporany Pop/Rock soundtrack as a music background in it ! (What ?!!!!) This must be the most misleading trailler i ever saw in my entire life, and so no wonder how so many people trash this movie. Everybody who went to see Supernova because of the trailler was totaly fooled ! This is not another cool sci-fi teen-movie. But it´s a brilliant trailler, and an hilarious one also, for we can see that somewhere in Hollywood someone was desperate to turn Supernova into another Matrix and i´m sure that was what totaly destroyed Supernova as the inovating sci-fi movie it could have been.So, good points...the special effects are very good, particulary the hyper-jump wich is the most spectacular i ever saw. The production design is fantastic altough a bit limited in variety, but it has a brilliant retro 50´s style mixed with modern sci-fy concepts wich gives unique visuals to this movie. Good actors who can do wonders with their characters despite the awfull limitations the (filmed) script has, except maybe for the Tom Cruise clone. The relation between the ship´s computer and a human wich could have been fantasticaly developed but it was not. The soundtrack is excelent and atmospheric. And the photography and edditing save the movie from being a total waste. On dvd, the original begining and ending wich are excelent sci-fi moments.Bad points...the idiotic and predictable good-guys run from bad dude terminator style plot. The total lack of suspance. The total lack of horror or chilling moments wich could have done wonders for this movie. Boring action. And finaly but not least the Tom Cruise clone ! Maybe this is a good point, because as impersonations go, the bad guy impersonation of Tom Cruise is the most impressive one i ever saw. There are times we forgget we are actualy not looking at Tom Cruise but at another actor instead. What was the idea here ?...A Bowfinger style concept ?! Did someone fooled Cruise into this movie without him knowing about ?...Anyway, don´t trash this movie, because it´s not that bad. It´s just it could have been brilliant instead. I hope someone decides to grab some of the concepts present here and make a realy good movie with them because the potential is there, just loose the T2 Tom Cruise next time please...7 out of 10 despite everything it´s a miracle that this is a very watchable film. There are much worse (sucessful) things you can see out there, so have fun with Supernova and stop complaining. Just don´t be fooled by the trailler and you´ll have fun. "},{"Title":"What happens when Sci-Fi Goes Mainstream","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It gets ruined!!! This was a trite piece of trash. And when I write trash I mean it in every sense of the word - garbage and bad smut. This wasn't a story and it wasn't sci-fi either, it was an excuse to use special effects and show some t&a - the only bene is that it was equal opportunity t&a. The writer seemed to have read a manual on script writing, but forgot about plot, character, and humanity. "},{"Title":"Very predictable genre film, but quite good nonetheless","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **VERY VAGUE, NON-SPECIFIC SPOILERS**If anyone has seen any of the genre films, they'll know exactly what is going to happen.  It is a standard nice space community until an intruder comes in film, akin to Alien (1979), Aliens (1986), Saturn 3 (1980) and so many others.That said, there have been few in this genre of late.  This is a very worthy effort.  The differences that give Supernova (2000) its individuality over the genre are interesting and intriguing.  The SFX are exceptional -- intricate CGI that is very credible and very well rendered.This coupled with an attractive and interesting cast (though it took IMDb to place James Spader for me, the shame!) and Knox Grantham White is very attractive (with a pleasant amount of nudity to keep you interested, if the storyline and SFX don't do that already  ;o)I'd recommend it well -- it's gone straight onto my Amazon wish list.  Well worth a DVD rental fee, despite the predicability&#133; "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but saved by a strong end.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first put the film into my DVD player, I thought this was the biggest buy mistake I'd made this year (Fight club was a close second - personal preference I guess). I watched about 30mins and actually thought about turning it off and taking it back to the shop. I actually came on this database next and saw the poor rating it had been given by critics and decided to watch it all the way through. I'm a sucker for bad films, as I usually like them !Thankfully, the film did get better, the middle of the film was mediocre, not Sci-Fi at it's best or worst, the characters were still extremely unlikable and the Sex element was still annoying me.Even more thankfully, the end was much better than I could have hoped for, mainly because the impact that the film had on the galaxy was quite unexpected, Spader & Bassett got better toward the end of the film and the scene where Benj got killed was actually quite well done.It made me watch the film again to judge whether my early scepticism was justified and I still feel it was. It starts bad, gets better and ends well quite pleasing. Give it a chance if you've nothing better to do or if you've won the lottery. But if it's a choice between this DVD or another, probably best to go for the other.Ydna. "},{"Title":"I had a really good time","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is much better than the votes would lead you to think.  For any SF lover, I think it is even a must.The approach of space jump is quite interesting and most of the used effects are right to the point.  The idea of the invasion method is just GREAT. "},{"Title":"Best since Matrix, but nobody seems to understand it...","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So - what is this movie about?Imagine what happens when other intelligent life doesn't want to be found and puts bombs all over the universe to ensure that it isn't found. All that wrapped up in a good, yet quiet(!), Sci-Fi and Action film.Before reading other comments on this film I thought Wow, what a great movie, why didn't I see it at cinemas over Germany? But now, after having read various opinions I guess I know whyIn this film you have to pay close attention to what is said AND done and how it is said and done. And you have to use your imagination - not every detail of technology (and how it works) or how a head is smashed is shown. But most people seem to rely on everything to be shown, so they can just CONSUME the movie. But this movie has to be attended (can't think of a better word, as I'm not an English native speaker). As I said You have to pay attention.Short plot description A rescue ship coming to help a person; this person (Karl Larson) is trying to bring a 9-dimensional bomb(!) back to earth while thinking he brings a great artifact back home... But its purpose is to extinguish any race that is intelligent enough to fly into deep space and find it and bring it back home! The artifact/bomb makes him almost indestructible and ARROGANT. Having found out about the bomb, all crew members try to stop Karl Larson, but most of them die.Karl is a person you really love to hate - even when he's still playing the handsome guy. Great acting. The other characters are well drawn as being well trained members of a rescue crew despite having their little problems that you can identify with. And these characters are well acted, too.The rest is good special effects, a quiet, calm way of introducing the characters (YES it does remind everyone of Kubrick's 2001 and it's good to see storytelling like that again), the action is Alien-like but - NO MONSTER! Just a superstrong human that does what he likes and this is the frightening part Somebody able and willing to do what he likes...You might think this sounds like not being interesting at all, but it might be because I'm not as good at writing comments, than at actually understanding and discussing movies with other people in real life. I only wrote this, because a lot of people don't seem to understand the what if... question of this film.I gave it a 10 - and I hope you will, too after seeing it. "},{"Title":"Close, but no cigar...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found Supernova bordering on something that could have been a stellar, if not simplistic, sci-fi/action film.  Instead, the dialogue sucks and characters seem to do illogical things like have sex under crisis situations.  Had the film stayed on the core plot and beefed itself up with better character development, I think we would see a much better response to it.  Also, the ending was terrible.  Why was it changed from the original?  Audiences aren't stupid...they WILL smell a phony, happy ending when they see one.  The studio has no one to blame but themselves for this turkey (that took 3 years to complete), despite the fact they're taking it all out on Walter Hill, whose direction is fantastic.  But, even Hill can't make a garbage script likable. "},{"Title":"GREAT space movie","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the low rating here on IMDB, I believe this movie deserves an honest 10.  I, myself, am not a hardcore fan of space/sci-fi thrillers, but I liked this one.  The only other space movie I seem to like is the Alien series (This movie has a lot in common with the Alien series as well, so this may be why).  I found no flaws in the acting, and I especially for no flaws in the special effects either (I thought both were excellent).  The ending of the film is great, and the plot is very unexpected in most places as well. Go see this movie, that's all I have to say ) "},{"Title":"Well Done Film With A Major Fatal Flaw","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a Science Fiction fan for more years than I care to remember, and as a scientist, I really wanted to love this film.  In the end, however, I was only able to like it and like it I did, very much so.This is a highly literate film whose characters are so well drawn by their capable actors, that they are quite believable.  To which the 'film noir' lighting greatly assists this cinematic work to achieve a hard edged realistic feel.  Added to all of this, the direction is even throughout, which in itself is remarkable considering there was a change of directors near the end of filming and subsequent editing.  This should have been a great film. So what is the problem?Well for one, the story is okay, if unremarkable.  But the primary error is that the key dialogue required by the viewing audience to decipher the alien mystery is so quickly mumbled   ( a la Clint Eastwood style) by the film's lead female co-star, Angela Bassett, that it is, virtually, unintelligible. This oversight is incredible in a sixty four million dollar film whose dialogue throughout, on the whole, is so crisp and delightfully articulate.  Yet only Ms. Bassett's defining statement after said blurb is clearly heard  These beings, whoever they are, are as smart as God and not as nice.  Impressive and quite memorable but, unfortunately, not enough.Despite this annoying critical flaw, the film itself is quite enthralling cinematicly and well worth, if not the theater, at least the rental. "},{"Title":"Could a movie get any worse?","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's really a shame that Supernova turned out as horrible as it did. It's one of those movies that the filmmakers couldn't decide what kind of movie it should be.It originally started out as a really dark and violent sci-fi/horror flick with Walter Hill directing, but the studio wanted something else. So tons of reshoots and re-editing was done to try to make the movie into something that it wasn't. Most of the extreme and cool alien f/x seen in the trailer was left on the cutting room floor and this is what we ended up with. A bland sci-fi/thriller that is inept and pathetic in every way imaginable.The acting is wooden and nobody seemed interested in bringing anything interesting to their respective characters. Even Robin Tunney is wasted (though her topless scenes were definitely a treat!). Even the effects are substandard, which was the original calling card of this flick.If you rent the DVD version, it contains some of the cut footage as deleted scenes as well as an alternate ending. But I honestly couldn't see the film gaining anything if that footage was put back in.rating1 "}{"Title":"SuperDud!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  About the best thing I can say for this movie is that it wasn't totally stupid.  You didn't have people doing idiotic things to move the story along.  Having said that, no one, especially the writers, is terribly bright.  This appears to be a Star Trek story that wasn't good enough for the TV show, so they made it into a movie.  Go figure.  The SFX make it so that it isn't a bad way to pass the time when you have absolutely nothing else to do and the action is plausible if not very original.  I'd rate it as good entertainment for insomniacs. "},{"Title":"Even James Spader Doesn't Save This Movie","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really hate giving bad reviews, so please believe me when I say, Oh God, why? Even a kitsch-90s sci-fi horror buff like myself couldn't get into this amazingly star-studded yet lackluster movie.The plot was absurdly basic, yet devoid of any sarcasm or humor. Not only couldn't I succumb to a moment of sinking into fantasy, but I couldn't even let out a simple laugh. Painful. I mean, Contact was easier to watch.James Spader, although wonderful, may have rivaled Larry Fishburne's performance in Event Horizon, but it wasn't as inspired as most of his films. And the main evil-half-human-alien-force here I don't care to even look up his name, was no Sam Neil, in terms of human-meets-alien-force-and-twists-inexorably-into-egomania-and-insanity. "},{"Title":"This film blows","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's not much to say about Supernova. The opening two or three short scenes say it all. Do those who watched it remember what they were? I sure do, and it was a message to me that we had wasted our couple of bucks on the rental and shouldn't throw away two hours on it.We did anyway, and it's difficult to imagine the film being any worse than it was. The next few rounds at the video store my wife isn't picking out anything - she's in the penalty box. "},{"Title":"no stars?","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ronnie - you must not watch a lot of movies, do you?  Because there were a whole bunch of stars (although no blockbuster stars) in this movie.  That is what made the darn thing so disappointing.  But seriously, if you've never heard of James Spader and Lou Diamond Phillips, what are you doing commenting on movies in the first place?I have a question about space movies.  Why must all futuristic computers sound like phone sex operators?Oh, and another question.  Why was this movie called Supernova?  Talk about blatant false advertising.And why did the ending have to suck so bad.  Ooooh, their eyes changed colors.  And that ending was perhaps the cheesiest thing since Kraft Cheese and Macaroni!And now a question for some of the posters about this movie.  At least one said they rented it based on how horrible the reviews were.  Are you that stupid?  Hmmmm, this movie is supposed to suck really bad.  But I have nothing better to do with my time than to waste it. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you've heard","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova got trashed by the critics when it came out. And by no means should one expect 2001, or for that matter, even 2010. What does stand out in this movie is James Spader playing an ACTION HERO. Read it again, that's not a typo. Playing a steely eyed ice blooded pilot, he really pulls it off. The movie breaks absolutely no new ground, but it's good popcorn sci-fi.Frankly, I'm surprised Spader was able to get cast in this role. I would have expected it to go to someone along the lines of Larry Fishburne, or perhaps Stellan Skarsgard for the more budget conscious (and don't talk to me about quality until you've seen the A-1 stinker Deep Blue Sea). He obviously buffed up tremendously from any other role he's had, and you forget the sniveling yuppie cast he inhabited in the 80's.Check it out just for that reason. "},{"Title":"It has its points","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie deserves a bit better reviews than it has been getting, even though I agree with most of what has been said.  Probably the biggest suspension of disbelief for me was not anything to do with the science fiction, but that the characters watch each other getting slaughtered without working up the slightest sweat over it.  They act like the most recently dead was just left at the last bus stop.Nonetheless, its a well made thriller in a space setting which is more worth watching than a Star Trek rerun. "},{"Title":"This movie has some serious problems.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start by saying that Supernova is not, by any means, a good movie. But I'm going to give it some credit because it's very evident that there were serious production problems. I mean the origonal director had his name taken off it, and the other two (one of which was Francis Ford Coppola) also refused to be credited, the name Thomas Lee was used in replacement.At least they had their head on straight for the effects, which are gorgeous and very well done. However, the story falls horribly short, the acting is forced (no one looks like they even want to be there), and there are plot holes galore. It seems to me that there may have been a good movie there, initially. But due to major problems during production, the directors vision was smashed and everything went to hell.I watched the DVD version and the deleted scenes make the movie a little better, I really prefered the alternate ending to the one used in the movie. But if they wanted to make it good, they would basically have to start again from scratch, but they could hold on to the special effects. All in all, Supernova is a valiant attempt, but an awful failure. I give it 3 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"what was i thinking when i bought this?","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  it was between this or mission to mars for my sci-fi fix.  i heard mtm was a joke.  this one was the joke.  spader and williams took the paycheck on this one.  there was nothing you havnt seen already in other movies.  this was just a culmination of 4 or 5 other movies.  acting was poor, story was poor, directing was poor.  and the name supernova, what supernova??  there was a 15 second stint at the very end of the movie about a supernova.  within 15 min. of watching this movie, i had it figured out.  the only difference was my ending was much, much better.  the dvd has an alternate ending that had a 20 second difference from the big screen that was way better than what they ran in the theaters.  so why didnt they keep the alternate ending???  a two year old could have told them the alternate was better.  when the credits started to roll i was pissed.  i thought there was another 15 min. when everything would come together, but it didnt.  very unsatisfying.   wait for it to come out on hbo!  PS.  anyone want to buy a slightly used copy?? "},{"Title":"Dreary but not nearly as bad as I thought","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this on DVD just to see how bad it was and though not great, it didnt even get near as bad as Mission to Mars which I just hated! Too bad there was no commentary because Id like to know what they were aiming for. Why all the sex? Why not more character moments? Better dialoge?For Angela Basset to sign on there must have been some good ideas on the drawing baord. Why was James Spader talking so monotone the whole time. Why did Robert Forrester have a couple of scenes and thats all? Interesting to see the alternate ending but that wouldnt have been more interesting than what they did. I was a little confused. Were they evolving? Seems like too many people had their hands on the movie and that in Hollywood is deadly. Better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Fortunately this was only 90 minutes long.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was running out of films that I wanted to watch, so never having seen anything about this movie, I rented it because it looked to at least be an action adventure movie.  If this movie had a plot, I failed to figure out what it was.  The special effects are fairly good, and strangely enough I actually enjoyed watching it.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone else though.I guess I should have had a clue about the quality of this movie due to the fact that it doesn't have any Stars in it.  I have never heard of or seen any of the cast before!Save your time and money, and watch something else!  "}{"Title":"Nice scenery, below average storyline and acting","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is only interesting for hardcore SF fans, it has some nice scenery and some interesting special effects. The storyline is predictable and acting overall is not very compelling. The DVD's deleted scenes adds some background to the story and makes it more interesting - it would have made the movie a little bit better - although the alternative ending is stretching it too far.Main flaw in the storyline is its simplicity Mankind meets Alien, Alien wants to destroy Mankind. This kind of thing has been much better done in the ALIEN series.All in all I give a 6 out of 10 Interesting for the SF fans because of the pictures, for anyone else not much to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people have said","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Skip the movie. Get the DVD anyway.The online film critic, James Berardinelli, identified three factors that are a sure sign of trouble for a studio release 1. It is released in January, AFTER the holiday movie season.2. It is not pre-screened for critics.  3. The director lost control of the project, and asked to have his name removed from the credits. (This used to result in the official pseudonym Alan Smithee. The new pseudonym is Thomas Lee). Supernova was marked by all three disaster conditions. This project was started, but not finished, by Walter Hill. Incidentally, rumor has it that some of the additional footage and at least some of the final edit was assembled by none other than Francis Ford Coppola. Another director, not a big name this time, (Jack Sholder of Wishmaster 2) also worked on the film.It is a space epic more or less directly derivative of Alien. A small space crew answers a mysterious distress call, and ends up taking aboard a mysterious artifact which turns out to be irreconcilable with human life. Actually, they went it one better. This artifact is incompatible with the universe.This film is really for genre addicts only. There is nothing original or deep about it. I feel confident you'll know exactly what's coming in every scene. In its current 90 minute cut, it's too short for interesting character development, it has several plot holes, and it has a sappy happy ending.It also features a very odd impersonation of Tom Cruise, as performed by Peter Facinelli, who mimics Cruise's smile, his voice, and his mannerisms. Facinelli is taller, and not as handsome, but the overall effect is remarkable. It is almost as if it were calculated.This movie bombed big time with both critics, and filmgoers. It garnered 90% negative reviews, and the positive reviews weren't all that enthusiastic. Despite wide release, it grossed only 14 million dollars on a 60 million dollar budget. Strangely, I found the DVD worthwhile. Oh, the movie is completely predictable, but it isn't as bad as people said it was. I suppose critics were predisposed to hate it because they were shut out of a pre-screening, and because they were aware of the director troubles in the production. Who's going to write a good review of a movie obviously dumped by the studio and three directors?Don't get me wrong, it isn't a good movie, but it had some decent visuals, more or less capable characterizations, and was mercifully short, so I was able to watch most of it without the FF. But the film itself is not the reason to rent the DVD. In my opinion, there is a good reason to rent it. There are more than a dozen deleted scenes, all fully scored, and these allow to to see how the original movie was a completely different movie - with a philosophical overlay and a deeply distressing ending. (The entire universe is doomed, and the evil guy is not destroyed by being ejected from the ship.) Moreover, there were other sub-plots, an explicit autopsy was performed on a character who was cut from the final version, another live person was found on the contaminated colony, the computer voices were different, two computers were later consolidated into one, etc. From these deleted scenes you can see the movie that might have been and compare it to what resulted. I won't tell you that the other movie was better, but it was different, probably much longer, and I found it interesting to speculate as to why they changed what they did.  "},{"Title":"This Nova is a real lemon","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova (2000)For those of you who saw 1997's Event Horizon with Laurence Fishburne, skip this movie. You've seen it. Of course, Event Horizon wasn't all that wonderful either, but it's not much different than this mishmash of overbaked sci-fi hyperbole.But for those of you who didn't see Event Horizon - and I suspect that's a lot of you - here's your basic plot. Rescue vessel Nightingale, drifting rather aimlessly through space, receives a mysterious, distant distress call. Who has sent it? Is there free beer on board? So many questions. Bear in mind there are hardly any distress calls in deep space movies that are neither distant nor mysterious. So we're already mired in the muck of overdone drivel. Star Trek was here before, but even it wasn't the first. No, you'd have to go back to the earliest days of the caveman, when Og looked up at the skies and told his kids a yarn about how some peabrains on a spaceship answered a distress call.And of course, when they answer the call, there's gonna be problems. Like their ship falling apart. Like them finding an injured man and taking him on board (always a no-no, it seems, in these movies). And like the members of the crew being plucked off, one by one, like birds on a wire. It's like Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None, only instead of guns and knives, people die in much more fascinating ways, like floating in space, and none of the characters has a British accent. Same concept, though.As for the cast, Angela Basset's in this - how far she's come/fallen since When a Man Loves a Woman! - and so is James Spader. And so is Lou Diamond Phillips - what is this, an 80's reunion? Where's Ally Sheedy? Where's Andrew McCarthy? The actors are given little to say or do that's of any substance; they all take a back seat to the effects, which truly are special. So bottom line for you, folks - not a bad little movie, for what it is, which is a meaningless pile of pseudo-interesting junk. A good popcorn film, as they said in the old days. Not worth your seven bucks, but not bad for 2-for-1 night at the video store. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented the movie on DVD and liked it.  Reading the comments of others, I have to agree.  I liked it, but it was a weak movie in a lot of ways.Compared to the vast majority of recent sci-fi releases, I thought it was much more intelligent and thought-provoking.  Personally, I thought James Spader's acting was very good, he's never shown this kind of forceful personality before and I'm always impressed when an actor can escape their usual typecast.It was fun, certainly not a classic.In addition to the criticisms I've read already on this list I would add a lot of very muddled shots.  A lot of the shooting was annoyingly confusing, a lot of complicated scenes were practically indecipherable.  What's going on?  What am I looking at?  Awful. "},{"Title":"Special Effects Only Go So Far","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first sign of a bad movie is the release date.  It is not often a good movie comes out in January.  This is no exception.  The second sign is when a director leaves and has to be replaced by someone else.  You would think that between Walter Hill and Francis Ford Coppola someone could have come up with a good movie.  No go, except for the effects and Robin Tunney.  She has quite a few good scenes, as almost any guy who has seen it can say.  Other than that, there are plenty of hints of a good movie somewhere. Unfortunately what is on the screen is not that movie.  The movie shows many signs of being cut and re-cut and all the audience is left with is a disjointed, confusing mess. "},{"Title":"Some cool effects but the technology suffers","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok my focus is on the inconsistency in the technology displayed and the quantum mechanics of this movie.  The ship uses a plasma beam to jump into hyperspace and jump over 3,400 light years.  Ok, that's fine.  Now in the future they have not figured out how to create artificial gravity yet, as the center of the ship has a spinning section to create gravity with centrifigal force. Ok, thats fine too, but how come the bridge of the ship that is in the front (which does not spin) has gravity then?  Other parts of the ship that do not spin do not have gravity (like the observation dome on the side where everybody goes to have sex).And what the heck is 9th dimensional material?  It is supposed to expand in all dimensions expodentially and reset the universe?Hmmmm, ok well how does 9th dimensional material travel at 60 times the speed of light?  If the material can reach earth in 52 years and they jumped 3,400 light years to get to where they are now. Then it would have to be traveling at 60 times the speed of light right?   And where does this stuff come from and how did they get it into the container?There's a lot of improbable and inconsistant theory here, and the whole thing starts over making a plasma jump and the accident that follows.  If plasma jumping is really that dangerous do you really think they would do it to begin with?Overall, a rather weak movie.  "},{"Title":"Buy the DVD!!!!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Buy the DVD. It is well worth the $19.95 for the 20 mins. of deleted scenes. Why these scenes were cut from the film, I do not know, but after seeing them the movie made a lot more sense. AND THAT ALTERNATE ENDING!!! That is the one they should have left in. WOW!!! "},{"Title":"Good cast gone to waste","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film probably had one of the best all around casts I've seen for a science fiction thriller in the past years with the exception of one or two actors. But sadly, the films fails to utilize this strength and ends up being an uninspired, typically stupid sci-fi thriller like we've seen recently. I saw this in theaters and regretted it. I also rented the DVD to see if the 20 minutes of film they cut out would have made it any better. It would have. If they would have left much of the footage in and kept the alternate ending in this film wouldn't have been nearly bad as it was. Although it still wouldn't have been anything special. If you're curious about this film, I'd advise renting the DVD. "},{"Title":"Half the movie Event Horizon was","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I waited over a year for Supernova to be released (editing probs prevented it from hitting theaters sooner that it did), and when it came to theaters I wasn't interested it seeing it anymore. Despite the fact that James Spader, star of numerous 80's films that we loved, starred. Waiting for the video release was an excellent decision on my part. All the hype and talk about this movie being another Event Horizon, a movie I adore, and it didn't live up to it's potential. I admit the effects were brilliant, as well as the casting, done by Christian Slater's mom. But there was something missing. That something was emotion. Angela Basset and Lou Diamond Phillips weren't their normal selves, even thought they were acting. James Spader can often be dreary as well as Robin Tunney. Even Wilson Cruz had a part that didn't fit, though I was happy to see him in an actual movie, a fine rising star. And I was more than disappointed in Robert Forster's role. Being a fan of his for years, I hope in his next movie he isn't offed quite so soon. I recommend this movie be seen at least once. I don't think I'll be watching it again any time soon, wasn't scary enough for me. Unlike Event Horizon, in which I still have to close my eyes during some parts of. "},{"Title":"Another film ruined by test-screening","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There were two things that I really disliked about this film. One The spaceship interiors looked too much like Star Trek and Two The ending failed to fulfill the 80 minute build-up.But other than that I thought it pretty decent, not good but decent. Then I watched the bonus material on my DVD (about 20 min) and realized that somewhere, before any test-screening, this film was absolutely cool. Especially the original ending that adds loads of cool special effects and gives the film a nasty final twist.So watch the film on DVD if you´re gonna watch it at all. "}{"Title":"What a relief, no puppies","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It was actually a big relief, I was after reading a review expecting some kind of monsters probably slimy and of course very mean. It was a long time since I saw a good Sci-Fi, no monsters, no possession from the devil and no slime (and not much blood). Of course it's not the best movie there is but sometimes you get so surprised by the lack of standard Sci-Fi crap so you ignore some of the faults. The special effects are good, what I don't like is the design of the ship, not so much the outside as the inside, the hard surfaces, the ladders and the uncozy atmosphere. Why don't they build things with light colors and more practical solutions. However it's a good movie for people tired of all those mean space monsters.  "},{"Title":"Ouch!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A coworker talked me into going and watch this one just after it had premiered. He had heard good things about it. Well, to cut it short, he heard wrong. But the popcorn and the coke were ok. "},{"Title":"Two minutes to dimensional jump, one minute to dimensional jump...","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this dimensional jump was a very nice one, great ship, nice view. I felt very well in my seat while this scene ran and thought that this will even make up if the rest of the movie will not be as perfect.I voted 6/10. There is nothing I really have to complain about. The relation between the people and the alien artifact could have been more clear. James Spader did a nice performance and Angela Basset is a nice actress anyway. Robin Tunney was horrible, I have seen her do better.  "},{"Title":"only watch this if it is to keep you off the streets","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The cast and acting is OK, but that's about all the positive I can say about this move. The story is very poor, the sounds is very poor, and the special effects are... you got it! very poor. The spaceship they're in just doesn't look right, it's hard to explain what's exactly wrong, but it just doesn't breath the atmosphere many other Sci-Fi movies and series do.  "},{"Title":"This should never have been made.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had me digging my fingernails into my legs almost constantly at dreadfullness of the entire movie.  The camera angles were simply horrible, moving all the time and going behind stuff in a vain effort to look original (they are even worse than Battlefield Earth's).  The actors all gave there lines like they had a gun to their heads, though the main guy was decent.  The humor  of the movie was laughable in it's stupidity.  The plot was cliche filled and boring, so boring that my friends and I came close to walking out (and this movie is only an hour and twenty minutes or so long); we've never walked out of a movie before.  The climax felt anti-climatic, with a You'll never know what happens until the never coming sequel feel.  The screenplay was bad, the camera was bad, and generally the acting was bad.  That simply makes for a bad movie experience.  Run away from this movie. Phalanx "},{"Title":"Unpretentious, visually attractive sci-fi fun.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unpretentious in plot, Supernova supports great visuals and a serious acting effort. Although this film has switched in directors an actual switch in the film is not visible. Great fun, especially after a series of 'meaningful-must-make-you-think' sci-fi flicks. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as the criticism suggests","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am a little surprised by much of the slating the film has received on this site.  The current score of 3.5/10 just does not do justice to what, while by no means brilliant, is an avergae movie deserving around 6 out of 10.I know the plot is weak in parts, and some of the dialog also.  But, the special effects, the sexual undertones and all round good actors make this an engaging if not awe-inspiring film.  Another saving grace is that the film is relatively short and does not overstay its welcome, unlike the awful Mission to Mars for example.So average it is, but terrible it ain't. "},{"Title":"THE PAIN!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst sci-fi movies I have ever seen! I ofcourse love science fiction movies, but this one really dragged the genre through the mud! The acting was poor, much like listening to boring small than anything interesting. The characters were not interesting, the plot was weak and short, and the special effects were not even that great! Ok, the jump sequence might be the best of the effects shots in the movie, but it seems to be a mix of both Stargate and Star Trek! Also there were considarable plot holes in the the story as well as some really stupid mistakes If they were a rescue craft, why did they only have enough jump pods for the crew alone? Does this mean that they only go to the area and find if there are suvivors and then leave again? What was the deal with Sweety and the crew member? IF she could finally think for her self, why didn't she help out the remaining crew members? And there are other problems too.A really bad film, not even worth renting on video, a *out of***** in my book. "},{"Title":"Super-bomb","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was an early 2000 sci-fi flick that looked terrible in previews and when compared to Pitch Black, another early 2000 science fiction movie, Supernova's deficiencies are flushed out.  Basically, see the Pitch Black article and reverse the review.  Add to this the fact that the movie cost $60 million dollars and has the feal of $5.QWhere did the money go?  ANot in the quality.The story is writen poorly and seems to wrip off from other movies instead of borrow from them.The interesting concepts of an energy force with ultimate potential and a mad-man bent on exploiting it have been seen and done better before.The love interests and aspects just dont add-up.The aspects could go on and on.  This will turn into a midnight movie and will provide some interesting entertainment, but all-in-all it is one to try and not see.Rating 3Viewed in theatre (scope) "},{"Title":"Stop bashing this film, its not that bad!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It sounds like many of you went to see this movie expecting to see Star Wars or The Matrix, and of course, you got robbed.  However, Supernova was not a bad movie.  I actually enjoyed it!  And, please stop with all of the porno references.  Yes, there was sex in this movie, does that make it a porno, NO!  You're probably pissed off because you brought your kid to see it thinking that it was going to be a kid sci-fi movie and what you ended up with was an Adult sci-fi movie (but not Porn)!  And, I bet most of you had problems with the interracial coupling.  Grow up!  For you that have not seen this movie, go see it, like I said its not that bad..... "}{"Title":"A B-grade porno-sci-fi hybrid whose only salvation was its SFX","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say? I was always taught that unless I had something nice to say that I shouldn't say anything at all. Well at least the special effects can satisfy that requirement - they were excellent. But other than that, Supernova was very disappointing. It brings up (again) that age old question of How can they spend so much money on a film and not get a decent script out of it??? This always astounds me. As a film student at UCLA, I can never understand why there are so many terrible scripts out there. Don't the producers realise that there are a ton of students who could give them a much better script for a lot less money - heck, I'd do it for free!There were so many opportunities for the film to be very good. The set was excellent, the effects great. But the acting and script really let it down. For some reason, every few minutes seemed to call for some kind of sex scene between various crew members. It was seriously like a kind of soft porno set in space, the sexual theme carrying right on until the very end. In fact, the closing lines of the film were sexual in nature. The music was even a little porn-like; definitely not suited to the theme of the filmI would definitely recommend waiting until this comes out on video, or even waiting until it is on TV. Although it is one of those films that is so bad it's funny. I only hope that Pitch Black is of a little more substance. "},{"Title":"where are the good sci-fi screen writers","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are four main assets to a great sci-fi flick. Great acting, superb visional effects, suspense, and a great written plot.  Alien, Matrix, and Terminator all have these wonderful qualities.  Without a great written plot the movie is a fluke.  Special effects are not but cotton-candy when there is not plot. What a waste of talent, money, and time.**1/2 of ***** stars "},{"Title":"Avoid at all cost","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've seen in the theaters in recent memory.The only reason I think anyone can rate this a 9 or a 10 is that they think that since they wasted so much money seeing it, that they would like other people to as well, or simply they thought it was funny in a sarcastic way.This movie had no redeeming characteristics. You can get as good special effects on TV, there was no continuous plot, the actors (although skilled) were dry and there was definately no scientific advisor consulted on this project.Don't see it in the theater, don't see it on video, don't even watch it when it comes out on network TV. "},{"Title":"The Actors Seemed to be in a Trance!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What struck me most about this sci fi flick was that the actors, especially veteran James Spader, seemed to be in a trance. There was very little sense of involvement and emotion expressed by them. Lines were delivered very matter-of-fact, and Spader was often inaudible! Robert Forster had little more than a cameo role, and even when in extreme physical distress he seemed bored.The plot is derivative from so many others and not as well realized. A distress call brings a medical vessel into contact with a distant mining colony with just one survivor - who is brought on board with some packages one crewman is stupid enough to open. Very stupid. The survivor is also stupidly not placed under guard or confinement even when the captain leaves the ship to recover something on the colony. Not very likely. The crew of this space ship did indeed seem remarkably dumb, including a sexually-addicted female. The special effects are good, but somehow unfulfilling due to the plot. Most of all, I never really cared much about the crewmen, not even the Angela Basset character. And characters we are not involved with equals a substandard movie.When I saw this film one afternoon in a theater of 200 seats I was the only one there. It wasn't painful to be there, like it was with Wing Commander, which was worse, but I'm glad I only paid the matinee half price for it.    "},{"Title":"Where's the ending?","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing Supernova a bit, mainly because, as IGN Movies says, nothing blows up bigger than a sun.  And there's no sun (or star) bigger than a blue giant.  So, what went wrong?  First off, there's zero character development.  We hardly get to know the characters throughout the entire movie, except for their main quality (this one's smart, this one's a hero, this one's crazy).  Also, we are thrust right into the story, without much of an exposition.  I guess the producers figured we would already know the characters.(WARNING Minor spoiler)And why bother with killing the captain?  It's seemed like a Oops, he died. In other news... situation.  We know the facts behind the reason of his death, but why even have him in the movie if he's only in there for about 15 minutes?(WARNING Spoiler)Another thing what's with the artifact?  It had so much potential (after all, the things 9-dimensional!).  But again, it was wasted, as the only thing it's good for is blowing up a star.  Which brings me to my next point...(WARNING Major spoiler)The supernova sucked.  Picture the explosion created by a dying blue giant, hundreds of times larger than our sun.  Picture the shockwave vaporizing anything and everything in its path.  Picture the heroes desperately trying to escape.  Now picture the whole thing lasting for about 5 seconds.  What a HUGE disappointment.  Also, the computer aboard the ship says the resulting explosion will reach Earth in 51 years, and will either destroy our planet, or create new life.  But do we get to find out what happens?  No.  All we get is the fact that the two survivors switched an eyeball each, and the woman is pregnant.  Whoopee.  In summary, this movie is like a 31 chapter book.  The director decides to start on chapter 2, and then skips every other chapter, effectively missing both the beginning and the end. Supernova is easily a contender for Worst Movie of 2000. "},{"Title":"utterly unpraiseworthy","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow. i saw this movie last night for 2 bucks at a bargain theater. guess what? I want my money and time back.  This is one of those movies that is so poorly done, you don't know whether to blame the actor the writers, the director, or all three.  I saw many people walk out this movie.  I only stuck around in hopes that it's somehow redeem itself at the end. surprise surprise, it didn't. "},{"Title":"better then Wing Commander","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first odd thing about this you will notice is the fact that this movie has no beginning credits. There is no credits of any kind nor is the title shown; they show the MGM logo and then it starts right into a shot of the ship Nightingale. The title of the movie is shown at the end of the movie and during the ending credits. The reason for this is that directors and producers kept quitting during production so they had to keep replacing the directors and producers. It's a wonder they finished the project at all; it's a good thing this movie is only 97 minutes long any longer this movie would have really sucked. Supernova is ok as these really bad science fiction movies go; it is better then last year's first bad stinker of the year Wing Commander. The reason why I say this movie was better then Wing Commander was the fact there was a lot of sex and you do get to see the tits of a good looking chick (and unfortunately butt of Nick) so there was a little less pointless chit-chat. The problem with both films is the fact that they are kind of like watching an episode of a television series. The sex and nudity is the only thing that can't be done on prime time TV but the rest of it can be on TV. Supernova really doesn't much of a plot; the violence in this film doesn't happen until near the end but the films action sequences don't offer anything special. Lessons Learned Sex in zero gravity is popular. People must go into stasis during dimension jump. Dimension jump can be deadly especially if your face forges with the material inside the stasis pod. Touching bombs can make you stronger.  "},{"Title":"Gratuitous use of lens flare!!!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Go see it.  There are some unrealistic physics things, like not exploding without a pressure suit in space, but movies are a different universe so we can assume that space is not a near vacuum in the movie universe.  There are many many lens flare and  unfocused lightbulb shots.  Another cool thing is that there are no opening credits. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Not worth the money, or the time","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow!  That was such a great movie!  Ha! Just kidding.  Two pretty awful movies in about 2 weeks (Super Nova and Galexyquest).  All I can say is that I'm glad I didn't pay to see this movie.  The acting seemed straight out of school (and not a particularly good school at that) and the storyline just fizzled out after about&#133;ooooh&#133; 5 minutes.  There where a few good special effects, and I think I laughed twice....once for sure.  Some of the actions they took and technologies they used in the film weren't adequately explained either.  I suppose if you've watched Star Trek for a while you could piece it together, but the movie should take care of that.  Speaking of Star Trek, ship receives strange distress signal through deep space from a far away planet.  No matter how obscene the idea is, the ship goes out of its way to answer the call, only to find out that signal wasn't what it appeared to be&#133;  Ring any bells?  This movie wasn't even original.  The only reason this movie didn't get an F is that eventually I may find a movie where I will get up and leave before it's over and did manage to somehow sit through Supernova.  I'm reserving the F's for those films. D- "},{"Title":"Public service","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler content.I entered this with realistic expectations. High failure rate for Sci-fi and for horror and combining both elements. Must be a 99% failure rate excluding the Aliens movies. I was still surprised at how bad this movie is. It truly makes Event Horizon look like an oscar winner. Both movies are similar in that both have solid cast but share a weak story and bad science. the characters are poorly defined, and of course for this movie foolish. they waste Angela Bassett, James Spader and Lou Diamond Phillips. Mr. Phillips may need a new agent after this and Bats. Mr. Spader seems to be striving for a Clint Eastwood accent. I found myself groaning and rolling my eyes (and not in a good way)at the science (the explanation of the alien artifact is a laugh)and the dialogue. Honestly, I am finding much better sci-fi on TV than what we cart out to the movies lately.I would prefer to tell people altogether to stay away in droves but, it has been about a week and I would think it should be on Video by now. "}{"Title":"Good effects, STUPID SCRIPT, only James Spader acted","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another in a long line of ALIEN/TERMINATOR rip offs without anything happening that I haven't seen before. The effects were fine, James Spader was good and played the only character that seemed to have a brain. The bad guy was totally cliched and senseless in his actions. Plot was non existent, a rehash of other movies like VIRUS and SPHERE with no science with the fiction. Total waste of time, and totally forgettable ten minutes after leaving the theater.  "},{"Title":"Good movie in spite of cheap tricks","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova was a good sci-fi movie, although it had the inevitable plot holes.  The special effects, as usual in recent sci-fi, were better than the plot, but it used herky-jerky camera work to substitute for real action.  I'm beginning to think that hand-held cameras were invented by the devil, since they are used to try to deceive us so often.  In the case of Supernova, the entire movie appears to have been photographed with the cameras being dangled on the end of bungee cords.  "},{"Title":"Unique concept wasted on bad actors, bad writers, etc...","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If this movie is any indication where the sci-fi genre is heading, then sci-fi is in bad shape.  Although I must admit that the story introduced some interesting ideas and visuals, the lack of any true characterization (and likable characters for that matter) and a poorly written script proved fatal to this film's appeal.  The director's vision of this film as some sort of space epic fell short when references to obscure future drugs and events were repeatedly used and never explained in the span of the movie. Halfway through the movie, I knew I wasn't the only one who was lost when the person next to me asked, What the hell is going on?In conclusion, bad movie, bad actors, bad script, good concept... almost.So if you're going to burn a ten dollar bill anyways, watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Boring, 2-dimensional garbage","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here's a quick synopsis Totally predictable, uninteresting characters, paper thin plot, uninspired special effects, annoyingly amateurish camera work, and no real payoff in the climax. It's amazing it didn't just go straight to video, but then again it would be a waste of time there too.  "},{"Title":"A major embarrassment","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  These days you can at least expect grade B sci-fi films to deliver good visuals and sound, but SUPERNOVA can't even pull that off. Following the plot requires that you pay attention to the explanatory material delivered by a disembodied ship's computer. The muddy sound that infests this film assures that this challenge cannot be met. Some of the visual effects are nice but then are intercut with BARBARELLA-level effects that ruin the whole visual experience.If there is a Raspberry Award for editing, this movie should win it. The cinematography, which features ultra-closeup, vertigo-inducing hand-held camera work, is also to be singled out as a prominent minus. James Spader is nearly unrecognizable here, both in terms of his physical appearance and by the absence of his normally solid acting. There's even a cheesy robot in SUPERNOVA, yet another attribute that makes this movie a living textbook on how not to present science fiction. "},{"Title":"waste of space","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So, you have all these talented actors in one place...and see them WASTED!!  Whoever put this together was asleep in the character development meetings.  Yeah great effects...but no plot, no characters, and ta-daaaa...no movie.  Nothing I would want to spend money on again ever!  This movie puts new meaning to the phrase waste of space  James Spader, Lou Diamond Phillips and Angela Bassett...dont EVEN put this on your resumes...you have all done better.  Wilson Cruz...cheer up there are much better things to come... "},{"Title":"Junk, but mostly entertaining junk...","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova had a decent pedigree.  Walter Hill, director of many of the larger action blockbusters of the 80's.  James Spader, Angela Bassett, Lou Diamond Phillips, and even Robert Forster. A large effects budget.  A Spring 1999 release date.Nobody's perfect.Pushed back twice to avoid first Phantom Menace, then Blair Witch and the Sixth Sense, MGM has dumped it upon us in January, release time of such classics as Virus and Deep Rising.  Walter Hill has removed his name, in favor of the new Alan Smithee name Thomas Lee.It's not that bad.  Viewed in the proper mindset, i.e. this is gonna suck and that's okay, Supernova is an entertaining little piece of junk.A deep space crew responds to a rescue beacon at a mining planet and brings on board a mysterious young man who is carrying an alien artifact.  The crew gradually begins to suspect the man of having ulterior motives, and mayhem ensues.MGM must have cut the gore out of this movie, because there are a few scenes that seem like they should have been longer.  They did, however leave in a few gratuitous male butt shots and some brief female nudity, garnering the PG-13 for what might have made it as a PG without it.  My companions and I sat watching this movie in the theater and giving it the MST3K treatment. If viewed in that frame of mind, Supernova is fairly amusing stuff.  Our chief complaint is that the script seems to have been patched together from several other movies, mainly Alien, and that the movie ends rather abruptly, with no clear conclusion.Hopefully they won't be throwing Supernova 2 at us. "},{"Title":"Heavy on special effects, light on plot","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova was a disappointment. It has excellent special effects, but that's about all. The movie was unclear on a lot of areas and overlooked a lot of information. For instance What century did it take place in? What kind of government structure had evolved - a federation, an empire, etc? Was the ship a part of large fleet of rescue vessels? Where exactly was the ship was at the beginning of the film? How far did it travel to respond to the emergency call?The plot was too simplistic and it degenerated into typical horror/violence like too many current sci-fi films (Event Horizon for example).The special effects were excellent - especially the dimension drive - but that's all. The rest of the film was predictable. "},{"Title":"I was quite entertained.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What I noticed almost immediately about this film is that it wasn't going to be just another sci-fi flick whose claim to fame would stop at special effects. From the get-go, the characters had depth and the dialogue was realistic. I found myself drawn into the world of Kaeyla and Nick, their tense but overly romantic attraction for each other, and what past events had occurred in her life to make her seem so superficially cold and bitter, when it was obvious she was laden with passion and drive. I enjoyed the character portrayal of Nick, as the almost perfect man... at first it was difficult to tell whether he was a hero or villain; his dark and mysterious aura mixed with seemingly good intentions, and his deliberate absence of emotion made him alluring and virtually real.I also liked the fact that the events were not predictable, as in many films today. I particularly enjoyed the religious or spiritual undertones and their relationship with the Big Bang theory of creation. The fact that the 9th dimensional object remained neutral and held both the powers of creation and destruction made it seem God-like. I was left with a feeling of hope and renewal. If you're a trekkie and you liked The Fifth Element, I would suggest seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Wow, this was bad.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Note A few sorta spoilers....Oh, my.... I don't know where to begin.... If only MST3K could do this movie...They have a robot that limps, that is probably the worst movie robot I've ever seen.The part of the ship's computer was the most developed character in the movie.3/4ths of the characters get killed within 5 minutes.I had the entire plot figured out within 5 seconds of her mentioning that he might have a son.The biggest question I have after seeing this movie... Why does a space ambulance need those harpoons all over the place? Space whales?At least it was short. ) "}{"Title":"Supernova is a credit to the editors who make film trailers.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova  Life aboard the rescue medical ship Nightingale is amazingly boring if crew members aren't rutting like crazed weasels in heat, they're trying to seduce the onboard computer, or practicing being disdainful of one another.  Thus when they receive a distress call from deep space, they are thrilled and spring into action.  When they do find the sole survivor, they soon realize that he isn't what he appears to be, and everyone is in danger.   The trailers for this movie had it all - good music, action shots, lust and some decent special effects.  It was obvious that they put a lot of effort into making this film look good.  That's always a bad sign.  In addition, the behind the scenes scuttlebutt was damning the movie had at least three directors (Coppola was among those who took a stab at it) and languished on the shelf for over a year.  Still, I was determined to see this movie with an open mind - I only regret I didn't head for the open door.With a paper-thin plot, horrible dialogue, flat acting, numerous rip-offs of good sci-fi films, and a mixture of good and really bad special effects, there is nothing that could have saved this film. I can only assume that they hired three Academy award nominees to elevate this film, but it only shows how far and fast the shining stars can fall.  Finally, The abrupt ending particularly annoyed me - I kept expecting something else to happen.All of this begs the question  Is there anything good about this movie?  Yes.  It's short runtime.   "},{"Title":"This movie was awful.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As soon as the movie started I already knew it was going to be bad. Nothing made any sense.  Is there are reason two of the crew members were always having sex?  Why did they have to get naked to make the jump?  To top off all the stupid questions, the movie never answered any of the important questions.  What actually happened on that moon?  What the heck is 9th dimensional matter?  In my opinion the movie was made up of nothing but special effects.  Which, in my opinion is not enough. "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad!!!!!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes I saw Supernova 2000, and I thought it was a pretty good movie, I give it about an 7/10. I agree with some critics that the movie could have been a little bit better, but it was a lot better than the 4 stars it got here. As a producer, I would of given it a better ending than what it got, its ending was cut short, which made me feel cheated at the end ( they should of had the two cast members and the space ship wreck into a paradise planet or something like that to restart human kind, before the explosion would take out earth)  Also they should of made the bad guy turn into a full fledge alien like they showed in the previews, which he doesn't .which made me feel more cheated. Another thing is that they should of made more animation through space  , not in the lightening parts though. The movie did have things going for it though, it did have some great acting and some really good animation, but I just wish they would of given the audience more of it, and thats why I give it a 7 instead of 8,9, or 10. I gave most of all the alien movies a 10. Thats what seems to be wrong with the movies these days like End of Days and star wars the phantom menace(which I gave an 8 too), they seem to hook you in, but never really takes you to the limit with the story and animation, it gives you a great taste, and that seems to be it. I remember the old days with Aliens , Raiders, and Return of the Jedi, and smile and wish it was like that again, when they took you to the limit with their story and animation. Go see this one its pretty good, your friend dunn-4. "},{"Title":"Not a good film, not a bad film.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rated this movie 5 out of 10.  I have seen much better, I have seen much worse.  I would say that while I was entertained watching this movie, I was not swept off my feet.  The special effects where nicely done, but a movie can not rely solely on it's effects.  The story was ok, but so much more could have been done with it.  This should be your 3rd or 4th choice of a movie to see.  In 5 years, this movie will be playing on a Sunday afternoon at 1PM, during football season, on a local station that does not have football.  Just my 2 cents. "},{"Title":"A brilliant achievement of mediocrity","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not quite a yawn-a-thon, but not too terribly exciting.From the previews, I got the impression that the villain was being turned into a vampire of sorts by the alien artifact, which makes me think of Lifeforce (and therefore running to the bathroom) but it isn't quite THAT bad.The plot was far too simple, and has been used in dozens of other movies. The villain was just not threatening enough, and most of the cast seemed bland with little or no character development.I was impressed, however, by the great shape both Spader and Phillips have kept themselves in. (The movie makes a point of showing off everyone's body to some extent).The special effects are okay, namely the Dimensional Jump Drive, and the supernova itself.Matinee price is the most I would pay for this, and that was just to kill a couple of hours... "},{"Title":"A corporate film making embarrassment. No wonder the internet is kicking Hwd's ass, their execs don't interfere w/their creatives.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you see this flick, and I advise you don't, you'll understand why writers and directors bemoan the interference of MBAs, attorneys and other business oriented executives.A fine setup/premise for the first 10 minutes, great EFX & production design. And from there it becomes a laughably, generic, tired story line which could be set in any boat, subway train, school bus or rather large mens room in any century.Decent performances by all the actors - poor things, I hope they got paid some serious dough. "},{"Title":"Supernova is eyecandy, a disjointed sci-fi thriller.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova is a great movie if you enjoy above-average special effects and watching attractive actors. Unfortunately, impressive special effects and pretty people don't make for a great film.The story is set on the medical ship Nightingale, which is floating through space. In addition to plot gaps, I also had a major problem with the set. Although the external ship looks believable enough, the interior of the Nightingale looks as if it's made of plastic.The problem with Supernova is that it fails successfully to convey and resolve the number of stories it is attempting to convey.Anyway, because I'm a sucker for sci-fi thrillers, I enjoyed watching Supernova. I just didn't understand it. "},{"Title":"Dull.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While I have seen many worse science fiction films, Supernova leaves a lot to be desired. From the start, I knew who was going to die and who was going to live. Everyone who died had extremely 2-dimensional characters. Interesting but dull plot, okay acting, but a script that was mediocre at best. The action was slow moving and had me looking at my watch often. Good special effects. Don't see this in theaters, don't rent the video, wait for the television release. At least the commercials will give you something to get interested in. "},{"Title":"I lost $20 for nuthin'","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucked.  I would rather have seen James Spader in Pretty in Pink II.  At least that would have had a good soundtrack! (maybe)  I had more excitement seeing Pigs in Space than sitting through this one. Go see something else instead.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of this Century (So Far...)","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had such high hopes for this movie, but I was sadly mistaken.  For a movie as short as it is, it seems to take forever to get through.  This movie seemed to make the same mistakes as The Devil's Advocate.  It takes forever to see something remotely interesting, and then it slows back down again. Gratuitous sex and nudity, bad dialogue, bad characters, bad story, bad ending...to sum it up BAD MOVIE.  1 / 10 "}{"Title":"SuperNavet","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In French, a navet is a bomb, a third-rate film.  Well, this is a SuperNavet!  Not worth even renting!  Weak plot, no action, not even a scare!  Rated less than the most ordinary episodes of Star Trek TNG.  The look of the film is Okay, but nothing new.  Save yourself time and money! "},{"Title":"Amusing, but without a discernable ending...","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was just mediocre right up to the end... where it takes a sudden turn to the cutting room floor. This has happened to a lot of movies, the one that sticks out in my mind the most was James Cameron's The Abyss... but unlike this film, The Abyss could stand on the footage that hadn't been dumped on the floor.Spader and Bassett somehow manage to carry the film thru to its anti-climatic ending. It is only because of them that the film is even worth bothering to see.The film lacks a discernable ending. It is because of this that the film falls flat on its face. I left the theater feeling completely let down by the film.  "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SUPERNOVA was a pretty good movie in that it was entertaining, but was a little slow to start. The special effects were good (not great though). The story was pretty good as well as the acting, and although some other viewers didn't like the ending, I thought it was cool. However, after watching this movie, I read some articles on it and realized that there were a lot of scenes edited out (some, to my disappointment). Also, in some scenes I was a little confused with the plot, and why didn't they just make this movie rated R? It was barely PG13 with all the sex and nudity and they wouldn't have had to do a job of editing out all the gore if it had been R.Overall though, I give Supernova a B-,or **1/2, or a 6, whichever you prefer. "},{"Title":"Wait for the video, if at all","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS INCLUDED!!The fact that this science-fiction/horror movie is rated PG-13 is a might big tip-off as to what you should expect. There is very little character development, a lot is done with special effects, and the action, when it does come, doesn't grab you. I cared very little for these characters... does anyone else think I'm writing a review for Star Wars Episode 1? With the exception of the sci-fi/horror reference, I wouldn't be surprised. Everything in this movie is understated--the exact danger that James Spader poses as a recovering Hazen addict, the conflict between Spader and Angela Bassett, the HAL-like character of Sweetie (her voice was one of the two best parts of the movie for me, the other being the Scream 3 trailer that played before the feature), the pure horror of Peter Facinelli and what his character is turning into.  Also, the aesthetic. The shaky, overdramatic shots, the odd placement of characters within a frame. It works great for The Blair Witch Project, but not here. I wasn't expecting a great movie, I didn't go into this movie to be blown away--I expected little, but I got even less than that out of the movie. The trailers for this movie were better than what it advertised! And the ending--stop with the cheese, please! If what happened to Robert Forster at the beginning of the movie happened to the survivors, maybe I wouldn't be as disappointed. I was planning on starting this year's movie viewing off right. This movie was a mistake. "},{"Title":"wasted potential, but still better than Wing Commander","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First off, let me say that I was really disappointed with this movie. I'd been waiting for it to come out for a long time, and the final result was...well, pretty mediocre. A good premise and great effects don't necessarily make for a good movie. You actually need things to happen in between besides anti-grav sex. But I do think people are being overly-critical of this movie. While it's certainly no 2001, or even as good as the underachieving Event Horizon, it's much, much better than say, Wing Commander, or Lost in Space. Now those movies were embarrassing. Supernova wasn't really bad, it's just that it would have been better suited to being an Outer Limits episode than a full length movie.  "},{"Title":"the worse movie I have ever seen","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You can even imagine how bad this movie is,only if you see it.This is the only thing that I would never recommend you to do. Almost no plot,or it is so week that I can't even see it,bad almost stupid custing and there is no idea what the hell is going on when you watch it.The scenario is simple.Spaceship gets sos, flies there, gets screwed loosing almost all crew and returns back killing the bad guy. When the movie ended my friend asked me That's it? If you want visual effects watch Matrix, if you want sci-fi get Terminator or Matrix. That spaceship remind me of coffee grinder. Watching that movie is REAL waste of time. I gave 110.  "},{"Title":"How could they even release this?","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hmm, how to describe Supernova... Supernova is like a giant blob of scenes (mostly stolen from better movies) which have little to do with one another, scotch-taped together into what is supposed to be a single narrative.  I mean, this movie doesn't know if it wants to be a rip-off of Aliens or a porn film set in space (yeah, real people have sex two hours after meeting for the first time) or a profound theory about evolution and 9th dimensional matter (don't ask, because the writers don't even try to explain).  Plot points are raised early in the film and then completely forgotten, like how they'll only have eleven minutes to escape the planet, or whatever it was.  It's no wonder MGM released it in early January-- obviously they just wanted it to earn back some of the production costs and then die quickly.  The real question is how any executive could greenlight a script like this... "},{"Title":"Super What?","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Amazing how you can be subjected to about 85 minutes of overall very good Special effects, except the Sex scenes in the floating Observation bubbles, and so little real acting. Once people were naked and floating it had a 40 year old movie superimposed kind of effect which was sad to see compared to the other effects. James Spader looked buff and ready to play the pilot part. He wasn't likeable at first but you knew he would be the real good guy.  No real chemistry between anyone. The Bad guy was real bad but it took way too long for Angela to figure out who he really was. Sweetie the Computer was very contradictory for a logical, then illogical, then logical machine.  She couldn't seem to protect anyone from anything though.  Most of the cast became expendable quite rapidly.The visual Melting effect with the alien object were great. Not enough to make up for a weak story and not so good characters. Lou Diamond Phillips looked like he had Elmers Glue on his face and Flour in his hair before the object made him Young again.The final Jump back across space was too much with end result being so colorful yet giving you hope for a better ending in the next 51 years for the sake of the remaining cast.Don't bother seeing in the Theater.  Only 15 others did with us on day 2 in our area.  Hollywood should do better.  Walter Hill has done better but not in space. "},{"Title":"Competent, if slightly predictable, SF/thriller","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova has a fabulous cast and great special effects but after being spoiled by The Matrix, the story is the weakest part. Not that it's bad or incoherent, but it's not hard to guess what's going to happen. The only question is when and how. It's entertaining and didn't deserve to be dumped into the black hole of January releases. "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie must be viewed as a major dissapointment.  You'll wonder where you've seen this plot before, and better!  You can see the next step coming before anyone in the cast, and it isn't that exciting.  James Spader and Angela Basset turn out good performances with this lame material, but the rest of the cast is unnoteworthy, especially the bad guy.  Good special effects are not unique to good movies, as we've seen over and over again in the past.  And the effects here are not even that good, who designed the sets anyway?  Despite some interesting moments and a few good performances, this movie never gets beyond the lame plot and contrived devices.  Stay away from this Supernova. "}{"Title":"In the mold of ALIEN and THE MATRIX . . .","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'll confess, the only reason I watched this was because my date's children were in another movie and we were basically waiting for them.  On a whole, the movie isn't terrible, just not particularly gripping.  Like the original ALIEN, SUPERNOVA is set aboard a spaceship on a long voyage.  Isolated from Earth and any other nearby inhabited planets.  The ship receives a distress call, a lone survivor is brought aboard and mayhem ensues.      Quite frankly, I was surprised at the amount of nudity that was in this film and it only had a PG-13 rating!  Granted, we don't see breasts or male genitals, but it does show a lot for such a general rating (including a couple of zero-gravity sex scenes).  You would probably do better to wait for this to come to the bargain theatres or on video. "},{"Title":"Very bad","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am sure I have watched worse, but not recently. The movie is slow most of the time.Many scenes challenge the imagination and not with out of this world issues, but with issues about human nature.. without giving much away let's just say that several of the good guys get killed too easily and that when the remaining ones win it didn't seem too convincing.There were many inconsistencies which make the movie even less believable. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Lives!","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine Ed Wood is alive and still directing. What sort of movie would he be making? Supernova. I kept thinking, No. No way. He (the director) didn't just do that! It was all there. 100% Ed Wood. The stars trapped in a nightmare production. The cheesy sets. The what should we do now script. The end of the movie is the most inappropriate I've ever seen. It's like they couldn't think of a good ending so they just stopped filming after a while. You know the scene from Quest for the Holy Grail where the animator dropped dead, and the plot thread fades away? The ending was just like that. The entire audience said out loud (in unison), That was the dumbest fucking ending I've ever seen. MST3K would reject this movie. Nah, to easy. The smartass reviewer was right. I felt like a clubbed tuna. "},{"Title":"Why, Oh why","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Why was this waste of celluloid actually released to theatres.  I got to see Supernova for free and left feeling totally ripped off.  Where to start bad, dated story; stiff, boring acting;  uninteresting villain; and uninteresting heroes.  However, the worst part of Supernova was that it was OBVIOUS that they cut it down significantly to get the coveted PG-13. I'm sorry, but any story that relies so much on sex and gore CANNOT be made properly without an R.  All in all, this should have been released direct-to-video or not at all "},{"Title":"Intense Sci-Fi","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova seems to be one of those films that its studio doesn't have much confidence in; it's been dumped into the mid-January boxoffice doldrums with very little fanfare after having sat on the studio shelf for more than year, having its release date delayed several times.  To be sure, the film does have it's share of flaws.  The script seems often too familiar of earlier films of the genre, the film seems like it was extensively cut in order to avoid an R rating (even with the extensive end credits, it barely reaches 90 minutes...which, as noted by an earlier reviewer, seems to be a regular habit of the fine folks at MGM)and director Walter Hill apparently was so embarrassed by the finished product that he tried to save face by changing the director credit to Thomas Lee.These flaws aside, however, I still found this an intense, suspenseful and entertaining sci-fi thriller with some nicely-paced action, good special effects and a fine cast bringing it all to life.  It reminded me in places of Event Horizon, only not as brilliantly weird and twisted as that film.  Supernova is definitely no masterpiece (hopefully we can see a director's cut on DVD someday?), but IS a fairly diverting way to kill an hour and a half, especially for diehard sci-fi fans.   **1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Intense Sci-Fi","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova seems to be one of those films that its studio doesn't have much confidence in; it's been dumped into the mid-January boxoffice doldrums with very little fanfare after having sat on the studio shelf for more than year, having its release date delayed several times.  To be sure, the film does have it's share of flaws.  The script seems often too familiar of earlier films of the genre, the film seems like it was extensively cut in order to avoid an R rating (even with the extensive end credits, it barely reaches 90 minutes...which, as noted by an earlier reviewer, seems to be a regular habit of the fine folks at MGM)and director Walter Hill apparently was so embarrassed by the finished product that he tried to save face by changing the director credit to Thomas Lee.These flaws aside, however, I still found this an intense, suspenseful and entertaining sci-fi thriller with some nicely-paced action, good special effects and a fine cast bringing it all to life.  It reminded me in places of Event Horizon, only not as brilliantly weird and twisted as that film.  Supernova is definitely no masterpiece (hopefully we can see a director's cut on DVD someday?), but IS a fairly diverting way to kill an hour and a half, especially for diehard sci-fi fans.   **1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"A contender for one of the worst movies of 2000!!Avoid!boring!","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a rehash of Star Wars,Star Trek and other science fiction movies. The movies it's closely similar are Event Horizon(another stinker, BTW) and The Black Hole by Disney in the late 1970's!The cast works with what material they have, but it does not save this messy pathetic piece of trash from boredom!Why this movie was not rated R is amazing!It has more nudity than Titanic!!The special effects are decent, but we have seen better in movies such as the Star Wars movies,the Star Trekmovies, Starship Troopers and others!If you want to go to the movies avoid this movie and see either The Green Mile or Toy Story 2 , there far better than movie!!Otherwise wait for the DVD/video release because bad word of mouth will put this movie on DVD/video to rent very soon!!Other than , at least you can see James Spader's buffed up body and the cast in several nude scenes!!This movie is about bad as Adam Baldwin's Starquest 2 with Robert Englund!!So remeber you were warned by the viewer here first about this movie, one of the worst of 2000!It might even get some Razzies(bad movie awards) later on this year!!!oh, did I mention I even managed to take a nap due the fact it's boring and dull!!? "},{"Title":"Such possibilities , such a poor result","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was excited about this movie. The possibility of the first of a number of Sci-Fi movies this year being a hit. But alas just another dud. The best thing about this movie is the FX and the ship. Angela Bassett seems to be the only one who is even trying, the rest of the cast just seem to be collecting a paycheck. The story is contrived and lame. The sound is muddy and all the echo added to the computer and the cast makes it difficult to follow. Then there's the camera work, I had really hoped that Hollywood had gotten over the in your face hand held camera phase. The constant herky jerky moving and zooming makes the picture fuzzy and out of focus and gives me a head ache. My friends and I disagreed on whether to give it a 3 or a 4 out of 10. Either way it didn't impress us much. "},{"Title":"An non-entertaining Event Horizon / Sphere","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The coming attractions for this movie made it seem as interesting as such entertaining modern sci-fi deep-space films as Event Horizon or Sphere. However, Superonva failed to meet these expectations.  It was one of the few movies I've seen where leaving the theater mid-film was a real consideration.  Supernova lacks the sort of intriguing plot that is required in such an outer space science fiction film.  While some of the scenes look great, they seem as if they could be clips of a movie with an actual plot. Maybe the film had been longer, but was shortened.  Also, the control panels of the space ship and some other elements look like they were taken out of a 20-year-old film.  Maybe this movie would have been interesting and innovative had it been released that long ago when some of these science-fiction ideas had not already been created and would be unable to be copied to create a film that is definitely not worth $8.  Maybe about $2.75 "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova is a big, loud, confused film. It's a shame that it wasn't as good as it could've been. Although the look of the film was truly colorful and the special-effects were pretty good, I couldn't figure out what the movie wanted to be about.There were plenty of imcomprehensible fight sequences that were made incredibly annoying due to handheld cameras. Why did the film have to create ONE bad guy to be the embodiment of whatever evil encompasses the film. That's a cheap way out. The movie is just cheap, but it's not incredibly terrible. "}{"Title":"Not great SF, but OK... see it on video.","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see Supernova on impulse, without having had ever heard of it before. I was skeptical this would be as bad as the last deep space SF movie I gambled on, the dreadful Event Horizon, but this turned out to be an OK movie.  The plot is muddled at times, characters occasionally do things that don't make any sense, and scientific explanations are a little schlocky, but at least you aren't drowned in technobabble. There's not much new here for SF fans. Setting the story on a medical rescue ship was a nice touch, but the concepts here have all been used before on Star Trek & Babylon 5, and the resolution is pretty predictable. The special effects are good, but not cutting edge. (The badly-filmed sex scene in zero-g had me squirming.) James Spader is decent as the copilot, but Angela Bassett as the doctor and Lou Diamond Phillips as a medtech have both done better work than this. The first SF movie of the 2000s isn't great SF, but it's not bad SF, either.  I doubt there's anything much memorable here that will make Supernova a SF classic. "},{"Title":"How did this make the theaters?","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This straight-to-video thriller accidentally made it to theatrical release. Some of the effects were interesting, especially the dimension jump thingy that allowed the spaceship to catapult itself 3,000 light years. However, the threat was not near menacing enough. Vincent D'Onofrio was quite slimy as the bad guy. James Spader was adequate as the co-pilot, but didn't really pull off the hero role for me. "},{"Title":"At least the FX were okay...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A transcendently bad script (which vaguely recalls Aliens or Event Horizon or Virus etc.) renders this movie unwatchable.  Spader and the rest of the cast passably act through bad dialogue, no plot and some okay-but-not-great special effects.  Suspension of disbelief was non-existent for me (esp. my disbelief that this movie was actually made and released).  All in all I believe most folks associated with this project (except the fx guys/girls) will do well to strike it from their resume. "},{"Title":"A good B-movie, but too short & predictable","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would first like to start off by saying, before going into the movie today, I thought it was gonna blow chunks.hard.and that's not a euphemism. All I heard about this flick is bad, bad, bad.but those are professional critics, and I'm only 14.  Director Walter Hill had disowned his film, and hid (I guess) under the pseudonym Thomas Lee.  I also heard that this movie was in the can for a couple years (it was supposed to come out near Event Horizon's release date in 1997? It's not clear if that's true or not, though) until someone picked it up and finished editing it.  What else could go wrong?  Well, I didn't find out until today, when I had to drive 1 hour to see the movie.  Will it be an hour I had to regret?  Let's see...I want to start out with the good things.very good visuals and sound.  I watched it in a very new movie theater with Dolby Digital EX and stadium seating.can't get any better.  The space shots were awesome.  But that's not the entire movie, now is it?  It had pretty decent acting, something you don't find very often in these spacey sci-fi movies.  And then.um.well.there's not too much to add about the good things.  Now, don't think I'm gonna trash this movie.  The movie was way too short to develop a very good plot.about as long as The Blair Witch Project (I think 87 minutes not counting the credits).  It didn't focus too much on the oncoming supernova, rather the bad guy.  The alien artifact they found was not completely explained.I was left wondering what the hell it was.  Is it because I had to go to the bathroom during the movie to flush $5 down the toilet? Nah, it was way too confusing.  A 9th dimension thingamabob inside 3rd dimension matter?  Hmm.  And, it was a little predictable, and that's not very good.  I like spoiling movies before I go seeing them, but if I hadn't, it would still be predictable.  Like aforementioned, it was too short to incorporate any good twists.  The camera work was like NYPD Blue on a bad day!  Too many light feedbacks, and it was really shaky.  And there was a little too much sex in the movie.  It kind of revolved around that aspect, especially the bad guy.In the end, Supernova is not a spectacular movie, but if you want a little fun, check it out if you're into sci-fi flicks.  Don't expect a mind-blower, though.  "},{"Title":"the name of this movie should have been nova b/c there was nothing super about it.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a complete waste of my time.  In fact, I'm considering talking to a lawyer about suing for my 2 hours back.  This movie proved one thing, that in Hollywood, you don't need a plot, script, or a coherent theme to make a movie.  This movie (at best) is a combination of the worst parts of Event Horizon and some random B-rated sci-fi flick that Cinemax usually runs at 330 in the morning.   The phrase coming soon, to video is probably the best marketing tool the studio can use to promote this movie.  If you get the urge to see this movie, I have some advise for you&#133;take 10 dollars out of your wallet and then flush it down the toilet&#133;it's roughly the same effect.     "},{"Title":"An okay Sci-fi movie","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good special effects and a different storyline. Not the greatest movie but entertaining.  More like a high dollar Outer Limits. Acting was allright but the ending is definitely not hollywood which makes it stand out more than most flicks. "},{"Title":"Alright Movie if your into Sci-Fi movies...","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seems to lack a little plot wise. The ending left a lot more to be desired because it left the audience speechless as if they had wasted their time. It reminded me of the original ALIEN. Many people in the theatre left early. All in all its not that bad if your a fan of the sci-fi genre and you have spare time on your hands. "},{"Title":"CUT TO SHREDS","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing about this film and seeing stills of a bloody autopsy I was shocked to see it tagged with a PG-13. Some more intense effects and structure (it had none) were obviously lost by cutting the film down from an R. Maybe the picture will be redeemed in a director's cut on DVD, but the current print in theaters is simply not worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Good sci-fi movie","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a great diversion for the sci-fi movie buff.  It has James Spader, a spaceship, and a mysterious device of alien origin - what more do you need?  Though rather predictable, the special effects alone are worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Trust your instincts on this one.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Worried about the fact this movie really doesn't LOOK like a PG-13 film, but more like one of those straight to video space horror flicks?  Worried why MGM hasn't tried to capitalize on the big name stars and has had no prescreenings by critics?  GO with that thought.The cast tries their best to rise above the familiar plot, but it's still too much like Event Horizon meets Dead Calm.  Starting from the first five minutes, this film has more suddenly cut short (and strangely IRRELEVENT) sex scenes than a movie on USA's UP ALL NIGHT.  Every member of the cast always finds a new reason to be running around the ship without clothes (kind of UNUSUAL for a PG-13 film).  The female nudity was trimmed, so brace yourself for lots of bare chested scenes of LOU DIAMOND PHILLIPS. Not my cup of tea, but maybe it will please his legions of adoring fans.Even the gore appears trimmed. Sure the visuals were okay, in the neat Sci-fi landscape sort of way, but when the action heats up, it suddenly turns to JIGGILY-CAM.  Yes, you too can feel space sickness. SUPERNOVA has it's moments, but you get the impression that there wasn't much plot there even BEFORE it was cut to fit the PG-13 rating.  Wait for a NOT RATED DVD version if you MUST see it.  "}{"Title":"What???","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i don't know whether to blame the director(s) or the studio. i really have a hard time believing that a veteran film-maker like walter hill would create such a huge piece of garbage. the audience gets hints into some potentially cool material but nothing is generated from it. i want to see the original directors uncut version to see what was so controversial that the studio decided to massacre this film. mgm should have a guilty conscience for cutting a director's film to shreds and then putting out an hour and a half movie that doesn't deserve to go straight to video. a perfect example of film-making as art versus the money/business/non-threatening side - the money side won out in this case - i can't imagine how walter hill feels. the studio people who ruined this movie at mgm are a bunch of wimps!!! "},{"Title":"Painfully Predictable","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  O, that Y2K had caused the end of civilization (and Hollywood along with it) so that this movie would never be released.. never before has a movie been -so- predictable and -so- bad at the same time. It wasn't even worth going to for the eye candy - the effects were repetetive, probably based on the premise of if it worked once, it'll work again... This is one that will doubtless be on many a critic's Worst Movie of 2000 list.Don't waste your time, money, energy or brain cells on this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointing and predictable.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I don't really know what to say about this movie, other than after reading a previous review claiming it to be the best movie ever made I have to say that I was thoroughly disappointed. I would describe it as a cheap knock-off of Event Horizon which wasn't all that good to begin with. There were a couple decent special effects scenes, the standard warp through space type stuff, but the best special effect scene was shown in the trailer, and wasn't even any longer in the movie. There were no surprises or twists in this movie, everything pretty much happened as expected, and the ending was very disappointingly predictable and silly. When the credits appeared, the people in the theater seemed astounded that thats all there was - that this movie was less exciting than a typical episode of Star Trek or Babylon V. I have -never- left a critical movie post before this one. I am not a critical person. I gave this movie a 2 out of 10 though.  "},{"Title":"ran out of fuel. 5 out of 10","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had high hopes 1/2 through; there was good character development, and no huge reliance on special effects.  Then all of a sudden most of the characters are blown out of air locks and the remaining ones chase each other around, the bad guy gets killed and we're left asking is that it!?  "},{"Title":"Watchable escapist nonsense","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Supernova is no more than a passable big budget B-movie.  The lead actors (Spader and Bassett) are really quite good in their roles and some interesting concepts are brought up (i.e. the origins of the alien artifact) but never fully developed.  The film really doesn't seem any different from the string of endless Alien rip-offs like Event Horizon and the other low budget clones.  Really, if Supernova had been made by Trimark for 4 million bucks it would have been a great effort.  But coming from a big studio it's nothing more than a fairly efficient timekiller. "},{"Title":"I loved the movie.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was fun, it wasn't as great as a lot of movies of its kind, but its still a must see. The special effects were great, the story was real great, and the whole thing was. As far as questionable content goes, there is some. You see a guy's butt twice, boobs for like a 1/4 of a second, and then naked people sideview laying down a lot. People have sex a lot in the movie. Its still pg-13 content though, it wasn't as bad as I just made it sound.I give the movie 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"2010 A Space Odyssey?","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While the graphical effects are astounding, the movie is not as interesting as it could have been. Supernova's plot resembles too much that of Space Odyssey, particularly 2010, combined with Terminator. The difference? Space Odyssey has monoliths, while Supernova has a ninth dimensional matter, which apparantly arouses feelings of sexuality of certain crew members. HAL is replaced by Sweetie (female voice). Supernova also has popular Hollywood filters - fights, violence, mutations, self-healing (is that Terminator 3?), sex, as well as fast paced action.  Picture a compressed and disguised version of Space Odyssey. Three hours of movie into one and a half hours of action. Oh, and could I have sex, please?I'm sure there are many different opinions on this movie, but as for me, all the work that was put into Supernova did not pay off. "},{"Title":"I love a good sci-fi flick.  This wasn't it.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It looked like an exciting premise...It was a bad movie, having next to nothing to do with the Supernova of the title.  An alien artifact...  a hopped up Gen-Xer...  and enough steel-grey sets to make Lost in Space look colorful.I can't blame it on the actors...  they did what they could with dull writing, horrible direction, and a plot that was part 90210, and part Star Trek - Next Generation.They had a real movie here, lurking somewhere way back in the early drafts of the script...  but it seems like they plugged in all the right parts to make a Hollywood movie. A little gratuitous sex, a little jealousy...  a lot of shirtless people, naked for no particular reason..And toss in enough plot holes and head scratchers to make you bald...And what have you got?  A bad movie.Don't blame the actors.  Pity them.  They tried hard.But don't see this movie.  Not even if it's free. Rent Blade Runner, or a Star Wars flick, or a Star Trek movie...   "},{"Title":"Supernova was an OK film.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think that anyone could mistake this movie for a masterpiece, but it wasn't bad.  It was your typical science fiction movie, and therein lies the movie's greatest fault it revisited ground covered by too many other space disaster movies.  The premise was great, but there wasn't enough character development, and some of the performances did not ring true.  Things were too pat, too predictable, and there wasn't very much more than cool special effects to keep the audience interested.  If you've been hooked by the trailer, go see the movie.  It's a good way to spend an hour and a half, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"It's a gigantic bomb, all right","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie underwent a lot of problems while filming; director Walter Hill even removed his name from the finished product.  While he can hardly be blamed (the movie is awful), you have to wonder why he signed on to film such a foolish script in the first place.But then, who can tell what the script was like?  As it is, it's an incoherent mess sparked by some good performances.  Technically, it's absurd; this, folks, is an ambulance ship.  One of the features of any ambulance is the ability to transport patients in order to get better care than the ambulance crew can provide.  But this ship only has enough dimensional pods for the crew -- so where would patients be placed? Great care is taken to show us that some of the ship rotates to provide gravity in the form of centrifugal force.  However, the bridge doesn't rotate -- and still has gravity.Technical goofs like this, however, are very minor compared to a story that is incapable of making a link between the Weird Object that's brought on board, and the transformations the patient is undergoing. The story required him to become superhuman, so he does, even though this has nothing to do with the danger the Weird Object represents.  (Which is incoherently explained anyway.)Also, the film has obviously been hacked at in order to get a more acceptable rating than R.  So most of the fights consist of the bad guy flinging other people around.  There are other signs of severe trimming too, not the least of which is that in magazines covering the film, there are photos of a monster that doesn't appear in the finished film at all.What a mess.  "}{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ho hum, another sci-fi film.  I was most reminded of Event Horizon (another flawed but generally watchable movie) although after the first 20 minutes Supernova fails to display the originality that Event Horizon at least aimed for (even if it never paid off).  At it's core, Supernova is a rewrite of Alien with a human as the villain instead of an extraterrestrial.  There are few surprises, nothing that resembles a plot twist and even the methods used to dispatch the support characters are rather mundane.  The climax is formulaic and the main threat never seems all that threatening.  The effects are good but in today's age of computers, spaceships & explosions aren't that much.  One scene however had such horrid blue screening (a zero-g tryst between the villain & a minor female character) that one wonders how it remained in the film.Yes, I'm being harsh but the film really wasn't that bad, it just wasn't that good either.  Certainly not bad enough for director Walter Hill to remove his name from the credits (he took credit for the far worse Last Man Standing).  If you just have to see every sci-film that comes out, check this one as a matinee but don't expect anything original. "},{"Title":"To understand the problems this movie had it's a miracle it turned out the way it did","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have been waiting for this movie for over a year.  I first read about it in Fangoria and got excited because Geoffrey (Romper Stomper) Wright was directing it.  Well then he was fired, quite, or as they say had creative diffrences and Walter (48hrs.,Last man Standing) Hill was directing, well Hill directed i think every shot you see in the movie but wanted to do some reshoots that were denied so he left during the editing and Jack (The Hidden, Nightmare on elm street 2, Wishmaster 2) Sholder took over, well i don't know what happened to him but THEN Francis Ford Copolla came in to do the editing (he must really be slumming to take over editing chores on a movie he didn't direct...or was offered a nice check).  Well from there i don't know what happened but Walter Hill took the name of Thomas Lee for the director credit.  So the movie was......GOOD not great but good.  It did feel kinda rushed (due to the editing i'm sure) and there were scenes in the previews that were not in the film (like a cool looking scene of a deformed looking person telling Angela Bassett to help him/it) and i cannot believe Robert Forster was in the movie for only what 5 minutes he's not a big actor but i thought he was on a come back after Jackie Brown (he probably had more scenes that were cut out).  The last two issues of Fangoria also show an autopsy scene that looked nice and gory where Angela Bassett was cutting into a body which is'nt in the movie and Peter Facinelli's character Troy mutates into a hairless creature resembling the clones at the end of the Judge Dredd movie is shown in the same two issues but is not in the movie. So why all the trouble I don't know but MGM has butchered other Sci-fi/horror movies (remember Disturbing Behavior) for hopes of gaining a wider audience when all they end up doing is HURTING their movie and as much as i like them space ship movies have not did so well lately (Alienresurrection, Event Horizon both didn't do well) so MGM probably spent more money in the long run and even though i liked Supernova and want it to do good it probably won't so they lost more money in the long run i'm sure (congratulations MGM guys, in the long run you screwed yourselves). But for all the trouble the movie made sense and it was a fun movie with really good special effects.  "},{"Title":"You know you're in trouble when....","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a moviegoer, you know you're in trouble when... -you can't even say Well, at least the special effects were great.-the only character not severely stunted emotionally is the villain.-the only good things you can say include James Spader sure has buffed-up.-the movie is so embarressed about itself that it doesn't even tell you it's title until the end of the movie.-Angela Bassett's discomfort at being in the movie is more palpable than her character's discomfort at the prospect of death. Not that I want to give the impression that this is the worst movie ever made.  It just isn't good.   Angela Bassett and Wilson Cruz are fairly well spared from embarrassment because they transcend the material, but this really isn't the movie Lou Diamond Phillips should have followed up Bats with. The acting, overall, was fine.  However, the story was alternately boring and lame.  I was especially amused by the implication at the beginning that violent 20th century cartoons (specifically Tom and Jerry) led to the entire human race becoming malicious.  Nice.In the past, I have found some movies with really bad word-of-mouth to be quite enjoyable.  This isn't one of them. "},{"Title":"Similar to Solaris in some ways","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is cool It starts as one thing, ends as something else. Visual effects are stunning, and story is interesting. Directed by Walter Hill under a Pseudonym! Basically, the film seems to be about changes - The Gimmick of the film is a Bomb that will destroy, but also rebuild, life (as in the Genesis Device from Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan) - But not a direct ripoff of that gimmick, just similar. Also similar to the Necromonger Religion of The Chronicles of Riddick - Where the Necromongers must destroy every planet in the known universe before they can go to the new, unspoiled Underverse, so this is not a new concept in science fiction destruction gadgets, just an interesting one.The Gimmick has a physical affect on the characters of Yerzy Penalosa (Lou Diamond Phillips) and mostly on Troy Larson (Knox White/Peter Facinelli) who becomes Karl Larson and so they used two different, but very similar looking actors to play the Larson character, White and Facinelli... And I really haven't been able to tell where the change between actors is, perhaps it is one momentary change, or maybe they actually swap actors after a point, but the character still looks like the same person, although he is changing constantly.The ship, which is basically a deep space ambulance, responds to a call that could be considered if happening today, as a call coming in directly to the ambulance without the benefit of dialing 911 - And also, coming from a person known to a member of the crew of the ship, making the call very odd indeed.ON arrival at the the origin of the emergency call, a junk ship meets up with our ambulance and docks, containing one unconscious Troy Larson, alleged son of Karl Larson who placed the call. And that is where all the fun begins, at first this person seems to be an innocent teenager, as the film progresses, the character physically changes - From Skinny to Muscular, using bare hands to crush Lou Diamond Phillips Skull and smashes parts of the ship to pieces as if they are (and probably were) Tinsel.Although the last 1/3rd of the film has some insidiously sinister aspects, the ending actually leaves you with a good feeling, plus the ending is quite humorous, when you consider that Bassett and Spader, sharing a CryoTube, had a kind of Material/Fluid Exchange? - I laughed out loud when I heard THAT I'm sure it was not intended to be humorous, but it is. When you think of what kind of activities there are to do while trapped in a CryoTube during a Supernova? And the film cleverly skips over the details of such, shall we say... Activities? Amen!As seen on the Sci Fi channel, many parts are hacked and cut from the film and finally seeing the entire uncut film, is much more enjoyable, making those things which interest me in the film all that much more interesting.This film is similar in some ways to Solaris, which was written by Stanislaw E Lem... Some of the premises are similar- Namely the idea of a large cosmic structure, in both films, these structures are Stars. In this case the star awaiting impending doom- Is it some kind of intelligence?Compare that to Solaris, and there are similarities- I forget the main premise of SuperNova... But that little item about a huge cosmic structure having intelligence is common to both films, but delivered quite differently in Supernova, a more subtle way. "},{"Title":"An almost forgotten trend","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova belongs to the sci-fi group of films like Odyssey 2001 / 2010 , Alien ,Event Horizon, where the idea is a hard-core science fiction based on the believable technological trends , designs , physical conceptions ( here an 'original ' plasma drive ) , while the story line is also acceptable , namely , a medical rescue ship Nightingale after days of blessed inertia filled with a lot of chess playing , table tennis and , as another of specialties of the movie - sex , intercepts a distress call from an apparently abandoned moon called Titan , and then finding something , promising to be the answer to the origins of mankind and universe itself , but then , all hell breaks loose ,and the unpleasant truth and the battle with time ensues .Good acting by everyone , acceptable dialogs and visuals by Cinesite / Digital Domain. It is a pity that in the last two years we haven't seen movies with the universe as the main background , i.e. the real science &#150;fiction , only either based on toys ( Transformers ) , or , mostly and sadly , on comic books ( Batman , Ironman , Hellboy , the rest to come ) . "},{"Title":"An idiot movie","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Nobody was missing a movie like that there's nothing interesting to see, everything is a deja vu. But that's not all unfortunately.After 15 minutes you've understood the rest of the plot and your only doubt is when the characters will discover what everybody else is able to understand yet?Actors terrible. They have the same expressions from the beginning to the end. OK, it was not supposed to be a masterpiece, but you pay to watch the movie after all.Special effects not bad but we're in the 21st century and the offer here is the minimum required.The director is doing his job and nothing more.The plot as i said before, it's sad when you understand all so early. But it's sadder when you see that the story is full of holes.Save your money or, if you're watching the telly, choose another channel. There's nothing to loose here. "},{"Title":"Supernova","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Despite everything (the irritating low-level lighting; the flashing lights that make this unsuitable for epileptic viewers; the undeveloped ideas), I like this film a lot.There are some good lines. I also like James Spader in it. I think it's interesting that I find him almost as attractive in this as I do in Stargate even though his character is much more assertive and has much shorter hair. Hmmm. Maybe I have more than one type after all ... However, there are some questions which remain unanswered.Was Nick really likely to turn Benji in to the authorities, or was Sweetie merely using reverse psychology (thus making Nick feel the need to prove his loyalty to his colleague) in order to be 100% sure of protecting Benji?Would it not have been better if we had been kept in suspense for longer regarding whether or not Nick was one of the good guys?Why were there not more DSUs for injured people?Why did the captain decide it was worth the risk jumping?Is Sweetie programmed to respect human life or not? Her behaviour towards Danika and Yerzy seems ... careless to say the least. She seems to have more inconsistencies than a pro-life politician calling for the return of capital punishment!The eye thing at the end would make more sense if Spader had had really blue eyes throughout. On the other hand, it might be that Kaela and Nick were each carrying a recessive blue eyed gene ...Is it just me, or is Flyboy a rather camp robot?Did Karl literally make Kaela infertile or was she merely banned from having a child because of her association with him?Why do Kaela and Danika both have short hair? Is this just a random coincidence or is it a sign that they come from a society where everyone is seen in a very androgynous gender-neutral way?I'm sure I'll think up more questions the moment I've submitted this. Finally, I want to say that I love the ending. I'm so pleased Nick took the news so well. I'm glad he didn't jump up and call Kaela a sperm bandit! "},{"Title":"totally worthwhile for sci-fi fans","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Everything I've read suggests this was a troubled production, and I simply do not believe Walter Hill is repsonsible for the directing. He's too good. Something happened post-production, almost certainly. But, that said There are some very fine moments in this film, and some really fine dialogue too. Critics have been hammering on the script, but they are not paying attention. The script is very good -- some of the dialogue sequences are beautiful, much more than is required for sci-fi plot forwarding. Derivative of the Alien series, but then who can blame them for that. And yeah there are huge plot holes; try to ignore them, you'll be happier, trust me. Here's the thing that sealed the deal for me, though This is the sexiest sci-fi movie I've seen. Sex and sci-fi do not mix well, or so I thought until Supernova. Check it out, and watch how Spader, Bassett and Tunney redeem the chintzy directing with admirably professional work. "},{"Title":"I really liked it","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was great. True, it has more dialogue than most, but since when was that a negative in a sci-fi movie?I guess I can understand why people brought up on slasher flicks posing as sci-fi might not like this film, but it is a perfectly good movie, with some good ideas and well-directed. The DVD sits in my movie cabinet, and if I had to pick my 10 best sci fi films I think this would be among them.In short, it's nowhere near as bad as its critics suggest, and I would recommend it to anyone who demands thoughtful sci-fi rather than a pure action fest. "},{"Title":"Astonishingly innovative plot and opening for future films","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorite sci-fi movies because of the scope of the author's vision. As the plot unfolds we begin to realize that there _is_ an alien civilization out there somewhere, but also that they may not want to be found, that they may be fearful or aggressive toward other civilizations, and that they are quite advanced, though we may, with time, grasp their technology. X - Spoiler coming--Spoiler below----------- OTOH this spoiler may be necessary for some viewers to understand the movie.There is no alien in the movie. Indeed, one of the movie's premises is that humankind has not yet encountered another intelligent species.There is however a beautiful alien artifact that, for humans, has regenerative powers and (later surmised) tremendous power to destroy. The artifact also causes those who experience its regenerative powers to become addicted to it and to slowly grow mad (which, in the end, turns out to save mankind). These alien artifacts are apparently seeded throughout the universe by an advanced civilization so that members of other civilizations will find them and take them home, whereupon the alien device fulfills its second function as a civilization-destroying bomb. So one possibility is that, to the movie's alien civilization, the alien artifact is like AMDRO and human civilization (and others) are like fire ants. Quite a different perspective from your everyday science fiction, and one with tremendous vision and bite. And IMO this fantastic idea could yield any number of follow-up movies. X - End of Spoiler--Spoiler above-----------Anyway, this film completely blew me away with the ideas presented. I hope someday a series of suitable sequels will follow.  "}{"Title":"It's better than they're saying...","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw it edited for television, and I thought it was at least as good as your average SciFi. The plot made sense to me, the technology was more reasonable than usual, and since it was on public television, it didn't come across as a skin-flick.Of course I'm the type that gets confused and left behind by deeply emotional movies, so perhaps I liked Supernova because it's got a higher geek-factor than usual.Watch it carefully, listen to the dialogue, and you'll probably be fine.VC  "},{"Title":"heh","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  May I just say to people who thought this movie was awful and trashy, you'll appreciate it 100% if you watch Circuit Breaker with Richard Grieco first.  Talk about trashy and lame.  Supernova was not the worst movie I've ever seen, but I would recommend waiting for Two-for-one-day at the video store to try it out. "},{"Title":"I not on this bandwagon&#133;","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do people have minds anymore? What was wrong with this movie? Lets compare with say, Solaris&#133; Supernova was better&#133; how about Pitch Black? Supernova was better. Sphere? Event Horizon? Again, Supernova was better (in my opinion). So, why all the bashing? I see a lot of, &#145;it could have been better' sentiments&#133; well duh! Just about ANY movie could be better in some way. I found, in a lot of the reviews, individuals not knowing what was going on in the movie. Was this movie WATCHED only by myself and a few others? In the recent past (that being the last decade or so) how many great-big budget, sci-fi movies were even OK? I thought Supernova had its flaws, yes, but I don't think it deserved this massive attack. In fact, there are a lot of parts of this movie that are quite intelligent that deserve kudos. Again this my humble opinion&#133; ok, maybe not so humble ;) "},{"Title":"horrible movie!!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie truly is one of the worst films ever made. I dozed through nearly the entire thing. No storyline, no plot, no special effects worth mentioning... a total waste of time!!! Attempts at suspense were astronomically disappointing. Don't rent this, even if someone pays you to see it! "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  - Hey man, I've got this cool idea for a science fiction movie. It's about this nine dimensional object that turns people into super strong killing machines!- Brilliant idea! Here's $20 million, go shoot the movie!- Cool! Now we can afford some super cheesy special effects and some lame B-actors like Lou Diamond Phillips and James Spader.  "},{"Title":"how on earth did this get greenlit?","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this used on video about 2 years ago and never got around to watching it until today.  I am glad that I haven't wasted my time before this.  Normally I am a big fan of Sci-Fi action movies like The Matrix and Event Horizon.  Supernova is unoriginal, unfulfilling and uninspiring. This movie is an upgraded 80's B movie.  I enjoyed Hard Rock Zombies better than this piece of crap.  The plot is rushed along and the secondary characters get killed off too quickly.  The stupid medical robot thing looked like an 8th grade science project.  The only cool part of the movie were the dimensional transportation scenes, but that isn't saying much. There is no explanation given as to why the villain aquires his powers, and his relationship with Angela Basset is glossed over.  The sad thing is that people were paid to create this junker.  Normally, I like bad movies if you can laugh at them (Hard Rock Zombies), but not this one.  This movie had so much potential that was wasted on gratuitous nudity shots and such.  I apologize if this review is messy, but having just seen it, my mental stat e is damaged.  Avoid this at all costs, unless you want to be flabberghasted by a horrible plot, acting, effects, etc for 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"ONE WORD","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Trash!!! I wish that I could leave my comment with that one word but IMDB says I must have at least four lines. So, what was Angela Bassett, James Spader and Lou Diamond Phillips thinking? No let me rephrase the last sentence, they weren't thinking. The writer of this screenplay must have created this monstrosity on the set one scene at a time. Had they been able to read the script ahead of time, they would have been able to say, No, thanks! Will someone explain to me what the nudity was for? And I love to see nude scenes. So when I have to question the purpose and would rather that they be left out, then a movie must be in pretty poor taste. This movie stunk worse than putrefied garbage. The directing was terrible therefore not complimenting the actors (and I'm a big Angela Bassett fan) and they all stunk. I refuse to continue with my comments because I'm getting upset. IMDB will not allow a score of minus two so I must settle with 1/10. Don't even watch it if you're desperate to see a science fiction movie and it's the last one on the video store shelf. Do not, and I repeat, do not torture yourself. Rent a Barney video- by comparison, a much more entertaining video. "},{"Title":"IT SUCKED BIG TIME!!!!!!!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK! The acting sucked! The plot sucked! Effects was average, and there is no script! It makes no sense. The only good thing is Robin Tunney and her t*ts.Ok folks, do every one a favor and do NOT see this terrible piece of trash!Anyway, this isn't even funny, it's disgusting. Lou diamond Whatever sucks more than any actor on the planet, or any other planet either. So please, watch Battlefield earth instead. It FUNNY!! HEH!! "},{"Title":"If you want to kill brain cells, this is your movie...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For the love of GOD, do not waste time seeing this movie...--SOME SPOILERS-- This movie made no damn sense at all, I literally wanted to shoot myself after having seen this.  Waaaaayyyy too much nakedness.Anyone else notice how the captain took Angela Basset's tube and she took his, but there were other, non-used tubes?9th dimensional matter?  WTF is that?And the villain would just not die!  They cut off his frickin' arm and he puts it back on?!?The only good thing was when the robot with the gimp gave the villain the finger!The movie is consistent in its inconsistencies.If you want a good bad movie, get Starship Troopers.  Dumb as hell, but much more entertaining. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so bad, it isn't even funny. No plot at all (well some object is going to blow up the universe but no one knows what it is why it is going to blow everything up...it just does) the characters are boring and cheesy (terribly acted) and the special effects were nothing to be wowed by. I mean they weren't bad effects but nothing special. Also, I couldn't help but notice that the highest percent of people voting on this movie, gave it a 1 (as I did), yet it still gets a 4. Anybody that rated this movie above a 3 (there must have been several people who did to get this average) has some problems. Do not see this movie, ever. Bad start, awful (cheesy) ending, and pointless unexplained movie. Pathetic, I think it lasted 2 days in the theater out here. "}{"Title":"The Worst of 2000, next to Mission to Mars","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"           Yes, this is most certainly the worst film I ever went to, along with Mission to Mars. When I first saw the trailer to it, it looked very campy and very dark. Playing in the was a 1960's rock song, right then I new the movie would be lots of fun. But also- I saw really good make-up of an alien- one looked scaley and another looked like the oval-shaped-slanted black eyes type of alien. Wow, this looks fun. When it opened up the first day, I thought it sounded like a good way to spend my Friday night. Boy was I ever wrong. First of all it was totally edited out. I could tell that a lot of the gore parts and sex scenes had been cut up a lot. When the movie was over I was extremly dissapointed that none of the aliens I saw in the trailer were in the movie. I was expecting some cool make-up and creatures. The story made absolutly no sense and it was all MESSED up. The violence and sex scenes were cut in order to receive a PG-13 rating I don't think any teens liked this movie anyway so it was a big waste of time. Too many mistakes made and too many missed opportunities. "},{"Title":"What can I say - I liked it","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I liked the movie.  Granted, it was partially because my expectations were extremely low -- it was a horrible trailer. I thought it was going to be another Event Horizon, which was disgusting. It was engaging.  I did care about the main characters. I thought James Spader did a good job (and looked really good) and Angela Bassett was good as well (though I concede, I'm not sure what they were thinking when they agreed to do it.)  It could have been clearer, and the ending needed to be lot better, but I enjoyed it. Don't expect too much, and take it for what it is.  NDM  "},{"Title":"Very hard to say what is wrong with this movie","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An absolute must for science fiction lovers. The scenery of this movie is a 10 and the special effect are flawless. Nevertheless I ask myself why is it that I am not thrilled? The acting was OK, the story isn't bad, the music was OK. WHAT is missing? The only thing I can come with is something philosophical A good movie attaches itself to you, to your emotions, to your attention - and guides you slowly to high levels of ecstasy. If it goes too slow, you get bored and distracted. If it goes too fast you're left behind and won't get 'grabbed' and taken along in the story. This movie is neither too slow nor too fast it simply doesn't attach to you. Things happen, and you wait till it gets a significant meaning, but it doesn't. Or you're taken along with the movie in a certain direction and suddenly you're dropped again. I mean, what is the point in getting to learn the personality of a character, seeing what this character does and doesn't, living moments of this characters life - and suddenly without using ANYTHING of that character, BANG - the character dies and is out of the picture. What's going on here? you ask yourself, what is the point? Nowhere in the movie I had the feeling we were actually going somewhere, and that is why I never could get INTO the movie. All that was left were moving images on a big screen... If you're going to see this movie then I think you will NEED something to wonder about, so I'll give it to you Is she, or isn't she going to have a baby? And from who? "},{"Title":"One of the years worst films--filled with flaws. * out of ****.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SUPERNOVA (2000) *Directed by Thomas Lee (false identity name). Running time 90 minutes. Rated PG-13. (for sexuality, nudity, and sci-fi violence)What a bad position for the film industry to start out the new year with. Supernova may just be the year's worst film--and it's only January. There is such little intelligence, characterization and structure existent. I was never intrigued, but daydreaming throughout the entire production's running time. This is a complete waste of time--a true walk out.Supernova is a movie in which there is almost no story, only briefly related concepts sloppily quilted together with imagination-deadening special effects and action sequences. What plot there is centers around a space vessel on a mission to recover a distress call. The crew consists of Nick Vanzant (James Spader), Kaela Evers (Angela Bassett), Yerzy Penalosa (Lou Diamond Phillips), Danika Lund (Robin Tunney), A.J. Marley (Robert Forster) and Benjamin Sotomejor (Wilson Cruz). They become endangered species when a mysterious man named Troy Larson (Peter Facinelli) is recruited on board in reference to the rescue mission. He also brings a bright extraterrestrial object with him, one that not only disguise his identity, but also retransforms his body with youth.Shall we count the ways Supernova  recycles its plot?1.  The method the filmmakers choose to execute the villain's defense, which consists of self healing power and eternal youth. This concept is from the visually arousing Terminator 2 Judgment Day.2.  The movie's crew is stranded aboard a large ship in the presence of some kind of extraterrestrial object that beholds great powers. Remember the circular power source in Sphere?3.  In 1998's Star Trek Insurrection, a mysterious race on an isolated planet withholds the power of eternal youth. That vary idea is present in this piece of garbage.4.  Event Horizon contained a possessed human as the villain, who gradually eliminated the crew members of a massive deserted space craft containing an unknown object. Exactly like the antagonist and space ship of Supernova.I could barely understand anything that was going on in the story, and what I did understand bored me. The entire plot is strained out of nothing. There is no explanation of why certain events and motives take place, or what the extraterrestrial object's purpose is. When we do finally receive an explanation of what is happening, which is well into the second half, it is already too late for the film to achieve anything with its material. We needed introduction near the beginning, not half way through.Supernova inherits no introduction of its characters, motives, intentions, or situations. Nor does it bother to develop any of the above. The most maturation we get of a character is a brief line of dialogue explaining one's social position. Because of this horrible misfortune the filmmakers precede in, I despised the characters here. Each is immoral, and or nasty in their own way, thus much of the time, I was rooting for the bad guy to attack some interest for us. However, instead of giving us with a variety of gruesome encounters between Troy and the other crew members, we acquire several brief, lifeless assaults that lack so much passion it is a shame I gave the antagonist any hope in the first place.There is a lot of sexual content in this film, enough to give the PG-13 rating a serious run for its money. The sensual scenes have no impact, though, because no romantic chemistry is present. There is a difference between love and sex. Like the tagline to Chasing Amy states, Sex it easy, love is hard, the writers of Supernova forget attempting the difficulties of developing a chemistry rich relationship between anyone in the movie. Although there was some believability with the characters of Lou Diamond Phillips and Robin Tunney. For the most part, however, the writers provide us with muscular, shirtless males, tight fitted, when clothed, females, and sexual encounters that only lead the immorality destruction of the characters.I am a little flabbergasted to see so many names listed in the film's cast list. Such actors as James Spader, Angela Bassett, Lou Diamond Phillips, Robin Tunney, and Robert Forster, who are all capable of better performances than what they have contributed in this disaster of a science fiction flick. Even these popular performers can't elevate beyond the indecisive dialogue and self destructive plot provided for them.According to my sources, the director of Supernova isn't a man named Thomas Lee, but several higher ranked directors who have enlisted themselves behind a false identity. I will not reveal who these veterans are. I understand their concerns for their futures as directors. If the actual directors of this movie refuse to reveal their names to their audiences, what does that tell you about the movie?Brought to you by MGM Productions.  "},{"Title":"Unexciting Sci-fi that will put you asleep&#133; that is a very deep sleep.","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In deep space, the medical vessel Nightingale come across a frantic cry from some unknown charter, but the crew risks it and decides to respond to the call of help. From this some fatal consequences occur. The ship is now stuck as the fuel is low and they rescue a small craft, which has a crafty, mysterious stranger and hidden alien artifact. This stranger hides something about this artifact and crew are now unravelling the dangerous secret of their guest and his luggage.Does it deserve its bad wrap? Well, it's awfully dispirited, but not the worst I've seen. But hey, it would make a good bedtime story, since I couldn't stop yawning throughout. But that wasn't the only thing, as I was getting headache from watching it. I remember when this film came out and the hype that surrounded it. It was a very troubled shoot, with Walter Hill leaving the project and using the name Thomas Lee for the credits. Then Francis Ford Coppola was given a chance to fix it up, but it looks like no one could undo the mess that we got. After being released, it died a slow death at the box office! So after the god awful 'Marabunta' I saw a couple days ago, the next flick I came to watching was this garbage. Ah, actually 'Marabunta' might be inept, but at least it wasn't damn sleep inducing like 'Supernova'.The production design is pure eye candy, with some impressive special effects that are nice to look at. These effects were brought to us by Digital Domain, which won an academy for their work on 'Titanic'. They add a bright and colourful frame to the film with there stunning visuals. The eyes might have been entertained, but ears had to go through a sorry state of weak and mechanical dialogue. The script just didn't make a whole lotta sense; I was just dumbfounded to what was actually going on and what was the deal about this alien artifact. Strangely in the extras there are (so many) deleted scenes, which would actually add more depth to the plot, but they hit the cutting room floor instead. They make much more sense and add more cohesion than that of the film. Although I'm happy that the alternate opening sequence was cut because it plain wishy-washy, but the alternate ending I thought was vastly better than with the one they went with. Which came across as rushed and cheated on the audience by being too sweet. My guess for those scenes being cut out was that they wanted the suffering to be over quickly for the audience. And if so, no way did that help! Obviously this flick heavily borrowed chunks from old to recent Sci-fi films (even add the TV series E.R) and 'Supernova' doesn't pull it off graciously at all. A lack of creativity really does hurt it, big time. Some things did get on my nerves like why let strange fella roam the space ship that they don't trust? Some moments felt contrived and where was the tension, there wasn't an ounce of it. Yep, nothing detected from my part. It's all about a horny space crew who are floating in space, aimlessly doing some irrelevant junk, oops I almost forgot and performing heroics. Couple of times I got up to do something without pausing because nothing really is happening to make you pause or that its not making the slightest bit of sense that you really aren't missing out on anything of importance. Importance? Who am I kidding! Sure the effects are presented in glossy manner, but I just couldn't help but feel cold and disconnected to everything else.The performances are rather bogged down, with nothing memorable about them. What was a cast like this thinking, obviously they weren't. Who got the likes of James Spader, Angela Bassett and Robert Forster, who do nothing out of the ordinary but come to play stale characters? Then you got the likes of Robin Tunney and Lou diamond Philips. So what we got here is a above-average cast who look like they don't know what they are doing there and trying to come to grips with there shamble of a script. It's B-grade screenplay with A-grade production. Although, some of the production wasn't too crash hot, the editing was feebly put together and the soporific camera-work just comes off amateurish at times. Didn't they know how to zoom out, because most of the running time the camera shots were right up there? I guess that is what was giving me the headache.The DVD cover tells us we're going to watch the uncut version - not seen at cinema - but honestly it was truly tame, so what was added in? Was it the oh-so many sex scenes, nudity shots because the violence was lacking, especially in originality.With an appalling screenplay like this you'll be thinking how did this ever get the green light. It's simply a dud and a real boring one too. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it's reputation suggests but not exactly good either.","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova is set aboard the 'Emergency Medical Rescue Vessel Nightingale' where Captain A.J. Marley (Robert Forster) likes to watch Tom & Jerry cartoons, ex-military co-pilot Nick Vanzant (James Spader) is the typical 'macho loose cannon/hero' character, engineer Benjamin Sotomejor (Wilson Cruz) likes to play chess & chat with the on-board computer named Sweetie (Vanessa Marshall, voice), Doctor Kaela Evers (Angela Bassett) is the authoritative type while medical assistant's Yerzy Penalosa (Lou Diamond Phillips) & Danika Lund (Robin Tunney) like to have zero gravity sex, with each other obviously. Out of the blue they receive an emergency distress call from a supposedly abandoned mining planet called 'Titan 37', when they get there the gravitational pull of the planet damages the Nightingale & results in the loss of fuel. A small spacecraft from the surface of Titan 37 docks with the Nightingale containing a man named Troy Larson (the IMDb is wrong as Peter Facinelli plays Troy not Karl). The spacecraft also contains a strange unidentifiable object, an object that turns out could wipe out the entire universe which Troy wants & which Troy will kill for...Well, where do I start with Supernova? First of all I think it's fair to point out that Supernova, originally to be known as 'Dead Star', apparently had a very troubled production history, originally to be directed by Geoffrey Wright he quit after the usual differences with the studio, the project was then passed onto Walter Hill who obviously shot things his way which the studio wasn't happy about so Hill disowned the film & the first trailer went out with the director credited as Alan Smithee (a name any director would use who wanted to take their name off the finished film) but that name was scrapped & the director is listed as Thomas Lee, but it doesn't end there as Jack Sholder & Francis Ford Coppola were brought in to make the film more commercial I would imagine although the extent of their involvement is unclear as to whether it was just re-editing the film or indeed re-shooting certain scenes, maybe we'll never really know for sure & don't go expecting a director's commentary on the DVD anytime soon! Add to this to the fact that Supernova was shelved by it's studio for quite a while & it's somewhat surprising that I didn't think it was too bad. The script by David C. Wilson plays a lot like Alien (1979) to start with, the lonely isolated crew on-board a spacecraft receiving a distress signal & discovering some sort of alien menace but towards it's climax it turns into a bit of a cat & mouse thriller. As a whole while it's a little patchy, uneven & unfocused there are some decent ideas here that could have made for a pretty good Sci-Fi thriller if not for the production problems. I have to say it feels like two different sets of director's & editors worked on it but two perfectly competent ones. One area where I must praise Supernova are it's special effects, while not as flashy as many films the CGI here is excellent & truly some of the most impressive I've ever seen. With a supposed budget of $60,000,000 technically Supernova has a very odd look throughout, the entire film seems shot in blue hues & tones, peoples eyes are lit differently to the rest of their features in many, many scenes & for some bizarre reason there are lots of shaky hand held camera jerky type shots when on-board the Nightingale but outside when full CGI is used the camera is rock steady & wobble free which also gave Supernova a disjointed uneven feel to me. The acting is OK but not much character background is given for them to work with & a special mention goes to Cruz as the token comic relief black guy who is just plain annoying & puts in a poor performance. Basically Supernova obviously suffered badly because of it's production problems although I can't say I think it's a really bad film it's certainly an uneven & sporadic one that entertains & interests on occasion while it bores & confuses on others. Slightly below average but I think it's worth watching if your a Sci-Fi fan, others should wait to see it on TV for free rather than spend hard earned cash on it, a real curiosity. "},{"Title":"James Spader is let down by a crappy script and bad direction","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  James Spader IS a great actor, as his recent effort during the swan song of 'The Practice' (the same character in which we will see in William Shatner's coming law show) demonstrates amply.Unfortunately, I most remember this movie for moving verrrrrry sloooowwlyyyyyy..... and thinking that the lead actor was a Spader knockoff and aping his style poorly.His character is a little bit of Star Trek Voyager's 'Tom Paris', a dash of 'Riddick' from Pitch Black, a touch of Han Solo and all-around well beneath the powers of a great actor. He tried his best but he was uninspired, and I can't blame him.In fact, I couldn't believe it was Spader when I looked the movie up on here. I also couldn't believe Angela Basset took a role like this. It's so two-dimensional. This movie is like video game VMR, to tell you the truth. Despite the presence of capable actors, it's corny and cheap, and I mainly blame the story concept and the script writing. I don't think this director should do sci-fi.It's a bad script, a bad story, bad direction, corny and stereotypical effects... stereotypical sci-fi characters you've seen in tons of b-grade sci-fi pics, of which this is one, incidentally...This movie really sucks. It hellesucks. Very, very bad. F-, except as a sleep inducer, for which it is exceptional and earns an A-.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I would like to spoil the plot for you, but quite frankly, I don't remember there being one. There was a starship. They went into space. A bunch of boring stuff happened. Yadda yadda yadda. The End. I don't remember if there actually was a supernova in this movie. There might have been a black hole. I have no desire to watch it again and find out. I'm a sci-fi junkie and I very much hated this movie.The trailer made this film look like it would be awesome. If you see it, check out the really cool lightning effect around the starship as they go into hyperdrive. Sweet. Unfortunately, this was the ONLY good thing I can report seeing in the entire movie. But this shot would make for an excellent screen saver or mouse pad design, not a feature film. And it only takes up 10 seconds of the movie, tops. I give this movie a 0.01 out of 10.The lightning powered hyperdrive caused my score to raise from a 0.00 to 0.01. Other than that, this is a completely useless movie.I really must insist that this is the worst movie made in the last 10 years or more. It's not even worth seeing to make fun of. Horrible, horrible movie. Don't waste your time. Don't buy it for a sci-fi junkie. Avoid, avoid, avoid! "},{"Title":"Had Walter Hill had his way, this could have been the best sci-fi flick ever made!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From reading peoples' comments of SUPERNOVA, it's clear this is one of the most hated flicks of the past decade, but at least a few people share the same feelings that I do about the movie which is that it wasn't suppose to be as good as Star Wars or Stak Trek, it was just suppose to be a fun sci-fi film for fans of special effects extravaganzas. It takes more than one viewing to realize how great this movie really could have been. The first time I saw this movie I thought that the plot kind of dangled and the movie gets kind of boring after a while. The second time I viewed this movie I figured out that the plot isn't suppose to matter one bit because MGM sure as hell didn't keep one in. Originally, there was actually more going on in the movie than we are shown. From viewing some of the deleted scenes from Hill's version, it's clear that there was a potential four star classic here. Hill could have done for sci-fi what he did for the buddy genre. I guess the reason why I din't hate this movie so much despite being somewhat of a mess is because of Robin Tunney. Robin Tunney gives the best performance in the movie and I'm surprised there were not more scenes with her in them in the final cut. As for the special effects, just by watching the preview you can tell that they are absolutely amazing. Walter Hill or whoever the director/directors were did a fantastic job directing this movie at times, but then it becomes obvious so much of it was re-shot. In addition to Hill, I suspect the writers got cheated as well. There is a smarter, better script in there that was obviously rewritten by the studio. As mentioned before, I rented SUPERNOVA on DVD where they have twenty minutes of deleted scenes. The movie was too short and some of the deleted scenes were truly excellent so I wish MGM would release a special edition DVD where they add in the deleted scenes to the movie and put in some director's commentary (or somebody's commentary) because I really want to know the mind-blowing special effects were done. I want Hill's cut. If someone is to blame for this, blame Coppolla. He's the one that re-edited the film into what it is. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Much better then rated by critics and also unique in a way","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I first watched this movie I was blown away by the representation of the dimensional jump. It was far more extreme and dangerous then typically represented in other sci-fi movies. The whole sequence is well made and gives a more believable view on jumping and all the bad things that can happen. The actors are doing a good job and Spader is perfect.I only wish we could see more of him in such roles.Character development is short and one can see the effects of the mismanagement during production.If this movie was left to director Hill, with the original soundtrack and really came out in 1997 as was planned, it would have been one of the greatest sci-fi films of the period. A matrix before the Matrix.It most definitely had potential and that can be seen very clearly. The movie's production history is linked to Event Horizon and I think that despite all problems it is a better movie! And Event Horizon has 6.7 as a score!I really do not understand how this movie has been so badly rated during the years and I have seen some bad movies. "}{"Title":"Scientificly inaccurate, overly played over the air","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Warning may contain spoilers ... lol! While I wouldn't rate this movie as awful it has major short comings that I never did understand. For instance they cant be in another galaxy lets be realistic here even if its 2277 there's no way mankind breaks interstellar flight and reaches the level of galactic flight in under 1000years. In the movie its stated that this 9th dimensional supernova would reach Earth in 51 years yet they are apparently in deep space (IE interstellar space) as they are orbiting a dwarf star (a gas giant that hasn't achieved the fission reaction needed to ignite). See as there is no Dwarf star in our solar system! and the next star system is Alpha Centari almost 5Ly away there is no way that a super nova produced by a star other then our own reaches earth ... Ever! Also its stated that said SuperNova would potentially wipe out the Universe!? As in every galaxy including our own ... not how it works at all who came up with this idea, who are these writers that didn't do any research on how simple 11grade physics works? If a 9th dimensional material was introduced to our 3rd dimensional space There is A) no way to predict how it would act upon it. B) No Way To Perceive It or comprehend it! C) If it has the power to obliterate a star system by nova and continue to nova until it reaches the end of the universe then It Is Not A Creation Device, Its A Bomb! I could continue to berate this film for its woeful discrepancy, complete disregard for scientific fact or the at best shotty acting at times. Like who would let a potential carrier of god knows what out of quarantine in under 72 hours regardless of what kind of bio-metric bs scanner term they use Or an AI that is incapable of depressurizing air in a ship section with a priority command, but can wake a ship member because it wants to play chess when its not programmed to do so.Don't even get me started on the horrible choreographed fight scenes that my grandmother could fair better in! Whats worse is over the years syfy movies have barely been better then this. I dare rate this movie better then an old B-movie. "},{"Title":"Cinemax Flick","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Was this a Cinemax movie? You know the ones in which there is an elementary plot which is really just a flimsy excuse to get two people to have sex. That's what this was like.Within the first two minutes we are graced with Yerzy (Lou Diamond Phillips) and Danika (Robin Tunney) going at it like animals in heat. There's a break for a little dangerous action in which someone dies. The grieving process is observed by Nick (James Spader) and Kayla (Angela Bassett) locking into a naked Twister match. Angela Bassett... sigh. Let's not forget that this movie takes place in deep space aboard a space craft. The entire premise was built around making a dangerous mission to possibly save a space miner. They found someone lost in space and were able to bring him aboard. It took him all of a few minutes to seduce Danika and have her butt naked again like a starstruck groupie. The new passenger, Karl (Peter Facinelli), brought aboard an alien object that was completely unknown to anyone on the vessel. But that didn't stop Yerzy from having an orgasmic relationship with the orb.And all of that was only partially why the movie was bad. Terrible acting, a terrible story and a terrible script really propelled this movie to trashdom. It was such the generic space movie with pseudo-technical/scientific mumbo jumbo to give it credibility. There was nothing credible about this and nothing redeemable. "},{"Title":"Got me in from Go","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Don't usually write review but felt most people had it wrong! Great acting production values, story. Kept me on the edge of my seat. Is definitely a video I'll keep and watch again. This was SO good they could remake it again to introduce a new audience to this great film and story. Can't understand why people didn't like it and even had to watch it twice. It's very adult in it's depiction of relationships and sex without being exploitative I'm a REAL sci-fi fan and give slight praise to films but this was really excellent. Hope more people watch this film and enjoy it like I did.The acting and directing is really interesting but sometimes the multi-cutting is confusing "},{"Title":"A Survivor with a Secret","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie takes place in the distant future and focuses on a 6-man crew aboard a medical spacecraft called the Nightingale 229. Upon hearing a distress call the captain of the vessel, A. J. Marley (Robert Forster) makes the decision to make a dimension jump in order to get to the mining colony that issued the plea for help. However, upon doing so he is killed in the process and the spacecraft is badly damaged as well. Fortunately, his co-pilot Nick Vanzant (James Spader) takes charge and manages to save the ship. It's at this time that they rescue a survivor from the mining colony who carries with him an alien object which is of huge importance to all concerned. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie I will just say that I thought it was a decent science-fiction film for the most part. Although I liked the performances of James Spader and Angela Bassett (as Dr. Kaela Evers) I didn't think there was much chemistry between the two and this caused the movie to seem a bit awkward. I should probably also add that there are two versions of this movie&#x97;one is rated PG and the other is rated R. Having never seen the PG version I cannot comment on whether it is better or worse than the R version but in any event I liked the particular one I saw and because of that I have rated it accordingly. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Not brilliant, not as bad as I expected","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was after a movie to watch whilst doing other things, something for the background. I like my sci-fi and this popped up on Netflix. I'd heard over and over how bad it was, how utterly dire but hey, it was something for in the background.I was surprised, it's nowhere near as bad as I expected. There are plenty of influences around - for example, the FTL sleep chamber is clearly borrowed from Aliens. Lots of elements from other sources are combined here and it could have been excellent, if not for the studio. The tales around the interference of the studio with this project are well known and Supernova should serve as a stark warning to film studios everywhere - don't interfere, let your directors do what you hired them to do (make your movie).The interference stands out because there are moments where you can see the film trying to flex its muscles - references to violent entertainment being outlawed, human breeding is controlled and so on. There's an interesting universe in Supernova, waiting to be explored. But the studio wanted sex. They wanted zero-g sex. They wanted more sex. And violence, oh yes violence - odd given the commentary earlier about violent entertainment. And it's not sex, but several of the clichés around sex are there too. Robin Tunney's (looking very attractive with the whole pixie cut hair do) character is at it like a space rabbit with Lou Diamond Phillips. When she eventually gives in to the advances of Peter Facinelli, who by this point has been revealed as the villain of the piece to the audience, you know exactly what is going to happen. Yep, within 5 minutes of the deed, she is dead, flushed out of a convenient airlock. So, sex sells but we still get the sex is dirty, girls who enjoy sex are evil nonsense.It is at moments like this that you can all but see the hands of the studio, interfering. But there's some good stuff lurking here, the form of FTL - even with the Aliens like capsule chamber - is well depicted, along with the idea that this is not always a safe method of travel. Questions around artificial intelligence circle the computer Sweetie, but are brushed aside for sex and aggression. The extra-dimensional stuff feels almost tacked on, again thanks to the sex. This could have made for some really interesting stuff, but it is brushed aside in favour of less cerebral subjects.This is an abject lesson in what studio meddling can do to a film. It's not great - it could have been very good had it been left alone - but it's not as terrible as some suggest. I'd give it 5.5, but the system doesn't allow for that so a 6 it is. "},{"Title":"Not as great as I first remember it","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had very vague memories of this film from when I first saw it when the film was brand new and when I noticed the poor rating for it here on IMDb, I wanted to find out as to why it has a low rating, so I decided to give it a second watch. Oh my...I didn't think it was this bad, definitely not as great as I first remember it.To best describe the film, Supernova is a very basic sci-fi flick which includes some soft porn nudity and sex, an alien artifact that acts like a sex toy and a very weird and silly robot that can be remote controlled. Also at the beginning of the film, the captain was watching Tom & Jerry, how strange. There wasn't that much action in the film and the story and acting were very plain. To top it all off Supernova is a below average film, it's not terrible but it's not exactly great either. "},{"Title":"Unexpected enjoyment and deserves more than a 4star","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What a surprising film started off same as any other low budget film was almost about to turn it off but then James Spader joins the crew of this space ambulance lol. Things take and unexpected turn for the better once Nick Vanzant (James Spader) takes charge of the crew of space doctors and head towards a dark distant mysterious planet after the tragic loss of there captain and as you can guess all goes down hill for the ship and there crew, but James Spader the new acting captain actually drags this film along with some excellent lead role acting from start to finish well worth watching especially compared to some off the same old films which seem to be released over the last couple of years i think its time we all dig the our back catalog's "},{"Title":"Underwhelming.","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You know your movie's going to have problems when normally capable directors just can't make it work. Despite the presence of some excellent visual effects, this slick looking production is nondescript on just about every level. It's impossible to really give a damn about any of the characters, and the script, credited to David C. Wilson (based on a story by William Malone and Daniel Chuba) is seriously muddled. This material could have used some serious fleshing out. As it is, it may be watchable for die hard fans of the sci-fi and horror genres, but it's quite forgettable.This usually solid and reliable cast just looks lost at times. James Spader, Angela Bassett, Lou Diamond Phillips, Robin Tunney, Wilson Cruz, and Robert Forster star. They play the crew of a medical rescue spaceship who respond to a distress signal and pick up an enigmatic stranger (Peter Facinelli). Not surprisingly, he turns out to be a danger, and to add to the difficulties, there's a mysterious alien artifact discovered as well.The movie lost this viewer early on, and he couldn't believe the filmmakers were actually serious with some of the material they presented. It's not a good sign when the script is cluttered over and over with awkward exposition, some of it uttered by the computer intelligence (named Sweetie!) that rarely if ever shuts up. Forster is actually written out of the action early on --- lucky him. The ladies are lovely - and for those interested, they do show some skin - and Bassett is playing a reasonably strong character. But the only performer who looks like he's in the swing of things is Facinelli, who does seem to be enjoying this part that he's playing. It is indeed amusing to see Spader and Phillips looking so incredibly pumped up.For those who don't already know, the director name Thomas Lee is a pseudonym. Walter Hill began the project, but the studio was unhappy with the finished product and it sat around for a while, and both Jack Sholder and none other than Francis Ford Coppola were brought in to fudge around with it some more.It would be interesting to see what Hill originally intended. Most likely, it would have been a more intriguing experience than this.Four out of 10. "},{"Title":"Lacks the endeavor to be anything more than a slick sci-fi action yarn","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing Supernova back in 2000 when it originally came out on DVD. Like most people, I thought it looked great at the time, but really didn't have much else going for it. My opinion hasn't really changed since re-visiting it. The special effects and design are still the highlight of a sci-fi film that suffers from simply maintaining the status genre quo and offering nothing new.The medical ship Nightingale 229 travels through deep space in the early 22nd century taking on search and rescue missions it's assigned to. Its six-member crew includes a Captain and Pilot (Robert Forster), a co-pilot (James Spader), a medical officer (Angela Bassett, a medical technician (Luo Diamond Phillips), a search and rescue paramedic (Robin Tunney), and a computer technician (Wilson Cruz). When their vessel, the Nightingale 229, answers an emergency distress signal from a comet mining operation in a distant galaxy, the crew soon finds itself in danger from the mysterious young man they rescue, the alien artifact he's smuggled aboard, and the gravitational pull of a giant star about to supernova. The resulting explosion will be the most massive explosion in the universe.What was originally planned as a low-budget study of human relationships amongst the stars quickly mutated into a rather lackluster action yarn about picking up a stray and his alien artifact. Of course we all know the object can't be good and the whole situation goes south very quickly in a matter of 90 minutes. It's evident by the way the movie progresses in a very choppy and rushed pace that there was more to the story than what we get here. There were 15 minutes of deleted scenes for the movie included, so I can only imagine there has to be even more footage lying in a box somewhere out there. The cast would be considered an ensemble these days since most of the actors have gone on to do bigger and better things since Supernova. James Spader, Lou Diamond Phillips, Robert Forster, and Angela Bassett were already established stars at the time of this movie's release. Peter Facinelli went on to play the patriarch of the Cullen vampire clan, Carlisle, in The Twilight Saga. Robin Tunney worked on Prison Break and continues as a member of the cast of The Mentalist. Here they just walk around angry with grim looks on their faces. Supernova is rated R for sci-fi action violence and sensuality / nudity. There are at least two topless shots of Robin Tunney and a rather explicit love scene. Director Walter Hill (operating under the pseudonym Thomas Lee) was definitely fascinated with the human body. He stalls on one shot of Peter Facinelli's backend for what seems like an eternity. Angela Bassett gets her opportunity to bare all, albeit in the shadows, as well. There's an acceptable amount of gore as Facinelli's character continuously gets beat upon. However, even this aspect of the film seems uneven. Sometimes we get to see the carnage, while at others it's edited out nice and neat. Although there really isn't much going on here in a spiritual sense, one line of dialogue that James Spader utters stood out to me. When the crew is coming to grips with the chain of events Peter Facinelli's character has unraveled, he makes a bold statement. Spader proclaims, What if they didn't crucify Christ, but they did! He uses such an extreme example to explain that it doesn't matter what could've been. What's more important is dealing with what is. Angela Bassett's character also dramatically makes a comparison between aliens and God when she says, Whoever they are, they're as smart as God and a lot less nice. I don't think so.Supernova isn't completely void of any entertainment value. It just lacks the endeavor to be anything more than a slick sci-fi action yarn. It will remind you of the awkward era of filmmaking when studios were transitioning from working with real models and sets and moving into the arena of CGI effects. If you've ran out of other alien encounter movies, this will tide you over until something new and bolder comes along. "},{"Title":"might not send you into deep sleep.","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A deep space rescue mission picks up a lone survivor from a spooky abandoned mining complex. The guy they pick up seems a bit tightly wrapped and it's not long before people are getting sucked out of air locks.This is typical low budget sci-fi fodder with some cheesy scenes and dialogue. Reasonable affects, good performances make for a mediocre space thriller.Fans of the Mentalist keep an eye out for a young, topless Lisbon.Nothing special but OK to kill a rainy afternoon. "}{"Title":"Spader is so hot in this movie...","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...he only needs to hug you and you're knocked up. Damn, thats some talent, but half the fun would've been getting down with James back in the day! C'mon Director... Throw a girl a bone (oh yes, pun intended)... Some of us are still nursing Pretty in Pink fantasies! Add to that some naked Facinelli butt (and you wonder why Jennie Garth couldn't make it work with that hot piece), some Tunney boob, and even some Angela Basset side boob, an alien universe altering device that is clearly modeled after a whoo-ha, and you start wishing you were from the future in the hope that you'd be getting more skin than you're getting now! (As a side thought, I wonder if this movie is chronicled on Mr. Skin. Make mental note to research when I'm done with the laundry.) Campy sci-fi at its best and classic Spader doing what he does best as the stone faced anti-hero. Not an academy award winner but totally worth watching for sci-fi geeks like me! "},{"Title":"Good Solid Science Fiction Suspense","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure what the negative reviews are all about, but I enjoyed this movie and thought it was exciting.A quick synopsis followsA rescue ship goes on a distress call only to find someone who has been altered into a superhuman who tries to kill everyone and return to earth with an alien artifact that is intended (by the makers)to blow up the earth and the space around it.There is good action and suspense which is actually done quite well making for an exciting movie.If you like science fiction, then you should probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Distress signal response, an egg-shaped anomaly, crew picked off one by one","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It sounds like Alien, doesn't it? But it isn't, it just borrows liberally from it.I always thought James Spader was an outstanding actor; he can work more acting into a wordless stare than anyone else in the business. He does remarkably well here, lifting the material above its mediocre source with his icy screen presence. Angela Bassett is similarly cool and controlled, her purposeful acting style lending some much needed validity to the tepid script.The special effects in this film are a curious mixture of state-of-the-art and b-movie; there are some wonderful exterior shots of various spaceships and shuttles, and an elaborate set built to show a mining expedition, which must have cost a fortune. Then they trot out that clumsy robot with the cheap face mask, and have James Spader studying glowing dots on a transparent screen as if they mean something, and it's hard to suspend disbelief.The plot is incomprehensible; apparently the egg-shaped thing is a bomb, whose making and implementation exceeds the comprehension of the human mind, yet Angela Bassett decodes it as easily as if she were doing a Sudoku puzzle. The ship's onboard computer Suzie (HAL? Mother?) is gifted with an unnecessary fuzzy logic as she quarrels with James Spader; was it supposed to be cute or funny? It was neither.This was a weird, interesting film, and a textbook example of mining too many clichés, complete with the annoying convenience of an antagonist who reveals his motives in long, explanatory speeches (this tactic does not drive the story forward, it is simply one step away from the laziest of storytelling the narrative voice-over).And I really don't see Coppolla's touch anywhere in this film, does anyone see it? "},{"Title":"Publicly derided&#x85; but admittedly amusing","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova is the type of film that continues to boggle my mind, due to my curiosity on the production history that credits 3 directors, and a story that feels 30 minutes too short. As many have stated, Supernova revolves around a medical rescue team. After responding to a distress call some 3000 light year away, the crew rescue the mysterious caller/survivor who eventually brings havoc upon the crew. Also there is alien plot that is used fairly well, albeit underdeveloped. Genuinely, I enjoy this film. With a generic horror plot, supernova actually is able to space itself from similar SciFi films, with its visually slick, clean, spacious futuristic metro sets, that are rarely seen in SciFi films. Also, I love Lloyd Aherns cool, almost colorless somewhat glossy cinematography. AS far as I understand about the history of it's troubled production Walter Hill replaced the original director, filmed the movie and worked on post production effects and editing before quitting. Hill, upset over the creative control he did not posses during and after filming, left the film half edited and up *shat* creek. The makers brought in quack director jack Shoulder to re-shoot what they wanted and lighten the films tone. Apparently Jack changed the ships A.I. computer Sweetie's voice to one sounding like a phone sex operator, as opposed to the female sounding Hal originally conceived. I assume, but not sure we can thank him for the minor comedic quips that felt tonally out of place. Sholder edited a different version with his and Hill's footage. It's unclear why, but Jack left, and desperate, the makers employed Francis Ford Coppola to allegedly re-shoot and reedit a final cut of his own. Supposedly Francis added the zero gravity sex science between James Spader and Angela Basset, who is REALLY a digitally darkened Robin Tunney , and Peter Facinelli. Finally, Voila you have Supernova, a decent SciFi horror/thriller with no discernible director to credit. Had Walter completed his original version, as seen from deleted scenes, it could have possibly been the gritty, dark, unnerving experimental Science Fiction movie intended. Instead the viewer is relegated to it's subtle theme of Darwinism, the overt theme of human carnal desires and an A.I. computer capable of understanding love .....I know its a long shot but hopefully a blu- ray release will contain Hill's assembly cut. "},{"Title":"Sweetie, back to the editing room....","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When the vessel, the Nightingale 229, answers an emergency distress signal from a comet mining operation in a distant galaxy.The crew soon finds itself in danger from the mysterious young man they rescue, the alien artifact he's smuggled aboard, and the gravitational pull of a giant star about go supernova the most massive explosion in the universe...So Robert Pattinsons dad, can do evil properly and he tries quite amiably in this, rehash of event horizon and various other movies. Ithas nothing to do with the actors, they are all good with what they have to do.Tunney spends the most of the film topless Phillips has to stick his head in the pink thing Bassett is the mature one Spader is nothing but a moody soldier The gay Lionel Richie one is just there to be killed,And Robert Forster just gets fed up and dies about five minutes into the film.It's not even the directors fault(s), te studio just stuck their big noses in and ruined potentially interesting film.What we get left with is a watchable film about a stranger on a ship, who is evil and kills the crew off one by one. Thats all it is now.It looks good, the effects are okay, but it just feels so chopped and changed, it's hard to like. "},{"Title":"Looks good but fails to deliver.","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you sit down to watch this film and don't expect too much you'll probably enjoy it. They obviously spent a lot money on it and the sets look great. The cast look good too and you certainly get to see plenty of them. It's just a pity that overall this film doesn't really work. In the deleted scenes on the DVD I like the mention of colonies of van Voght and Azimov. It also explains that the single spare life support pod was for a crew member who died which I guess means the ship was never intended to warp when carrying anyone except the crew. Oh, and the computer seems to have changed sex somewhere along the line. Actually there is enough in the outtakes to suggest a different feel to the film altogether. "},{"Title":"Decent SciFi","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova is a straight forward, no frills SF/thriller movie. Where other films would have suffered a bit by having somewhat stock characters and a well used plot, this movie pulls it off. The villain is genuinely unlikable, and the characters act in believable ways. All in all, it pulls you into the setting and story without any significant What the!?! or Lame! flow breaking moments. While this movie could have been a lot more, more SF movies should try to be like it!The special effects are a bit dated, but still quite good because of their sparing usage, the film setting largely speaks for itself without the need of flashy effects and weird aliens to remind you it's a SF movie. The dialogue is good, with characterization being strongly shown by the way the crew speaks and interacts. Supernova (2000) Saturday Night Movie at Home "},{"Title":"What possessed Walter Hill?","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Saw this space dog last night via Netflix and was amazed at the low quality, considering cast and pseudonymous director Hill. Not as dull as Danny Boyle's similar cash-in for the Alien sweepstakes, but very poorly scripted.The oddest thing was my accidental timing -against virtually impossible odds I was watching while switching back and forth from the Sonia Sottomayor first day Senate hearings for her confirmation to the Supreme Court. Both the film and the hearings needed some relief; in the movie's case it was too idiotic to watch straight through, while the windbags of both parties made the hearing almost as difficult to watch -the entire 3 hours plus was Grassley, Whitehouse, Sessions and friends pontificating for the folks back home in their endless 10-minute opening statements (only Sen. Graham cut through the clichés with his patented straight talk, probably being the only Republican who will vote for her). Then near the end of the film I heard Angela Bassett mention Sotomayor and I thought I was dreaming -but the end credits confirmed that one of the cast's token minorities (Lou Diamond Phillips always gets multiple credit), Wilson Cruz (like Judge Sonia, a native New Yorker of Puerto Rican ancestry) was portraying one Benj Sotomejor. Other than the alternate spelling, what are the odds of me renting this obscure (read bad) Netflix movie and watching it simultaneously with the Sotomayor hearings? The film itself demonstrates the problem with genre pics since the '70s and certainly after Jaws and Star Wars became the biggest hits of their time, what we used to enjoy innocently on Saturday afternoons at the low budget level of George Pal or Milland's Panic in Year Zero suddenly became the BIG films. So a Z-grade project like Supernova gets a big budget, studio preference (how low MGM had fallen from the time of 2001 A Space Odyssey) and even some decent, if thin casting. Actors like Angela Bassett and James Spader look like they are performing under protest, and in a way they are -both would like to be involved in some meaningful project instead of this paycheck-programmer. In the '50s the A movies were accorded to Stanley Kramer and Elia Kazan and were important films with something to say, and most importantly, decent writing let alone casts littered with Actors Studio vets. In recent years we get juvenile junk like this reject.Of course, Hill was one of the producers of Alien that literally launched a thousand space ships, hardly any of them worth watching unless you are one of the IMDb's bottom feeders who thinks Al Bradley and Lewis Coates (their Italian names are equally pointless) knew how to make movies. Why he directed this garbage is for him and his biographer to sort out, but it defies Sarris' Auteur Theory for sure. "},{"Title":"Supergeneric","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When one sits down in front of what was (famously) almost an Alan Smithee movie, one expects certain things. One expects that if a movie is bad enough that the director wants no connection to it in its release, it's got to be nearly unwatchable. There's a certain amount of fun to be had with Alan Smithee movies in a group of friends, possibly more if they're all intoxicated. So when Supernova turned out to be a pretty standard sci-fi adventure movie (though appropriately ridiculous at times), I was disappointed.It's not a good movie, let me make that clear. There is enough meaningless sci-fi babble to fill an entire season of Star Trek Voyager. James Spader looks absurd in a spacesuit - and I mean more than most people do. The jock from Can't Hardly Wait is the bad guy, and also naked about half the time he's on screen for no reason at all. For that matter, just about everybody gets naked in this movie. Why? Because it's allegedly titillating.The entire plot feels recycled, from Spader's bad boy space cadet to the universe-destroying alien artifact his crew picks up along with the mysterious stranger played by the jock. Their ship is a rescue vessel responding to an SOS beacon on some distant moon. Spader is a new crew member of the ship, but the captain is killed en route to the emergency, putting him in charge. Where there was once an entire mining colony, they find only The Jock and his magic rock, which will have a peculiar effect on people who handle it throughout the movie. Lo and behold, The Jock is not all he seems to be and he spends the whole movie trying to seduce the others with promises of money, power, and/or sex, or killing them because he's just not that persuasive. The events in the movie do not carry any weight because we're not given even a chance to like these characters before they get put through the wringer. The characters are here to advance the plot instead of the other way around. It's too bad the plot is made up of several poorly directed action sequences. Here's a funny thing&#133; You put Sigourney Weaver in a giant robot suit to fight the alien Queen, that rocks. You give Bruce Campbell a chainsaw hand, that's marvelous! You put James Spader in a spacesuit left over from Leviathan and give him a space chainsaw and a big hook to fight his supernatural foe, you end up with a movie by Alan Smithee.And I LIKE James Spader.http//www.movieswithmark.com "},{"Title":"An interesting movie let down by some below average performances","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'Supernova' aired late the other night on Australian TV, and as this was the first time I'd ever heard about or seen the movie I thought I'd hit IMDb and read some reviews before watching it. At least thats what I'd hoped to do. After trawling through a number of pages worth of reviews the variation in responses to it had me wondering just what I was in for.The general feel of 'Supernova' is that its trying to put some unique twists or angles onto many sci-fi theme's you've probably seen before in other movies. This isn't really a bad thing as just because something has been done before doesn't mean another movie can't create an enjoyable adaptation of it. The problems that I had with this movie though wasn't the story or science or direction, but with the acting and performances.Robin Tunney  Blank vacant expressions is pretty much all you get from this actress through-out all her scenes. Her one emotion of 'shock' seems to have been applied to everything she takes part in. Also there really doesn't seem to be any relevance to her character even being on the ship other then something for Lou Diamond Phillips to get mad at.Lou Diamond Phillips  If Robin encompasses shock then Lou is the on-screen portrayal of frustration. Thats about all he does really, walk around looking frustrated and meagerly acting in a frustrated manner. You really get the feeling he's doing this movie for a pay check and thats about it. Its not as if he didn't get a chance to shine either as there are a few scene's where its just his character interacting with the 'crazy' alien artifact. I would have thought an actor who is interested in his role in a movie might have tried to squeeze a bit more .. well .. anything out of the scene's. But Lou is just sitting there with an expression of almost boredom as he discovers the 9th dimension.For me these two actors create the biggest problem for the movie, as during the whole middle of the film your pretty much just watching these two bumble around the ship. Minor plot holes and bad science I can over-look, but pointless inane characters annoy the heck out of me.OK enough about the negatives, because amazingly this movie did have some great characters positives . Now I'm not exactly a fan of the shows that James Spader's been appearing in over the last few years, but I have to say that enjoyed the role and performance he gave in this movie. Yes it was dry and monotone, but after watching the movie I think the role actually called for it.A classic example of this, and probably the part of the movie that I really enjoyed the most, was when Spader's character was rocketing back to the crippled ship in a tiny rescue vessel exclaiming to the super-human bad guy that 'hes gonna get him'. Peter Facinelli's character had just murdered the greater majority of the crew using super-human strength coupled with 100% confidence .. yet here was a single lowely human returning to the ship and the immortal monster was dead set terrified. Where he had previously and smugly dealt with the crew toe-to-toe, Facinelli's character gave himself lots of distance and even armed himself with a weapon for Spader's arrival. I thought this power game between the two was done quite well, in fact once Spader returned to the ship the movie became far more involved and interesting.Wilson Cruz played a small-ish role in the movie, but unlike Robin and Lou he didn't over or under act it, and out of all the crew seemed to get into the role the most.Angela Bassett was good when Spader was on screen (or in the ship) with her, but once Spader left the ship to visit the surface of the planet Bassett's character became the 'captain by default' and also the 'hero by default' .. but unfortunately neither her character nor her acting was really up to the task. Admitedly this was during the whole 'lets apply science to fiction' part of the movie where they try fill in the story about what the alien artifact is. Unfortunately Bassett's performance was rather un-emotive and here, but in her defense this was when Robin and Lou were wandering around the ship having their subplots play out so there really wasn't a lot to work with either.For me Spader saves the movie, and the sequences where they out smart and out wit the super human Facinelli are done quite well and play out quickly and intelligently. Facinelli's monster was in total control with the other crew, but as soon as the captain returns to the ship the whole level of 'control' is shifted.I can't say this is a classic movie or one that I'd be wanting to watch again and again, but ts definitely NOT unwatchable or terminally flawed. It had a lot of things going for it .. but if only they'd spent more time casting a better crew for the ship.One last thing though, overall the special effects are very good .. but who-ever thought that splicing some 1960's era 'through a microscope' footage of an embryo during the hyperspace sequence was a good idea really needs to be slapped. "}{"Title":"It's depressing to see a potentially great film wasted like this","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Oddly, as the ending credits to Supernova rolled across my TV screen, I felt melancholy and wistful about the movie I almost got to see. I wanted some more...of the movie that was buried under the ruins of the second half of the screenplay.Supernova had a lot of potential. Spader and Bassett are very good actors, and Spader was amazingly buff for this role (as was practically every other male member of the cast). The special effects and deep space scenery ranged from being excellent to exciting and sometimes even spectacular (especially the shots from the ending credit sequence). While nothing in the art or production design had the Giger-inspired lunacy of Alien, Supernova was a very good looking movie. And the sound track was right on the money - moving, soaring, eerie, exciting, tender, everything it was supposed to be in a first class movie.It's too bad that the screenplay itself (which started out strongly) got bogged down in a mire of muddled philosophizing, maddening plot holes and inconsistencies and third rate editing.It seems as if the movie needed 15-20 extra minutes of plot development, exposition and dialog to fill in the ambitious goals it sets for itself. Instead it touches on a lot of interesting, potentially intriguing ideas - an alien artifact with Armageddeon-scale potential; a hospital ship on the deep frontier of space; an abandoned mine on a rogue moon; the price and implications of addiction to power and pleasure; the budding romance between Spader and Bassetts' characters; the specter of a super-powered serial killer stalking the ship; an AI coming to full 'wakefulness' as its computer guru plays chess with it. But everything is just set up with a few lines of dialog and never truly explored. Even the murders of the crew members has a very perfunctory 1-2-3 quality about it. The ending, when it comes, seems abrupt and unearned, as the ship's AI blithely reels off a string of exposition that begs for further development and exploration...but instead, the movie just ends.To make things worse, the plot holes are many and grievous. They drag the movie down into sci-fi gibberish. Earlier commentors covered them extremely well, but I'd like to show how some of the extra dialog and exposition I mentioned earlier might have gone a long way toward filling in these holes and lowering the irritation factor. For example Why doesn't the ship have pods for the patients? Because injured or sick patients wouldn't survive the jump even in a life support pod, so the ship stays at its destination and provides long term care until further help arrives. Why was the killer allowed to roam free around the ship? Because Spader still didn't trust his instincts around Karl and erred on the side of trust because of his own drug fueled background. Why didn't Sweetie - programmed never to take a life - try to prevent the murder of the first two crew members? Because the people who programmed her never dreamed of a maniac performing murderous violence on a hospital ship and her parameters weren't set to deal with that event. Why did Karl want to bring a fantastically dangerous device back into human space (if he understood its true nature, he would know it would kill him too, after all)? Because Hazen addiction turned him into a monster of narcissism vulnerable to the lure and metaprogramming of the device's alien makers. Why wasn't there a 'cut off' to allow Captain Marcy to stop the D-Jump until his pod could be repaired? Because the D-Jump, once begun, cannot be halted - the ship has to use the energies unleashed, or be destroyed in the ensuing chain reaction (which is why D-jumps are undertaken only with for missions of great urgency). Why weren't there shields on the ship to protect it from debris in the heavy gravity zone? There were, but the crap flying in space around them was far denser and more dangerous than than a hospital ship (as opposed to a military transport or war ship) was ever meant to encounter, so the shields weren't adequate to the task. See how easy that was? That took me less than five minutes.And yet the director(s) and the final screenwriter(s) couldn't be bothered to do this and the final patchwork product was released in an apparent hope that the pretty pictures and buff bodies on display would help the crippled story escape notice. Sorry, guys, the pretty baubles just made the editing and sloppiness of the second half look even worse.The DVD is a bare bones package, but it does have a nice extra 13 scenes deleted from the final cut, including an alternate ending that is much glummer and gloomier than the 'official' one. A few of these scenes are trivial and inessential (including the alternate opening )- but several of them would have added to the coherence and depth of the film quite nicely.Really, I ought to rate Supernova with a 4 or 5, but the glimpses of a much better, much more worthwhile movie kept popping through in the occasional line of dialog, or shot of deep space, or erotic scene, or bit of art direction. lighting and set design. So I feel like it deserves a 7 because it had so much potential - an possible 8 or 9 hobbled with a 3-4 type production difficulties. When will the studios ever learn? "},{"Title":"Disastrous...","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A medical ship picks up a strange man(Peter Facinelli) who is carrying a mysterious alien cargo that is changing him.This is an original but stupid plot for a science-fiction thriller. It is quite simple and made even simpler. There is nothing about this movie that I found to be exciting or any different from other sci-fis. The acting was just as bad as the next low-budget film and the character development was not anything special. Watching this movie is like watching an episode for sci-fi channel t.v. series and should not be regarded even as a good attempt. Overall, the movie is completely unimpressive and quite cheesy. It is no better than any other low budget sci-fi film.I do not recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"The best thing about the movie is that everyone gets naked in this film...","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Everyone. Though there is no full frontal, all the men and the two women are shirtless, and Facinelli but in an earlier age would have inspired the likes of Michelangelo. It is wonderful to see a film that truly exploits its actors assets. In this case, the shirtless scenes of James Spader and Peter Facinelli make the movie worth renting, in fast forward at least. Facinelli's read nudity is over the top beautiful. Nice to see Rober Forster doing a shirtless scene at his age and looking hot. The girls are hot too, though only above the waist shots.While the movie as a whole kinda stinks, several of the early scenes are good. The early scenes with Spader and Angela Bassett are very fun.After the first 45 minutes are so, however, turn it off. Once you've seen Spader's shirtless medical examination, everyone stripping for the dimensional jump and the jump itself, and Facinelli's nude medical scan, the movie is basically over. Too bad they don't hire writer's in Hollywood much anymore. Just a little creative plot here at the end could have made a world of difference. "},{"Title":"the Force is not strong with this one... (possible spoilers)","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Having caught this movie late one night on terrestrial TV, I have to say it commits one of the cardinal sins of a would-be SF thriller... it's tedious as hell. It could almost be a good comedy- a buffed-up James Spader as a Steven Segal/ Van Damme type action hero is so laughable, it could have been fun, but even then the novelty value runs out pretty quickly. As for the plot, well ,lets not go there. The SFX are OK, the supposedly exciting love scenes are frequent and boring, and the bad guy is yet another indestructible yet brainless type. The nine-dimensional stuff is more nonsense, the happy ending is predictable, and the music... well I can't remember anything about the music, which can't be good, really. All in all, a big, stinking pile of bantha poo-doo, I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Super? No way!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova is a sci-fi film about an ambulance ship that responds to an SOS from a moon in the middle of nowhere and promptly go there to help. They pick up a survivor and predictably all hell breaks loose.Supernova feels like a mix of Dead Calm and Event Horizon, except of course that those films were good. Supernova doesn't have one single good scene or moment. It's just a tired rehash of other better films, without anything new or exciting. It's not even bad enough to laugh at.The characters are completely uninteresting and given no back story. Just by looking at them you can pretty much tell who will live and who wont. Spader and Basset are the heroes (i.e. they will make it), Forster doesn't do anything except die in the first ten minutes (I guess his role got cut down), Tunney is there to show her breasts, Phillips and Cruz are cannon fodder, and Facinelli is the insane villain (here portrayed by being buff and sweaty).The plot seems to be made up by holes. Actually, trying to make sense of everything that is illogical may be the film's only virtue. Take, for example, the premise of an ambulance ship that doesn't have enough room for it's personnel, let alone any passengers. There are also many things that just end up silly when being on screen - like calling the ship's computer Sweetie (that works real well in a tense situation) or having a robot on board, that looks like a mannequin in an old pilot's outfit.Tryiing to do more intelligent sci-fi films seems to be a tricky thing to pull off (Mission to Mars, Red Planet, and the not-so-intelligent Battlefield Earth all failed). Supernova, with it's nonsensical script and troubled production, is no exception. Shaky, tilted (does anyone think that looks good?) camera work, so-so effects, and cheap looking sets doesn't improve the viewing experience either. To put it short, Supernova is nothing else than a big turkey in space. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Watch it for Angela Bassett and only for Angela Bassett","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" She's the only one attempting acting in this movie and don't let me start on intelligence and motivation. Compared to everyone else she should have got an Oscar.Oh and James Spader, no impression in this film whatsoever except his new bod. I tuned out whenever he spoke and just looked at him. Good workout I thought, if only you looked like that in Stargate the Movie.This movie could be summed up in one word unnecessary. Unnecessarily gross. Unnecessary characters and plot devices.Only one element of the ending left me a bit surprised (the eye thing) but otherwise I saw who would survive and who wouldn't from a mile off. And the love scene with vessel tramp could have been deleted. "},{"Title":"handsome James S.","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There is only one good thing about this film James Spader looks terribly handsome. I can't get my eyes off his muscles. He's the only reason I watch Supernova again and again and again, otherwise the film is crap............. ...................... ............. ......... .......... ... .......... ........... ................. ............ ................................... ......... ............. ............ ........... ......... ...... ................... ................... ..................... ............... ................ .................... ..................................... ............ ............... ......... ................................... "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Universally panned on release I watched this only to see how bad it was. To my surprise I really enjoyed it, those I have lent it to have responded positively too.I can only suggest that comments made on it's original release were based on the un-cut version. The DVD contains the deleted scenes and had they been included the film would indeed have sucked big time.The edited 90-odd minute version is a perfectly acceptable piece of sci-fi cinema. The effects are upto scratch, the acting is above average and the set pieces work well. The story has a Star Trek/Voyager feel to it agreed, but one of the better episodes.Get the edited version, enjoy - then watch the deleted scenes and admire what a completely terrible film it could have been! "},{"Title":"worth a look","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Romance has never had a place in Sci-fi for me but this one has a romantic twist that was very intriguing that gives birth to an interesting possibility. Throughout the film there is a strong undercurrent on the theme of death, birth and renewal in this film. A routine call for help and the crew finds their lives in jeopardy. The rescue team roles including Wilson Cruz seem understated as they appear non-challant about the work they do. Perhaps they could have shown more emotion about being burned to a crisp if they didn't hurry their resue and get out of there. The film reveals the human side of the rescue team and how the human side react to the challenge when they rescue Peter Facinelli. James Spader faces the challenge of being the person in charge when he takes over command of the ship when the captain dies. Angela Bassett has her doubts about him, but keeps a cool head while attending her duties as medical officer and keeping things on track. Robin Tunney has her own doubts about her relationship with Lou Diamond Phillips and realizes too late that she has made a mistake when she listens to the advice of Peter Facinelli whose character fascinates her. If you really wanted to, you could nit-pick this film to death. It does have some rough unexplained edges but overall the film was well worth me watching and the scenes believable. It would be interesting to see both the original film and the re-edited version to find out what was edited and why.  "},{"Title":"Supernova is super...","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really enjoyable.  The special effects are amazing, especially for such a low received movie.  The acting is good.  The storyline is also very good.The movie is about a medical ship in the future.  They get a distress call from an abandoned mine on a moon orbiting an blue giant star, which is going to supernova soon.  The script is cleverly written and makes you think, while combining action and scary moments to keep you totally drawn into the story.If you like science-fiction related movies, check this one out.  You won't be disappointed.  **** out of ***** stars. "}{"Title":"In Space, No One Can Hear You YAWN!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" SUPERNOVA (2000) * James Spader, Angela Bassett, Robert Forster, Lou Diamond Phillips, Peter Facinelli, Robin Tunney, Wilson Cruz. Sci-fi yawner about a medical rescue expedition that unwittingly becomes a target for an alien lifeforce that wants to take over the universe, yadda yadda yadda. Boring beyond belief and worst yet incomprehensible. Directed by Walter Hill (who used the Alan Smithee-like alias, Thomas Lee) who lost control of his movie when MGM interfered and had it re-edited by its executive producer Francis Ford Coppola (!) to an indecipherable mess; they both know better! "},{"Title":"Spacey, sexy ethos in deep space...and cool stuff too.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie, not having much of an idea what it was going to be like when I sat down.  I hate to be non supportive of all of the people who hated this movie, but I really liked it.  Its been a long time since I've seen a good stranded in deep space movie with some oh my god and what are we going to do now thrown in as well as some of the coolest stuff and equipment that I've seen in a science fiction movie for a long time. And, it certainly was entertaining to see James Spader in a role that I wouldn't have cast him in (he's always Daniel in my mind), but he was great. I liked all of the cast. Finally, I enjoyed the camera work, the way everything was lit and how so many of the shots were close up or interesting angles.  But then, I love science fiction anyway.  So, I just enjoyed it for what it is.  That's all.So, as far as I'm concerned, if you love science fiction you'll want to see this just because.  If you're the kind of person who thinks that a movie has to be totally explainable and normal and that science fiction has to be Star Trek, or end with moral judgements like The Black Hole, then you probably shouldn't bother.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing film(","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is ok,it has good acting and effect but that's just about it. I was disappointed about the end.Sci-Fi fans may want to check this out and James Spader is good in it and if you are fan of his you'll like him in it but I think you'll be disappointed like I was.It was just a ok film, that's all.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Film I've Ever Seen","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A boring, horrible and plot-less peace of filming. I was so bored I do not even know what the film is about, other than there is a man with a weird face killing people. It's rubbish, annoying and should of been band for being so trashy.    "},{"Title":"20 Light Years Of Crap","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bad bad bad bad. Bad.Horrible casting, with the black guy who talks like a sissy and Angela Basset who didn't dare to show her stuff. And of course bad acting too.The 'plot' (if any) has mostly no sense, and the few (and I mean it literally) rational points of it have been done before and much much better.The FX, while not bad, are average, and the ships and props are amongst the worst things in this pitiful crap.Don't bother 'cos you'll end up hating coppola and hill for bringing this trash "},{"Title":"decent SF","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Quite decent SF which, by the way of poor editing, missed the opportunity to be a great SF. Common places minimally annoying, several fresh moments and commendable sound and visuals (both photography and effects). This film will be more appreciated by the mature audience. "},{"Title":"Super orgy","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  4.2?? Do any of you think this movie deserves that high of a rating? I'd love to give you some spoilers, but because the was so poorly made I really have no idea what it's about. The plot must have been thrown out the ship about two minutes into the movie. I remember turning to my friend and saying Darn! We missed almost half of the movie! I don't know what's going on. She pointed to the screen and I realized the opening credits were just ending as I spoke. They jump right into the action which is just fine in a regular movie...IF YOU KNOW WHO THE CHARACTERS ARE, WHAT THEIR MISSION IS AND WHY THEY'RE DOING IT. Sex permeates this movie, start to finish. That's why I jokingly--well seriously--dub it Super Orgy. The captain guy turns into this predator, whose one main goal (or it seems to be) is to dance the horizontal hokey-pokey with every female crew member. Look out for one bizarre scene in an anti-gravity room. I guess it never registered with me to comment on this movie because it was one of those passing things you regret doing and joke about later. Moulin Rouge was originally, and remains, the lowest movie I ever rated. (It would have been a -10 if they allowed negative ratings.) Supernova now has the obscene pleasure of sharing this title with old Rougey. May they rest in piece. "},{"Title":"what an awful movie!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do not waste your time on this science fiction wannabe movie.  There is no plot; the movie seems to be only an excuse to insert irrelevant special effects and science (fiction) buzzwords, such as supernova (the title itself, completely irrelevant to anyone who has a little knowledge of basic astronomy) and ninth dimension.  The movie is gruesome and does not lead anywhere.  The acting is ridiculous.  Even more so are the deleted (and someone really deserves some thanks for that) scenes that can be seen on the DVD.     "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Scifi Thrillers are either good or bad.and this is bad. James Spader is so wooden in this Chuck Norris could of taken over from him. The rest of the cast look to be as bored as i was.The ropey F/X and Awful Script are bad enough. I Doubt this movie has been helped by studio Recuts. 1 Out of 10 "},{"Title":"Above average and interesting","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  if walter hill wanted his name taken from this movie - then i am only left thinking that it was more the better for it. interestingly put together story without the overblown standard hollywood cliches and music cues. the cliches are there, dont get me wrong, but they are subtle and around just long enough to make the point and then the story moves on. good special effects, good characters, and a story that gets moving and stays moving. not going to win any oscars, but i was impressed considering the baggage that this movie suposedly had. *** out of four - above average sci-fi. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as some say...","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie. Although it lacked depth, a convincing plot and dialogues, it was more realistic than most recent science fiction films. It slightly reminded me of Alien, even though it is light years away from that masterpiece.All in all, a decent 1 1/2 hours' afternoon entertainment. "},{"Title":"I liked it enough to watch it twice..","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not back to back of course.  I didn't go looking to see it, but it came on one of the pay channels late one night while I was channel surfing, so I watched it again.I'm giving this review mainly so that potential reviewers won't be so turned off by the rating it received.  It got less than Space Cowboys and only appx. .7 *'s more than BARB WIRE.  I mean, really!?!!I think some people just go around looking for movies to bash.  If you don't like certain types of movies, then don't watch those types of movies.Now, sure, the movie could of been better.  But after watching it twice, I think that its pretty good actually for what it is.  And, I think I would pretty much watch any movie with Angela Basset in it.  And Lou Diamond Phillips is a pretty good actor too. There was some cheesiness (but I likes a little cheesiness in my B movies), much less thriller than Event Horizen (another good movie despite ratings), definately better Sci Fi than Barb Wire and Killer Klowns which also got only a slightly lower rating than Supernova.  By the way, I kinda liked Killer Klowns, so I guess that puts some perspective on my tastes huh?Anyway, I think it should have gotten at least as good a ratings as Space Cowboys, although I would put that one in the category of drama/comedy.My final rating...  umm, about a 6 '*' out of 10 '*'. Aw, what the heck, I give it a 7 '*'. "},{"Title":"A space drifter in distress proves dangerous.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This sci-fi venture offers up some real good special effects. The space vehicles and furnishings are pretty cool as well. There appears to be a lack of using the talent available, but the story itself keeps your attention. Somewhat moody and emotional, but not overly technical.A medical-spaceship crew rescues an intergalactic scavenger who proves to be very dangerous and possesses a mysterious artifact. James Spader shines in the lead role with various support from Angela Bassett, Lou Diamond Phillips and Robin Tunney. Peter Facinelli is outstanding in this paranoia filled drama.  "},{"Title":"see the R-rated version!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The R-rated version is hell of alot better than PG-13 crappy one. It is quite dumb but it has its moments, like Tunney's boobs, lol & a few cool special effects. But if u r looking 4 a good sci-fi film, dont choose this 1. This is 1 of those wait til video under $.99 section type of movies.  "},{"Title":"An extremely tedious and unpleasant movie... don't waste any of your time on it","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an extremely tedious and unpleasant movie which, despite some strong cast members, basically has absolutely no redeeming features whatsoever. I can't remotely imagine how any possible audience could conceivably draw anything positive in any way from the experience of watching this film, and therefore I strongly recommend that absolutely no-one waste their time watching it. Despite the sci-fi trappings, it's functionally mainly a psycho-killer type movie, with badly scripted characters, a really irritating villain, and lots of let's shake the camera special effects. If you're tempted to rent it, don't - do something more fun instead... bang your head against a wall for an hour-and-half, for example.  "},{"Title":"Angela Bassett is a magnet!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It seems like whenever I hear Angela Bassett's name attached to a movie, I have to go see it.  She was the only thing of interest in this movie to me.  The plot was weak, the story was weak, and the acting (except for Angela) sucked much a$$!  Angela Bassett was the only bright spot in this stank movie.   "},{"Title":"Ho hum, another dull sci-fi flick","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If the producers had spent half as much money on a script as they did on personal trainers for all the stars, this might have been a decent film.  Seriously, this has to be the most athletic cast I have seen in a movie in a long time.  But why?  What was the point of getting a bunch of buff actors and having them briefly take their clothes off?  It did not make the film any more watchable. Yes, it was predictable.  Yes, it had every cliche in the book. But what got me was some of the glaring plot holes as well as the truly confusing lines of dialogue and plotting.  I rewound the tape and listened to several lines of dialogue again and I still had no idea what they were trying to say.  It made no sense.  And it was not just technobabble--it was a case of the writer stringing together words that made absolutely no sense. For example  There's a blue giant right in the path of that moon's debris cloud.  What the heck does that mean?!! And then there were lots of plot holes.  The one that really got me was the fact that this was a space ambulance, yet it did not have enough hyperspace sleep chambers (or whatever they're called) for more than the crew.  How, exactly, are they supposed to rescue anybody? The acting was pretty blah.  I remember really liking James Spader in the 1980s.  Here he just growls out his lines and shows no talent whatsoever.  Virtually everyone else is the same.  Robyn Tunney seems to have had a little surgery since she last took off her clothes in End of Days, if you know what I mean (and I think you do).  It's clear where her career is heading. I am actually intrigued by the comment by the person who said it is worth getting on DVD just to see the two different (awful) versions of this film.  I usually don't like my movies to be great teaching aides in how NOT to make a movie.  But I imagine that a film class could have a lot of fun with this one, identifying everything that went wrong.  "},{"Title":"Wow! What an awful flick!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this one is purely awful. In 1999, I got so tired of all the tiresomely cliched films, and Supernova continues that tradition. There's nothing much here at all, just kind of a boring Alien/2001 half-bread. Not much worse than The Bone Collector, Double Jeopardy or Eye Of The Beholder, but much, much worse than so many entertaining straight-to-video Science Fiction/Horror motion pictures.  "},{"Title":"Supernova is a terrible movie with bad acting and a weak plot.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was in the least terrible.  No name stars really acted horribly to cause me to walk out of the movie theater.  I've only done this three times My Best Friend's Wedding, Junior, and this movie.  After twenty minutes i was disgusted.  How could any corporation with any common sense approve of this  awful film.  first of all, it starred Peter Facinelli, who was featured in a few awful films.  This time though, he really dropped the ball.  The plot, I thought initially, was okay.  It seemed that the film makers were trying too hard for another sci-fi box office hit.  Well, they messed up, and this film was terrible.  I know I'm not supposed to elaborate on any single scene, but one scene was just a little out-of-place.  When they transported to a different stellar location, the had to, for some reason, take off all of their clothes.  I didn't understand this.  The makers of the movie must have just been attempting to excite the audience. Well, it didn't.  Most of them were just ugly.  Lou Diamond Phillips, who hasn't had a hit since La Bamba, tried to make some cash by being in this movie.  Plus, he got naked.  I don't want to see Lou Daimond's ass cheeks! I didn't pay $7.75 to see Lou Diamond's ass cheeks!!  No one wants to see Lou Diamond's ass cheeks!  Probably not even his wife!  She probably tells him to cover 'em up when he's undressing!  What a waste of money!In the next stellar transportation, two people went into one pod.  These two people were of different ethnic origins.  One was an African-American and one was white. I seriously thought they'd become an Oreo!  After that, I just walked out. If you want my advice, don't see this movie.  It was up to par with the Mad Max movies, and one of those featured Janet Jackson!  This movie, plain and simple, stunk. "},{"Title":"One of the worst of 2000.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Already one of the worst films of 2000. Special effects are decent and that's it. The actors are miscasted and give halfhearted performances or go way overboard. The direction is a little bit better, but this film is a big mess. Film cost $60 million plus and went through a series of serval directors. Rating 3 out 10. "}{"Title":"yawn!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is exactly what I did when I saw this movie. I yawned. Not because I was sleepy, but because I was tremendously bored. This movie is downright insulting. After seeing so many great sci-fi movies (The Matrix, Star Wars The Phantom Menace, Pitch Black and the recent Star Trek movies), my tastes in the genre have been suitably lifted. I met Supernova with some low expectations, but at least I wanted some reasonable special effects. Actually, they are utterly dull and lifeless. Am I supposed to believe that nothing really happens to Robin Tunney when she gets thrown in space? Her lungs would have exploded because of the difference of pressure. But no, it seems that she is just going to suffocate. The performers are delivering the lines of a dumb screenplay. James Spader is mediocre, to say the least, in an absolutely thankless role. Angela Bassett, who experienced her ups and downs (worst performance in Critters 4, astounding performances in What's Love Got To Do With It and Strange Days), is also experiencing her last (hopefully) dumb movie role. She has some lines that are completely useless to the development of the plot. Robin Tunney is very unlucky lately. In 1999, she appeared in two movies this one and End of Days. As usual, she is terrible. Someone has to tell her good looks (that includes breasts) do not usually mix with talent.The plot is less than dumb. It starts quietly, 10 minutes pass nothing interesting happens, 20 minutes pass, ooh, we got a distress signal, let's do a jump (which looks incredibly like Star Trek warp travel). Finally something mildly entertaining happens the captain is fused in plastic, let's kill him. Then for 10 more minutes, I yawn. A sexy villain appears, let's see some gratuitous nudity. Carnage starts in the least shocking way. Killer is ejected into space. Didn't we see this before? Oh, yes. In Alien, Aliens, Alien Resurrection, when it was frightening. Finally, the survivours do another jump. They are luckier than the deceased captain they exchange eyes, and Bassett is pregnant. I start laughing.I am sorry if I sound sarcastic, but this movie is an absolute waste of time. I would have given it a big, fat, good-looking zero, but I can't. 1/10 is more than generous.Last comment I also hated Sweetie, the ship's computer. It was the most annoying character that I've heard in a long time. It is supposed to be a machine, not a horny woman who wants to have sex with one of the crewmen. I was wondering, if they used Star Trek's idea of warp travel, maybe they should have used the same computer. It would have been even less original but a bit more believable. "},{"Title":"MAN! This movie sucked!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'd have to say that this is one of the most STUPIDEST and BORING movies of all time. Supernova is lucky because if McHale's Navy was never made, this wouldn't be the worst film ever made. Someone was probably very bored when they made this movie. THE MONEY THAT WENT INTO THIS MOVIE COULD HAVE FED HUNGRY PEOPLE!!!!!! I'm warning you, do not see this movie. You'll just be giving money back to the studio for them to make more crap like this. "},{"Title":"Why didn't we rent a movie!!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A movie that isn't worth the price of $2.50 is hard to come by, but we found it.  It was honestly like eating a hologram, it looks like a good movie, but there is nothing to eat to fulfil your hunger. HOWEVER, the crazy scary guy's parts were being chopped off, and that was exciting.   And the deep space sex chamber, where everyone went to have sex was also pretty interesting.But I'm going to have to say that if anything was worse than this movie, it had to be the girls sitting behind us, unable to control their urges, talking about how cute the guys were.I recommend a video!! "},{"Title":"Distracting but the lack of a convincing or interesting narrative leaves it all at sea from the get-go","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep space rescue ship Nightingale responds to a distress signal from a comet mining operation. The distance to be covered calls for a space jump that costs Captain Marley his life and leaves rehabilitating military pilot Vanzant in charge. His first duty is to save the ship from falling into a star's heavy gravitational pull, but the damage caused by other space debris has left them badly stuck. The dimension drive they need to get back home will only be fully recharged 11 minutes before the star goes supernova and destroys them. As if things weren't bad enough, they only get worse with the arrival on Nightingale of the only survivor on Titan, Troy Larson, who has brought some strange artifact on-board with him.In the UK anyway, this film drifted around a release date for ages before ending up just pushed out to die. Sometimes this happens to films that are difficult to sell and sometimes this happens because they are poor. With Supernova I was worried that I already knew which one of these two it was, but I wanted to give it the benefit of the doubt. Whether or not the writers story of ten years old had any value or not I cannot comment but after several script rewrites, what we are left with was a messy, nonsensical system that seemed to have a good idea buried deep in its core but was totally betrayed by the delivery of the script and the film as a whole. The film looks good, has plenty of action and has expensive effects but the central narrative is weak and as a result it never held my interest no matter how many things blew up. Without any depth to it, the film ends up as a fairly predictable story that just treads familiar territory before just, well, stopping at the end.The cast struggle to provide character, relationships and depth but none of them manage it. Spader forced such a gruff voice that he had me clearing my throat on his behalf. He is a solid enough lead but that's about that. Bassett is a good actress but those meeting her in this film may not believe it because she doesn't have much to do. Forster's presence was a mystery while Phillips, Tunney and Cruz are only so-so. Facinelli is hardly doing anything special with his character and simply turns in a performance that others have done better. Marshall can do nothing with a poor photocopy of Hal.Overall this is an average film &#150; neither any good or that terrible. It looks good but the narrative is weak and lacking anything of real value. The swapping of directors and rewrites of the script scupper any value that may have existed in the original story and the cast cannot do anything to repair it. The effects and the bangs will make it distracting to some viewers but really it is no better than that. "},{"Title":"More potent than syrup of ipecac...","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have had the misfortune of being subjected to many bad movies throughout my life.  I like to give all types of movies a chance.  Just I can be pleasantly surprised, I can also be visually and intellectually tortured. This movie proved that.How do you find a distributor for a movie that is lacking something of such importance?  No one noticed that the writers had forgotten to give this movie a plot?  There is just blood, sex, violence, and pear brandy (one of the more exciting parts of this lame movie!).  As I was watching this movie I concluded that everyone involved was strapped for cash or needed a release for pent up schizophrenia and this was the mutually beneficial vessel used by all.If you prefer to watch a film, and I use that term loosely, that has no plot, pointless love scenes where the characters have as much chemistry as oil and water, and nothing connects or makes sense, this is your movie. If you are like me and would rather have a root canal than suffer through such cerebrally draining hodge podge, the RUN! This movie is nauseatingly boring and sophomoric.  Kindergartners could have done a job much better than this. I see why the directors used a pseudonym.  If their names get attached to this film, they might be blackballed, and rightfully so.  Everyone attached to this film should be ashamed and apologize to the public for having anything to do with this. This movie gets an F only because I cannot give it double Z's!  Absolutely one of the worst films I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Worst of the year. Laps its competition.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If Supernova had not been released just before the higher-profile Battlefield Earth it would have gained universal recognition as the worst movie of 2000.  Screenplay, direction, acting (with one exception) all rock-bottom. Robert Forster gave a good, sympathetic performance, but his character was killed off in the first ten minutes.  They should have kept Forster and killed off the rest of the cast.  Worst of all was Angela Bassett, parodying Whoopi Goldberg's Guinan character from Star Trek TNG as if she held a personal grudge against that actress.  Bassett has done some creditable work, but she needs direction (more than most actors). She did not get it here.  Robin Tunney is wasted here and her nude scenes (the only reasons one might have for watching this movie) were excised from the US theatrical version to give it a PG rating.)As for the direction, the IMDB listing suggests that there is a question as to who should get the credit.  The answer should be None of the Above. I'll bet that the directors' guild wouldn't allow the producers to use the traditional Alan Smithee because this turkey would besmirch his name. If Coppola was involved in any capacity, it must have been after a battery of wine tastings at his vineyard.The script?  Wherever a hackneyed melodromatic device could be employed, it was.  Where it couldn't, it was bludgeoned in anyway.The script ominously hints that a sequel will be needed in 51 years. Actuarial tables tell me that I will probably not be around that long.  I am grateful. "},{"Title":"Movie implodes","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film had a lot going for it, but also a lot of handicaps. The handicaps won. There were some decent special effects, but some cheesy ones, too. I had really hoped to like this film, being a fan of sci-fi and space opera films and books. I cut my teeth on Robert Heinlein and Isaac Asimov paperbacks. This movie doesn't measure up. I can see why James Spader would take this role; to slow down his typecasting as a geek. But he couldn't really pull off the tough guy act. Angela Bassett plays a similar tough girl role. She can be believable in that sort of role, but this utterly killed any chance of romantic or sexual chemistry between the characters. Even Robin Tunney as the ship slut wasn't enough to keep me from taping over this one. Grade D- "},{"Title":"Another mindless waste of film!!","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was just browsing thru the video store to kill some time and came across this thing.  Nice cover art, and and interesting premise.  Unfortunately, it was done by a bunch of brain-dead soap opera writers.  There were many things that were wrong with this movie.  From the beginning, if there is a fault with one of the tubes there should have been failsafe protocols that prevented them from jumping to hyperspace if someone tried to use it knowing full-well what the outcome would be by the end of the jump.The fact that they don't have shields to protect them from debris striking the ship is another.  When they get there and pick up Carl, they let him have free run of the ship.  Since there are no security protocols to keep him out of sensitive areas where only command personnel should have access to, he is able to wreak all sorts of havoc by simply walking in to them. In one of the murder scenes, 'Sweetie' does nothing (other than saying you are overriding standard operating protocols) to stop him from opening that airlock and thus one of the female crew is sucked out into space; yet in another one, she refuses to evacuate the air from the room to suffocate Carl before he has a chance to kill Benjamin.Then we get to the ending which was about as anti-climatic as they could make it!  Heck, the ending to Disney's The Black Hole was much better than this piece of drivel.  It's a good thing I get my rentals for free or I would ask for a refund on this one!!BTW, what was the big deal about the (PG) vs (R) rating??  There was nothing in this movie that ya don't see all the time on TV in the soaps and 'action' shows.  Anyhow, it should be filed away with all the other B movies and forgotten about.  Watching (the original) Godzilla would have been more entertaining.... sheeesh!! "},{"Title":"Pertty good movie","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had seen this movie for the first time when it came out in theatres back in 2000.Kind of weird but i bought the DVD for this movie this year seeing it for the second time.I could not believe being a sci fi fan as i am why i did not buy the DVD sooner or at least seen this movie at least twice.First off the special effects for this movie are simply amazing. Loved the acting.All in all its a great sci fi horror that i recommend to people who liked, Event Horizon, Alien movies. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I quite enjoyed Supernova without being entirely sure why.The good points include decent performances, especially from James Spader (who I usually cordially dislike), an interesting premise, and an unbloated running time.The bad points include a rather more leisurely unrolling of story than is strictly necessary, a willingness to dump characters just as they get established, and an over dependence on jargon-based maguffins to make the story work. Also, contrary to some opinions, I found the special effects less than wonderful the Nightingale, for instance, always looked like a digital effect with insufficient passes to render it in sufficient detail to be convincing.However, there is sufficient here to hold the attention of the average sci-fi fan, and Robin Tunney's impressive bosom racks up a star on its own (pun intended). "}{"Title":"A well crafted and involving, if not greatly inspiring movie, with excellent special effects!","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie and I feel compelled to counter what I feel are exaggerated and unfair criticisms of this movie.I just do not understand how some people can say this movie deserves a 1/10 or even zero - this is utterly ridiculous! And even low scores like a 4/10! Have these people EVER seen a bad movie before?! What kind of grading system, in some people's minds, puts this movie at, or near the bottom of, and WORST of, all movies!1. ADMITTING THE BADDue to the lack of complexity and depth to the story, this film, ultimately, by the end of the movie, DOES FAIL to uplift intellectually, and to open one's mind to new and original ideas. It also FAILS to challenge deeply held sterile social beliefs, or to provide any new insights into the nature of reality, or to entertain the imagination with never-before thought of possibilities, or to take the viewer deep down into the depths of mystery! ... The story, unfortunately, is fairly hum-drum by science-fiction standards, and I was irritated by the employment of the central plot-device, in a science-fiction movie, no less, of yet ANOTHER testosterone-driven, bullying, ego-maniacal, dangerous, power-and-greed driven, unreflective male protagonist who screws things up for everyone around him.Surely, between the stars, there is more happening than what is happening here on Earth, and what can be seen in any mundane drama set in any dysfunctional, patriarchal, family-values household! And, also, I have to agree with so many other reviewers, who couldn't stand all the sex and nudity in space. Sex, nudity, dumb male-violence, testosterone - this is not what I want to see in a science fiction (or any other movie) - I want to be mentally-challenged and to see that which I have never imagined, and to be AMAZED! Unfortunately, story-wise and plot-wise, this movie did not do that for me!2. THE GOODSPECIAL EFFECTS - This movie has EXCELLENT special effects, and the feel of the movie - the decor, the ship, the moon, the blue dwarf star (from which the title Supernova is derived) are beautiful, astral-coloured, far out, and evoke a highly desirable escape-to-the-stars-and-to-freedom visual and psychic experience, that no mundane drama would even attempt - and that is the beauty, and soul's delights, that science fiction offers! So from the very first scenes, based upon the atmosphere of the film, my strong inclination was to give this movie 10 stars!One thing that DID move me beyond anything I have ever seen before in any movie, that was, indeed, complex in terms of plot, imaginative, original, and beautifully enacted by both the actress and actor involved, was the so, soo sad and tragic scene in which the computer, Sweetie (played by Vanessa Marshall) which has been given human characteristics by Benj (played by Wilson Cruz), refuses to break her programming, and as a consequence sees her programmer, who has, in reality, become her friend, die violently, whenupon, now just-become self-aware, she is now only too acutely aware that she has lost her only friend whom she has come to love, forever. That interaction was sublimely beautiful! And for that reason, by reason of that so well-developed, and complex yet innocent relationship; a poetic-interplay of exceptionally well-performed theatre that explores EXISTENTIAL FREEDOM and LOVE LOST, and despite all of the movie's failures to deliver much depth of meaning, I still had to give this movie 8/10 ...(sob!).I also liked the mystery of the nine-dimensional matter device, and I think the mystery and unpredictability of such beyond-imagination, and yet still-scientific language, and such simple magical devices, is a good idea, since it means so much has to take place in the imagination - and the imagination is a whole nest of inter-dimensional portals in itself! Though such devices may resemble each other superficially, there is no way to know what their properties are - and that is why they are always so mysterious, so long as their secrets are not fully known or defined, nor properly understood. Likewise, the device of inter-dimensional travel - which was shown from the very beginning to be unpredictable, mysterious and dangerous! "},{"Title":"Excellent Science Fiction","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was fantastic, although it does borrow a lot of its parts from other movies. THe computer is reminiscent of Hal, the crewman gone band is reminiscent of the Abyss, and the alien life nova-bomb is straight out of Wrath of Khan, but the multicultural feel is great, none of the actors are bad, and the production values are top notch, with some really great effects work.Spader plays possibly my favorite role by him as a really smart, but tough and funny officer. Angela Bassett is also great, and the villain is one of the best things in the movie. THere are some aspects of the film that keep it from being as epic as some competitors. The crew basically travels to one place, picks up a bad guy, and then battles it out with him, but the alien stealth weapon brings a needed third element to the story.It's not the greatest, but it's far closer to an 7-8 than a 4-5. "},{"Title":"Heal thyself, doctor.","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The back story to Supernova is actually more interesting than the studio cut of the film that is available to view. Director's coming and going, one (Walter Hill) taking his name off the credits, butchery by studio interference, different endings, different planned thematics, shelved for two years and etc. Supernova was a messy production and sadly it shows, making Walter Hill's original cut (unavailable) the Magnificent Ambersons of the sci-fi genre.Plot, in the skew-whiff edited version we are fed here, is basically a riff on Ridley Scott's Alien. Space dudes up in space take on board a too good to be true hitch-hiker dude, which is a bad idea. Sadly it's all very dull, yet strangely you can see that in amongst the mess, and the often used diversion tactic of Robin Tunney's breasts, there was a very good film here. Brains and effects work to light up the screen, some sexy sizzle marrying up to the tension up there in the galaxy, James Spader on wonderfully broody and heroically damaged form, and some belting deleted scenes on the DVD. But, it's not to be, so the studio should be ashamed of themselves, even if it isn't quite the ultimate stinker it has been painted as. But! Super it is not, in any shape or form. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Nudity in Space","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova has so much nudity, its really unbelievable, if your you like nudity then this is the movie for you. However, if nasty people that are naked isn't your thing, you should stay clear of this. It really takes you by surprise, but the nudity in this movie for the most part just isn't pleasant. I swear every single character in this movie gets naked. The only one who needed to get nake was Robin Tunney. And thankfully, the only reason she is in this movie is take her top off, thats it! That is all she does, she looks around with her mouth agape because she is a complete idiot, then shows her breasts, at least those are nice to look at. But thats the problem with this movie, any pleasant nudity is quickly destroyed by nasty nudity - case in point - angela bassett and james spader going at it, totally naked, really disgusting, I mean reaaly, if there going to have a warning for nudity they should at least warn you if its going to be nasty like that or not. "},{"Title":"Are u freaking kidding me?","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" James Spader as big bad space pilot, works for u? then ur weird. This is without a doubt a movie with no potential entertainment. The sfi fi enviorment is failed and gives no feeling of futuristic cinema. I don'twonna waste a lot of words on this one, cause frankly its not worth a lot of words, ill just conclude that when the bad guy blasted another guy into space to a horrible death, well damn i wish it was me, so i could escape this utter piece of c**p. 1/10 filling the last 3 lines with mindless gibberish in order to make room for my demonstrative short review, beware i might seem even more odd now, even though i am quite sane. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie of 2000","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have seen over 10,000 movies in theaters over the last 25 years and this is one of two that I have walked out on. The other was the theatrical release of Alexander which on home media release was much better. There is no way on earth or in heaven that any release of supernova would be anything better than being water boarded with boiling water. Everyone associated with this movie should be ashamed of themselves, have their licenses to act revoked for some period of time and repay everyone that was foolhardy enough to go see this movie in theaters. Nothing about the production presentation or follow through with this film offers any redeeming value to the field and process of filmmaking. The basic message of this review is to illustrate how poor of a movie this is, and to recommend that anyone that reads this stays far far away from this movie. The only time it would be acceptable to watch is if you were trying to torture someone or in a relationship. "},{"Title":"Blowing Chunks","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A terrible science fiction film, Supernova finds the crew of a spaceship responding to a distress signal. This signal leads to Karl Larson (Peter Facinelli), a stranded astronaut in possession of an alien device capable of provoking a ninth dimension explosion. As per formula, Karl goes crazy and embarks upon a murderous rampage. The film was directed by the usually reliable Walter Hill, who would shamefully remove his name from the film's final credits.At its best, Supernova plays like a perverse riff on Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, Hill taking Kubrick's cycles of birth and rebirth and re-imagining them as literal sexual encounters. Kubrick's mysterious, life-spurring forces then become a strange device which destroys everything in its path. And where Kurbick climaxed with a Star Child, Hill climaxes with a man and woman literally swapping biomatter such that they become newly evolved, multi-racial space parents, newborn baby and all. Ineptly shot, cut and written, the film contains a good performance by James Spader.5/10 &#x96; Worth no viewings. "},{"Title":"Give me some space!","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Don't let the all-star cast fool you -- this movie is just plain dumb, a little more proof that celebrities may be a lot like the rest of us -- they do what it takes to bring home a paycheck.Supernova wraps itself in some outer-space window dressing but is fundamentally a soap opera, and an unusually vapid one at that.We are teased here with an OK premise -- rescue spaceship roams the cosmos on-call to earthlings in peril, gets a 911 from a miner on rogue moon, and must jump 3,000 light years to assist.This feat of aeronautic athleticism isn't explained at all -- are we whizzing through a wormhole? -- and we must squirm through the subsequent incapacitation of the spaceship's captain. (Kill me, murmurs Robert Forster in his best imitation of a squashed bug.)The usually wonderful Angela Bassett is the judgmental yet lonely brains of the operation. James Spader wastes himself as a pilot/addict. Lou Diamond Phillips and Robin Tunney are look-alike medics who enjoy quickies. And Peter Facinelli makes one yearn for the remote as the exceedingly tiresome miner-rescuee.This film seems a long-winded attempt to prove the point that you can run but you can't hide -- you can lift people off of Earth but they'll drag all their sturm und drang with them. Thanks for the life lesson, folks. Just glad I caught this space junk on HBO and didn't waste my money as well as time. Yawn! "},{"Title":"Garbage.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What's there to say about this movie that hasn't been said?Lacking from any consistent direction this is one of the worst movies I've seen in a while. It seems to be trying to be a proper sci-fi thriller but it's also trying to hard to be sleek and sexy with the end result of a cobbled together mess of both that satisfies in neither.Filled to bursting point with nudity and sex as well as nonsensical action sequences. If that's not bad enough it's also endlessly ignoring the sci in sci-fi. And then there's that ending in which we learn that Earth will be either destroyed or improved in less than 60 years but we never learn which. Also one of the protagonists is randomly pregnant for no reason.With everything going wrong around them all the characters keep having lots of sex and not dealing with the problems they're facing which is why they all die. There's a lesson to learn here kids!Garbage. Avoid this movie. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Super Stupid!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Supernova (2000) Dir Thomas Lee / Cast James Spader, Angela Bassett, Robert Forster, Robin Tunney, Lou Diamond Phillips Pointless and dreary space adventure with a lame title that means why exactly? Who cares. It assembles a crew of brainless fools who pick up a distress call and its lone survivor is the villain. This is a surprise to everyone accept the viewer. They discover a strange energy form that this villain with the ever present grin that screams, Don't trust me. Angela Bassett plays a medical consultant who is aware that their visitor is the son of an old enemy. Witless screenplay with lousy directing by Thomas Lee who should know that this will not be ranked high on anyone's list of great science fiction films. Of the ensemble cast Bassett gives it her best despite the cardboard role. James Spader plays the captain who is there to save the day, but not the film. Robert Forster is given a ten minute role before he is killed off. What a huge demotion after his great performance in Jackie Brown. Perhaps the biggest idiot in the film is played by Robin Tunney who plays a brainless moron who has sex with a guy she knows nothing about and doesn't entirely trust. She should have a name tag on her uniforms that reads, Bimbo. Lou Diamond Phillips even allowed himself to be talked into appearing in this junk as if this was the ideal career move. This is a pointless big budget bag of trash. Score 1 / 10 "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Wonderful! This is one of the best sci-fi movies I've ever seen!Actors are super; and the story is nova. When it's dark, it's blue. The ship is a beauty, mainly the anti-gravity rooms.Do you like a bad guy making things harder? You'll get one - and very well performed. Wanna some romance? There also is, with charm and good taste.There is action when it's needed, and nice dialogs (with jokes). Beautiful people, awesome effects. The end, besides happy, has a spiritual touch (in their eyes), something unexpected that comes for good.This is the kind of movie I enjoy scene to scene. It's worth every second of our time.PS Sorry for my poor English I'm Brazilian. "},{"Title":"Not so super...","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Strange that the movie is called Supernova when the movie isn't really centered around one. And that's the least of its problems. Though some of the sets and special effects look nice, they are really just polish on something not particularly attractive. The plot is so muddled, not only were there some key issues missing, I couldn't even tell what the plot was supposed to be exactly! I didn't care for any of the characters, mainly because they were so dumb, especially with the antagonist. The only actor who survives is Robert Forster, but that's only because he appears for just a few minutes. His choice of taking a quick paycheck was the smartest decision made during the production. (Second place is Walter Hill deciding to take his name off the movie.) "}]