[{"Title":"Welcome to the final act!","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"65 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 will not disappoint fans of the first two unless your expectations are unrealistically high.  All the Scream movies follow a pattern - one of the criticisms I read of Scream 3 was that it was a Xerox copy of the first two - but all sequels are basically remakes of previous films that preceeded it e.g. the Bond series.  The success of the Scream films is that Craven and Williamson (and now Scream 3 scribe Kreuger) have blended the ingredients differently each time - you'll definitely enjoy the Hollywood flavour of this one! "},{"Title":"Not as effective as the original Scream, but still produces enough scares and thrills. *** out of ****","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"41 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SCREAM 3 / (2000) ***Starring Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courteney Cox Arquette, Parker Posey, Patrick Dempsey, Scott Foley, Lance Henriksen, Matthew Keeslar, Jenny McCarthy, Emily Mortimer, Deon Richmond, Patrick Warburton, Liev Schreiber, and Carrie Fisher Directed by Wes Craven. Written by Ehren Kruger, based on characters by Kevin Williamson. Running time 116 minutes. Rated R (for strong horror violence and language).By Blake French	Scream 3 is not as satisfying as the original horror masterpiece Scream, but what can we expect from the final chapter in a slasher trilogy? The first film was a superior horror thriller--one of the most loved slasher movies of the past decade. That was a picture with some hard standards to live up to. However, Wes Craven, director of the trio, accomplished another success with the sequel of Scream. Usually this kind of movie would fade into the Hollywood recycle bin by now. But Scream 3 still produces chills, thrills, and lots of surprises--even though we have been receiving the same kind of story for the past four years. This film is marginally passable, although the most flawed film of its series, that fairs as recommendable, but not substantial in quality. 	The film's opening once again provides the audience with a pre-credit murder sequence that is almost the highlight of the entire production. The Scream 3 writers take advantage of one of the movie's old and important characters to arrange this very effective, and scary, sequence.	The setting is several years after the second film. The small college town of Woodsboro is where we are placed. Neve Campbell again stars as Sidney Prescott, a tormented young woman who was the target of the killing sprees in the past. She has attempted to move on with her life with her father, and has an anonymous hotline operation that offers assistance to those in need. Also, television reporter Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette) has experienced a big career jump, now working for a network called Total Entertainment. While the wrongly accused murder suspect of Sidney's mother, Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber), has his own trashy TV talk show.	The central presence that connects the events here is the production of Stab 3 Return to Woodsboro, a movie the characters are creating that follows a horror trilogy based on the terrors experienced by Sydney. The masked murderer may or may not be found on the set. Besides police Detective Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey), and the arrogant bodyguard Stone (Patrick Warburton), concluding the list of suspects, there is Dewey Riley (David Arquette), a former cop who is now an advisor for Stab 3, Roman Bridger (Scott Foley), the film's director, John Milton (Lance Henriksen) the film's producer, as well as acting counterparts Sarah Darling (Jenny McCarthy), Tom Prinze (Matthew Keeslar), Angelina (Emily Mortimer), Gabe Tucker (Deon Richmond), and Gales's reciprocal (Parker Posey).	Certain plot points lead our suspicion to believe one of several characters is the killer. We are fooled again, however. But does the killer's identity really matter here? As long as we receive a speech on why he or she is responsible, we would be satisfied and any of the character's could have been the killer. None of the characters have any shape or construction. We care only about the order that the victims will be picked off at, not about who hides behind the ghost mask. The identity is actually pointless when the slasher is finally revealed. 	Once again, a key success in Scream 3 is the scary sequences that build up momentum and thus work well, usually where the slasher kills his victims. What makes these scenes so effective is how we know that characters are three dimensional; they put up a firm fight for their lives, unlike victims in most slasher films. However, the plot seems to revolve around the murders, instead of the murders branching off from the story. Stab 3 seems to be a central presence to connect the film's somewhat desperate through line. 	Some of the plot points are fun and revealing. We see a videotape of a past character describing the possibilities of the movie's final outcome. This event programs our imaginations to suspect the unexpected. The plot does desperately attempt to fill in missing pieces of the previous screams, however, showing some signs of contrived foreshadowing. Each scene moves the story forward, though, replenishing the plot with freshness and ability around every abrupt corner. 	Scream 3 is a close call, and is given somewhat of a mixed review, but I still am giving the movie a marginal recommendation. It contains more startles, more surprises, and more effective scary material than most slasher movies.  Although I believe it was a wise move to make this film the final installment of its series.Brought to you by Dimension Films.  "},{"Title":"YOU! Like I'm ever going to win an award playing YOU!-Parker Posey in Scream 3","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"47 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Welcome back Neve, David and my personal favorite, Courteney, to one of the best horror series ever to hit the big screen.  All three are back and are in top form.  As a huge FRIENDS fan, it's always fun to see the non-Monica, Gale Weathers, and to see another side of Cox-Arquette's talent.The finale in the Scream trilogy, and while perhaps not the scariest of the three, it is certainly the most funny.  That is thanks largely to the brilliant casting of the satiric roles belonging to Parker Posey and Jenny McCarthy.Parker Posey playing Courteney Cox Arquette's Gale in the movie Stab 3 within this movie, Scream 3, was a stroke of genius.  For those not familiar with Posey's work I strongly recommend checking out The House Of Yes.Another welcome attribute to this third and final (?) chapter in the series is the way in which they tie up the loose ends and allow certain characters a sense of closure.You definitely need to view these 3 in order, but it's all scary fun! "},{"Title":"So-so finale","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"48 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING PLOT POINTS ARE GIVEN AWAY, SO IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE OR DON'T WANT TO KNOW, PLEASE DO NOT CONTINUE READINGAs I've said before, I have little use for sequels, which was I was surprised to find myself going to SCREAM 2, and even more surprised that I enjoyed it.  Like the first one, it was fast, scary, funny, and took some nice satiric jibes.  Even the much debated identity of the killer in the second one made sense as a satiric swipe at horror movies, so it didn't bother me.  I didn't know if they'd be able to keep it going for a third movie, especially when hearing Kevin Williamson's involvement was going to be minimal(he's a producer, and he wrote an outline which eventual writer Ehren Kruger worked from), but I liked the first two, I was especially pleased to see Scott Foley(from FELICITY) and Parker Posey in the cast, and I was intrigued to see what happened.  In retrospect, I probably should have waited for video.Certainly the opening shows a little promise; instead of the usual celebrity cameo, we have a spoof of that, with Cotton Weary(Liev Schrieber), who's now a Geraldo-type talk show host, complaining about having to do a cameo in STAB 3(the movie within a movie here), so we know it's spoofing itself.  The problem, of course, is we know Cotton's going to get killed, but Craven is able to draw suspense throughout the scene.  We also get the stated purpose here during the phone call(which, also a bit clever, starts out with a woman's voice before the familiar tone of Roger L. Jackson as THE voice kicks in); the killer wants to find Sidney.Sidney, of course, is living in seclusion, under a new name and barely going outside the house(which, of course, is under heavy alarm), so at first, she's almost like an afterthought to the movie.  Instead, the center is on Gail Weathers, the tabloid reporter, now an entertainment reporter, who uses her reporter skills to play detective when Cotton is killed, and she decides to assist the police, specifically Detective Kincaid(Patrick Dempsey), in the case.  Then there's Dewey, who's a technical advisor to STAB 3, the movie, and they of course worry about what's going to happen.There's all kinds of potential here, and it's directed well, but it isn't written as well as I think Williamson would have done.  There are scares which still work, and while the Dewey/Gail relationship seems a little old hat, the two Arquettes obviously like working with each other, and their familiarity with us helps smooth that over.  Also, while Campbell is disconnected, she's still sympathetic, and while she doesn't have the same fun with herself as she did in the first one, I understood that.  And there is humor, most of it coming from Posey as the actress playing Gail in STAB 3; few actresses can make contempt funny like she can.  There's also the standard satiric bite(the bodyguard who guarded Julia Roberts and Salman Rushdie but ends up toast here).But as I said, it isn't written as well, and the primary weakness is the killer.  In some senses, I guess, having the director(Foley) be the killer makes sense, because he has the technical expertise to handle things.  But it seems to come out of nowhere, and perhaps to distract us from that, Kruger gives us the idea of him being a long-lost relative of Sidney's, which is ridiculous.  Perhaps because of that too, Foley goes way over the top, which is funny at first, but then becomes tiresome.  Also, Kruger cribs not from other horror movies here, but from the first SCREAM(the cloning of the cell phone being a prime example).  And while Williamson's red herrings were pretty clever, this one seems not thought out.  Emily Mortimer's character(she plays the actress who plays Sidney) is a perfect example; there are two indications she might be the killer(three, if you count the woman's voice to Cotton), and yet she's killed off almost as an afterthought.  Finally, as to compensate for all of this, there are a lot more killings to cover up.  Which begs the question; if all he wanted was to find Sidney(as stated early on several times), why not just take Dewey, Gail, and Cotton et al hostage?  The first two movies mocked the Idiot Plot Rule; this one mostly personifies it.It's a shame, because there could have been something made from all this(oh, almost forgot; Dempsey, who I normally don't like, is surprisingly good, and also unrecognizable here).  But this certainly doesn't break any rules.  Even the Jamie Kennedy cameo seems obligatory rather than fresh.  This suggest they should have stopped at the second one. "},{"Title":"THE FINAL CHAPTER?....MAYBE","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Director Wes Craven and writer Ethen Krueger (taking over for Kevin Williamson) helped make this film happen. This time we're taken to Hollywood, California where Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) is now a talk show host, Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette)is a t. v journalist, Dewey Riley (David Arquette) is a technical advisor for the Stab 3 movie, and Sydney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is under a different name in order to protect herself. This time however there is a new killer(s) trying to get to Sydney, but it someone from her mother's past can Sydney survive another blood-bath as it seems the killer(s) is killing the cast members of the Stab 3 movie and won;t stop until Sydney is dead! My thoughts a great ending to the trilogy it definately has a few good scares and fills a lot of plot holes of why Maureen was killed. I won't give anything away but the killer(s) was a big surprise.RECOMMENDED! ***1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Oh the irony of it all...","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After surviving the second wave of ghostface killings, Sidney Prescott has retired to the mountains to live in peace and work as a phone call therapist. Sadly for her she is about to be dragged back into the nightmare because the production of Stab 3 is rocked by murder and the killer is leaving pictures of Sidney's dead mother at the crime scenes.I have to admit that I once never gave this film much love, I loved the first two to such a degree that I felt this third and final instalment was way off being a fitting closure to what was at the time a trilogy. Yet as time has wore on I have really grown fond of the film, Parker Posey no longer annoys the hell out of me, the once jarring itch of watching the makers kill off a fave character of mine in the opening sequence is something I now view as a masterstroke, and the twisty ending that was once an irksome pest has moved on to be the perfect trilogy closure.Scream 3 has its tongue firmly in its cheek, it's aware of its number and it's aware of its formulaic root, so in spite of treading familiar ground (I mean come on gang, have you not learnt nothing from your previous experiences), the returning characters still have our undivided attention. While the transporting of the story to Hollywood, with its movie within a movie structure, is fresh and adds a new dimension to proceedings. New additions to the scary fun are Patrick Dempsey, Emily Mortimer, Lance Henriksen and the afore mentioned Parker Posey, and all of them add greatly to the mysterious plot unfolding.The death quotient is still high, and the Wes Craven school of whodunitry is well and truly open, and I personally feel that this one is easily the funniest film of the three, witness Jay & Silent Bob turning up, a Carrie Fisher sequence that once heard will never be forgotten, and a video appearance by passed on geek god Randy Meeks. Scream 3 closes the trilogy just fine, it's got bags of energy and a glint in its eye, now if only I could get a copy of the uncompleted Stab 3 off the internet - and if only there wasn't to be a part 4 further down the line... 7/10 "},{"Title":"Lived Up To My Expectations","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"34 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie begins with Cotton Weary driving in L.A. while talking on a cellular phone.  And of course someone clicks in and you can only guess who it is-thus begining the traditional Scream opening murder suspense scene. Sidney Prescott has moved down to the Los Angeles area and has basically gone into hiding, working out of her house as a crisis-hotline operator. Gale Weathers is the same as always of course as a bitchy tabloid news anchor.  She has written a new novel though which is what the movie inside Scream 2 (STAB) is based except Stab 2 has already been released and they are in production of Stab 3.  Dewey is also on the scene as a type of helper on the set.  One by one the cast of the film turn up murdered according to script.  The old hollywood mansion as the final scene makes a great setting as the surprise twist-final deaths take place.  Definately a satisfactory ending that kinda wraps it all up, with some great cameo appearances especially with the video of Randy that was a great touch to keep the 'trilogy-movie buff' type of thing in the movie. The movie goes back to its roots and fills in all the little holes of the first one. Of course the movie may have been a little better with Kevin Williamson's touch but overall it was still great.  I went into the movie without having very high expectations at all.  I am a very big fan of the original Scream, yet going into Scream 2 I was expecting it to be very good and I was extremely disappointed with the outcome.  So going into Scream 3 I just didn't set myself up for the disappointment.  But I was very very pleased it was AWESOME Go see this movie if you are a fan of the original.I'd give it a 9.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Decent Finale, But Can't Compete With The First Two.","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 takes us to the Northern California hills, where Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is living in seclusion and immense fear due to the traumatic events that she survived in Woodsboro and at Windsor College. Meanwhile, a Hollywood movie studio is producing a film called Stab 3, the third installment in a movie series based on the events that Sidney has survived. But when cast and crew members begin to die off one by one, it seems another killer has returned, and goes after the fragile Sidney (who is having terrifying visions of her dead mother). Sidney teams up with Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) and policeman Dewey (David Arquette), two people who survived the massacres with Sidney, and try to uncover the new killers identity, which may be linked to Sidney's past.The last installment in a very popular horror series, Scream 3 brings this trilogy to end on an entertaining but rather weak note. The script for this film is nowhere near as good as the other two, which is unfortunate considering this film was the finale of the series. It would have been nice to end the series with a better film - not that this sequel is unbearably bad, but it could have been better. I will admit there are some decent scare moments and a handful of suspenseful scenes, but it seems to me that there's almost too much going on in this sequel for it's own good. The script juggles the Sidney character, Sidney's past, the Dewey/Gail relationship, the cast members of the Stab 3 movie, and more, and the jumping around hurt the film a little. It didn't seem to have a central point within it, and that was a problem, for me at least.Besides the problems that it has, I still have to say that I enjoyed this movie, mostly because of the entertainment factor. The writing wasn't amazing, but it did manage to continue to have some nice plot developments and a few good twists, plus some decent scares and more slight mocking of the genre and it's rules. The setting is mainly Hollywood, so this film has a completely different atmosphere than the second or the first film. I'm not sure if it necessarily hurt the film, but it seemed a little too Hollywood for me. The cast is good here, with more returning characters and some new ones as well, mainly added for body count, while the others do develop somewhat during the movie. The twist-ending (which is the revelation of the killer's identity) made sense in terms of the story, but I found it to be a little unsatisfying.All things considered, Scream 3 is an enjoyable but problematic ending to an above-average horror trilogy. You'll be entertained undoubtedly, but this movie can't compete with the second or the first films, because it just isn't as good. I enjoyed it for the most part and I have trouble over-criticizing it, but most people will agree when I say that it can't compare with the original film. 6/10. "},{"Title":"The weak link of the series","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Scream series became a popular series with critics and audience due to the fact it was a self-aware slasher film that knew the clichés of the genres whilst still working as a slasher film. But the third film of the series is considered the weak link of the franchise.After the events of the Woodsboro and Windsor College, a third film is being made in Hollywood to complete a trilogy. But a new killer is stalking has donned the Ghostface mark, targeting both the film cast and survivors of the Woodsboro killings, leading to Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) and her ex-boyfriend, Dewey (David Arquette) to investigate as Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is forced out of hiding after she suffers from visions of her deceased mother.The Scream series has always had a self-aware/meta element to it, but with Scream 3 its satire is taken a step too far as it takes jabs against Hollywood. The big jokes are about the production include constant re-writes to the film suffers, an actress saying she is playing a character that is 14 years younger then her, a music video director forced to make Stab 3 as his directional debut before he can make the film he wants, actors having to sleep with people to get roles and producers debating violence in films influencing real-life violence. The film just got too meta as an actor and the person she is meant to be playing arguing and talking about the rules of a trilogy. This is a film was much more focused on being a satire on Hollywood as a whole then a spoof of the horror genre.Tonally Scream 3 is lighter then previous films. There was always a comic undercurrent to the series, but it becomes much more pronounced in Scream 3 with the characters interactions and the deaths themselves were less gruesome and more over-the-top, particularly with a house getting blown up which was done in a unrealistic way and there is a sequence when Ghostface throws hi s knife and the handle hits Dewey on the head. There was even an occasional comical musical moments in score and a very overt cameo from the characters Jay and Silent Bob.I found the best bits were when Scream 3 was more serious, when we see Sidney living an isolated life in the countryside, with tons of security and works as a women's crisis counsellor it felt like a good continuous to her story. But it does not blend well with the more comic tone and the film as a whole was struggling to justify her presence in the film. There are long period where she is not involved in the film, she is not involved at all in the first act and forces a reason to be in the film.Much of the problems of the lay at the feet of the new writer Ehren Kruger who replaced Kevin Williamson. It felt like Kruger was trying to copy Williamson's style and directed Wes Craven wanted to remake New Nightmare. The characters did feel a little compared to the previous movies and the satire/self-aware elements of the film was not as sharp to the first two movies.The acting also felt weak, with many of the actors either phoning in their performances or shouting and screaming, including a scene where the Stab actors end up acting clichéd horror victims/targets.Whilst Craven's directing is solid for the most part, a big criticism some of the sequences involving Ghostface's attacks looks like there was more then one killer, but the conclusion shows there was only one killer.At the time Scream 3 was originally meant to be a conclusion for the series and it was a disappointment due to poor script and overly comic tone. It is not the worst film, it's not even bad by horror standards. There are good moments, but it is disloyal to certain aspects of the previous films, including the character revisions, which you would have thought Craven would have noticed. "},{"Title":"SCREAM IS DA BOMB! (IN A VERY BAD WAY!!!)","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say, a sad ending to a thrilling trilogy!  This movie DESPERATELY needed Kevin Williamson's touch, and boy ,does it show!  From the previews, trailers, hype,etc; it states ALL BETS ARE OFF, BECAUSE ANYTHING CAN HAPPEN IN A TRILOGY!  UTTER GARBAGE!  You would think the final piece in this puzzle would knock your socks off, and jarr your cerebrum.  No, all you get are Bad dialogue, Unknown actors getting killed, a deja vu itis, a bored Neve Campbell and equally BORING! Killer, but the most unforgivable crime is to give the audience a completely redundant explanation for all the previous + present killings!  For a movie of this caliber(that isn't saying much), to end in such a wishy-washy way is in a word, CRAP!  Now the ending may be forgivable, as I've heard that there were 3 endings made, and ,if Wes is smart, will release each of them randomly into the theaters.  We can only pray, they'll be in the DVD version!Not to say, I completely hated this movie's guts, it just needed more 'oomph' that only Kevin could've wrote.  Scenes with Dewey, Gale, and, yes, Parkey Posey added a nice comedic element in between the yawn scary scenes, Cameos including Jenny McCarthy were wonderful, but needed more screen time and dialogue, and the blast of the past scenes were done well. All in all, though, a terrible way to end an enjoyable trilogy, and hopefully, SCREAM 3 will be re-released as a DIRECTOR'S CUT!PEACE AND OUT!  "}{"Title":"Fun film but not as good as the original","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 is the final chapter of the Scream trilogy - a series of films that not only mocks and lampoons on other films, but also mocks itself.Scream 3 picks up the story a couple of years after the events of the first film. The production of Stab 3 grinds to a halt as a killer picks off the cast in the order that their characters die in the film. This draws the three main protagonists of the series together as they determine who is behind these murders.Scream 3 is a definite improvement over the disappointing second entry. It not only takes the p!ss from other scary movies but also takes the p!ss out of itself and the Scream films. You get a perverse enjoyment out of the actors playing the characters from real life (eg Parker Posey doing a Courteney Cox impersonation). It sort of reminds me of that Seinfeld episode where the characters of the pilot episode Jerry interact with the real life Seinfeld characters.There are plenty of brilliant in-house film buff jokes too (eg Jay and Silent Bob making an appearance and a Carrie Fisher look-a-like).Anyhows - this is a horror film - and although there are a couple of scares - it doesn't reach the terrifying level of the original. And the film seems pretty tame on the gore front! But if you go in with an open mind (ie don't be expecting it to be as good as the first) and you might have fun. "},{"Title":"Ghostface is Back AGAIN?","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes, that masked psycho with the Scream mask has returned for a third round of murderous rampaging. The first victim of his wrath is duo film survivor Cotton Weary (played by a pre X-Men Liev Schrieber) when he fails to reveal the whereabouts of the reclusive survivor, Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell)who is now hiding on an isolated estate as a crisis hot-line operator. When the murderer begins to leave pictures of Sidney's deceased mother, Sidney is soon drawn to the set of Stab 3 (based on her experiences from the previous films)alongside her fellow survivors, reporter Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox-Arquette) and retired officer Dewey Riley (David Arquette). Other players such as Parker Posey, Emily Mortimer and Scott Foley as members of the film-within-a- film join the three original cast members (with a brief cameo by Jamie Kennedy as Randy Meeks with posthumous advice to survive a trilogy). However, this third installment lacks the real scares that unnerve audiences in the first two films. You can easily predict the timing of the phone calls and the murders. If you want actual scares, then watch the first and/or second film. "},{"Title":"All Bets Are Off","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *Scream 3 SPOILERS* It has been a while since the events of Scream 2, and Sydney (Neve Campbell) lives in hiding. But the new Ghostface killer is trying to draw her back to him by murdering the actors of the latest movie in the 'Stab' saga, 'Stab 3 Return To Woodsboro', directed by aspiring filmmaker Roman Bridger (Scott Foley), beginning with talk show host Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) and his girlfriend Christine (Kelly Rutherford), then offing actress Sarah Darling (Jenny McCarthy) and leaving photos of a young Maureen Prescott, during a period of her life no-one, excluded maybe the ambiguous producer John Milton (Lance Henricksen) knows anything about.Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette) is actually called on for help by the detective assigned to the cases, Mark Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey), because of her expertise with the Woodsboro Murders, and meets up again with Dewey (David Arquette), which we found out she had left to pursue her career.He hasn't been waiting for her, though; he's involved with the actress Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey), who *coincidentally* plays Gale in the movie.And as more and more actors (played by Matt Keeslar, Patrick Warburton, Emily Mortimer and Deon Richmond among others) fall victim to Mr. Ghostface, Sydney is forced out of her hiding and face this killer for the final battle...As a third part, Scream 3 is a little ho-hum, especially because of the decision of having Dewey and Gale as the main characters in this movie, which doesn't exactly work well since 'Scream' is all. About. Sydney.Dempsey hasn't got an exactly big role, but hey, he lives, and isn't a jerk (mostly). Schreiber is very good as usual and everybody seems well in part, with the exception of Emily Mortimer, who wails and annoys.Ehren Kruger (who also wrote 'The Ring') has a very different style, which doesn't always work, but when it does, it actually does, and Wes Craven's direction makes it all a little better.Not bad, but not memorable either.Scream 3 6 1/2/10. "},{"Title":"Generic piece of trash","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Totally unmemorable movie,chock full of tepid one-liners(the only good zingers in the flick were the ones Deon Richmond ad-libbed,and they certainly are not worth the ticket price!),'impact-less' deaths,cartoon characters for leads,a host of extras who arrive out of the blue to deliver an important plot point,and then just as suddenly disappear again,it goes on,and on- In short,this is a very cold,prefunctory movie,folks-a paint by the numbers,cash-in sequel to a series clearly no one has their heart in anymore(most especially not Craven,and Campbell who's Dinner theater theatrics-'sob,sob'-grow less amusing with each installment).And the characters are all such annoying caricatures,we feel nothing when they die-well,maybe gratitude,but I don't think that was intended. Worst of all,neither Gale,nor Dewey,nor Sidney die!Call me cruel,but this excruciatingly formula movie could have used it.All during the length of the movie,I begged for a surprise,a neat twist-anything!To no avail.It's just a dumbed down version of scream(a not too smart movie itself,as it only serves to point out VERY obvious slasher movie conventions!)without that movie's suspence and scares(few that there were after the famous opening with Drew Barrymore). And of course the killer could be anyone-the butler,the cook,the best friend,the neighbor.It's the luck of the draw.No clues are ever given as to who it could be-and of course when we finally find out whodunit,the movie inevitably looses the meager credibility it had to begin with,as none of the dastard's behavaior prior to his unmasking make any sense when put in context. SPOILER******Early in the film,the killer is whining about how the studio wants to shut down production on his film,because of the killings.He's very obviously p***ed,but then we find out he's the one pulling the strings(not to mention,Sid's half brother is a very soap-opearish 'twist').Is her sabatoging his own flick intentionally or what?The question,and many others,is raised,but never answered.Perhaps to allow room for (God forbid)Scream 4.END SPOILER******* AVOID THIS STINKER,and watch Scream 1 again instead(or better yet wes Craven's New Nightmare,which takes the same premise and does more with it than any flick in this series ever did).1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A very good entry into the Scream franchise....","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 does not have the same writer of the first two, which explains the lack of comedy it had compared to the first two Scream films. It does not have the same great dialogue as the first two, nor the witty and playful tone. However, saying that, Scream 3 is probably still better than 95% of slasher films today. It has suspense and mystery, and although it sometimes goes overboard with how the script handled the 'actual' history of Maureen Prescott, I think it overall works well. Neve Campbell once again gives it all she has, and the supporting characters are actually well rounded, especially Parker Posey, which gives the film it's much needed humor. David Arquette and Courtney Cox are both solid, but I cannot help but question how much their characters( or maybe their motivation as actors) changed, since it really does seem that both feel awkward in a lot of scenes. I suspect it is the writing since a lot of their brilliant dialogue from Scream 2 was missing. Saying that, and while it is true that it is the weakest of the trilogy, it is still a lot of fun and does have it's clever moments here and there. I do not think there can ever really be a 'bad' Scream film. "},{"Title":"Piece of crap!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know what sucked about this movie the most. Everything about this movie was a huge disappointment. After falling in love with her in such illustrious comedies like House of Yes, Waiting for Guffman, and Best in Show, Parker Posey's acting was at an all time low in this movie. While I was being thoroughly disgusted with this rag, I kept thinking She went from The Daytrippers to this. Also, Courteney Cox's costume designer and hair stylist should have been fired. Granted that her character Gale Weathers was still nothing more than a tabloid twit, she did not look the part of someone determined to win the Pulitzer Prize. Despite the fact that Neve Campbell has never been a first rate actress, she does well enough playing someone still troubled by her past. But what was probably the most disappointing aspect of the entire movie was the identity of the killer. Not to give it away, but I remember wishing it wasn't so when the movie came to it's long-overdue ending. The things that make Scream 3 bad can probably be attributed mainly to the fact that Kevin Williamson didn't write the screenplay like he did the first two. However, the most redeeming part of this movie was Jenny McCarthy who provided a line that reinstated the Scream trilogy was meant to be a parody of horror movies. She put it nicely when she said I'm thirty years old and you keep sending me in to play teenagers. Too bad that alone doesn't make this movie worth a rental fee. "},{"Title":"A very worthy finale to an awesome trilogy","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think this film is great and serves as an excellent way to close out the awesome Scream trilogy.  It was very well written and acted and has every bit of the creepy thrills and excitement that made its predecessors such a great thrill to watch.  Highly recommended to any horror fan.  "},{"Title":"Apparently, the rule of trilogies dictates that the third installment makes absolutely no sense","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Though by far the weakest overall episode of the trilogy, Scream 3 boasts a few moments of inspiration that help it overshadow the dreadful film it followed.1) Neve Campbell's returning Sidney remains the strongest link in the character chain here, and recasting her as a isolated and agoraphobic women's crisis line counselor does a bit to assuage our fears after Scream 2 that our central protagonist had become as annoying and unlikeable as everyone else who survived the first two films.2) The idea of this film occurring somewhat inside another film adds an interesting twist to the already tired formula, and the movie's mockery of the studio system re-introduces some of the parody elements that made the first Scream so refreshing.3) Parker Posey is awesome in every movie she's in.That pretty much ends any dissection of the positive attributes of Scream 3, because nearly everything else in this outing is derivative of the original film, and delivered with such mirthless temerity that even the excellent array of cameos plays like a gimmick. This film has a number of ridiculous moments that skirt the bounds of acceptability, and while the first Scream used intelligence as a scare tactic, this one induces headaches with its inherent stupidity.The whole gang is back, but by now they've ceased being endearing. Cotton Weary was never given to us as anything but a sleazy shyster trying to make a buck off of tragedy, so are we supposed to care about his peril as the killer stalks him and his stereotypical blonde Los Angeles nymphette through the halls of their swanky apartment? Gail Weathers and Dewey have already suffered mortal wounds twice and survived them just fine, so do we honestly believe that they are in any danger as they get swept into the killer's web? Jamie Kennedy already shifted from witty to someone please punch him in the throat in Scream 2, so are we really supposed to think it's clever that he turns up for a cameo in this film, despite being sufficiently butchered in the previous one? Butchery that he apparently saw coming, since he took time to record the videotaped message that serves as the ludicrous excuse for his appearance? The videotaped message that predicts the murders will continue into a third epidemic, despite the fact that the when he's recording said videotaped message he has no idea who the killer is, or how the series of events in Scream 2 has played out? The videotape he handed to his sister to be played in the event that he was killed during the second outbreak of violence, thus not around to dispense his wisdom if and when a third outbreak outbroke? Really? Seriously, guys? The finale of this film is by far more insultingly absurd than the silly and thudding finish of Scream 2, and once the killer (or killers?) responsible for the meager murder-spree is (are? this is getting confusing) revealed, we're quickly assured that not only was there no point to any of the killing in the movie we've just seen, but that the two films we saw before it were just as overtly senseless.Of course, we already know that the notion of a trilogy is a dead issue, since a fourth Scream film is currently in production. So, since the trilogy is over, would that qualify the upcoming Scream film as a re-imagining? Randy never gave us rules for a reboot (although I'm sure his animatronic corpse will pop up in Scream 4 to fill us in), but we can certainly hope that the stipulations dictate that even if a reboot retains the weaknesses of a sequel, it at least attempts to remind us why we loved the original so much. Scream 4 won't have any competition in that department, so here's hoping... "},{"Title":"great ending to the series!","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can begin to tell you that Scream is a classic! The whole series is great. The first time I was about to watch Scream 3, I thought it was going to be bad. Turns out, very good for a third slasher flick ending the trilogy. I thought it was going to be terrible, just awful, boy was I wrong! Usually the third movie in a series is just plain bad, but this is pretty good. Not very scary, but still entertaining. Even if it's the worst one in the series it is still fairly average. Some parts are really dumb, and this one even has some comedy in it, but a slasher flick can definitely have some humor in it. No damage done. I knew it was going to be the worst one, but I didn't think it would be even average. It was a little above average to me. Everybody has different opinions, but horror fans should have liked this a bit! "},{"Title":"Not a great final act.","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love this series as a trilogy, but as a stand alone film this is the weakest in the series. It seemed like everyone was tired or just did not want to be there. This would be OK if that was what the film was about, but it was not. The actors in this film should have had the fire that they had proved they could do in the other films. It seems to me as if Wes Craven, The Master, had seriously wanted to do a stellar final act but was held back by the lack of enthusiasm for the project. that is why this is the most marred of the three films. I still like it because it brings the principle cast back and Jamie Kennedy as Randy Meeks in video presentation. It was like seeing old family, except they were all tired. Watch this film if you love the first two and Wes Craven, but avoid if your casual. "}{"Title":"Inferior; feels more like a rip-off than a sequel.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 feels like it was done purely for the cash, with no ideas behind it. The few surviving characters are brought back, but most of the movie focuses on the Arquettes, whose characters have nothing new to cover or grow on. The new characters are all very annoying and their actors over-act at every chance (particularly Parker Posey). When one of them gets knocked off, you get a profound feeling of lack of interest. Their names are all weak homages/spoofs. Neve Campbell enters the action too late. The biggest problem, however, is the writing. The screenplay's examination of trilogies is really uninspired and underdeveloped, and its citation, reference, spoof, and homage of other horror movies is minimal, weak, and unimaginative. This is really the biggest step down, as it was the main selling point of the first two movies. The twist climax was also weak. The revelation of the killer was a random pick from the cast of characters, with no natural build-up to it.The only worthwhile elements 1) the new additions in cell-phone technology to further disguise the killer; 2) that scene with the flying knife, which was the only creative spoof of cinema clichés and conventions; 3) some vague homages to AIP and Roger Corman; 4) the always reliable Lance Henrikssen.Stick to the first two movies. "},{"Title":"An awesome end to the greatest horror series ever!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, if you think I'm some twelve-year-old who thinks Scream is the greatest horror series ever, you're wrong.  I'm a twenty-three-year-old who thinks Scream is the greatest horror series ever.  The first two films in the series were excellent, with the original being the best horror film of all-time, and the third brings the series to a great finish.  The final chapter of the trilogy takes a lot of crap from moviegoers all over the planet, but Scream 3 is an excellent film.I love the fact that they left the school setting from the first two. Scream took place in high school and Scream 2 took place in college, mainly because there is so much horror to parody from those two areas.  It is no secret that K-Will looks very highly upon teens, so with him out of the picture, the series could cover new ground.  One, they would finish with the third film to complete a rare horror trilogy, and two, the film takes place on the set of a film based on the real-life events of Woodsboro. This creates a movie within the movie storyline that proves effective. The film doesn't really improve upon the deaths, but the characters introduced in this film are an improvement on the characters from the second film. Well, at least Parker Posey's Jennifer Jolie was.  Anyway, a solid story is developed around the set of the film and the actors in Stab 3.All of the loose ends from the first two are tied up with the revelation of the final Ghostface.  They chose the best character to play Ghostface, and the selection makes the choices from Scream 2 make a little more sense.Returning stars include David Arquette, Courteney Cox, Liev Schreiber, and the voluptuous Neve Campbell, and Jamie Kennedy's Randy makes a special appearance from beyond the grave, but none of those stars even compare to Parker Posey, Indie Queen and the breakout star of the film.  Her performance was the single best performance of the series, and it is her work in Scream 3 that enables me to give the movie a perfect score.Scream 3 ends the best horror series of all time and is another individually excellent film in the trilogy.  Scream 3 receives **** and Parker Posey deserves to be a headliner.  She is incredibly talented and extremely attractive. "},{"Title":"Good but what genre is this?","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At least it's better than Scream 2! I enjoyed the final chapter of the ever popular Scream series but I noticed one major thing where are the spoofs and references? It took another turn and tried to be serious. I enjoyed reunting with the old characters and meeting a fresh new group of them. It was great to see Randy again as it broke my heart when he died in Scream 2. This is a great end to the great trilogy.  "},{"Title":"Oh my god, what have they done?!!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all I must say that I consider myself as one of the greatest fans of the first part of Scream trilogy. I watched it 17 times and I know every detail of it. Second part was quite good but not so special, which left me a little disappointed. For that I had even lower expectations for the final part. And still it managed to p*** me off!!! They ruined the whole trilogy with this nonsense. O.K. let me start at the beginning.SPOILER ALERT!!! Drew Barrymore's opening death was scary, unique and special. It is considered a classic. Than here is Jada Pinket's cinema death in sequel which succeeded to scare me as well. And what about Scream 3? Opening killing was part of Scream's charm and even here they totally blew it. It was the most  boring, scareless and ordinary of all deaths in previous two parts. And remember, that is only first 5 minutes. Than it goes even worse. The whole script was bad and after a while you get a feeling that you are watching a stupid comedy. I was laughing out loud during the scene with a spinning knife and I must remember you, laughing isn't the most common behavior while you are watching horror movies. Another thing let me down and that was movie knowledge and movie quotes. It's true that there are some facts about final parts of triology (actually the only bright part of the movie were Randy's rules on a videocassette), which is funny if you consider a fact that the whole movie is happening in a film studio. And a thing with a voices. Instead using scary Scream voice the killer uses copies of character's voices, which is not only impossible but also stupid.Lets move on to the characters. I love Neve Campbell but Sidney has lost her charm and is it just me or she is not a main person anymore. I know that this whole thing is about her but Dewey and Gale have had more actual time on the screen, like someone cares about their romantic problems. Correct me if I'm wrong but didn't Sidney in the first part said that it is stupid that girl runs into the house while she is trying to escape from the killer, cause that's  what she did now.I saved the final cut for the end. Who did it? Who is the killer? Who is behind the mask? Oh, it's just Sidney's insane half brother. Like someone didn't know that. The fact that confused me was that there was only one killer, who managed to do all the work without the partner. My second guess was a cop. When Dewey pointed at him because of the phone he took, his explenation was something like I'm a cop, not a bad guy. You can trust me. O.K. Now we believe him. And that thing with changing events from the first part. It's very thrilling that Crawen was thinking about trilogy from the beginning and it would be fine to me if this final part was a wee bit better, but how can this crap changes a beauty of the original, tell me please! I think I'm going to stay with the original story and forgot about that cinema incident. Oh, and another thing. The scaryest person was not a killer in a white mask but Gail Weathers wannabe actress played by Parker Posey. My advise, if you have a chance to watch this so called movie, don't! Stay at home for god sake and rent a first Scream, you will feel much better.       "},{"Title":"The worst of the triology","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I must admit.  I love Scream, and I absolutely love Scream 2, however, Scream 3 is a major disappointment.Scream and Scream 2 are good because they poke fun at traditional horror movies and break all rules; however, Scream 3 feels and tastes like just a traditional horror movie.I am very disappointed by it.  One untraditional thing about this movie is that instead of tying up all the loose ends and gives the audience a sense of completion, this movie does little in that direction.Out of 4 stars, I give it 1 "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 has a fantastic end.The end was tough has no big surprise but i am happy that the killer was not an alien or so. Neve Campbell is the best actress for Scream and any other movies.  "},{"Title":"The best Scream!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Since I am a Scream fan, i no doubt, loved this movie. I thought the first Scream was funny, original, scary, and witty. after seeing the first one several times, I was so excited to see the second. But, i came out a little disappointed. There was no way, you could've guessed one of the killers. I found that the killers were minor characters, as in Scream1 they were not main, but have good screen time, and was not that scary. But, the more i watched the movie, the more i liked it. So, by the time i heard about the third in the Scream series, I was counting down the days till it came out. I ended up seeing it the day after it came out with my best friend. I found that it was scary, original, and had some really good fight scenes and unforgettable characters (PARKER POSEY'S JENNIFER JOLIE). The voice changer this time was really unique and very clever. I also thought the buddy/hatred-ness  between Courteney Cox and Parker Posey was hysterical. Mainly i thought Parker fueled most of the movie with her comedic preformances. I thought the ending at Roman's birthday was truly the best. And i was also surprised to see Jenny McCarthy give such a good performance for just the short time she was in it. David Arquette also gave a good performance, along with the rest of the cast.  Neve Campbell was great with her lines like It's your turn to scream, ***hole! and You want me, mother******, come and get me! I found those to be effective if not cliched. So, if you are a fan  (or not) of the Scream series, you MUST, i repeat, MUST see this movie. I will guarantee you will have a good time watching it, as i did. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Scream of All!!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best Scream of all. The writer did a lot better job than the other one. It was awesome the way they just stuck Randy back in the movie. There was only one thing that was wrong with the part about Martha (Randy's Sister). How did she get on the set for Stab 3 if there is all that security? Over all, the movie was the best Scream. "},{"Title":"A success...In the spirit of the first two","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say that this was a rather satisfying conclusion to one of my favorite films. Scream 3 strengthened the relationships between its three original stars, squeezed in some catchy one-liners and kept me on the edge of my seat. While I can't exactly say it matched the quality of the first Scream, it's easy to forget how fresh the original must have seemed at the time. In that sense, comparisons made between Scream 3 and its predecessors are not fair. While the horror genre is more stale than it was in 1996, Scream 3 works with the material leftover from the first two films and comes out a winner.  "},{"Title":"I had never thought murder could be so much fun","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To enjoy this film, you should keep this in mind it's NOT a thriller, don't expect any suspense! It's not a drama, don't expect complex characters! It's not a horror story, don't expect gore! It's instead a very funny parody of a horror film. If you go for the laughs, you will have a lot of fun.As in all films about making films, expect tons of self references. Carrie Fisher has a very good cameo everyone will catch, but there are many film references thrown all around, I certainly missed many of the more obscure ones.A good parody must be logical, not with the reasonable kind of logic we call common sense, but the twisted yet precise logic used in jokes. And, a very uncommon thing in Hollywood, this film is technically precise in the details. For instance, revolvers fire six shots and no more, automatics have larger magazines. When the lights go out at the house and the fax still works, one can clearly see the battery-powered no-break power supply there it's the beige box with the green light right besides the fax machine. A precise detail, yet only experts would catch it; that's why I mentioned there must be many movie references I missed.But all the normal horror movie clichés are there for anyone to see. That's why there are no complex characters in the film, since everyone must behave as typical horror movie characters do. When a group of people is in a big house full of secret passages with a killer loose, for instance, what do they do? Each one goes in a different direction, to be murdered alone, of course!Only the heroine has any brains at all. She can be as stupid as the rest when she is overwhelmed by the feelings about her mother, but if anyone at all survives in the end it's because of her smart precautions and quick reasoning. It's something like the punch line of a joke, where all your expectations are reversed in a film about movie clichés the prettiest girl is the smartest character. And what a pretty sight she is, I wonder where in the IMDB can I find Neve's private phone number...Judging from the IMDB rating demographics, this film has been enjoyed most by the under 18 age group, but I recommend it for everyone who likes a good laugh at any age. "}{"Title":"Scream 3? Oh no, not again!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *SPOILER (ONLY IF YOU NEVER SAW A MOVIE IN YOUR LIFE)*     What is wrong with you people? Am I the only one that admits that those teenage-mysterious-murder-movies really sucks? I mean, c'mon! All these movies use that stupid scary trick, like someone opening a door very fast, or coming from behind, and making the audience jump from the chair... Or the murder, that seems to be very dead, jumping in the last moment from the floor with a knife in his hand...    I don't know if it is going to be filmed a Scream 4, and I don't really care. I am not that stupid to see it... "},{"Title":"The best since the original! (Some spoilers)","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I appreciate the entire Scream Trilogy. The first was an instant classic, the sequel was a few steps below the original (still very good and has strong intrigue), while the third chapter excels over Scream 2. Scream 3 has a more reunion feel to it and it has more art. Wes Craven and new Scream-scribe Ehren Kruger added some Hollywood feel to the trilogy, way over the Stab concept of the sequel. We get to see real movie sets of Woodsboro, which was needed because the story does not set there anymore...both Craven and Kruger knew that fans would miss home. Heck, the Stab 3 Woodsboro really gave that home feel! Kruger's script really surprised me as each character has deep emotion, intrigue, humanity and pain. I thought that Kevin Williamson's absence would ruin Scream 3, but Kruger's presence filled the hole. Sometimes I felt Kruger toyed with Williamson idea, like seeing the Stab 3 production and the actors...but then again there's no better way to see the Scream cast return to Woodsboro when the film no longer sets there. Kruger's Hollywood concept is fresh and welcome! I also liked Kruger's addition of that Randy video, which connects this film to Scream 2 very well...plus some movie talk.Neve Campbell, David Arquette and Courtney Cox-Arquette are back. This time Neve's Sidney has lesser spotlight, but the final encounter made up for it. Sidney's maturity is bearly noticed due to the cut of screen time, however she lacks some shock in relating to the truth of the final encounter. It was also new to see Sidney having those shocking visions of her mom, whom you'll learn alot about. David's Dewey has obviously healed the past few years now that he can move better, but it's kinda hard to swallow seeing him with another Gale (when everyone thought he and Gale are it) and being a filmmaker. Courtney as Gale Weather has a new job...not as a media woman but more as an investigator. I know it's a far jump from the last two films, but I do admit getting tired of her journalist breaks rules to get great story personality. Eventually, Gale and Dewey get together again.The mastermind behind the killings actually fits into the series pretty smoothly. Seeing the mastermind talk about life, jealousy and leading real events justified the link and the killing spree. Obviously the mastermind grew up with loose morals and a trouble life...but has great reasons to target Sidney.For the directing, Craven's work is once again artistic. One of the parts that I liked best was when Sidney entered the set of Stab 3 and got shocked on how accurate and homey the set of her home and Woodsboro was...like she was back home. It made me want to see Scream again! Craven's got a lot of killing in the film, although my complaint was that the final conflict lacked intrigue and the musical score was toned down. The everyone's a suspect concept is here again, and the unveiling of the mastermind is very surprising as well.Like Scream 2, Scream 3 has its shares of movie references. John Milton, the name of Al Pacino's devil in The Devil's Advocate as well as the name of the poet who wrote Paradise Lost, is the producer of horror movies including Stab 3. Regarding Sidney's mom and the past, he's very guilty of what happened though you won't see it. Star Wars and other movies were mentioned as well. The cameo appearances are cool, most especially Carrie Fisher whom you just have to see and listen for the name Lucas.Overall, Scream 3 is the best film since the original. It does have some flaws but they're ignorable. Scream 3 is as unforgettable as the first as well, and it's got some fresh concepts thanks to Kruger (who did a great job) and Craven (who added a little comedy here). Close to the original and steps above Scream 2. Watch this movie! "},{"Title":"least interesting of the trilogy","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  it was allright, not especially great.  the first one was good - it had a gimmick, but they have tried to drag the gimmick out too long.  this was predictable and even boring with a few laughs thrown in.  the origin of most of the laughs was parker posey who was, as always, very good.   hopefully it is over with this one.  it would be a good place to STOP. "},{"Title":"Scr3am breaks all the rules to make a Masterpiece.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I walked into the theater already expecting something superb.  The movie opens up scary you right away. The guy I thought would be the killer is killed first.Every time expecting the usual scare it would not be there, every time you were not expecting a scare it would be there. The acting is the absolute best it could be.  Critics and some people just cannot understand change is what you need to break all the rules and  make a Masterpiece.  Before I ending this review I thank scream 3 in the future will be appreciated like Hitchcock masterpieces. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies yet...","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3, the final part in the horror trilogy, I thought was literally fantastic, in good ways and bad ways. It was so very original and so very unoriginal. It was nice how they corresponded with Stab 3/Scream 3, and I liked the Hollywood, movie setting very much. I thought that was the fantastic part, where it's Hollywood, anything can happen! And in the end, the killer is a little too fantastic when you find out who it actually is. The killer is so unoriginal. I don't want to spoil it for those who haven't seen it, so if you have seen it and wonder why I think it's unoriginal, email me. The whole movie idea is very original though. I liked Scream 3 though. I am now a fan of the Scream trilogy, thanks to this movie. I thought it was really nice, but it was a bit lame in a few parts.One thing that I did not like about the production of this movie was Ehren Kruger. I know that Kevin Williamson was not going to write the script for this movie for two reasons, (and its a shame, because it would have been even better!) 1)He couldn't finish it in time, with Teaching Mrs. Tingle and all the other stuff going on, and 2)because he wanted to take the story to Woodsboro again. And, you may have noticed, what I don't like about Kruger is that he made fun of Kevin Williamson's idea. Stab 3 is about the Return to Woodsboro and notice how cheesy and phony the characters are. Truthfully, Ehren Kruger did it for the money. He didn't care. Dimension was desperate, so they got someone who wasn't busy and who doesn't know crap about the Scream films. Oh well! "},{"Title":"Scream 3, the end of a good thing.","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sure the movie had its typical sequel problems, but they were minimal flaws in comparison to ANY other franchise in this genre.  It was a good look at how each of the surviving characters in the story had changed, and where the problems in the original Scream started.  It kept the pieces together, and the story intact.  It still manages to pull MANY inside jokes, while at the same time giving you chills as the killer continues his vengence.  Scream 3 is in no way better than the original, but FAR superior to Scream 2, and any other horror sequel for that matter.  Alot of movie-goer's complained that Scream 2 and Scream 3 were stupid or not scary.  But trust me, those people are not true fans of the series, direction, writing, or cast.  They're just there to watch a movie.  So, please pay no attention.  Scream gave horror a much needed boost in the late 90's and spawned 2 years worth of copy-cat films.  I think what a lot of people just don't get, is that Scream had two sequels from the beginning.  These were planned sequels, not merely attempts to fool us into buying more movie tickets and popcorn, but rather a very long horror movie/story that the producers found could be told in three parts allowing more detail and emphasis per movie/story.  Hollywood has just about finished its horror/teen flick run.  Scream 3 is definitely the end of a good thing. "},{"Title":"A great Movie","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is wonderful !! It is very original and entertaining . I don't know if it is the best of the three but I have to say that is as cool as the others . Scream 3 is great and everyone must see it. All three Scream are very original and you never know what is going to happen . The actors are so great . I think that Neve Campbell, David Arquette and Courteney Cox Arquette couldn't be better. Congratulations to all of them.  "},{"Title":"A fantastic finale(possible spoilers)","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In 1997, I saw a movie that changed my opinion of horror.  That movie was Scream.  I had never liked horror.  I mean did watch a couple of Freddy Krueger films and thought they were pretty good but never really got into horror until I saw Scream.  I knew from the minute I saw the trailer for the first one that it was something special and because it came from Wes Craven(A Nightmare On Elm Street) I had to see it.  I was completely blown away by it's brilliance.  I only had to wait a year for the sequel and again thought it was brilliant.  You can imagine how high my expectations were when I heard there was a third one coming out that was going to finish the series  This time I had to wait two years but it was well worth it.  Scream 3 takes place in Hollywood two years after Scream 2.  Sidney is living in isolation in Northern California and her whereabouts are only know by her long time friend Dewey.  However she is forced out of hiding when the cast of Stab 3 are being killed off and she receives a phone call from the new killer.  I was really surprized how well this finished the trilogy.  The violence seemed to have been toned down some but it don't spoil my enjoyment and I was on the edge of my seat the whole time.  I can see why they don't want to do anymore because this really makes it a complete story with all the loose ends wrapped up and it delivers a satisfying ending.  I was a little concerned when I heard Kevin Williamson(the creator of the series)wouldn't be writing this one but my concerns were premature.  This film has many funny moments in it and it is nice to see that the four main surviving characters(Sidney, Gale, Dewey and Cotton)are brought back by the cast members who play them to finish off the series.  This film seems to put a twist on everything from the first two and has many clever moments not least the reappearence of film geek Randy(Jamie Kennedy) who was offed in the second film(I won't spoil how he is brought back)and the scene in which Sidney is persued by the killer in a reconstruction of her Woodsborough house on the set of Stab 3.  This film also has nice cameo by Lawrence Hecht who plays Sidney's father. All in all this film is a brilliant, clever, funny and scary conclusion to a terrifying, hilarious and original horror series which is undoubtedly one of the best horror series of all time.  I really do hope there are nore.  There was talk of them doing a Halloween H20 type situation with the Scream series but I think this film is the Scream series equivilent to that. "},{"Title":"Fitting end to trilogy","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK. In all honesty, this film has been unfairly criticised by most people. In my opinion, the film is a fitting end to the genius of the trilogy. (Here's hoping that Craven doesn't find a good enough script).The story is tried and tested. Anyone who criticises the film based around the plot needs their head examining and their logic questioning as the Scream franchise was always, quite openly, conceived as a trilogy. So, fitting it is, that we return to the theory of the original idea, the reason that the story exists in the first place, and place it in a location ironic, yet relevant to what the film is sending up, i.e the movies. By locating the film in Los Angeles, the capital of the film world, we are subjected to a fitting backdrop for the characters to weave their tale.As with the other films in the trilogy, the genius doesn't lie in the story, but in the continuity of its characters, instead of having to fear a familiar villain (Halloween's Michael Myers, Friday the 13th's Jason, etc.) we are forced to identify and care about the vulnerable targets, the characters, the victims. By the third film, we almost feel like we know these characters. We can sympathise with Sydney's psychological trauma's due to her Mothers death. We can forgive Gale's shallow yet single minded and coldness and we can wallow in Dewey's idiocy and often unintentional, innocent boyish humour. These are characters we care deeply about because we have rooted for them before and won. The supporting cast, as in Scream and Scream 2 do an able job of maintaining our attention on the story, while also forging out their own identities in the short screen time they know they will have.Overall, this is a more than fitting end to what, hopefully, will later be recognised as the most genre defining trilogy of all time. "},{"Title":"Scream 3 transcends all genres, and has a good time doing it!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is approaching a 100 million dollar gross. That will definitely put it within the top 10-15 highest grossing films this year. Very exciting! How many third part installments in a horror genre are this successful?!?!However, you have the usual number of skeptics who are afraid to say they enjoy such a film. Thats really too bad. They might be more comfortable renting Shakespeare in Love and laughing at just the right parts so all their friends can see how clever they are. If thats why you see a movie, well more power to you.Scream 3 transcends all genres. It does exactly what it wants, and does it well. It has thrills, definitely laughs, and a cast who looks like they are having a lot of fun. Parker Posey is hilarious!!! On opening night, everyone in the packed theatre was having a great time. Isn't that why we go to the movies? No, my life wasn't changed by this film, but did you expect this to be a life altering film? Heck, I enjoyed American Pie for what it was, but it didn't change my life, or the way I look at film.I think people expect too much from a movie these days. I want to help people to understand Scream 3. Some people think, well, I laughed a lot and I wasn't really scared, so it must have been a bad movie. This is an inaccurate assessment. The movie definitely has more laughs than scares, Parker Posey is in the film for crying out loud!!! It laughs at itself!! Its like a Scooby Doo mystery. It also has a few parts that make you jump. Thats the beauty of it, this film doesn't fit snugly into a perfect little category. I mean, is Forrest Gump a comedy or a drama? Well, it certainly has both elements. One really must free their mind and accept that this film is not just a scary movie. Its a FUN movie!!I would also like to mention that a lot of people seem to think the film should have been different. For instance, I hear a lot of The movie should have had this happen or It would have been a lot scarier if this took place. Well, it didn't. The movie did its own thing, and its still making millions. You can find these same type of people quite often commenting on The Phantom Menace... Lucas should have done this. Well guess what? He doesn't care because its his movie. Remember? You just paid a few bucks to sit on your butt and watch it!!! Nothing can satisfy these people.In closing, Scream 3 will be enjoyable to anyone who's looking to have a good time! Everyone else, lighten up! Never be afraid to have fun!!!! "}{"Title":"A film to see AND a film to miss...","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I must admit, that like everyone else, I was extremely excited about seeing Scream 3. And I had every right to be, living in the United Kingdom and subsequently having to wait three months.Anyway, the film did NOT disappoint my expectations. Yet it did not exceed them. Scream 3 was definitely suffering from multiple genre syndrome. It simply did not fit neatly into any category. Allow me to explain.For all you absolute gore-loving horror fans out there, this movie will be a big disappointment. Very little blood and relatively tame violence (by today's standards) make this a walk in the park compared to, let's say, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. I know that's an old example, but hey...If you are the type who prefers more of a psychological thriller, for example, Silence of the Lambs, then you will probably love Scream 3. The truth is, it DOES provide plenty of scares and shocks. But they are all implied, a la Blair Witch. So as a thriller, it really works.Then again, if you are a Poirot-loving, Columbo-watching mystery fanatic, who loves to solve obscure crimes, don't bother with Scream 3. I HATE whodunnits, yet figured out the mystery sub-plot after an hour. OK, so I picked the wrong person/people, but that's not the point. So if you are the kind who guesses murderers after five minutes, avoid it like the plague.But, as always, Scream 3 does have another saving grace its humour/humor (notice that little trans-Atlantic touch?). The film is packed full of jokes, sly references to celebrities, nods to the audience about horror films, etc, etc. Not to mention a couple of excellent cameos. It's a good film to see if you like comedy. Sort of like... well, there is nothing to compare it to. Dewey is absolutely hilarious.For me personally, the film did end up a touch contrived. I was absolutely hooked for the first hour or so. As soon as the Final Act began, it got silly. When they have to resort to killing off four characters in the space of twenty minutes, you know something is wrong.I don't think there will ever be a Scream 4. I don't want there to be. I don't even want there to be a Halloween H20-type reunion in twenty years time. It was a nice series while it lasted, but it's gone now.This film is the final one of a trilogy that managed to create a whole new genre. Scream was excellent. Scream 2 was good. Scream 3 has an excellent cast, a good premise, and a bad ending.To sum upIf you love HORROR, catch it on video. If you love THRILLERS, see it, it's excellent. If you love MYSTERY, read a book instead. If you love COMEDY, this one's a hoot. If you love SCREAM, see it, but with a fresh perspective. If you love RANDY, then you've probably seen it already. )  "},{"Title":"Greatest movie I have ever seen!","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was a GREAT movie. I thought it was better than the first 2. It was scary, funny and had a great ending. Neve Campbell & Courtney Cox were Great (as always). The only thing that I didn't like was the opening. In Scream and Scream 2, The opening Scene  was really scary, but in Scream 3 it was really disappointing. Except from this the movie was really great. *****/*****  "},{"Title":"A brilliant end to a brilliant trilogy","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If I had time of space here, I could go into a hundred reasons why Scream 3 is not only a worthy successor to Scream and Scream 2, but also a fantastic one.  But I can't, suffice to say Wes, Kevin, Ehren, Bob, Harvey, Neve, David, Courtney, Patrick, Scott, Posey, Deon, Emily, Matt, Lance, Liev, Jamie, Peter, Marianne, Marco, Bruce and anyone else involved in this in this film and the series - you were all great.  Thankyou. "},{"Title":"Scream 3 The best Scream ever?","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think Scream 3 is a very fancy movie. Actually I like all three Screams, but Scream 3 is the only Scream I have ever seen in the cinema. Did I miss something!!! If I had seen all three in the cinema, the comparison would be more honest. But anyway, back to Scream 3.The fact that Sydney has a brother is very original, but it makes it harder for the viewer to predict a killer. And that in Scream 1 and 2 there where two killers, makes it logical to think that in Scream 3 there are also two killers.  That is the first thing I like about the movie.The second thing is that the main characters (Sid, Dewey, Gale and Cotton) are played by the same actors as in the first two episodes. And the last last thing SEQUALS DON'T SUCK!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The 3rd and Final Chapter of the Trilogy that Made Me Laugh, and Made me SCREAM!!!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am probably one the the BIGGEST 'SCREAM' fans put on this earth, and when i found out there was going to be a 'SCREAM 3' in late '98 i went crazy! When i got the internet, i was on every scream-trilogy website i could find, i would visit them everyday. Seeing that i'm from Australia, i knew i was going to get the movie later than the americans, which kind of bugged me! So after the movie came out, i had really high expectations of the film, and this is what i got... Firstly, i was DYING (so to speak ) to find out who the opening victim(s) were, and when i did see who it/ they were, i thought, yeah why not at least it gave me a scare or 2, but i thought that Craven would get someone new, but it wasn't a total loss. When i saw all the actors in the movie, i was thinking, like, seriously, if the body count is gonna be bigger, how are we gonna connect with the new characters like we did in the first 2 movies? and i was right, we could not connect with them, which kinda got me angry! the death scenes were a bit too quick with not (if any) enough blood in them. In my opinion all the wrong people died. i couldn't wait for Jenny McCarthy's Cameo, and that's all it was, a cameo! when they revealed the ending, i was so... (i can't swear) it was the dumbest of the trilogy, but the motive was good. but the killer(s) were 100% un-guessable! Also when the killer kept on disappearing from every killing, i thought was exaggerated! One of my favorite scenes i the movie is when the big explosion happens, that was very exciting for me!!! the scares kept on coming, even though you knew that the killer was going to pop up, i still got scared, which is VERY rare for me. All in all, this movie is VERY entertaining, and i would recommend it for anyone who likes a good scare, it's not AS perfect as the first one but still one of the best. i give this film a very good 8/10. (some of that goes to Parker Posey, who is a BABE!!!) "},{"Title":"Clever, scary, and funny","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I knew that Scream 3 would be great right from the start.  I thought that a new writer might have some sort of effect on the story line but I was wrong. Scream 3 was well casted, well written, and well directed.  The perfect ending to a perfect trilogy.  If you enjoyed the other 2, Scream 3 is right for you. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Trilogy","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 REALLY Rocks!! It's so good!! It's the best one of the trilogy. Although the first one is awesome, this one's too. Neve Campbell has improved a lot like actress, and the Courteney Cox - David Arquette (Gale & Dewey) relationship is so funny, i'm so glad they got married in real life. At first I thought that Sidney hadn't a storyline, cuz she's not in the movie like for the first 45 minutes!! But, in that time, the Dewey - Gale relationship is very well developed, and the resting hour is mainly about Sid...Well, I just want to say GO SEE IT!!! It's the best one YET!!! "},{"Title":"A decent suspense flick, not a Scream movie though","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Was this a Scream movie?  No.  I absolutely loved the first two films which were funny and playful.  Scream 3 has no comic relief to be found and the script was very poorly written, the ending is very unsatisfying.  The characters are especially shallow, Courteney Cox absolutely sleepwalks though her role and the supporting cast is only fodder for the killer.  Still the film is entertaining at times, mostly do to a few set-piece chase sequences with the killer.  It clearly does not deserve to be compared with Scream 1 or 2, but as a horror/suspense film it is still quite good. I rate it 7 out of 10 stars *******  "},{"Title":"THE BEST TRILOGY EVER MADE!","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Scream trilogy is definitely the best trilogy ever made. None of the Scream movies make the trilogy look bad at all. There are trilogies out there that are great but sometimes has one of its sequels in away ruins the trilogy and another which makes the trilogy look great. For example I would consider star wars a great trilogy despite I wasn't to crazy about Star Wars (**), The Empire Strikes Back (**1/2), and The Phantom Menace (**) but I loved Return of the Jedi (***1/2) which made star wars a great trilogy. In the Scream trilogy Scream (***), Scream 2 (***1/2) and Scream 3 are all great. The reason why this one was best was because it managed to be different, scarier, funnier, and more unpredictable than the others. Scream was scary and funny and not really too unpredictable. Scream 2 managed to have everything that Scream 3 had but Scream 3 was more exciting, and had some more awesome and cool gory killing scenes. I don't think another trilogy can be made to be as good as the Scream trilogy. Go see this movie 100 times and buy the whole Scream trilogy right away when it comes out on video.  ****4 out of 4  "},{"Title":"IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN SCREAM 3 DO NOT READ THIS!!!!!!!","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ATTENTION!!!!  WARNING!!! THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS.  IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN SCREAM 3, QUIT READING THIS AND GO TO THE NEXT COMMENT.  JUST THOUGHT I'D LET YOU KNOW.Thanks to Arlington Road and John Frankenheimer i still have hope for ehren kruger and Reindeer Games.  But Scream 3 is a big let down. Because Scream is one of my favorite movies I was hoping Scream 3 would be the ultimate sequel where anything goes and all the horror movie rules established in the first two Screams would be turned on their heads and smashed into pieces. But instead of a memorable or  original conclusion to what could have been an excellent trilogy  we get in Scream 3 a rehash of the 2 movies that came before it.  Which means almost exactly the same jokes and scare tactics. There weren't even any cool death sequences.  The only thing I liked about this movie, besides jay and silent bob, was that the the guy who just appeared to be a caricature of quentin tarantino turned out to be the killer. that's about the only unexpected thing that happens in scream 3 and it's ruined when we find out who this guy really is and the fact that he just happens to be a Hollywood director who is directing a movie that is being produced by his father (who conveniently doesn't know he hired his son) based on a string of murders he started. Sounds silly when you think about it, doesn't it?  Boo Scream 3, they should make a better one and just forget this one ever happened like everybody does with Halloween 3.  "}{"Title":"The best horror film of the year!!!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the Scream trilogy and I thought it was the best horror film of the year and the best movie to end the trilogy. Neve Campbell was great in this movie! She can still kick some ass and Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette were very funny together. If you haven't seen it, GO SEE IT TODAY!!!*Five Stars* "},{"Title":"What a crappy movie!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of Scream and thought the 2nd was good for a sequel but the 3rd just plain sucked. I was worried when Kevin Williamson wasn't the writer on this one but I figured Wes Craven was smart enough to get a good script but sadly I was wrong. The series went from being smart and funny to an unoriginal slasher movie that was mocked in the original. It seems they just added a higher body count to make up for the lack of a good script. At least I cared or knew something about the victims in the previous two but I was just glad or just plain forget who most of the victims were in this one. I'm hoping Wes, Courtney, Neve and David Arquette did this out of a sense of closure and a thank you to Kevin Williamson for reviving and/or making them names in the Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"What the hell is wrong with everybody?","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK - It's very simple... if you like real movies - you will hate this one, if you loved Scream I - you will hate this one, if you are 12 yrs. old and going to the mall to see a dumb movie like this is one of the most important things you do all week - then you will LOVE this movie.If you have half a brain, don't see this movie. Nuff said (Oh I gave it a 2 cause even though the movie sucked, Parker Posey still rules.) "},{"Title":"Not what I expected...","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing Scream I was blown away.  It was very original and added a new twist to the slasher genre which made it fun again.  Scream 2 was not that good, but since I heard it was the second in a trilogy I allowed it because the second one is never the best.  Unfortunately, I had myself extremely hyped for the third in the trilogy.  I expected it to be at least as good if not better than Scream.  Man was I wrong...  Technically, besides really bad acting in some instances, there is nothing wrong with Scream 3.  Everyone who has watched and studied Scream as many times as I has knows that one of the most important parts in that movie was the unexpected ending that no one saw coming.  It was almost like a mystery more than a slasher.  Scream 3 works fairly well during the beginning and middle, but the end falters in such a big way that it destroys the rest of the movie.  The end of the movie turns Scream 3 into exactly what the series has tried to parody, a tired cliche of the horror genre.  Anyone who had high expectations for this will be really disappointed.  I suggest you save your seven bucks and go rent Scream again. "},{"Title":"It was a great movie!!!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved Scream 3 so much. It was so funny and it was scary how she had her visions of her mother. If you haven't seen it you should go and see it right away because it is really really good. I loved the movie so much it was better than all the rest!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was great. Although many believe that the ending sucked, look at it this way. What else could they have done? I thought the ending was good and the movie was tense with a lot of action. Best of all it was just really really fun to watch. People in the audience were totally reacting to it. This one was better then the second one but not as good as the first I believe.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully terrifying and absolutely hilarious! **SPOILERS**","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely loved the opening scene with Cotton and Kristine! I also liked the way that after the opening scene it went right to Sydney and the story begins! Parker Posey, Jenny McCarthy, Scott Foley, Emily Mortimer, and Kelly Rutherford really give this film flavor. I would also like to give praise to Roger Jackson for doing the voice because he did a wonderful job too. The Arquettes and Sydney played their parts well. My only complaint is Courtney's hair!! The ending was terrific too. I was so surprised when I found out Sydney had a brother, and even more surprised when I found out it was Roman Bridger. I recommend this film to anybody who likes horror movies(the Scream series imparticular)! You won't be disappointed. My grade 8 out of 10. GO SEE IT IF YOU HAVEN'T YET! "},{"Title":"What's your favorite scary movie TRILOGY?","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ***May contain minor spoilers, but nothing outright*** Words cannot begin to describe how perfectly this film works in wrapping up all the plot details, and bringing the series to a full close. For those who whine and complain about the fact that the rules for the trilogy were ignored, THAT'S THE POINT! The trailers and everything said, Forget the rules. And they did - they outlined the rules and then broke them. On to the performances - Neve Campbell was wonderful here. For all of us who have come along with her for the entire series, it was heartbreaking to see her finally totally break down after the confrontation on the Stab 3 set in her house, and inspiring to see her finally have built up the strength to face the killer (or -ers) after everything she's been through. Courteney and David were great together and separately, with Parker Posey adding wonderful support as the Gale Weathers clone. She provides some of the biggest laughs this time around. I loved how they brought back Sid's dad in that one scene, and Billy's dad too, in the footage in the finale. They were both played by the same actors as in the first, making it even more realistic. And bringing the actress whose picture sat in for Maureen Prescott in 1 and 2 into the movie to play her ghost was very inspired. Add to that Liev Schrieber and Jamie Kennedy, and the gang's all back for the final act. And who would have thought that a line like Would you be willing to settle for a PG-13 relationship? would bring on such nostalgia? Ha ha! The grand finale works so well. It's wonderful to watch. And even though the killer is hard to foresee, he or she or they still make(s) perfect sense. What is so great about this film is seeing the little things from the series addressed such as, will anyone Sidney is friends with ever survive to see the closing credits? The finale addresses this question big time, with the fates of several characters resting in Sidney's hands and finally giving her the ability to prevent their deaths, an ability she was never given in the first two films. And the final scene wraps up everything so perfectly and sweetly, with the very last minutes just perfectly handled, leaving us with the perfect combination of closure and yet openness. I am a huge Scream fan, and this film lived up to all my expectations of how the series should end. Everyone in the cast did a superb job, however, I think that some of the actors with smaller parts should have been given more time to develop their characters (Deon Richmond, Matt Keeslar). However, everyone had at least one memorable bit, including some great cameos. (It's so cool that Jay and Silent Bob show up in this movie, seeing as how Kevin Williamson and Kevin Smith are my two favorite screenwriters.) In the overall scheme of things, this film was better than the second, but not as good as the original simply because it's NOT the original, nor do I think it was the intention to top the original. I think the filmmakers made the best movie they could, and even though Kevin didn't return and Ehren Kruger could never replace him, I think Wes and Neve and Courteney and David remained true to the spirit of the series, and kept things in the same perspective. I think it would be just fine to end the series with the third one. However, as you see in the final shot, they DID leave the door open . . . Hmmmmmmmmmmm. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Its Awesome, despite what the critics are saying.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Trust me, anyone who loves horror (especially the Scream films or Wes Cravens work) will love this movie.  I've read, however, some really up and down reviews about the movie, and what it boils down to movie go-ers love it, critics are bashing it.  These web reviews and newspaper reviews I've read for the past three or four days (Houston Chronicle for example) are coming from columnists or critics that could not give a rats ass about the genre, and I promise, they dont know what they're talking about.  They are saying that they are sick of horror films, and that its time for Wes Craven and the boys at Mirimax films to hang it up for a while, but trust me from the way they talk about the film and what they were complaining about, they wouldnt know a really GOOD horror sequel like this one, if it landed out of the sky and screwed their face!  This movie is being reviewed by people who get paid to write these summaries on movies, but they hate horror, or they hate Stallone movies, or who knows what.  These columnists cannot take an unbiased approach to criticizing anything.  They also go on to say that the movie was predictable, and the ending was an utter disappointment, but my question to them is, DID YOU WATCH THE LAST TWO?  I would like you to go find another horror movie sequel that the same characters were played by the same actors, the story stayed together and the turn of events that were laid out in the original were tied together in the finale, where the intensity and violence stayed consistent and the villain isnt mocked by every 17 year old in the country at summer camp, and were two sequels were PLANNED from the beginning and before the creation of the original.  If you think someone else or another film or director could have done it better in this genre, youre poorly mistaken.  Cox-Arquette, Arquette, Campbell, and Parker Posey are terrific.  The movie opens with a bang (much like the original) and has and ending that makes you think damn, i was wrong the whole time! i should have known it was him/her/them.  Bottom line f*** the critics, if you liked scream and/or scream 2, you will LOVE this one. "},{"Title":"A great final chapter","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This final chapter, following the brilliant original and the fun and exciting second film, puts on the finishing touches.  And in doing so, we're given scares, laughs, and a bit of nostalgia.  I can still remember seeing the original for the first time.  It was so amazing.  Here, we're reminded of the original, with the film-within-the-film involving Woodsboro and the plot going back to where it all began.  Neve is tough and fun to watch, Courteney and David are obviously enjoying themselves, and the new people, namely Parker Posey, Scott Foley, and Jenny McCarthy, are game for the series.  The opening carries on the scary-as-hell tradition, and it concludes with a bang.  I never would have guessed that this is where the Scream story would end up, but it is a good place to be.  It's bittersweet to have the trilogy all under my belt now, with no more new films to see, but they're an excellent trio of films, and they'll never bore me.  Thank you Wes Craven, Kevin Williamson, Ehren Kruger, the cast, and an excellent crew.  It's been a scream. "}{"Title":"Yeah! (One Spoiler)","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was a fitting end to the trilogy.  I saw the first in December of 1996 in an okay theater, I was still mesmerized!  I saw the second in a run down cheap theater, I was still entertained!  Now, I have seen the final chapter of the trilogy in a brand new, state of the art multiplex which just opened near my house, and I was blown away!  Kind of like how Tom was in Parker Posey's house!  Just go and see it!  Then when you have seen it, see it again, and again, and again, and again, and again, and again, and again, and again... "},{"Title":"An excellent ending to the trilogy!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Fans of the Scream films will not be disappointed when seeing the final ending to this horrifying trilogy.  The backstory is particularly interesting, as it ties back in with the original Scream set in Woodsboro. The trio of original cast members (Neve Campbell, Courtney Cox Arquette, and David Arquette) bring a fresh perspective to their characters, and the newer cast also adds a dimension and depth to the storyline.The cameos alone are worth the price of admission!  This trilogy will go down in history as another of director Wes Craven's triumphs.  I recommend seeing it three times!!! "},{"Title":"three times as funny, scary and entertaining","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3! The final chapter of the trilogy is finally here. I know reviews have been mixed, with people either detesting it, or loving it. In my opninion, Scream 3 is actually pretty good. The only fault of this movie is that it does has some faults, compared to only a few faults from Scream and Scream 2. Scream 3 is a lot funnier that the 2 previous movies, but it's less scary. We sure could have used a similar car scene (from Scream 2) in the new movie. For sure, the best new character is Jennifer Jolie, played by Parker Posey. She's so damn hilarious. If I was to make a whole new Scream movie, I would choose the beggining of Scream 1, the middle part of Scream 2 and the end of Scream 3. Although the ending and the climax of Scream 3 was the best of all 3 movies, the killer wasn't all that. For this reason, I would pick the killer of Scream 1 to be in this new movie. Overall, Scream 3 does entertain. It does give you jumps and it sure makes you laugh. I strongly advise you to go see it. 5/5 "},{"Title":"The best of them all!!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought that this movie was absolutly awesome! Before i went i read the reviews, and was not impressed, but i decided that i would go anyway. well, needless to say, i went and i thought that it was even better than the first one. The suprises are well thought out and it definatly keeps your intrest!!! i give this movie a strong 10!! "},{"Title":"Best installment of the Scream trilogy!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was the sweetest horror movie I've seen in a while. I saw it on the day it came out.  I'd never seen anything like it. It scared me and it made me laugh. It was so exciting and it was so unexpected. Well, I give it 2 thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"A Fullfillment of Expectations","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Scream 3 on opening night.I throughly enjoyed it. I was so worried about it. I was not sure if my expectations would be met. Oh they were more then met.I had a blast. The acting was done wonderfully by Neve Campbell as Sidney.At a certain point in the film it really becomes hers.The whole cast did a great job.They really went out their way to make David Arquette, Neve, and Courtney Cox-Arquette to add more and more layers to the characters it was wonderful.It gave a wonderful  "},{"Title":"Good end to a Great Series","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3, or Scr3am, took the Scream trilogy out with a bang.  Literally. The highlight of the movie easily involves a massive explosion.  The end itself will leave you satisfied.  You may have a bad taste in your mouth at the moment of impact, I know I did, I even screamed at the screen, but it'll sink in a little later.  If you're lucky, you'll see this movie with a very enthusiastic crowd, who interact with the screen.  In conclusion, Scream 3 does Kevin Williamson's original idea justice. "},{"Title":"three times as funny, scary and entertaining","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3! The final chapter of the trilogy is finally here. I know reviews have been mixed, with people either detesting it, or loving it. In my opninion, Scream 3 is actually pretty good. The only fault of this movie is that it does has some faults, compared to only a few faults from Scream and Scream 2. Scream 3 is a lot funnier that the 2 previous movies, but it's less scary. We sure could have used a similar car scene (from Scream 2) in the new movie. For sure, the best new character is Jennifer Jolie, played by Parker Posey. She's so damn hilarious. If I was to make a whole new Scream movie, I would choose the beggining of Scream 1, the middle part of Scream 2 and the end of Scream 3. Although the ending and the climax of Scream 3 was the best of all 3 movies, the killer wasn't all that. For this reason, I would pick the killer of Scream 1 to be in this new movie. Overall, Scream 3 does entertain. It does give you jumps and it sure makes you laugh. I strongly advise you to go see it. 5/5 "},{"Title":"The best of them all!!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought that this movie was absolutly awesome! Before i went i read the reviews, and was not impressed, but i decided that i would go anyway. well, needless to say, i went and i thought that it was even better than the first one. The suprises are well thought out and it definatly keeps your intrest!!! i give this movie a strong 10!! "},{"Title":"Scream 3 Suck-o-rama!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3. Like a lot of sequels, they tend to get worse as they progress in numbers, and the Scream trilogy is no exception! This movie was SO bad, I smacked myself across the face for thinking this one could actually try to pick up and try to redeem where the other horrible installment left off!! The words that come to mind...let's see...boring, rehashed, terrible script, predictable, annoying, and lastly UNSCARY. Hell, even my wife who jumps at the smallest little cheap scare in any movie, didn't even budge a muscle! The movie was a long, drawn-out convoluted mess, from start to finish. They totally abandoned the feel of the first movie, which made the first so good. The first one drew on the satire of horror movies, mocking them, and putting them into a real life perspective. That was the formula that worked, and why they didn't choose to extend that, is beyond me. When they tried, it just turned into rehashed sam-ol same-ol. The plot had so much going on, that they wanted you to think that it was some sort of Agatha Christy mystery-theater novel. Who cares? I don't, and certainly not the teeny boppers this movie was slated for. Drac's Decision F  "}{"Title":"A positive comment, includes spoilers.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Scream 3 twice already, and boy is it ever good the second time 'round.  I actually understood the parts and some killings better.  But there has been some contoversy over the realisticness of the film.  Let me give you people some of my defensive ideas1) The voice changer IS a real thing 2) The killer got Maureen's voice during the same time he tried to find her. When she rejected him, he directed Billy to kill her. 3) Roman is Sid's half brother; he was concieved when Maureen went to Milton's mansion to sleep with all the other guys.  Roman's father is unknown, as it was just random man that she slept with. 4) People thought Roman died, and were confused when he turned out to be the killer.  This was because he is a DIRECTOR, therefor he easily created the fake body with the knife wound.  He also used a styrofoam head, so when Gale knocked the guillotine, it chopped of a fake head.There.  I hope that cleard up everything for some of you. "},{"Title":"SPOILERS AHEAD!!!  I really hated this film...","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Again, there are spoilers in this; stop reading NOW if you haven't seen the movie yet (better yet, don't see the movie ever). This was by far the worst of the Scream trilogy.  The first two were scary, funny, and clever.  This was horrid.  I didn't care about ANY of the characters that died.  They didn't kill off any of the main characters as Randy suggested in his videotape (if you've seen the movie, you know what I mean).  The only good part was the videotape by Randy.  I realized that Jamie Kennedy really was the comic relief of the series, and the movie suffered not having him in it since he'd died.  At least he was in it for the cameo.  The Silent Bob and Jay cameo was funny too, now that I think about it.  The movie overall was plotless, not at all scary, and had THE most disappointing ending I've ever seen.  I mean, the whole I am your brother ending was extremely contrived, and the last scene was overly sappy. All I can think to say is ICK.  See the first two if you want clever, scary satire; if you want an example of what the first two were satarizing, see this. "},{"Title":"The Best Scream of All!!!!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I could not believe what I saw. The Scream series was great, and this was the best way to end it. I could not sit still. I was on the edge of my seat through it all. The ending was superb. I usually had the killers pegged before they were suspects in the others, but this I never saw coming. I have to give a large round of applause to Kevin Williamson and Wes Craven. They are truly the masters of horror. I only wish that Randy's warning could have become a reality. That would have made things complete, for real. "},{"Title":"not bad at all for a 3rd chapter... scary and entertaining","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have been a fan of the Scream series since the first one came out. I know many of you out there either love it (like me) or u hate it. Scream 3 is bit different from all the other movies in my opinion. At almost every scene there's suspense, instead of just talking and character development. Scream 3 is really scary. Like Scream 2, it starts out a bit stupid, but nearing the climax, it becomes really good and its probably the best climax of all 3. This movie is definitaly a must see for all Scream fans, and a must go for anyone seeking some good laughs (specially from Parker Posey and Jenny McCarthy) and some good suspense. It really was an awesome close for the best slasher flick of the 90's. 5/5 "},{"Title":"Scream WEEEEE!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Finally, a movie series that ends on as much a high note as is made possible.  Scream 3 is a funny, intense, and actualy has a heart warming ending.  No, you did not misunderstand what I said, the VERY end of the movie (after the killer is revealed to be......Sorry can't spoil it!) is a magnificant wrap up. The movie opens with the death of Cotton Weary and his girlfriend Christina (Kelly Rujtherford).  We are then transported to the foothills of California where Sidney has taken up a career as a abuse hotline operator. She soon learns of Cotton's death and fears the worst.  The police are down playing the murder as a copycat, because Cotton is now a very successful talk show host, and one of the  most hated. Soon, one by one, the cast and people related to the movie are being killed off in the order they are murdered in the script.  But, the killer is a true believer ibn Auteur theory of film and tends to make last second rewrites. The death scenes in this movie take a back seat to what the film is realy about.  The wrapping up of the entire franchise.  There is only onbe killer this time around, and everything from why Billy and Stu were attempting to kill Sidney to who really killed her mom is reveled.  The climatic end takes us to John Milton's mansion which is kind of a West Coast Studio 54.  The mazes and intensity in the climatic 40 minutes is truely wonderful.  The very end of the film is heart warming and should bring a load of applause from the theater you see it in. So this is the end to the series that made us laugh, cringe, and gasp in terror.  I for one am glad I was able to witness all three in the theater, and take my hat off to everyone involved in making these wonderful films.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Solid, satisfying ending to the trilogy","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was extraordinarily impressed with this movie, mainly due to the continuity displayed with the rest of the series despite the absence of the series creator, Kevin Williamson. Equally funny and scary, it was definitely a fit ending to the series. Aside from the main returning characters, Parker Posey and Patrick Dempsey stood out as excellent additions to a series that is unbelievably adept at snagging character actors that rise above their usual efforts. The story stretched further than the first movie, but it developed an excellent back-story to tie everything together and still remain self-referential. Randy's cameo was great, and definitely helped raise the stakes for the usual surprise ending. If only all fun movies could be made this rich. "},{"Title":"This movie is the coolest horror film I have saw since SCREAM!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was so slick and stylish. Ehren Kruger really did a great job on SCREAM 3. The plot was delicious and diabolical. The characters were SMARTER, but some were not as smart as the killer and the killer, on the other hand, the killer...CAN'T TELL YA, but it's a BIG surprise for all of you die hard SCREAM fans. The movie reveals secrets and let's you know how the WHOLE trilogy started. It didn't just start off with Billy and Stu killing people because of peer pressure and MAureen Presscott, but, another secret than cannot be revealed...until the end. GO SEE THIS THING! 10/10! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just got back from watching this and... wow. I expected some cheese and a little bit of light amusement. Instead I got what I consider to be one of the best of the trilogy. Randy's advice from the grave was great. My only complaint was the way the supporting cast was shuffled off to the side after a while. And it's about time some one figured out that a handgun might just be a good defense against a knife... especially if every time you turn around your friends are getting turned into fish food. Overall a great film and as Wes Craven's last horror movie (by his own words) a fine way to go out.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Trilogy","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Scream movies and saw the first showing of the movie in my area.  It was very surprising and it was so good!  Even though you can tell in some parts that Kevin Williamson was missing, it was a good ending and round up of all the past incidents, so at least you could tell a lot of effort was put into it.  I will warn you, IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE FIRST TWO SCREAM MOVIES, YOU WILL PROBABLY BE CONFUSED!  I think that true fans of the trilogy will be please and will find MOST of the loose strings tied up. "},{"Title":"not worth admission","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In this horror trilogy that changed the genre forever, the final installment was a letdown.  True, it ended where it all began (literally), it did not have the magic that Scream had.  Of course, there was plenty of gore & violence in the movie, but the killings came to be very expected.  I, myself, am a dedicated Scream Trilogy fan, but I'm glad to see it end.  For those of you who haven't seen the movie, wait until it comes to video. "}{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was a great movie.  A lot of humor for a horror movie.  Overall it was great.  I give it 4/5 stars.  A little confusing at some parts, but if you are a Scream fan, this is a perfect ending to a perfect trilogy. I had my doubts at first but it was a great movie. Courtney Cox Arquette looked a little sickly in the movie but was great.  Neve Campbell was great and so was David Arquette was great too.  Everyone Go See the movie ASAP. "},{"Title":"Another sequel for a few good screams and scares.","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the final piece of the puzzle to the murder mystery surrounding Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell), who this time is hiding in the woods. But, a string of murders related to the Woodsboro case take place on the set of Stab 3 and it's the return of GhostFace, screams, chases and phone calls once again.Filmed in a Hollywood setting, on the set of the fictional movie Stab 3, the actors went all out in pulling another dramatic and suspenseful horror film. Like the previous two films, the movie has its corny moments, but is watchable and and will give you several good scares from its creepy and jumpy scenes.Like his horror films, Director Wes Craven has kept the unknown and whodunit culprits a big mystery, leaving this film unpredictable and full of surprises and twists. Overall, it's another pretty good one for a scare.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Great Entry and Not Bad Like Everyone Says....","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yeah this Movie wasn't top notch compared to the other Scream films, and yeah it wasn't the greatest end to the series.....that's why they're making a fourth..But overall I have to say that this film by itself is a really enjoyable movie, and told us a lot of things that we never knew about the Prescott story. One thing that made me mad about this entry, considering it was supposedly the finale, is that Neve Campbell couldn't be on set very long due to scheduling conflicts, therefore isn't in the film very long. They should've just waited a year or something to make a more Sidney-Involved entry.This film, although flawed, was very good, and had very good dialogue....especially Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey)...she had the best lines of the series in my opinion. It was a very inadequate film compared to the other two, but was still a very very good movie, and has been in my top 5 movies list of all time since I saw it. And i have watched it probably once every 2 months for the last 10 years....but I swear have a life....hahahaha.This movie might not be the best finale but it's a damn good movie, and I recommend it to everyone who visits this page...and if you are disappointed, don't be, because the 4th film will be out April 15th, 2011. "},{"Title":"Why is this top of my horror movie list?","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Unlike many horror movies, the Scream killers all have motives and are not like Jason Vorhees who kills just anyone. I like it how it's all the movies are connected around the certain characters and all have motives interlinked with the storyline behind Cindy's mothers past. I love it, although sometimes the killer does get knocked down a little bit too easily and sometimes seems like it's on a kids TV show, where they're knocked down so easily. However, still good, i wouldn't say this is overly scary, but it's a good one! The third one is a personal fave of mine, although i like the other two. The third has a unique storyline to how everyone's being killedA great movie. If you haven't watched it, go to your local video store and buy all three of them! "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm a great lover of horror films and especially Scream which i have to say was just amazing to watch. It was such a delight to see after viewing so many crappy horror films, i still love it to this day and know all the words to it as i do with Scream 3. Now its not quite as good as the original but i do love it and the idea of it being set in Hollywood was very good. Its a very entertaining film with lots of scares and lots and lots of blood, which is always good. The idea for this film is great and the acting as always is spot on, and it was a real delight to see Randy back if only for a few minutes. It was the perfect ending to the perfect trilogy, well done. I can watch it time and time again and never get bored, one of the best horror films ever (of course along with Scream and Scream 2) Loved them all! "},{"Title":"Scream 3...Not bad","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is not bad at all really, I say it should have a higher mark than 5.3 out of 10 on IMDb because its not that bad. Its an average. I don't think its as good as the second as i think that Scream 2 is the best movie out of all the Scream series, but i think that this movie is just as good as the original. No better, No less but just the same. Its might be the last Scream movie in Series of Scream (the last films are usually the worst) but this i don't think is. Its not *PERFECT* but its not *BAD*. Like i said before i think this is an average. Me myself would give this a good ******* out of **********. I'm giving it a seven because its not as interesting as the second and the killer was very obvious.George Age 9 "},{"Title":"rules for trilogies...","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Maybe Scream 3 doesn't have quite the same ring as its predecessors, but it's still really neat. This one features Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) living in LA as a crisis hot-line operator when the murders start all over again. In the process, Sidney discovers a hidden part of her family history.Remember how in the first one, we learn the rules for slasher movies (never have sex, never drink or do drugs, never say that you'll be right back)? And how in the second one, we learn the rules for sequels (higher body count, death scenes are more elaborate)? Well, now we have a rule for trilogies all bets are off. And you'd better believe that they are here.David Arquette, Courtney Cox, Liev Schreiber, and Jamie Kennedy reprise their roles from the previous installments. The new additions here are Parker Posey as the woman playing Courtney Cox's character, and Lance Henriksen as a B-movie director. "},{"Title":"This film is a MLC... Major League Crap!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" They say the third time's a charm. In the case of the Scream movie series, the Wes Craven/Kevin Williamson collaboration credited for having revived the slasher genre in the '90s, this cliché proves to be a falsehood. The most recent (and hopefully final) chapter in the comedy/horror trilogy comes across as a lame regurgitation of material already presented. There are no real surprises, and the whole affair has the feeling of something left too long in the pot to stew. The life and energy is gone. What began as a lively, intelligent series suffused with self-referential humor has turned into just another slice-and-dice-by-numbers affair. Scream 3 isn't just the weakest of the movies, it's the kind of thing that the original Scream lampooned with affectionate glee.All of our old friends are back - even one who didn't survive the second installment - although virtually everyone looks tired of the project. Even director Wes Craven doesn't seem to have his heart in it. (He agreed to direct this movie only after Miramax allowed him to helm the non-horror Music of the Heart.) Neve Campbell's screen time as Sidney Prescott has been dramatically reduced - she hardly appears during the movie's first half, which concentrates on the exploits of Dewey (David Arquette) and Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette). They are in Hollywood, on the set of the movie Stab 3, where members of the cast are being eviscerated in the same order that their characters were offed in the screenplay. The killer leaves behind a picture of Sidney's mother at each crime scene. An LAPD homicide detective named Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey) wants to bring in Sidney for questioning, but she's in hiding - until the killer finds her and she decides that seclusion is no longer the answer. So the whole group is united in Tinseltown for another round of mayhem and murder in which just about every supporting character ends up with a knife in his or her back.Scream 3 features three good moments, but they're hardly enough to save the movie from the tedious spiral of repetitiveness it is trapped in. The first is a from-beyond-the-grave video lecture by Randy (Jamie Kennedy), who offers up the rules of the trilogy. For example, events in the third segment always go back to the beginning and even the hero can die in the final chapter. (One that he doesn't mention, and which proves true in this case, is that the final installment of any trilogy is usually the worst. The examples Randy cites, Star Wars and The Godfather, are classic examples of this.) Then there's a brief cameo by cult heroes Jay and Silent Bob, who are given a couple of lines (well, at least Jay is. Finally, Carrie Fisher appears as a receptionist who bemoans not having gotten the part of Princess Leia in Star Wars because she wouldn't sleep with George Lucas.When it comes to storyline, character development, and pacing, Scream 3 strikes out. The movie drags along from one predictable slaying to the next, and the only real scares along the way are the boo! moments when something innocuous jumps out of the shadows just before the real killer strikes. Meanwhile, the level of humor in Scream 3 is way down. Parker Posey (as the actress playing Gale in the Stab series) has a few amusing lines, but the ironic dialogue and cute references to other horror films, which were wearing thin in Scream 2, are now positively threadbare.The protagonists - Sidney, Dewey, and Gale - who actually seemed like real people in the other movies, are reduced to cookie cutter impressions of their previous selves. They look the same and sound the same, but there's no depth. And they're always finding new ways to get separated from each other and trapped in dark places. We get a lot of back-story on Sidney and her mother, but it's all pretty pointless. And, for those who like to play the killer guessing game, there isn't any purpose. Despite numerous red herrings, there's no way to logically deduce the culprit's identity. Once the unmasking occurs, the story is forced to go through a number of improbable gyrations to make things sound vaguely plausible. But, by then, I had lost interest. I was beginning to wish the masked murderer would dispatch everyone who was still alive, including herself/himself, so that the movie could end.Once, I wrote that Scream 3 would have to do something radical or inventive to avoid becoming tiresome. Unfortunately, there's nothing here that even the most inexperienced horror film fan would call innovative, and the predictable result is a movie that pales in comparison with its predecessors. Thus far, 2000 has been a very bad year for films, and Scream 3 does nothing to reverse the trend. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Scream!","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have loved every scream film made, but this one was by far the one I enjoyed the most. This humor-laced horror film is original and lets out a lot of suspense, and may I add, a few laughs. The first one is classic and brilliant. The second was a perfectly good sequel but wasn't as good as the first. This one though, just has that twist to it which makes you love it so much. And I must say, I did love it and it has become my favourite scream. All cast were brilliant and did well. Of course, the plot was original and I loved every second. And Wes Craven has done it again. Made a brilliant movie! 10/10 - The Best Scream! VERY well done! "},{"Title":"How the killer really found Sidney's number","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't believe no one found out how the killer found Sidney's number! Some of you (including the characters in the movie) suspect that the killer found it by using Dewey's cell phone. Well they're right and wrong at the same time. Yes the killer was using a cell phone but, no it wasn't Dewey's. If you paid attention to the beginning of the movie, you'd know a guy named Cotton Wearey. He was not only the first person the killer stabbed, but the first person the killer called for information on the whereabouts of Sidney. After Cotton was killed, the killer must've taken his cell phone and copied the number off of it. Speaking of Dewey, if you really paid attention to the movie, you'll know that conversation Dewey and Gale had about how he removed Sidney's case file from police archives. That's the reason why the killer called Cotton. I don't blame the killer, if Sid's mom hadn't slammed the door in his face, he wouldn't have Billy try to kill her in the first movie. "}{"Title":"They should have stopped after two","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Okay, so it's been a while since this one was in the theatre. But back then I didn't think it was worth paying eight bucks to go see, and now that I've seen it on the dish, my opinion has been reaffirmed.Scream was once one of the better thriller-type movies, deriving originality from using the rules in order to break them. This made it at least slightly more innovative than the standard slasher flick. The first time, anyway. Even the second one was liveable.The third Scream, though, the so-called finale of the trilogy, was just plain terrible. There's no way around it. Firstly, it wasn't even remotely scary. And this is a supposed scary movie. I didn't even jump once. Secondly, it began with the making of a movie to imitate the Woodsboro murders. Um, hel-lo, that's exactly how the second one began.It's a shame they killed off Randy in the second movie, because he was sorely missed. Even the writers realized this because they brought him back for a video from beyond the grave cameo. Can you say lame? The worst part was, his scene was one of the best parts of the movie.Another highlight was a two-second cameo by Jay and Silent Bob, but only people familiar with Kevin Smith caught that. The rest was typical Neve Campbell scared, Courtney Cox bitchy, David Arquette fumbling around while everyone around him is getting killed.The plot attempted unsuccessfully to delve into the past to bring up skeletons from the closet. But they weren't even innovative skeletons. So Mommy was an actress in the past. Big deal. In trying so hard to add plot twists, the writers of Scream 3 made a cardinal mistake bending the facts to fit the story.In short, that's what's wrong with Scream 3 they ran out of originality. They really should have stopped after two. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have to say scream three was the best out of the scream trilogy.With the members of stab 3 dropping dead you never know who is going to drop dead next and with Sidney in hiding , Gale working with the police and Dewey working on set of stab 3 you never know whats going to happen but at the end all the lose ends from the first and second scream finally piece together and the killer will shock you.Scream three brings you thrills, laughter and suspense.I think that the first and second scream were really good but in those two you know that something has not pieced together yet and in scream three it finally does.In most movies they have something thats brings it to life but in scream three that something is fear. "},{"Title":"What the Hell!!!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Please people. Do not support these movies. They are seriously bad for your health. This film is destroying the horror genre which was so proudly established by classics such as Friday the 13th, Halloween, Elm Street, Psycho etc. Stupid rules, stupid ideas and the longer people buy these films the longer I have to suffer and watch them to review.The only thing good about this film is Jay and Silent Bob and maybe the end....when the credits role up. Erm...this film is like a bad smell that is lingering and finally starts to clear the room when people finally see they have been brain washed but too late, they are then infected and have to be burned. ARGGGGHHHHHHH. "},{"Title":"Disappointing (spoilers)","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Assumed to be the finale in the popular post-modern horror franchise, Scream 3 succeeds as a basic shock-and-thrill ride.  The film is intended to rounded off the plotlines started in the first film, but this has been done awkwardly and would have worked better had the original writer, Kevin Williamson, not decided to pass up scripting duties.Story sees the heroine from the first two films hiding out in the California backwoods to escape the attentions of any more potential killers. Gale (Courteney Cox) and Dewey (David Arquette) are now working in L.A., where they hear reports of another killer who has targeted the cast of Stab 3, leaving photos of Sidney's dead mother behind with his victims.  Sidney goes to L.A. to help her friends uncover the killer, receiving some really freaky flashbacks about her past in the process.The shocks and frights of this movie are on par with what has gone before.  This one contains visibly less blood and gore, and is more dependent on short, sharp, shocks and in this it succeeds greatly.  Unfortunately, when the killer is revealed it sorely lacks the impact this moment had in the first two films and the motive is over-elaborate and unconvincing in it's explanation.The Woodsboro setting in the movie-within-a-movie, Stab 3, would have worked better had this been the actual setting for the movie. By making the setting a movie studio and accelerating the self-referential humour (which, for it's presence, was previously just an aside), screenwriter Ehron Kruger has fragmented the emphasis on the characters.  Therefore it is little wonder the ending lacks logic and impact.  To be fair, there were so many Internet rumours about the probable outcome of this series it is no fault of the film-makers for trying to come up with something unpredictable that still, somehow, stayed logical.  Having said that, it would have been better to come up with something predicted and logical, maximising the emotional impact, than a convoluted surprise twist.Acting-wise, there isn't much more the leads can do with their roles.  Cox's Gale Weathers is visibly blander than the hard media woman of the first two films.  Arquette's Dewey is more confident, but that's more or less it.  Neve Campbell is still great as Sidney, especially during her flashback scenes.  Most of the other characters are undeveloped, but there are a couple of exceptions.  Lance Henrikson is good in a relatively unexplored role as a horror movie director.  Model Jenny McCarty (whose character has a part in Stab 3 wonderfully highlight's the pitfalls of playing horror movie victims, and Jamie Kennedy is excellent in a return-cameo as film geek Randy, reminding us how good his character really was.As a horror film, this is pretty good but as a Scream movie it falls dismally short.  Rumours of a fourth film still abound, but if they decide to make one, they should hand writing duties back to Kevin Williamson and do away with the leading characters once and for all. "},{"Title":"There's some real ingenuity in this film, it just needs to be unleashed.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A character in Scream 3 tells us about half way through the movie, the rules of sequels and trilogies. If it's a sequel, the main character will not die. If it's a trilogy, anyone can die. Trilogies revisit the past. Sequels are a continuation. If that is true, then we can expect a Scream 4.I have not seen the first two Scream movies, so I'll try to fill you in as best I can. Following the incidents in the second film, Sidney (Neve Campbell) has retreated to a confined area, and shut herself off from a social life, in hopes of avoiding any homicidal maniacs who may happen to try and kill her again. Meanwhile, Dewey (David Arquette) is a technical advisor for the new Stab 3 film, based on the real events at Woodsboro. Gail (Courtney Cox Arquette, David' wife) is a publicist who works as a reporter. She got fired from 60 Minutes II (did Charles Grodin take over for her?) and she now tries to desperately milk the Woodsboro incident by writing a novel about what happened.On the set of Stab 3, cast members start dying in the order that they die in the script. There are three different versions of the film script, and they admit they do not know which script the killer read, which means they also don't know which character dies next, as each version of the script has characters die in different order. Every time a cast member dies, a photo of Sidney's mother is left behind. The head of the production company releasing the film (Lance Henriksen) decides to close down the film in hopes of stopping the killer. Unfortunately, the masked killer is now stalking Sidney, who, with the help of Gail and Dewey, and a few cast members from Stab 3, tries to reveal the killer's true identity once and for all.The best moments in Scream 3 come at times when the film slips into self-parody. I like the idea of Stab 3, I like the idea of the cast members from the film teaming up with the real people they portray on-screen to hunt down the killer, I like when Randy (Jamie Kennedy) makes a cameo appearance on a video recording, telling the characters all the rules of horror films. These are the moments when the film really is self-aware, is really snappy and smart, and really has fun playing with the audience. I was willing to give this a full recommendation until the last ten minutes of the film when, as always, the killer whips off the mask and explains his/her motive and what exactly he/she is going to do to the hero(ine). Don't they ever learn?If they must slip into pure horror once and a while, I was intrigued by the idea that the killer may have read one of three versions of the script, and that they must race against time to figure out who's the next victim. This would have been fun but other than a cop mentioning this idea once, the notion is not explored any further.One scene had me laughing. There's a bunch of people running around like idiots inside a killer-infested house. The killer is sending faxes, and one character runs back into the house to read the fax. He can't see because the electricity is out, so he rushes into the kitchen, grabs a lighter off the counter, and flicks it on. He reads the paper. It says, The one who smells the gas will be spared. Immediately the house blows up. Now answer me this How did the killer just happen to know that the victim would run into the kitchen and grab a lighter? And why, oh why, does the killer go through elaborate actions just to kill off his victims in neat ways? Wouldn't it be easy just to...well...kill them? How can the killer always be around the corner, always be unattainable, always be just a step ahead? Why must films like Scream 3 slip into mediocrity towards the end? Answer me that and you get a dollar. Not really. But I dare you to answer that.Scream 3 has some intriguing ideas, and when it uses them it succeeds on almost all levels. But when it resorts to typicalities you feel betrayed. There's some real ingenuity in this film, it just needs to be unleashed.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"I love you Neve Campbell and Parker Posey!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was way too harsh before. Scream 3 is above average. Courteney Cox-Arquette turned in a decent performance and there is some great humour in this flick. While not as good as Scream and Scream 2, Scream 3 is a cut above the rest. I look forward to Scream 4. God, I cant wait. Ehren Kruger is great, but it would be nice if Kevin Williamson could write the fourth installment! Keep on screaming!!!!! "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as the first two Scream films.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It has to be said, Scream 3 is not as good as it's earlier films. Now, I am a huge fan of Scream 3, believe it or not. When Scream 2 rolled around, I was shocked at how good it turned out to be, I was so looking forward to Scream 3. Three long years I waited. A lot of people have told me that Scream 3 is boring and not as enjoyable as the first two films. I feel this is because writer Kevin Williamson did not write this one. Williamson has a unique style in his writing. He creates characters we care about and his scripts are always witty and a lot of fun. Scream 3 seems much more serious than the first two. Neve Campbell, as always, turns in a great performance. I really felt for Sid as her demons came back. On the other hand, I didn't like Courteney Cox-Arquette's performance and the chemistry between Dewey and Gale. They have both changed so much. And what the hell is with the gore in this film? Now I am not a big fan of gore in horror films. I don't mind it, but Scream 3 had none. I am trying to think of the most creative death and all I can come up with is the whole frying pan thing!! I didn't get it. The first two films were very violent and had quite a lot of gore, yet the deaths seemed realistic. Scream 3 had none. I think that the producers were slack this time around. This film hasn't the spark that the earlier films had. But I DO love Scream 3. When I saw it in the theater I was blown away. I had so much fun and couldn't wait for it to arrive on video hire shelves. But when it came to video and I watched it over and over again, I realised it could have been so much better. I know I am being really harsh and Scream 3 is above average and could have been so much worse. It's just when you have waited for a film for so long, and it's not as good as you expected, you feel a little bitter. I won't lie, if Scream 4 ever is released I will kill to see it, but I only hope, perhaphs, it will be an improvement. But see Scream 3. It wraps up everything quite well, it's just not as enjoyable as the first two, though, it has a lot of funny and well done moments. I will give it 10 out of 10, considering it is my third favorite film! "},{"Title":"As as about as frightening as telly Tubbies and twice as stupid.","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  On the front of the poster of Scream 3 is says Suspenseful ,clever and very entertaining. This a amazingly what someone said from NBC Tv (whatever that is). This critic must be stark raving bonkers or on the payrole of the movie company because Scream three is the Complete opposite. If i had to come up with a tagline it would be Dull,Stupid and a waste of time but i guess the truth does not sell movies. They should have stopped this series after the first movie because everybody must be completely sick of this format , i know i am. 4 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Not scary at all...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...and not really that funny either. Maybe it's the fact that Kevin Williamson, who wrote the first two, didn't pen this one. Ethan Kruger (Arlington Road, Reindeer Games) did. All of the main characters return, but no-one really cares about them anymore. It now takes place in Hollywood, where the movie Stab 3, is taking place. However, killings begin to happen and suspicion arises.    Wes Craven vowed that this would be the last Scream, and it's a good decision, as it's gone from scary to mediocre. The best bit? Death by house blowing up. Cool.  "},{"Title":"Scream 3 rules!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw Scream I thought it was a really great movie, and it became my favorite. When I saw Scream 2 I thought that it was great also, and it also (like Scream) made it into my TOP 10. I have waited for Scream 3 to come out since I saw the 2nd one, and I had really big expectations from the 3rd one. When it came out, I saw it on the opening night - I just couldn't wait to see it, and after 2 hours of watching I'm glad to say that Scream 3 is the BEST movie EVER!!! The movie is very clever, funny, and really scary (although the first one was the scariest). Big part of the movie is about the new movie 'Stab 3', and we actually see all the actors that play the real characters from the 'Scream' movies. Neve Campbell is excellent as usual, and Sidney is again, one of the best characters in the movie. Courtney Cox (Arquette) is also great and she has great chemistry with  Davis Arquette. The best newcomer to the movie is Parker Posey. She is funny and a very good character. As for the killer, it reminded a little of the killer from Scream 2, but anyway, I thought it was a good ending. GO SEE IT! My rate 5/5 "}{"Title":"Scream Wee","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Now as a film student I try very hard not to hate every film Hollywood produces, and my god I try really hard but when such excrement such as scream 3 is smeared over the big screen it makes life very hard for me. Now don't get me wrong Hollywood can produce some great films (The Matrix, Batman, American Beauty) and I loved both Scream and Scream 2 because they knew not to take themselves too seriously.  Scream was a great Horror satire witty and sharp to the end, Scream 2 sent up the ever so crass sequel, but what is with scream 3 and it's straight to video plot scraped together most probably by the Tea boy in his lunch hour. Scream 3 is over long with new characters that I just don't give a toss about. By the time you find out how the Killer is you miss the obviousness of it because you just don't care. And don't even get me started on the fact that the best character was killed off in scream 2.Oh dear Holly wood will you ever learn. Now b***er off and make scream 4 & 5 for some random cable channel "},{"Title":"Scream 3 gets a 3","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Slasher movies are just plain lame.  Has there been a good one since Halloween?  With slasher flicks, there is nothing new under the sun. Everything that can be done, has been done.  I remember some of the excitement that was generated over the first Scream was due to just that -- people claimed that it was different from slasher movies past, it had some new twists.  Not so.  But every ten years or so, the new teen generation needs a scary movie icon.  Whether it's Michael Myers, Freddy Krueger, or the Scream killer.  This movie has nothing original, and is not worth even a rental.  The only reason it got a 3 was for the cool cameo by Jay and Silent Bob.  Cheers! "},{"Title":"I'VE SEEN IT TWICE, AND IT STILL KICKS ASS!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!!!! It has a good plot and edge of your seat fun!!!!!!! PLEASE SEE!! I saw it when it came out and today. It mostly tells you about Sidney's mom.....but Randy did say (in a videotape) In a trilogy, the past comes back TO BITE YOU ON THE ASS! PLEASE SEE!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not as great as the other movie but still a really good end to the series.","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movies did not have a great opening scenes like the other two movies but we had Nick Cotten who driving home and get phone call and hear that is Girl in danger as someone in ghost face is stalking her as he get come home, the girl attack Nick thinking he is the killer and Ghost face kills them both.Sidney, Gale and Dewey all return for the final movie in series and they soon get involved in Ghotface again, this movie was not scary or as creepy as the other two movies as they try to make it a little to funny if the deaths scenes, you can't help but laugh.They also tired to make really spooky with Sidney dream, It just didn't work at all and i didn't find it scary at all, Slahser and ghost don't mix well in a horror movie together and the deaths were not that good or gory, i thing some of the deaths were off scene too but still I could not wait to find out who the killer was and why the person was trying to kill her Sidney again and it was nice twist to series. The whole cast was great as they were well know people from other movies and TV shows. I going to give this 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The first 2 Scream movies were excellent, which is what makes it so hard to believe that this one would fall flat. The problem lies in the writing. This should have been a spoof. Wes Craven doesn't seem like he is at the top of his game anymore. I think the series should have ended with Scream 2. Fans of the first two will be disappointed at this final Chapter. Here is the summary.Summary written by Kyle Kyleshivers@aol.com After the terrifying events that occurred around Windsor College, Sidney is now living alone in a secluded Northern California mountainside. Still haunted by her past, frightening images of her dead mother reappear time after time in her head as she tries to get on with her life. She now gives advice, under a fictional name for safety, to women in crisis via telephone. Soon enough though, her comfort turns to fear as she receives a threatening phone call from an anonymous source who informs her on the recent murders committed around the Hollywood set of Stab 3 Return to Woodsboro, the third and final chapter to the 'Stab' series. Sidney decides to visit the set when she finds out that with every victim, the new killer leaves behind a different photo of Sidney's deceased mother, Maureen Prescott. Eventually the cast of Stab 3 start dying one by one and more photos of Maureen appear. Mark Kincaid, an LAPD detective, is sent to investigate the strange murder and becomes friendly with Sidney. Meanwhile, Gale visits the set of Stab 3, after she hears of the murders. Ironically, she meets up with Dewey, who is now working behind the film alongside his actress/girlfriend Jennifer. Gale, Dewey, and Sidney rejoin along with the actors and actresses of Stab 3, who are all shaken up by the rest of the cast being killed off. As the secret to Sidney's past unfolds, the three discover that in the trilogy, anything can happen. "},{"Title":"Surely one of the worst sequals ever!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film should NEVER have seen the light of day. It is only the movie studio's greed that allowed this dire film to be released. Everything about it sucks from the plot to the fact that even Courtney Cox looks awful in it (where did she get that hair cut!?!?!).Wes Craven should just deny he directed this and say it was just someone he knew nothing about!Just make sure you never ever see this film and if you do - make sure you do not spend any money on it! "},{"Title":"WHY I LOVE THIS FILM ****SPOILER WARNING****","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK. so I have been taking a lot of crap for totally loving this film. But there is method behind my madness. First of all you must understand that the original is my favorite movie.Part of the reason why I loved this one so much is because of how well it ties into that one. With all of the trouble in Woodsboro circling around Sid's mom, it's only natural that they return to the roots to tie up all loose ends. Think back...as we all no Maureen Prescott had some, well issues, with her sexualtiy. An illegitimate son is not that far fetched. In the original, when Sid and Billy are making out in Stu's house he tells her, and I quote,  It's all a movie, Sid. It's all one great big movie. Now, how fitting is it that the culprit behind all of Sidney's misery turns out to be a director.Billy also states the, maternal abandonment causes serious deviant behavior, which is exactly the source of the killer's anger in this one. It's basically what strted it all. And I personally find the idea of an overall mastermind a novel one. Add Jamie Kennedy's cameo as Randy to explain the rules of a trilogy, and you have me hooked. Although Kevin Williamson didn't write it, Krueger had a well enough perception of who Sidney, Gale, and Dewey were to close there story as it should. In fact I think he gave it the extra dramatic edge it needed to be more than just the spoofy horror flick this series started out as.I feel for Sidney through the whole thing and i never doubt the fact that Gale and Dewey are meant for eachother. I really did love this movie...I guess that's it. I rest my case.. "},{"Title":"The most enjoyable since the first.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After Scream and Scream 2, we already know the formula for these movies so now we can just sit back and enjoy it. We know there will be an opening murder sequence, all the survivors will have a reunion, an investigation will ensue, people will die, and the killer will be revealed at the end. Sure it sounds tired by now, but at least we know what to expect so we can just lay back and watch it happen and have a great time. Scream 3, with its humor and great performances by Parker Posey and Courteney Cox-Arquette is the sequel where you get to have the most fun. It's got its moments of horror and plenty of scary parts, but above all it sort of winks at itself as if saying Remember all those other series we made fun of for making pointless sequels...well guess what we did.... It's not taken seriously, which is something this series needed to do after Scream 2, poke fun at itself. Several moments in the movie are so much fun, like when the killer enters a room full of people and they all scream and run around like idiots. No one is ever alone in this movie, they always have a partner to scream and yell with because this time the Ghost doesn't worry about groups. It's just so funny. Parker Posey will run into a closet, someone else will take off for the hallway, Gale will throw a lamp while they all scream like madmen. Definitely the funnest one since the first. Several times in the movie these characters that were once so wise will split up and go off to look for someone alone, one of the big no-no's in a horror movie. It may sound dumb, but since when did that horror movie knowledge get them anywhere, people still died because the killer knows it, too. There also isn't a lot of trilogys suck action going on here, like they did with sequels in Scream 2. By this time the creators know that any movie seriously focusing on a masked killer and Sidney Prescott again is bound to suck, so why not have fun with it? This movie doesn't care about horror cliches and doing the same things we learned not to do in the first two films, and it's fun. There are several flashbacks to the first Scream, done in replicas of the Woodsboro set for the movie Stab 3, now a trilogy itself. The killer(s) go all the way back to the beginning of the series, a nice surprise even though the trailers promised a big revelation. It's like the creators knew exactly how to throw the audience off by making them think there was something big that was coming in the end and then dropping them on their heads with nothing. It was a good trick. Set in Hollywood this time, it feels like this series has gone full circle. From small-town Woodsboro to Hollywood, this series is very fun. After the first Scream was blamed for making all horror movies look stupid and incompetent, making lots of people hate it, this movie goes and does a look what we did thing by turning into the exact sort of thing the characters in the first two Screams would scoff at. This film was the best direction this series could have taken after the endless rip-offs. And if it sounds like this is all fun and games, think again. There are serious moments and people do die. It's just touched with a hint of comedy. They say this is the last part of a trilogy. Dimension Films may realize these movies pull in a lot of money and forget the whole trilogy thing for another installment. I really hope this series remains a trilogy because three is enough, but I do want another Scream movie. Maybe they can do a new beginning thing with all new characters and it wouldn't technically be a part of the trilogy. This movie wraps up these character's story lines well and they should end it here. But I would love to see another sequel with all new players. Hopefully Scream 4 will be in production soon, we need to start this all over again. "},{"Title":"Ending In Style!","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is the perfect way to end the series, with it's bloody scenes and funny humor.This is a great trilogy which I am sad won't carry on.The Movie mixes with the production of Stab 3, where various characters of that film are getting picked off one by one and, again, up to Sidney and the rest of the crew to catch the masked crazed killer, with the most shocking ending in the whole series!Along with it's Hilarious Cameos, Scream 3 is a perfect ending to the so-loved series. If you haven't seen this one, Go!  "},{"Title":"Great horror film to a great trilogy","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream has to be one of the best endings to a trilogy in trilogy history. The film has humor and lots of pop culture references which is cool. Neve Campbell, David Arquette and Courtney Cox are all good and the film has some geuine scare moments. Jamie Kennedy has a hilarious cameo and for that the film earns **** out ****. "}{"Title":"Still has it's touch","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"22 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Altough Scream 3 is not the best of the SCREAM trilogy, it is still very entertaining and great to watch. Courteney Cox Arquette, David Arquette, and Neve Campbell perform just as wonderful as they did in the last two. It had its twists and turns, and the ending is surprising. Scream 3 is a clever, scary, thrilling, and entertaining concluding chapter. It is a great ending to the much loved SCREAM trilogy.  "},{"Title":"Really bad like what happened.","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 had a creative idea behind it but it's almost like Craven played it safe. The whole concept of the film takes place on the set of Stab 3 and involves someone writing there own script by killing of the cast members okay so far so good nope. It feels like there was 10 different films going on with Sidney hiding out the killer returning to find and kill her and the photo's of Sidney's mom. Not only that but the script was raped it was awful bad diagonal bad everything they rape the whole movie thing with the actress who played Gale flowing her around which was just retarded to see the two together.The plot involves the set of Stab 3 being attacked by the killer from the last two films and Sidney having her own helpline cool i guess. The film just feels cheap like the reveal of the killer which I won't spoil because am trying to see what way I would like to do my reviews since I have just started reviewing stuff so forgive me if am bad.Scream 3 is really bad but I would still watch to see how Sidney grows though the film's because she stays on right till the end even though in this film she's only in it for a little bit it's more of a Dewey and Gale film then a Sidney film. "},{"Title":"The conclusion to the original Scream trilogy is a middling, tepid affair","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In this, the final chapter in the critically acclaimed Scream franchise, all bets are off when a new killer begins terrorizing Sidney Prescott, and the cast and crew of Stab 3, the third film based on the murders that rocked the small town of Woodsboro. But does this finale have plenty of what made the previous films mysterious, funny and engaging?Unfortunately, no. Despite Wes Craven's best efforts to conclude the series while it still had its dignity, this third chapter lacks the stakes and wit of the original, or the self-aware humour of the second, and decides to replace it with a stale, heartless product. The story, which I won't spoil here, has a promising first act, but it soon forgets what story it was telling and goes completely off the rails. Neve Campell, David Arquette, and Courtney Cox still do an admirable job in their respective roles, however, so that's something.Final WordsOverall, Scream 3 constantly falls victim to the tropes the series used to so famously subvert and fails to deliver anything new to a franchise that should have been laid to rest after its stellar second installment. Only watch if you feel the need to finish the franchise, but otherwise, avoid entirely.6/10 "},{"Title":"Downfall to Wes Craven's beloved slash series","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven and writer Kevin Williamson return for the third installment of the slasher horror that pleased critics and horror fans all around the country in the 90s, only this time, lot less fun or exciting than the previous two. Neve Campbell returns as Sidney Prescott who now works as a crisis counselor and is living isolated deep in the woodsy area of California, traumatized by the violent Woodsboro murders from the first two movies. Back in her hometown, Hollywood director Roman Bridger (played by Scott Foley) is working on slasher horror titled 'Stab 3' based on the Woodsboro murders. The production quickly goes awry when Ghostface makes his return and begins murdering the cast one-by-one. Sidney teams up with Gale (played by Courtney Cox) and Dewey Riley (played by David Arquette) to stop Ghostface's murderous onslaught once and for all.As this is the third installment of the series, there is lots of discussion about movie trilogies, and basically what the characters claim is that the third installment in a film series is about going back to the past and learning a shocking truth of what happened in the first film. We are also introduced to a set of new characters, most of which are very one-dimensional other than Parker Posey and Scott Foley's character. Compared to the previous two films, this one marks a low point for the series. The plot is much less clever and less original, and is completely devoid of scares or good humor. While the plot centers on the characters trying to solve the murders of the cast of the (fictional)movie 'Stab 3', the film throws a huge, needless sub plot of detectives trying to solve of Sidney's mother who was murdered which is made the plot so uneven. To make matters worse, Sidney has reduced screen time and appears in no more than half of the scenes, while the film focuses on Gale, Dewey, and these other new characters. The only thing redeeming about this film is the big twist at the end. Other than that, this film lacks the spirit and scares of the previous movies.Scream 3 is definitely my least favorite of the series and one of the most disappointing third installments I have seen. Unless you are a huge fan of the series, this one is probably worth staying away from. "},{"Title":"Great ending to the series","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Following a brutal murder, a detective's investigation into the horror movie revolving around the victims of a similar incident coincides with previous rampages and tries to find a way of stopping the ravenous killer from continuing.With a lot to really like about it and only a few mild flaws, this is a certainly fun entry in the series. One of the film's greatest strengths is the fact that the stalking scenes are suspenseful. The opening is just as good as the others which gets really going early on with the phone-call goes into the great bedroom search that is really suspenseful. There's also nothing wrong with any of the stalking scenes in here as there's a fantastic scene inside the studio where the killer chases one of the actors through the different backstage areas, and with several great ideas brought in to keep this going along in the closets and stage-doors, this one scene leaves a great impression while the assault on the house is fantastic and features a couple great scenes. The best scenes, though, come from all the stalking and chasing down at the end, from the discoveries in the basement to the chase behind the glass mirrors in the secret passageways and much more, these scenes are really entertaining. This one also has some suspense from the calls, with the twist of different voices rather than the one since it adds to whether or not the voice is real or the killer's. This one has plenty of action to it as well, including a frenetic chase through rush-hour traffic, the fantastic house assault and the big chase through the studio are all fun and give the film a fantastic pace to it. The fact that this one also decides to really fill in a couple of holes in the story nicely, and there's some fun to be had from the really good explanations, which make sense and makes this really feel like a well- rounded trilogy. These here are what the film does right as this one here doesn't have a whole lot of flaws. The biggest one is that there's a whole lot of padded time in the film, unlike the others which is way too long and seems stretched out. The beginning hallucinations don't do much, as there's no reason why these are there other than to give false scares and the ending explanations just take forever and gets too over- explained at several points, which becomes a torturous monologue to something that was perfectly understood minutes earlier. Along the lame kills that are really repetitive and don't offer up much blood and gore here, these small flaws are what keep the film down. Rated R Graphic Language and Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"The ultimate scream ...","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Two years after the deaths of the second film, and during the filming of a new movie based on the life of Sidney Prescott (who lives at large under another name), a new wave of mysterious murders shakes the film crew and all suspects a new return of the masked psycho. Sidney, suspecting that the killings have some connection with the mysterious past of his deceased mother, decides to go to Hollywood and help the authorities to face the killer. Directed by Wes Craven, has a main cast equal to that of other films.If the other films could be considered parodies, this film only has a few scenes that point in that direction. The whole film is a small crime thriller where the scary scenes don't scare enough to be a horror movie, but manage to put us in the expectation to follow the investigations and see who will be the next victim. This time, we didn't feel any sympathy for the killer because the main characters (Sidney, Dewey, Gale and even Detective Kincaid) evolved dramatically and now shown to be more mature, complex and able to reach the audience in a more effective manner. The only one with which we don't sympathize is Cotton Weary, a guy more interested in their own fame than anything else. The end of the film is remarkable, and it's surprising enough to make us wonder if it really existed, in real life, more cases similar to those of Maureen Prescott. "},{"Title":"Mediocre.","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's an underwhelming third entry to the franchise, but there's some good stuff in it. Unfortunately Scream 3 becomes what it originally it intended to spoof. The scares aren't as effective as the first or the second, but the kills are solid. Liev Schreiber's role is reduced to a cameo, and he's killed from the beginning. To be honest the only really effective kill that means something in the entire film. The killer tormenting Sidney with the death of her mother, while also using her voice are some of the film's strongest elements as well. Though Wes Craven's influence is felt, this film is sorely missing Kevin Williamson's flare. It's obvious that it feels completely different from the first two. Neve Campbell's role feels just a tad bit reduced, mainly because she's isolated herself from everyone and everything. Which is a neat concept to watch because you feel for her paranoia and can understand why she is the way she is after experiencing such traumatic events. David Arquette and Courteney Cox seem like the main characters right from the get-go. Unlike the first two the cast are unlikable aside from the three leads. They are basically fodder. I did however liked Deon Richmond's character for the short amount of time he's in. Some of the characters also make some pretty questionable choices as well. The twist and killer reveal is pretty cool. Scott Foley's character is Roman Bridger, Sidney's half brother. The Scream films have at least two killers, but this is the first time it breaks that rule of having just one killer. Pretty impressive that Roman was able to do all that by himself. We also get a nice special cameo from Jamie Kennedy's Randy. It's alright. It's not terrible, it feels a lot more lighter compared to the first two, but because they are almost perfect examples of a great slasher film it pales in comparison. The movie within the movie, set in Hollywood was an honorable approach but it just wasn't executed the way it should have been. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Don't judge it on its own, judge it as a third instalment","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Back in 'Scream 2' one of the characters described 'sequels' as 'inferior by definition.' Many would agree with that statement. So what does that make the third instalment of a horror franchise &#x96; a genre hardly renowned for its high-brow concepts and deep and intellectual story-telling.If you're unfamiliar with the 'Scream' films, then part 3 is an odd place to start, but, on the off-chance that you're new to them, they're about a mystery killer (wearing a mask reminiscent of the 'scream' painting) stalking teenagers, normally with a view to get to the central character, played by Neve Campbell. So, here we have a film with &#x96; basically &#x96; the exact plot from the previous two (not to mention the same plot as many a slasher film around since the seventies). Yes, it's not that original, but it's still pretty good fun.For a start, it's a 'Scream' movie, therefore you still have the fun of trying to guess who's behind the mask (and there are plenty of 'red herrings' to keep you off your guard). And it maintains its humorous irony. It's always self aware and loves to parody itself and the genre it's set it. Finally, you have a decent cast (with previous cast members reprising their roles) who you actually care about.Okay, so it's neither as original as its predecessors, nor any film of the same genre, but, for a third instalment, it's actually a masterpiece. Horror films are famous for starting good then being milked for all they're worth, losing quality with each one. You could say that the quality has dropped here, but compared to all the other horror films, it's actually a masterpiece.If you like the Scream films, or just horror flicks in general, this one's right up there with the best of them. Or rather the best sequels I should say. Special mention to Parker Posey for sending herself, Courtney Cox and Gale Weathers up all in one go (and watch out for Carrie Fisher's brilliant cameo!). "},{"Title":"Really Good Movie","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well , how can i start , OK , is my first review , I think that Scream 3 is a amazing movie , but i miss a little more of gore ,deads and others , but i think that is a really good movie because it is a good thriller , a perfect movie , i think that scream 2 was best than the scream 3 , i'll watch the scream 4 and write a review , but for me , scream 3 was PERFECT , specially for the final fight of Sidney and ghostface , who surprised me a lot when i discover who is , sidney is always smart and beautiful , a really good actress , anyway , I recommend it for all to see this movie , wes craven another time made a good movie and surprise me again , i'm very excited to see scream 4 "},{"Title":"Scream Three Times at the Horror.","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 (2000) Dir Wes Craven / Cast Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courtney Cox, Parker Posey, Lance Henriksen Just as the first two films we are promised more blood and guts. It opens with the filming of Stab 3, which is based upon the murders of the first two films and this time the actors are turning up dead by order of the script. The director claims that there is three versions of the script so predicting the next victim is impossible. David Arquette is the security adviser on the set of the film, and recruited again with Courtney Cox as Gale Weathers. Neve Campbell returns as Sidney who learns things about her murdered mother. Director Wes Craven is great with the identity factor but this is still more of the same. Craven was at his best with films like A Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream but both franchises have far run their course with dimwitted sequels. The cast play out the same roles without any new appeal with Parker Posey as an actress set to play Cox in Stab. Lance Henriksen plays a filmmaker and it is a sad decline for a guy famous for playing Bishop in Aliens. Perhaps she should study only the first film to get any positive spin. While the screenplay attempts to be clever with the whole concealed identity element it cannot take away from the total xerox that this graphic geek show eventually succumbs to. It exposes film trilogies while becoming a boring and pointless excess that one hopes will die. Score 3 / 10 "}{"Title":"No way, Jose!","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Spoiler Alert! OK this film is one of the most ridiculous sequels ever made! Where should I begin with this ridiculous sequel? Let's see most of the rules aren't even accurate anymore. During the scene when Randy, who unexpectedly makes a return as a cameo from a pre-recorded tape he leaves behind, he states, Anyone including the main character can die! Sidney doesn't die, obviously if there's a fourth but then why even include it if nothing even comes close to that? He also says, Stabbing the villain won't work! shooting him won't work! So you must freeze his head, decapitate him, or blow him up. This is another useless lie because in the end they just shoot him in the head anyway! I'm also ticked off that Cotton dies first because he was the only of the originals who I liked besides Randy! I'm seriously wondering why I'm reviewing it because this is literally the worst in the franchise. I give it a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An outstanding end to an outstanding trilogy","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really loved this movie, and I don't get the hate for it. If you want to look up sequels which are just expansive enough to round out the brand, but not over-the-top enough to ruin it, then Scream 3 is an great example. Probably the strongest reason I love this film is the story, and how well I think it's told. Sure, it involved some light retconning, but nothing that HONESTLY changed what the previous films stood for. That may be the case if we're dealing with an eternal killer (ala Freddy Krueger or Michael Myers), but Scream has had disposable killers behind Ghostface each time. Just as Scream 2 connects to the first one, Scream 3 connects to them all. And it does it beautifully. Are people upset that it changed the way they viewed the first film? Sure, but at the same time, it's the dynamic of a disposable killer, vs. an eternal one (read How Michael Myers mystique was destroyed in the Halloween remake).Scream 3 didn't make the mistake of going so big that you just wished it would go home. Yes, it expanded the Scream universe. Yes, it got bigger in virtually every way. But it did it SENSIBLY. Aside from a lot of action and suspense, Scream 3 did a GREAT job of telling a story. With that, it did a great job of developing the chief players. A key theme of the entire Scream story are the sins of the past, and Scream 3 gave up a great plot which lined up all of the ducks in a row. Aside from a solid script, this film really shines for its mystery and suspense aspects. I loved the cat-and-mouse game between the protagonists and antagonists more than the previous films, because the script had REALLY put me in the position of feeling that this plan was even more masterfully constructed than those. Despite Neve Campbell's decreased participation in this film (due to wanting to avoid typecasting), her scenes are still prominent and memorable. Especially the psychological torment of her life experiences so far, heightened by the killer's own torment. With that, the typical support characters get an even bigger chance to shine, and I feel that this really shifted the entire dynamic of the film to match its larger atmosphere, and rounded it all out as a whole.Maybe I just loved the confrontation between protagonists and antagonists, and loved the motive. That scene really did it for me. But I guess many fans didn't dig the whole perceived Scooby And the Gang go to Hollywood vibe that they felt. Which I don't get. Perhaps if they made it campy and humorous, like later Nightmare films. But it's the same old cat-and-mouse that we've come to know and love, just on a bigger (and better scale). Admittedly, they couldn't stretch the premise much further, which is why I also felt there never should have been a Scream 4.Scream 3 is a lesson on how to finish off a trilogy. It's a lesson on how to expand your universe, how to build a great story which will complement, but not destroy your previous works. After this film, I said to myself It all ends perfectly, please no more. Unfortunately, no one listened. Why do people hate it? I guess it's too Scooby Doo. Which is ironic, as I despise Scooby Doo, and love this film. I thought it honored its franchise far more than most horror sequels do. "},{"Title":"Much better than its crap-fest of a predecessor, Scream 3 delivers fresh, and violent slasher-like moments.","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream was excellent. Scream 2 was garbage, awful, useless, and too brutal. Scream 3 is at least half as good as its first instalment, Scream. Scream 3 is good because it's different, as much as it is the same. It, at one time, overtook Scream, and became my favourite of the Scream films, (before i went back to placing the best, and original one as my first) and i genuinely, and proudly, place it as my second favourite of all four. Scream 3 sees Sidney Prescott, Gale Weathers, and Dewey Riley, yet again come across a killer wearing the Ghostface mask - a different killer, of course. With better moments, a little stronger acting, and less brutality, more-focused slasher-like killings, Scream 3 delivers greatness as a third and final (at the time) instalment in the (at the time)trilogy. Of course, Scream 4 was then released years later, and it's not as good. Scream 3, from me, gets an 8.1 out of 10. ***/***** "},{"Title":"tired franchise ends","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) is in LA hosting his own TV show. Ghostface calls demanding to know where Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) has gone. Cotton refuses and becomes his murder victim. Sidney lives in seclusion. Detective Mark Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey) is investigating Cotton's murder. Ghostface left a picture of Sidney's mother at the crime scene. Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) goes to Hollywood where Stab 3 is being made with Dewey Riley (David Arquette) working as a technical adviser. Roman Bridger (Scott Foley) is the director. Ghostface starts killing people related to the movie even flushing Sidney out of hiding.This franchise is tired and lost the freshness of the self-referencing writing. The big addition is a doppleganger effect of the Stab cast and the real characters. Kevin Williamson is no longer involved in the writing. The jokes are half hearted. The Hollywood people make a lot of comments about the inside baseball. They even have Jay and Silent Bob make a cameo. And Randy Meeks comes back from the dead to describe the rules about trilogies which boils down to no rules at all. At least Wes Craven is back in the director's chair. It has devolved into a game of clue. I don't particularly like the convoluted explanation of Sidney's mother. The kills aren't exciting or compelling. The new Hollywood people might as well be cannon fodder. It would have been more poetic to have Cotton Weary as the killer. His killing is probably the high point of the movie. It's a weak end to the trilogy. "},{"Title":"Another self-satisfied bore","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The first two 'Scream' movies were smug, irritating and overrated, pointing out slasher movie clichés while failing to do anything interesting with them. 'Scream 3' is&#x85; well, it's 'Scream 3'. Kevin Williamson buggered off early on and left future Transformers hack Ehren Kruger to bash out a screenplay based on a few notes he scribbled on his way out the door; his absence means that the dialogue isn't as stomach-twistingly clunky as before, but there's still plenty of ham-fisted exposition and condescending in-jokes. To my surprise, this is the worst one.So, as the movie points out, it's a threequel all bets are off, anyone can die, and there's usually a supernatural element to spice things up. Also worth mentioning is that most third chapters in horror series, including this one, have nothing new to offer and crawl to the two hour mark with a watered-down version of the previous films. 'Scream 3' is quite content to shuffle through a tired plot in which the Ghostface mask is brought back into service on the set of 'Stab 3', the latest instalment of the improbably exploitative film-within-a-film series improbably based on the 'real life' events of the 'Scream' films. This could be a clever, metafictional take on the material &#x96; but it isn't. The ever-irritating Jamie Kennedy returns from the dead via videotape once again in order to make the contrived connection between the film's slayings and the conventions of horror movies even though there's nothing here to suggest that the killer is, as in the original film, working to those conventions. (At least the clichés had a function in the first movie, as gracelessly as they were used.) The rest of the characters go through the motions, with Courtney Cox and David Arquette's romance being particularly impossible to care about. The plot is padded, none of the jokes are funny, no cliché is left unturned and the only entertainment comes from watching Jenny McCarthy's breasts jiggle about.On and on it goes, the monotonous scenes in which characters are startled by bumping into each other outnumbered only by the monotonous scenes in which a ringing cell phone causes them to jump about like idiots. From the opening phone call murder to the interminably protracted 'revelation' and finale, this is a wheezy continuation of a series whose gimmick had worn thin in the first scene of the first film. "},{"Title":"And the terror continues...","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 is the third movie of the Scream series and in this one we have again about the same story, but in this one Ghostface will visit Sidney and her friends in a movie theater as they went there to watch the Stab 3 which is the third movie based upon the Woodsboro murders.I liked this movie because of the plot and because of the whole story. Although I believe that this movie was a little lower than the previous two movies because I expected something more from this movie in the direction of it.I also think that if you have watched the previous two movies you will understand what I mean because willingly or not the comparison between them is really inevitable. "},{"Title":"The secrets of Sidney's mother's earlier life come to light.","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The murders start up again while the third installment of the parallel movies, Stab 3, is in production.In the opening sequence, Cotton Weary, now a celebrity, is stuck in traffic when a new serial killer calls him. He rushes home to try to save his girlfriend.Sidney now goes as Laura, and lives in a gated, supposedly secure compound in the sticks. She works on the telephone for the California Women's Crisis Counseling hot line. Gale is now quite a celebrity, and is often on the talk circuit. Det. Kincaid contacts her about the death of Cotton.Sarah Darling dies on set, as per the Stab 3 script. Well, one version of the Stab 3 script.The studio guard Steven Stone dies while checking Dewey's trailer. The killer almost gets five of them at once. Sidney comes out of hiding after the killer calls her at home.So, the hunt is on, and Sidney is fully engaged again. The sister of Randy Meeks delivers a VHS tape, which Randy uses to deliver (post-mortem, he knew he would be dead) the rules for the third film in a trilogy. By tracing the film archives with Bianca, they discover Maureen Prescott had a stage name, Rina Reynolds, and worked for John Milton using that name. Sidney has a weird time visiting the room she grew up in, as reconstructed for Stab 3. Unfortunately, she shares that with some killer in the usual costume.Dewey, Gale, and Stab 3 Gale discuss the matter with John Milton.The killer must be very good with faking voices. Dewey, Gale, and Gale 3 get diverted by 'Sidney' telling them to go to the party at John Milton's house. Gale and Dewey find one of the devices used for voice faking. They go looking for the others at the party.The ending looked good enough to finish the trilogy, but we'll see. The illumination of a few issues from the first film was nice.-----Scores-----Cinematography 10/10 No problems.Sound 10/10 Well done.Acting 8/10 Better than the last one, Scream 2. Several of the cameos were quite good.Screenplay 8/10 Wraps up the trilogy, I hope. "},{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A couple of years after the brutal Windsor College murders, Sidney is back in 'Scream 3' to battle a new ghostface yet again. The setting is Hollywood now, and the new Stab movie 'Stab 3 Return to Woodsboro' is about to released. We get an opening scene murder of a familiar face to the 'Scream' series, and that's when the fun begins. Gale and Dewey are back on the scene trying to help the cops solve the case, and Sidney eventually joins them from her secluded farmhouse. Pretty soon more of the cast members of Stab 3 start getting picked off in the order that they die in the movie, leading to a bloody conclusion at the director's mansion in Hollywood in which we learn some hidden secrets of Sidney's mother Maureen Prescott.'Scream 3' is without a doubt the weakest of the original three films. However when the weakest film of a trilogy is as good as this is, that doesn't really matter. I enjoyed 'Scream 3' for many reasons, one of which is the Holloywood setting! It's fun to watch a movie within a movie, and we get film sets and director's mansions and cameos from movie stars. This one delivers in that aspect. I also like the idea of having the cast of Stab 3 murdered off in a specific order, as well as the Maureen Prescott mystery. Almost every time the killer murders someone, a photo of Maureen in her younger days is left at the scene. So I thought that was good as well.The acting was top notch again from all the regulars, as well as some new characters played by Jenny McCarthy, Parker Posey and Deon Richmond. I thought Parker Posey who was playing an actress who was playing Gale Weathers in Stab 3 did a fantastic job in a comedic role. Courtney Cox and Posey running around and away from ghostface was hilarious, the two worked well together! The blood and gore seemed less than the previous films, but still effective enough.'Scream 3' isn't as good as the first two for the reason that it does copy a lot of what we've already seen. That's the problem with sequels usually, and why they fail to surpass the original. It's stuff we've already witnessed. But I enjoyed this enough to highly recommend it, it's a great horror film that has quite a few intense moments. And the killer's identity was pretty good as well8/10 "},{"Title":"Couple of good scenes, nice song, with idiot slasher plot !","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have a friend who's a Scream believer. He watched the first, at the time of its release, and was blown away by it. As for the second one, he loved it even more than the first. Yet, when it came to the third, he just frowned, declaring after watching it at the movies  (That guy, meaning Wes Craven, destroyed all what he has done. Scream 3 is an awful movie!).When I got to watch it, I figured out that it's undoubtedly less. But it has its moments. And I do mean only moments !I have always thought that Scream 1 was a horror spoof masquerading as horror. Because in its core it's nothing but a remake of many famous horror themes. However, it worked, since it was really well-made thrilling and scary slasher. After doing another one, as if writer / director Craven had no ideas for a third. So, why not assuring the matter of spoofing, yet with spoofing his own spoof? Yes, let's spoof Scream 1 and 2 in 3, while uncovering some of the cinema's facts, of playing with real facts (like showing a rubber knife, confessing about acting as a 20 year old girl while being 35..etc). That would provide a new atmosphere to work with (the backgrounds of making a movie), and freeing some of Craven's testimonies towards cinema; of which could be funny for him personally, and interesting for a cinema lover who saw in Scream 1 and 2 a cultured horror. Craven somehow did it before in New Nightmare (1994), one of A Nightmare on Elm Street's sequels, however without the sarcasm out of the movies. And so he made 2 semi-brilliant scenes concerning this interesting point. One with (Jenny McCarthy) before she got killed. And another one with a (Carrie Fisher) cameo. Other than that, he didn't tire himself doing a good horror along the way. Because the rest was another cheap and uninspired slasher, NOTHING MORE !The plot of who the killer was, the events, the acting along with the directing.. well, don't search for anything smart or entertaining. It seems poor and a bit repetitive with nothing new. Look for instance at the script while reusing old stuff like Neve's mother and Jamie Kenndey (a video for himself which he left before getting killed?? Give me a break !!). It's clear that, away from the aforementioned couple of scenes, Craven as a writer / director was uninterested.To add more fuel, when a movie makes its mystery's end impossible to guess for the viewers, then this is silly and refused. We feel cheated, and our intelligence gets insulted thereby. This is what happens here, especially with that lame ending, which pushes you to ask Who are those killers anyway??. A very bad Agatha Christie effect I believe !Unlike its precedents, this Scream ends up unthrilling and unscary. And since the line of spoofing itself wasn't really meaty, I have to say that Nick Cave & The Bad Seeds' (Red right hand), the song of the closing credits, was the only completely amusing thing around. So eventually, this movie has couple of good scenes, nice song, with (rather drowned in) idiot slasher plot !(Scream 3) is like elegant man you meet; who throws 2 or 3 good lines, then blabber about nothing for 2 hours. Now I understood why it made even the Scream true believers go mad ! "},{"Title":"I Never Laughed So Hard At A Wes Craven Movie Before.........","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" That pretty much sums up Scream 3. The movie tries to be hip and cool like the first two but unfortunately falls victim to the very thing that it was spoofing; the longer horror franchises run the more silly they become. With that said, that doesn't mean Scream 3 isn't entertaining; its just that its entertaining for all the wrong reasons. In this movie, all of the characters have now become celebrities, but lo and behold another Ghostface is on the loose and looking for Sidney Prescott, who's now living in fear and seclusion while working at home as a crisis counselor for women. But she won't be in seclusion for long, as we soon find out that Ghostface is stalking and killing her friends and cast members of the new Stab 3, the movie within a movie spoof, in order to draw her out. The problem is that Scream 3 just doesn't feel like a Scream movie and the reason why is quite simple; Kevin Williamson did not write it and it clearly shows on screen. Some of the issues include the fact that the killer can use his voice changer to sound like any one of the characters sounds kind of cool at first but one has to ask how that would be possible, Ghostface using untraditional ways of killing people such as cutting gas lines and blowing up a house, and the problem of Ghostface just not being scary anymore. In the first two movies, Ghostface was human in the sense that people could knock him down and hit him but yet he still managed come across as scary. In this movie, Ghostface gets beat up so much that I can't help but wonder if this is where Scary Movie got some of the ideas for its jokes. It gets even more hilarious when you learn the identity of the killer, who I will not reveal here, and you're not even sure who he is when he first pulls the mask off because he was such a minor character. If that's not enough the writer, Ehren Kruger, tries to sell us the idea that it was this killer who coached the Ghostface from the first movie on how to kill and even provided him the motivation. Anyone who's seen and loves the first movie should know that's a bunch of bull. Just try not to laugh at all of this and the last part of the movie where Sidney and the killer are beating the living crap out of each other but yet none of them have any bruises to show for it. Bottom line is this Scream is not a movie you should watch for good horror entertainment. Rather, this is a movie you should watch for a good laugh with friends. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"This one did not do it for me.","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I actually really liked the first two scream movies but for some reason this one totally missed the mark. The side cast were all pretty bad actors. There was absolutely no attempt to make this one scary at all, just people running mindlessly around trying to avoid getting stabbed. And the plot is just stupid in this one.This one is about yet again another copycat killer of the ghostface murders. Sidney is once again in this one as she is on the set of Stab 3 a movie detailing the murders of ghostface.This movie was pretty bad. Like I said the first two were much better. The action and the kills were not even thrilling or scary or anything. "},{"Title":"Scream 3 (2000)","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" 62/100. Considering it was coming off two of the most successful horror films of the 90's, Scream 3 does pretty good for itself especially when one takes in consideration other horror movies made in the same year. It definitely misses Kevin Williamson's input, but despite the criticism he's garnered from this film, I felt that Ehren Kruger did a passable job. The only negative aspect from his script was keeping Sidney in exile. Considering most horror movies generally wane by the second sequel, the story didn't need to have another uphill battle by having the main character stuck in isolation for half the movie. But somehow Kruger made it work as I felt he really nailed the character of Sidney and how she would react to her previous battles. Basically the time in the first two that would have been used to develop Neve was used on Dewey and Gale who are the de facto stars until Sidney finally arrives in Hollywood. Even though I'm a Wes Craven fan, his direction seemed a little off compared to his other works. A lack of a Williamson script kept the film from finding the right mixture of laughs and scares generally focusing more on the former than the latter. What makes this even more ineffective is Craven's use for a more dark atmosphere which along with some of the more serious situations present in the trilogy is at constant odds with the abundance of humor. Examples being the Jay and Silent Bob cameo along with Carrie Fisher's role; these detracted from the film's tone. With that said, Scream 3 continues the franchise's trend of being one of the smarter horror series out there. I actually was a fan of the Hollywood location, which provided great genre jokes and help carefully paint horror movie cliché's only this time from a behind the scenes perspective. Outside of yet another annoying performance by Parkey Posey, the supporting class was exceptional and although the killer(s) identity was uninspired and random, the final showdown was actually an improvement over Scream 2's finale by finding a way to effectively do the job the filmmakers set out to do by making a satisfactory ending to an entertaining trilogy...until Scream 4. Jamie Kennedy's has a taped cameo, but it makes you miss the character's presence from the series more than anything. "},{"Title":"An Above Average Finish to an Epic Film Trilogy","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Basic Story Guide Spoiler Alert (once again I am forced to spoil a few things about the movie, I humbly apologize but it is unavoidable)The movie begins in Hollywood were Cotton Weary is set to do a cameo in the upcoming movie Stab 3 Return to Woodsboro. But on his way home, he receives a phone call from none other than Ghostface, demanding the where abouts of Sidney Prescott. After not disclosing her location, Ghostface kills both Cotten and his girlfriend. Meanwhile, Sidney Prescott, living in total isolation, works as a crisis counselor, and is absolutely terrified that the murders will resume. Her fears are well founded as she learns about the murder of Cotton Weary. Meanwhile, Gale Weathers is approached Detective Mark Kincaid to show her a new development, and a change in Ghostface's pattern he left a photo at the murder scene of Cotton Weary of a young woman in her 20's. Gale recognizes the woman as none other than Maureen Prescott, Sidney's mother. Now, Sidney must confront not only the psychopath behind the mask, but a ghost of her own past, the woman she called mother. Verdict The final chapter of the horror movie trilogy that breathed life back into the slasher genre during the 90's was labored during this movie. Not saying its bad, but it's like eating too much ice cream, tastes good the first time you eat it (Scream), it's even good when it goes down (Scream 2) but then it hurts so much (Scream 3). It's above average at best, but it does rely on tired clichés. And there is one part that just made me want to scream (no pun intended). It was just way out there and although it is nothing major, it's just one of those things that doesn't belong in Scream. (spoiler) Basically put, a house EXPLODES! Why in the name of Hades would a house explode in a horror movie? When you take into account that this a horror movie that prides itself on meta humor, bloody violence and the like. It's just a mild irritation but still the movie itself is pretty good overall. The killer's identity is a bit of a stretch, but not impossible. This movie mostly deals with Sidney putting the past with her mother to rest and coming to terms with her. If you are a die hard Scream fan (such as myself) you will like this movie, but it won't win over any non-converts. An above finish to this film trilogy...or, like Creed's song at the end asks, Is this the end for us my friends?7/10 "},{"Title":"Not Bad Horror/Slasher Sequel!","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courteney Cox, Patrick Dempsey, Parker Posey, Scott Foley and Liev Schreiber star in Wes Craven's 2000 horror sequel. This starts off with Cotton Weary (Schreiber) who is now a talk-show host and his girlfriend getting murdered by a killer who stalks a movie set of Stab 3. Reporter turned author, Gale Weathers (Cox) learns of Cotton's murder and begins helping policeman, Mark Kincaid (Dempsey) on the case. She reunites with cop, Dewey Riley (Arquette) who helps her and Kincaid. Meanwhile, Sidney Prescott (Campbell) is living under an assumed identity as a woman's crisis counselor and is brought out of hiding when the killer finds her. Dewey, Gale and Mark learn that the killer is leaving photos of Sidney's mother, Maureen and may be her third killer. Sidney reunites with Dewey and Gale while meeting Mark and learns of her mother's connection. Posey (You've Got Mail) plays actress, Jennifer Jolie who portrays Gale's character in the film and Foley plays Roman Bridger, the film's director. Soon, Sidney, Dewey and Gale learn that the killer is trying to make a real-life final chapter of a trilogy where anything can happen. This sequel isn't bad and I still recommend it. "},{"Title":"The only thing that needed help in this film is Gale's hair....","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First of all, I must say that I did not have high expectations for this film. All of the critics (which I usually don't agree with anyway) and even fans of the series have stated that this is the worst in the series. There is no such thing as a bad Scream film. Each film is awesome. So, needless to say, I walked into this without high expectations. I was planning to rent a copy from Mr. Movies, but needless to say, I found a free showing on AMC. The actual film exceeded my expectations. I absolutely loved it. Sure, it wasn't as violent as others in the series, but that's because of the Columbine High School massacre. Basically, Sidney, who is in hiding, is lured to Hollywood by a new copycat Ghostface killer, onto the set of the new Stab film. David Arquette as Dewey and Scott Foley as Roman are at the top of their game in this. Roman is one of my favorite Ghostfaces, simply because he is just so freaking hilarious. He doesn't over do it like Freddy Krueger, but he makes it all so enjoyable, and I was so shocked to see Roman as the killer, but man, did he have a motive! Parker Posey is a real treat to bring in, and so are Patrick Dempsey and Jenny McCarthy. This entire cast is amazing, though I hated to see Cotton Weary (Leiv Schreiber) die, even though he was a sleaze. I also have no idea why everyone is hating on Ehren Kruger. Sure, it isn't Kevin Williamson, but I think he is a worthy author to the Scream series, using the same style as Williamson. I thought that this was a very worthy entry into the series. Roman is easily the smartest Ghostface, who brings a new, high tech voice changer to the picture, and since it is Hollywood, you get to see some of the best special effects, including a fake corpse Roman uses to trick everyone.All in all, I thought, that though relying more on comedy and suspense then its predecessors, you can't really blame it. I mean, violence in cinema was really controversial at the turn of the century. I was happy with it, and I was honestly surprised more people weren't. "},{"Title":"Scary, decent, but not anywhere close to the same level as 1 and 2","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have been amazed on how Scream 1 and 2 were so incredibly well written, witty, well acted, and frankly just down right a all around great movie. Although Scream 3 was not bad, it can't really be put on the same level as the other two movies.First of all I did not like the idea of the movie being based on the set of Stab 3, the third installment of the movies based on the Woodsboro murders. The acting was awful besides the normal people Neve Campbell, Courtney Cox, and David Arquette. The story did have a good twist, but it did not feel like Scream to me. I will admit, it might be one of the scariest of the four movies, but it reminded me of just a regular horror flick. It bothered me that Ghostface used the peoples voices instead of the normal ghost face voice. That is just one example of how the movie bothered me.All in all I still enjoyed this movie. Not as much as the other three but this movie was still good. If you like Scream you will like this movie, but if you don't like Scream then you will hate it.My Final Review 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a good third chapter","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 was actually better then I expected with all the negativity out there.The cast wasn't as good as in either of its predecessors, but they all still did good.The story is similar to the first one, but they try to make it more puzzling.The ending was kinda disappointing but it wasn't written by Kevin Williamson, it was instead Ehren Krueger.It's still really fun and there's plenty of action.Watch if You like the last two. "},{"Title":"Comeback","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There is a moment in this movie where a character re-appears and made me cringe in my seat. While I know it was meant to be funny, it almost took away the one really great moment Scream 2 had. I still judged the second part without considering lowering it for this really stupid concession from the filmmakers.But when I say filmmakers I should point out that K. Williamson was not involved in this. I don't think he would approve of this (but I cannot be sure about it). While it is only one moment (and as I said, was surely meant as a joke, that didn't work), the rest of the movie suffers not only from this, but from poor writing as well. And I won't even say it's the screenwriters fault, because they may have acted on orders to generate something that would appeal and please (especially the latter with that one really unnecessary scene) the fans the Scream franchise built over the years.The good thing might have been that it did actually put the franchise to rest ... until it came back of course. But at least you knew it couldn't get worse ... "},{"Title":"The worst SCREAM film - but not a completely bad film","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The premise of Scream 3 is excellent - it's about the filming of the film-within-the-film, Stab 3, with the cast being picked off in the order that they die in Stab 3. Great idea. Even greater is the pairing of Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox) and the actress playing Gale Weathers in Stab 3 (Parker Posey).So why doesn't this film quite get off the ground? Firstly, because of its many, many locations. Police stations, studio offices, film sets, star's homes - but by far the worst location is where the finale takes place the executive's mansion. It's your archetypal 'haunted' house - secret doorways, chambers, basements full of props, and so on.Which brings me to my second point. There's a 'supernatural' element to this film that breaks completely with the tone of the Scream films. The ghost of Sidney's mother features, much to the film's detriment.Thirdly - without spoiling it - the 'revelation' at the end of who was behind the murders. This is by far the most disappointing ending in any whodunit slasher. This is perhaps because none of the characters are developed particularly well, so we can't bring ourselves to care. "},{"Title":"All I know Is That In The Final One All Bets Are Off.","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Day 10 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2011.Director Wes Craven gives us the next installment with Scream 3. The film follow Sidney Prescott played by Neve Campbell still being harassed by a killer who is trying to kill Sidney and her friends. Meanwhile Dewey played by David Arquette and Gale played by Courtney Cox Arquette are figuring out that the killer is killing the cast members of Stab 3 Return To Woodsburo in the order they die in the movie. The films cast is terrific, the story is good, and the thrills are effective. Although the story is getting tired and recycled, and the ending is ridiculous and unbelievable but all in all has a great ending scene. I still recommend it even though it is the weakest one of the series.Rated R For Strong Horror Violence And Language.1hr 57min/117min.37 uses of the F-word.***1/2/**** "}{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's third instalment is just as powerful as any of the other entries. Many fans of the franchise and many critics have poorly overlooked this underrated entry, and quite possibly because it was the work of another writer Ehren Kruger. I believe most people shot it down before it even got a chance to get off the ground because Kevin Williamson's name was not under writer.As usual David Arquette (Dwight 'Dewey' Riley), Neve Campbell (Sidney Prescott), Courtney Cox-Arquette (Gale Weathers), and Liev Schreiber (Cotton Weary) all return to reprise their roles and deliver solid performances.Although not all of the following characters were given much screen time, the same credit should also be attributed to the new co-stars of the franchise Kelly Rutherford (Christine Hamilton), Patrick Dempsey (Detective Mark Kincaid), Scott Foley (Roman Bridger), Lance Henriksen (John Milton), Deon Richmond (Tyson Fox), Matt Keeslar (Tom Prinze, Jenny McCarthy (Sarah Darling), Emily Mortimer (Angelina Tyler), Parker Posey (Jennifer Jolie), and Patrick Warburton (Steven Stone). Call many of them only two dimensional characters if you want, but I frankly did not see a difference in character development between the characters of Scream 2 and the ones from Scream 3. Of course by this film, you as an audience and/or fan of the series should know that there is a very simple formula to quote Jamie Kennedy's character Randy Meeks, who also happens to make a cameo (not a ridiculous cameo either, considering the eccentricity of the character) in this chapter via a home video titled Scary Movies 101 to introduce the rules of a trilogy. If you know the Scream movies than you know it has to have the signature opening prelude before the film's opening title sequence. From then on it follows the same formula of the first two quite similarly, a bad thing? No, not for this viewer at least. Otherwise why call it a Scream movie? The only thing viewers and fans of the series may feel a bit of a disappointment with, is the producers call to have toned down the violence and play up on the humour in the series. The humour was a hit for me, but could be a miss for others. The tone of Scream 3 is much lighter on some levels with the bloodshed being mild and not as excessive. The scares are still there and the film still achieves the same eerie effect of the first two successors, however in an entirely different style. This sudden change in tone may not go over well with most viewers. Ehren Kruger does an excellent job as screenwriter, creating a very witty script (if you pay real close attention). This may have also been a reason for its panned reviews, because viewers were watching the movie rather than listening. Several real life incidences were what called for a drastic change in tone for Scream 3, and it is interesting when you look at each Scream film and notice how it is changed to adapt to its specific era.Of course all predecessors are on some level a sequel, Scream 3 is still the trilogy Randy deems it to be, mostly linking it back to the plot of Scream with only subtle references to Scream 2. Any plot holes that were left ambiguous in the first film are explained. The climax in Scream 3 is one of the most well developed conclusions to its genre, and leaves the trilogy? on a satisfying note.Do not underestimate this film until you see it, it is still everything Scream and Scream 2 are but with a fresh approach to the franchise. If you loved the originality of the first film don't bother seeking originality from any of its sequels, the originality has already been done, a sequel only has an underlying originality built from a previous original idea. But I guarantee you it is not the very thing the original Scream set out to make fun of, everything in Scream 3 is intentional and intelligently thought out. Scream 3 is haunting and comical, with its superb score (used very chillingly as Sidney returns to Woodsboro), its uncanny ambiances, and its satirical approach to Hollywood politics, actors and films. Pay close attention and you may think twice before panning this film.-MovieCritic33-6 "},{"Title":"Scream In Hollywood","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" And Craven is back for the second time with the three survivors, Sidney, Dewey and Gale. This time the killing takes place in Hollywood. More absurdly on the sets of Stab 3 and the killer follows the pattern of the Stab 3 screenplay. This time Craven and his writers additionally poke fun at Hollywood and the making of Slasher flicks. They also try to fill in the plot holes of the previous films and at the same time 'Scream 3' is loaded with such holes. Once again the fusion of humour and tension is well done.The new cast includes Parker Posey, Patrick Dempsey, Scott Foley, Lance Henriksen, Matthew Keeslar, Jenny McCarthy, Emily Mortimer, Deon Richmond, Patrick Warburton and Carrie Fisher (in a hilarious cameo) of which Posey steals the show. Neve Campbell shows growth in her character as she keeps getting better with each movie and she kicks some ass. Courteney Cox too is back as the feisty journalist who won't stop at nothing to get to the bottom of this and David Arquette is the usual.The sets are quite interesting, especially the 'Stab 3' set and the house where the final slashings take place. The latter has a classic horror vibe to it. Once again, the playful camera-work does its trick. The editing is decent.'Scream 3' is cheesy fun. It's perhaps cheesier than the first two films but entertaining nonetheless. "},{"Title":"The Epic Trilogy","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As with most trilogies this surpasses the sequel but cannot defy the original.Again ghost-face returns but this time in Hollywood as Dewey (David Arquette), Gail (Courtney Cox) & Sidney (Neve Cambell) go to solve this murderer. The opening scene begins with Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) (also the hero to 'Scream 2') receiving a phone call asking where Sidney is. Ghost-face then appears and kills Cotton's girlfriend Christine (Kelly Rutherford) and then Cotton. The question arises of ghost-face amongst Dewey, Gail & Sidney.It so happens that the killer is pinpointing killings in the order the killings occur in 'Stab 3' the new 'Stab' movie. The most obvious suspects are actors in the movie but with most of them dying there is no way of telling who the killer is. Sidney again seems to be wanted for dead once more by the killer but can she survive this trilogy and will she come face to face with the new ghost-face.The trilogy answers questions that run through the head from the original like who really killed Sidney's mother. This movie is not to be missed and it resolves the 'Scream' trilogy. Craven's masterpiece makes an epic finale to this 'Scream' trilogy "},{"Title":"Good for teenage parties but a disgrace to the horror genre","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As if the first two embarrassing instalments for the entire horror genre would not have been enough, Hollywood decided to make a couple more retarded teenagers go to the cinema and created a third part of the series that has now even come back with an unnecessary fourth part. This third movie is the worst one of the series and adds nothing new to the whole concept. The ending is even more stupid and random than the conclusion of the two predecessors. There is now a complete absence of suspense and in fact no atmosphere at all and the well developed and sympathetic characters of Weathers and Dewey are not enough to carry this movie as a bunch of really bad actors starring in the movie inside the movie put this flick even on a lower level than the stupid teenage characters have done in the past.The last twenty minutes of chasing scenes and revelations are at least entertaining and there are a few silly laughs from time to time that underline the status of a typical party movie to switch your brain completely off but those two points as well as the mentioned characters and the general entertainment of the movie that is quite easy junk food to watch if you have got nothing else to do justify my four point rating but not the success of this third flick. Even nowadays, there are so many great horror movies to find out there and people waste their time watching horror parodies with wooden acting and horrible dialogues and lack of suspense, atmosphere and intrigue. Just avoid this movie at all costs if you have a little bit of intellect and taste inside of you. I only recommend this flick for teenage parties and amusement soirées of the lowest degree. "},{"Title":"Maybe needs a better endpoint","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Remember the 1980 horror movie named Don't Answer the Phone? If the Scream 3 gang had taken that advice, there would have been no movie, just a lot of lonely characters scattered all over California, waiting for calls. Roger Ebert's review of Scream 3.Scream 3 is often considered to be the worst in the entire self aware slasher series. It pretty much is, but it isn't as bad as I thought it would be. The thing that gets to be annoying is because the film is connected with the fictional movie Stab 3 which is being made about the real life characters and every character is getting killed off in the order they die in the film. Only problem is that there are three different versions of the Stab 3 script and it is unknown which one the killer read. The adventure begins...Neve Campbell returns as Sidney Prescott, David Arquette returns as Dewey, and Courtney Cox Arquette (respectively) returns as Gale Weathers. So we're a step in the right direction with casting. We also get memorable appearances by Jenny McCarthy and, my personal favorite, Jay and Silent Bob. How delightfully unexpected to see one of my favorite movie duos in a Scream film. Snoogans.The franchise is still self aware, and makes a huge note of that. This time the characters exchange various dialog about a trilogy and state in a trilogy all rules are off. Anybody can die, even the lead character. Trilogies have a beginning, middle, and an end. Until Scream 4 comes in the picture.Let's face it, every movie in the series is around 110 minutes long. This one happens to be 116 minutes long. When I saw the first first film was 111 minutes long I thought kind of lengthy for a horror film. Scream has proved it can handle a longer runtime because it wants to explain on the story, provide more background information, etc. The first half of Scream 3 is dull, and Neve Campbell doesn't come in to stay till about halfway in. That alone is already a letdown. I could see where they were going, but this one should've been around ninety minutes in length.I can be picky about a film's runtime, especially when the movie has a long one and doesn't go anywhere. Like Battle Los Angeles. Some great films get a short runtime and you can clearly tell more could've been added. But films like Scream 3 get a long one when they don't need it.Still, Scream 3 is not awful. I stated the castmates I liked return, the plot is still consistent, it's just not on par with the first two. This time, I think it's acceptable to make another installment to the trilogy to try and end on a positive note. If that doesn't work. Leave it buried.Starring Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courtney Cox Arquette (respectively), Patrick Dempsey, Jenny McCarthy, Parker Posey, and Deon Richmond. Directed by Wes Craven. "},{"Title":"The final act? I doubt it","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie isn't good as the first Scream, like they say sequels are usually not good as the original. Don't believe the tagline for this movie because this movie isn't the most terrifying movie in the trilogy so far. In fact just about the first scene, it still has stupid mistakes from the first two movies still going and going. This is not the final act, but for a film when it came out claiming to be the final act, it really didn't leave much of a impact. Okay so this time the plot revolves around a movie being made within a movie with actors and actresses being actors and actresses and the movie is called Stab 3. I guess because Stab 1 and 2 were big hits in the Scream storyline. There is movie references of other generic and cliché horror flicks again, but this movie itself suffers from those problems. It seemed like they were trying, but it didn't go in the direction where it could have been effective. I don't know if it's intentional or not, but some serious scenes seem pretty comedic. The movie basically relies and focuses on the surviving characters from the previous 2 movies. With more drama and more dramatic movies, but it's just so darn lame. But you just can't take any of the characters seriously in this movie, they all seem like a joke. They all seem like Scooby-Doo character except people gets killed. The movie also uses way too many jump scares with random people popping out of nowhere. The plot keeps digging and digging for stuff they can use to make the movie a great final act that it all becomes just way too far fetched. Out of the 3 this one seemed like the most tedious one, which is a shame cause it was getting a lot of hype before it came out since they claimed it to be the final act. Which isn't because of Scream 4.4.3/10 "},{"Title":"A notch below it's predecessors, but still really good","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Trilogies are a rare occurrence in any genre. Some are planned and some happen because the story has just run out of steam. George Lucas knew he was going to make the original three 'Star Wars' films. Then there are franchises like 'Robocop' that just didn't have the same magic anymore by number 3. There really are very few trilogies in Horror, but there is at least one that has had a major impact. The first 'Scream' revitalized both Slasher films and the Horror genre in general. Like 'Halloween' it was followed by a wave of imitators and a sequel a year later. That too was a hit and so the series would continue for one more chapter, a film meant to be the other bookend.Pros Excellent job by the cast, including both new comers and veterans. Ehren Krueger is no Kevin Williamson, but his script is still filled with some clever stuff. Moves at a pretty good pace. Much of the humor hits the mark. Some exciting and well staged set pieces. Suspenseful direction by Craven as always. Marco Beltrami returns to compose another good score that gets the blood pumping. Full of good twists and turns, especially the last one and it's a doozy.Cons The formula is getting a bit stale. Too many characters, some underdeveloped. Some of the humor is forced and this time there is too much of it.Final thoughts All good things must come to an end and you hope that it doesn't disappoint. 3 is definitely not as good as the first two, but is far from an embarrassment. It still has a lot of what made the others work and makes for a good cap off for the series. Of course, as we now know, this is no longer a trilogy. But that's another review, for another time.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"This sequel made me Scream, and not in a good way","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ** out of (****)After two strong staples in 90's horror, Scream 3 sticks out like a sore thumb. Perhaps it was because of a new writer? Considering the lackluster script, the drastic tone, and the leisure-like pacing, I can say this was the case. Although, one person can't just take the blame. Craven's direction in this one is uninspired, and the deaths are yawn-inducing, which isn't something great to be said about a slasher.First off, what went right? The gang still shine through. When all else fails, the cast is still a strong one. Also, the film had a semi-interesting climax. The back story was kind of intriguing. Well... that, and it didn't completely suck.Everything else is pretty much went wrong. The script, as previously mentioned, is not a strong one. There's an unneeded back story (which still raises curiosity), which still proves less is more. The killer seems like a cop-out, and overall, I feel the film went the cheap route, even the deaths.Well... the deaths still have to be good. Right? Not exactly. The film is just a stab here, and a stab there. Corn syrup and red food coloring came later. Not to mention, the wit is completely absent. I can tell there's a good movie lying around here, but Craven couldn't find it. You know. Not all the time is the third time the charm. This sequel made me Scream, and... not in a good way. Better luck next time Craven. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Scream 3","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I made it a deliberate attempt to want to watch the Scream Trilogy, and made it to both part one and two until I realize that Scream 3 was not on rental at the Esplanade Library, until recently when their collection extended to films rated NC16 and M18. And watching this was also partly because Wes Craven's Scream 4 is due out later this year, and going by how intricately linked the characters are from one film to the next, this went up on the must watch list lest I enter into the upcoming sequel with a large information gap missing.Scream 3 brings back the usual, and surviving cast, of the first two films, with Neve Campbell reprising her role as Sidney Prescott, now living the life of a recluse in the woods and doing so anonymously by taking up a job that only requires telephone conversations (which of course is a sign), Courteney Cox's Gale Weathers the dogged reporter now being estranged from beau Dwight Dewey Riley (David Arquette) who has resigned from the force and is now technical adviser to Hollywood's production of the Stab movie franchise, based upon the infamous Woodsbro murders that we've already seen in the first two films. Then Ghostface comes back to life and starts finishing off members of the Stab cast and crew while looking for Sidney Prescott, leaving behind the photos of Sidney's mom each time a murder gets committed, and it's down to our usual suspects to try and unravel the mystery behind the new Ghostface since they're quite sure he's been put down twice before.In some ways Wes Craven's Scream now is like a typical Scooby Doo cartoon adventure, riddled with plenty of caricatures and red herrings on suspects that will keep you guessing right up until the end, and along the way come opportunities to spook and bump off a few bodies. What's interesting here is the existence of the Stab movie cast, who adds another dimension to the film as the cast members, with recognizable names such as Jenny McCarthy, Emily Mortimer, Parker Posey and even Liev Schreiber lending a short cameo as producer, all providing a parallel to the lives of the characters that we're already acquainted with. Patrick Dempsey also makes an appearance as the requisite investigating cop too.And what this film never fails in, is the humour aspects both intentional and unintentional, and those usual bag of tricks that seemed a little tired, though no less effective in bringing about some jump scares. It does seem to drag out a little in the beginning for the story to allow us some catch up time on the current situation of all surviving cast members, before introducing us to their fictional Stab screen counterparts, and their one upmanship with each other was the best in terms of Parker Posey and Courteney Cox being the reporter Gale Weathers (or Jennifer Jolie in the Stab knock up). Events in the film start picking up its pace when Sydney Prescott reunites with the rest and things go into overdrive with set action sequencesUltimately it's still a satisfying horror-comedy romp with quite the logical explanation of how things all ties up together going back to the first movie, and as explained, how the third film in a trilogy tend to be a different ballgame altogether with rules that were meant to be broken, getting thrown out of the window from the get go. While it may not be as classic as the very first Scream movie 10 years before Scream 3, this one still had its moments as far as third films go, but I'm now quite skeptical if a fourth is necessary, and what the focus will then be given how this trilogy as of now is quite self-contained. It remains to be seen, so let's hope Wes Craven still has plenty up his sleeve. "},{"Title":"Rolling my eyes outta my head","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First I'd like to say that I don't appreciate movies starring FRIENDS actors, but Courtney Cox is an exception, since she's able to do different characters pretty well. Scream 3 is exactly what it is expected to be. Just another part of the trilogy that started fine but the thirst for money crashed it. This film is entertaining and intriguing, just like the other two. But the development is boring and I really get nervous for the writers never allowing the spectator to find out who is the killer. Why don't they put many clues in the plot and one of those clues really bring to the killer? Instead of this, here they put lots of clues but none of them is leading to the mystery's resolution. Scream 3 had another problem too many names/characters, so we get to confuse who is who.Also, why on Earth Roman kill a thousand people just because he's jealous of his little sister? It seems like the writers should have thought Oh let's just put some handsome actor pretending to be nuts and sentimental and it's gonna be a good movie "}{"Title":"Scream Without Its Soul","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The final installment of the Scream trilogy is an unfortunate departure away from the first two in a couple of major ways, and all seem to stem from who wrote the script. Writing credits are given to Ehren Kruger (The Ring, Arlington Road) instead of franchise creator Kevin Williamson. This departure leads to all the others.The most noticeable difference is the characters. In the first two, the characters had a certain amount of depth, and were to be taken seriously even if they were a bit eccentric (ie. Randy Meeks, Dewey). Comedic elements came from these eccentricities and from situations that unfolded just as they do in the horror movies Randy discusses in the first two. In Scream 3, there is pretty much no character development whatsoever. So much so it's entirely possible to forget about characters all-together. Additionally, some of these characters are way over-the-top and would be more fit to be in Scary Movie than Scream 3. Another difference is there are several iconic links between the first two that are completely absent in the third. However, Scream 3 isn't a complete failure. The rules of the third are what they should be and the movie does a good job of sticking to that idea. The story in this sense is fitting as the final chapter in a trilogy, but ultimately, Kruger doesn't seem to quite get it. It's as if Scream 3 is an impostor - something like out of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. It may look like Scream, and it tries to act like Scream, but it's not Scream - even if some casual passer-byers can't tell the difference. Thus Scream 3 lacks an identity and never figures out what kind of movie it is. Scream 3 seems in search for it's soul which is something it seems it cannot have without Kevin Williamson, even if Wes Craven is directing it. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven Concludes His Masterpiece","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Scream Trilogy is the film series that redefined fear. They revived the horror genre, making films such as Psycho, A Nightmare on Elm Street, and Halloween proud. Wes Craven is the master of suspense. When Kevin Williamson's script was out on the prow, Craven was really the only proper choice to direct. His method of scaring the audience never fails. He has so much control over the three stories without the feeling of over-directing. For many years, Freddy Kruger was hailed as Craven's masterpiece, this trilogy is now and will be his crowning achievement. Kevin Williamson wrote the original and the sequel, then Ehren Kruger came along to write the third when Williamson declined. However, Williamson basically outlined the story for Kruger, leaving the dialogue and details to Kruger. All three scripts are absolutely incredible and tantalizing original. The story grows as the series continues and it becomes more intricate. Now, it'd be tough to choose between the three, which is my favorite. But, I think as the story becomes more complicated, I was more intrigued, which may be the only factor to say the films get better as we go along. That aside, the three are so close together with quality, entertainment, suspense, and as films overall. It's difficult for a film trilogy to achieve that. Most times, sequels get worse, but here? No such thing.The thing that really separates Scream from the average film series besides the screenplay, the direction, the suspense level, the tech stuff, and the visuals is the acting. This is what I call true acting ensemble. The two dazzlingly standouts are Neve Campbell and Courteney Cox. What performances. Now, it's no surprise that Sidney, Gale, and Dewey are in all three films. So Campbell and Cox have to sustain their performances over three films. It's extraordinary. David Arquette, I'll check him off first. He is funny and dorky in the first two films. He really adds to the table in Scream 3. He finally grows up and isn't as insecure, which is a lovely thing to see.You see the actors grow and fall as their characters. Campbell really finds Sidney Prescott, the true essence of the character. Campbell does something tricky here. She shows us a girl who is in a horrible place in her life, who is strong and can make it in the world, but is also vulnerable and weak. It's tricky, but she pulls it off with grace. Sidney is this tormented young woman, and Campbell never shies away from that; how she can act with her eyes can simply not be put into words, it's that great. Courteney Cox is fierce as Gale Weathers. She leaves her comfy zone (the control freak Monica Geller on Friends). Cox steps up the dramatic work here, especially in Scream 2. The character Gale Weathers grows from being a wannabe b*tch, to being a successful and rub it in your face more of a b*tch. Then in Scream 3, she changes. After her true feelings for Dewey were revealed in Scream 2, Gale was tamed and not so much of the witch she once was. I've mentioned her dramatic work in Scream 2 a few times. It is simply the best of her career. In Scream 1, she was hinting that she had feelings for Dewey, but also hinting she was using him for information. Parker Posey is the best addition to the entire trilogy in Scream 3. She is given a very meaty comedic role and she puts her soul into the role. Without a doubt the funniest character in the trilogy. She has great chemistry with Courteney Cox and David Arquette in the love triangle. Cox, especially because essentially Posey is playing Cox's character in Stab, which is Scream (a film within a film). I can't picture anyone disliking Jennifer Jolie (Posey's character). She has so much fun with the role and we have fun watching her. Patrick Dempsey gives his best film performance here in once of his first film performances. He drives his character without any noticeable fears. Part 3, gives the cast a chance to express some comedy into the series, and everyone is perfectly cast. Except for Kelly Rutherford, who won the of Christine over Kate Winslet? WTF? I mean seriously? C'mon. Jamie Kennedy has a cameo here as the deceased film geek, Randy, which is pitch-perfect. The Screams are also grand on the technical scale, too. The ghostface costume has become the most frightening, iconic horror film costume. It screams fear. The brilliance of it is, this mask wasn't made specifically for the film. I was a regular Halloween costume sold in stores everywhere. That's what makes it scarier. The great master, Wes Craven once said, Something isn't scary unless people can identify with it and could possibly be in the same positions as the characters on the screen. The films also include a killer score and frightening sets (especially John Milton's house, where the climax of Scream 3 takes place).Bob Weinstein, the producers of the Scream trilogy, now demanded a fourth installment. Why? To make a few bucks? Scream fits perfectly as a trilogy, without any loose ends and had a wonderful ending filled with metaphors and a great chase scene. Williamson is back writing. Having him back on board with Craven directing and three survivors back gives me some comfort that it won't fail completely, but I'm scared for it's survival. Let's just hope for the best. Overall, without a doubt, the best trilogy ever made. My personal favorite films; they're fun, very scary, with excellent performances, writing and directing. What more could you want? The three easiest 10s I've ever given. "},{"Title":"The curse of the trilogy.","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have enjoyed every Scream film and can't wait until Scream 4 is out. But like most third parts, Scream 3 is the weakest. Scream 3 has what I liked about the other Scream films. It was funny,scary, original, and fun. But Scream 3 had something about it, a problem that I think I can name but am unsure. Scream 3 was the weakest in the series because it got sort of silly. Why didn't they move their asses out of that place. I mean they did but I would go to somewhere like Indiana, where I live, and start a new life. Also, some scenes in the film were kind of silly. Like when the killer throws the knife at Dewy(David Arquette) and the end of it hits him in the face. It's just a little stupid. I still think that Scream 3 was a fun film though. I have always liked Gale(Courtney Cox) and Dewey because they are funny. Gale is my favorite in the series. Her and Dewey have some really funny lines. There were a few good performances too. One from Patrick Warburton from Seinfeld. The rest were really from David Arquette, Courtney Cox, and Neve Campbell. I liked Scream 3, it has most of the key ingredients to a Scream film, but something in it is missing. It was also a little silly. I give it a thumbs up, but it's the weakest in the trilogy. I can't wait until Scream 4 comes out.Scream 3 ***/**** "},{"Title":"Hardly an amazing sequel, but a respectful finish for the Scream Trilogy,' nevertheless.","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" With Scream 3, the trilogy started by director Wes Craven (A Nightmare on Elm Street) and writer Kevin Williamson (Dawson's Creek) comes to a close, re-uniting all surviving characters from Scream 2, as well as one that didn't make it. Now, obviously with a Scream 4 (is it a sequel? Is it a reboot? Only time will tell) on the horizon, the Scream trilogy has essentially come unraveled, but what Scream 3 attempts to do is close out the popular 90's defining horror series on a positive, somewhat epic note. Despite its many short-comings, it mostly accomplishes its goals.It's been a few years since tragedy struck a third time at Windsor College and Sidney (Neve Campbell) has forced herself into hiding. While Stab 3 rolls into production (what happened to Stab 2?), a killer strikes with a familiar M.O., slashing his way through the cast, leaving the odd couple of Dewey (David Arquette) and Gale (Courtney Cox) to try to solve the mystery before the killer fleshes out his own un-happy ending. For Sydney, this means digging up old ghosts and coming to terms with tragic truths.To be frank, there's a lot wrong with Scream 3, but then again, what third sequel in ANY franchise is ever perfect? The biggest shift from the previous flicks is in the toned down gore and uninventive death scenes. Despite the franchise's popularity, it's more than apparent this time around that the MPAA and the studio were growing impatient with on-screen splatter. Meanwhile, the script, drafted by Ehren Kruger (of no relation to Freddy Krueger) is overly jokey, and comes across as b-grade Kevin Williamson, which is pretty sad. A lot of the humor in the film revolves around lampooning Hollywood clichés, but unfortunately, unless you work in the business, these jokes are trite, boring and only serve to bog down the real story at hand.The film's strongest point is the who-dunnit theme, which feels bigger and more important than in the previous two films. There's an unsettling sense of mystery that carries the film and keeps it interesting when many of the other ideas presented are stale. Also, the chemistry between David Arquette and Courtney Cox helps make up for an overabundance of unlikeable characters in the film, portrayed by likable character-actors such as Parker Posey and Patrick Warburton. The ending and the final reveal of the killer &#x96; while slightly contrived &#x96; makes for a perfectly satisfying ending that wraps the trilogy up in a nice and neat little bow. Overall, an enjoyable conclusion that lags in pacing and indulges a bit too much in itself, but more than makes up for it in the end. As far as third entries in horror franchises go, Scream 3 could be a lot worse.Look out for a cameo from Jay & Silent Bob, as well as the always-great Lance Henrikson as a seedy B-movie mogul. "},{"Title":"Final Act Devoid of any Real Screams....","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The final act in Wes Craven's thriller trilogy falls flat. The original remains one of my favorite scary movies, as it blended scares with humor in a perfect blend. The second film followed pretty closely in it's footsteps and, while it didn't improve on the formula, it didn't fail to do it's job. The third is barely suspenseful and seemed to focus more cracking jokes than slitting throats. In this final installment, a film production for STAB 3 hits a snag when cast members are being killed off in the order they die in the script.As I'd stated, the film neglects it's horror element in this run. The kills are no where near as brutal as we've seen previously and they rarely frighten. Most of the scares in the movie are just BOO moments, which run out of steam after a while. I think something else about the first two films was that the victims were people the audience could relate to teenagers and college students. The horror occurred in a small town that could've been any small town in America. Now, the events take place in Hollywood and the victims are a bunch of unsympathetic, whiny actors. I personally found that I couldn't care less about whether any of them survived. As for the major moment when the killer is revealed? I can't begin to describe how anti-climactic it truly is; the filmmakers tried to tie the killer to the very beginning of the series but I don't feel it worked.The film reunites the three major players of the franchise. Neve Campbell is Sidney Prescott, who has gone into hiding as a crisis hotline attendant when she becomes haunted by visions of her murdered mother. Campbell's character, for once, is not the center of attention in this installment, seeing as how her character really doesn't have much screen time. David Arquette and Courtney Cox-Arquette return as Dewey Riley and Gale Weathers who team with Detective Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey) to solve the string of (not) grisly murders. One a positive note, Jamie Kennedy has a cameo to reprise his role of Randy Meeks, the horror movie geek who arrives via video-tape to give the rules of a horror trilogy. Aside from some amusing performances from Patrick Warburton and Parker Posey, the remaining cast does little to stand out.While this is easiest the least frightening of the series, it isn't a terrible movie. A good portion of the humor works and the cast does enough of a job to keep the movie somewhat entertaining. I wish the filmmakers had remembered the name of the movie to be SCREAM and lived up to it's origins, but it could've been worse. It's worth watching if for no other reason than to see it all out until the end. "},{"Title":"Loved it but got trashy...","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream was an original classic, contradicting all the cliché events in horror films throughout the years. Then came the pointless second that mentions the rules to sequel movies. Finally the third, but this was actually worth watching and beats the second by miles! When Stab 3 is in production, writer Gale Weathers is back and bitchier than ever ready to start on book number two of the Woodsboro murders, however the killer returns too in a attempt to confront Sidney and kill her.The first half of this film is great, but the second half ruins it completely. I would still say this is worth watching, its one of those sequels we've always waited for with a different and better story altogether. "},{"Title":"More good acting talent would've made this a better scream","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Scream franchise bowed out rather badly after it could've done so in a good way after a not-exactly-brilliant but still fairly good series and humour which suited it surprisingly well in some parts. Yeah it was corny in places but at the end of the day, what horror film doesn't have at least a certain amount of corniness in it? Anyway, to the film; a great horror film idea that was marred by mediocre/unexperienced actors. The acting and script for me was a bit too sleazy. In fact, the only of the very good acting came from Neve Campbell as her heroine character Sydney Prescott, although David Arquette and Courtney Cox were alright. Fortunately Neve Campbell turned down her role for Scream 4 (great decision; she deserves better than the likes of this and ChurchillHollywood Years). One person sadly missed from this film is Jaime Kennedy, and his video appearance in this film was one of very few good parts of it. They made a near-grave mistake by killing Randy off in the second film. I felt that he would've bought more light to this film. He and Matthew Lillard were brilliant in providing pretty much all of the comedy in Scream 1. Some good comedy moments and quotes came from him in Scream 2, helping to keep it above average until his murder. The best thing about this film was the plot. It had more of than the first two Screams (which were pretty much same, even though the murders in Scream 2 were a bit more random). Although even that had a couple or so flaws, like the part where Billy may not have killed Sydney's mother, which was a fairly misleading and confusing. The whole Gale-Dewey affair was typically sleazy and fairly unoriginal, so tying those ends would've made a basically flawless script. The special-voice changer was a great idea and good twist to the storyline. The way that the 'Stab 3' characters get literally killed off in the order they're supposed to on the script. Another good thing was that the killer was someone of the least of people you'd expect it to be. All in all, too much mediocre acting, a fairly sleazy script and no Randy brought this film down and Scream 4 shouldn't be put into the question. Only if Neve Campbell and Jaime Kennedy was in it, but they haven't so on the realistic side the Scream franchise should remain cancelled off here. "},{"Title":"The Worst In The Series, But Not A Terrible Movie","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3, directed by the horror legend Wes Craven, is incorrectly regarded as one of the better in the series. It is most definitely the worst, probably due to a different writer. The previous two films were written by Kevin Williamson, this was written by Ehren Kruger. This movie doesn't have the same jist the others had. The deaths are boring and tame, the dialogue isn't as witty and the movie just has a feel of being poorly done.Sidney (Neve Campbell) is in hiding. She has isolated herself from the world. Stab 3 is in production but there is one problem. The cast are being killed of one-by-one (as you would have guessed by now). There is a twist though, the killer is leaving pictures of Maureen Presscott, Sidney's mother, at every death scene. This draws Sidney out of hiding into a final confrontation with the killer.The acting in Scream 3 is, as with all the Scream films, very good. Neve Campbell is always great as Sidney, David Arquette always good as Dewey and Courtney Cox-Arquette hilarious as Gale Weathers. The supporting cast is great again. Parkey Posey is the stand-out as Jennifer Jolie. There is also Patrick Dempsey as Detective Kincaid, Scott Foley as Roman Bridger and Jenny McCarthy as Sarah.The few problems I (and many other people) have are the following 1. The deaths in this are just not creative or scary enough. In this almost every death is a stab in the back.2. There is not enough witty, movie based dialogue in this.3. The ending seemed to quick. A lot of deaths were shoved into the end.Other then these annoyances it is still an enjoyable movie. If only Williamson wrote it.2½/5. "},{"Title":"A bitter sweet ending of a trilogy,","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First of all I want to recommend everyone, who wants to watch this movie, that you watch Scream and Scream 2 before that one. You might understand the plot but I'm quite sure you won't see all the little cross references to the predecessors.There are many new characters in Scream 3 but of course the trio Sidney, Dewey and Gale is again on board. What I really liked in this movie was the idea to parody the characters and to make fun about their weaknesses. The original protagonists meet their pendants who act them in a movie called Stab 3. But as I said I liked the IDEA. But what I didn't liked was the realisation. I see the Stab 3 actors more as a form of supply of victims being killed than new characters. They seem to me like targets, which somebody wants to shoot, than real persons.I expected the death scenes to be more cruel and more bloody but instead they made look more kindly. I just didn't like the way how it happened.What I liked was the fact that it was thrilling to guess who the murder is. I also liked the connection which is made to the very beginning of the Scream movies.It's a good final movie of a trilogy but it simply couldn't fulfil my expectations. Nevertheless I think if you liked the first two movies you have to see to complete the whole picture. "},{"Title":"Different from the first two","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 is by no means a bad film. It just can't live up to the first two as much as you want it to. Scream was unpredictable, tense, original and interesting. Scream 2 toned it down and had some very memorable scares, carrying the plot on well. Scream 3 is the big conclusion, and overall, it works on a lot of levels, just not like the first movie.Scream 2 seemed too much like a middle. There had to be an end, it just didn't stop there. Although technically it had more of its own storyline, the films were still intertwined, which brings us to chapter three, where we're now in Hollywood.Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox and David Arquette are all back once again, though it's sad to say that they all seem ready to finish, without the effort they put into the first two installments. It really is time for Scream to be finished or else the first film will be put to shame, so Wes Craven returns to the director's seat and does everything he can to end the series with a bang. The goriest, most mysterious and most intricate film ensues.On the set of Stab 3 (the movie within the movie that chronicle's the events of Sydney's life), the young, hip actors that are homages to the first film are dying off, brutally murdered one by one. The ghost face killer is back and meaner than ever but we actually see less of him here. The story is more focused on the backstory of Scream part one, where Sydney's mother turns out to have a dirty past and Sydney and the gang have to dig deeper into it. The deaths and chase scenes are all well choreographed and entertaining, especially when Sydney confronts the killer for the first time again. But towards the end Wes Craven begins to lose the story. It becomes sloppy and poorly edited, and the conclusion is the weakest in the series Still, what could you hope for? Screenwriter Ehren Kruger crafts too much of a story but it works as the end to a clever series. There's enough scares and humor to stay true. It's a good effort but it's all just so conventional by now. Cool DVD with lots of extra features that goes well with the collection, and look for the funny cameo by Jennifer McCarthy.**1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Nice way to finish it off...but disappointed to see it end.","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 i did enjoy but probably my least favorite in the trilogy, Sidney, Dewey (you better die in this one) and Gale are all back...and so is the killer who by the way is Sidney's half brother..ooh...the story here was probably the weakest out of all them...BUT...it does answer all a lot of the questions left in the previous films...some of my favorite scenes are all the ones with Ghostface of course, and i love the scene where one guy is blown up....and cotton got killed at the start which kinda upset me since i was starting to like his character. I also like the scenes with Sidney seeing her mother all the time...and this time i wanted Dewey to REALLY DIE!!!! argghhh...but no Ghostface Had them right there tied up but instead let's them live.Overall i enjoyed it but not as much as the other two defiantly probably the goriest out of all them...except maybe a few scenes from scream 1 and 2...i recommend this movie to most people defiantly need to have it if you have scream 1 and 2. "},{"Title":"suitable finish, but at times incredibly bland","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS All too often Horror sequels become consistent and regular and before long it's entirely possible to end up with a ten film series which was tired after one. It'd be nice to believe therefore that in 2000, Wes Craven and writer Ehren Kruger (taking over from creator Kevin Williamson) were genuine when they released 'Scream 3' as the final part of a trilogy. A suitable conclusion to the series, the film was often increasingly bland whilst once more proving the intelligence of the series with some suitable mockery of Hollywood and it's principles. It was entertaining without being gory, and it's final conclusion felt like a clever piece of psychological drama.On the set of 'Stab 3' the cast are being killed off. Just like in the real world that the film is based upon, a man stalks the crew with an artistic white mask and a large blade. Looking for the hidden Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell), the killer works his way through people before your typical horror conclusion.Once more attempting to demonstrate their intelligence, Craven and associates use 'Scream 3' as a way of making a point about trilogies. Roping in a video of deceased film fan Randy (Jamie Kennedy) to explain the principles, we have the basic rules of the third film explained to us like we are a two year old child. This in itself would be tolerable, but the problem we have is that new writer Kruger is just not in the same league as the series' original creator. Missing out on large amounts of humour, so much of the film is simplistic and predictable but without the witty script too.It's as if the point is being made that eventually series are just tired and drawn out. The characters are old, the killing is getting boring and the zest with which the original film thrived has long since departed. 'Scream 3' does have it's moments, and the conclusion is a nice way of rounding off the series, but ultimately it just isn't as good as the first two films.Every story should be resolved. That appears to be the basic gist of 'Scream 3'. In this final part of the trilogy, the cast return, we have a new killer, and great truths about the previous films are laid out on the table. 'Scream 3' needed to be made to really finish off the story. It's a shame therefore that it is such a badly written film. Awkward and often incredibly bland, it never lives up to the style of the first two films. It is worth watching just to get some closure on the series, but as a film in it's own right, it's not the finest you'll see. "},{"Title":"Better than Scream 2 & on Par With The Original","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the second sequel to Scream that made audiences laugh and made them Scream. The film again brings back all the main characters from the first two (unless they were picked off) and puts them right back into the horror, where the ghostface killer is going to finish what nobody else could. In Scream 3 we find Sidney living on her own and she has changed her identity so that she cannot be found. She is having nightmares about her past and once she gets wind of the killing taking place on a movie of her life she has to investigate. Gail is also in Hollywood checking out the murders and catches up with Dewey who is working on the film as an adviser. With the Ghostface killer once again on the loose killing the cast of the new Stab film its upto Sidney, Gail and Dewey to makesure this isn't their final cut.This film offers more than you might think and also a lot better death scenes including a character at the beginning who has been in all three of the Scream films. Again with Craven behind the camera he steers a steady ship and does not make this the typical cliché third film in a franchise. The ending does tie up the whole trilogy which i thought was very good because i feel there is no need to go any further as these film are great as a trilogy!Ehren Kruger who wrote this film brings a breath of fresh air to what could have become a pile of trash. Kevin Williamson wrote the first two films and had always intended there to be a trilogy but after No 2 i am glad a new writer was brought in just to add some spice to the franchise. The film offers a great ending which explains quite a few things from the original and second film. The ending is also riveting and leaves you on the edge of your seat gasping for air as the finale plays out.The cast is great, the story is great and overall this film rounds up one of the best horror franchises ever and don't be diturred by the critics view it for yourself first then make a judgement!!!Wes Craven does it again proving that the rules of a trilogy don't always apply.MuSt SeE!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but still a good slasher flik!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" David Arquette, Courtney Cox, Neve Campbell, Patrick Dempsey, Scott Foley, Lance Henrickson, Parker Posey, Matt Kessaler, Patrick Warburton, Jenny McCarthy, Liev Schrieber, Emily Mortimer, Jamie Kennedy, Heather Matarazzo, Carrie Fisher, Roger Corman, Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith and Wes Craven.A continuation on the Sydney/Gail/Dewey escaping the killer thing. This episode shows wear and doesn't deliver like the last two. This one is more of a who dies film, because every ten minutes, someone dies. The opening of the last two films were good, but this one is mediocre, with Liev Schrieber(from the last two) on his cell phone in his car. Not quite as good (Parker Posey is just plain annoying) but still a good slasher! my rating-C plus. R for violence. 113 minutes. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable for the Fans of the Scream Series.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) is been murder by a mysterious man dressed in a Halloween Costume. Three years has passed... Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is been living a secret life away from the public life. Dwight Dewy Riley (David Arquette) is working in Hollywood as a Movie Consultant and Bodyguard to actressJennifer Jolie (Parker Posey). Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox Arquette) is working for Total Entertainment Network. Gale is been contacted by a police detective Mark Kincaid (Patrick Depmsey) to help to trap the killer. Sidney, Dwight and Gale discovers that Sindey's mother had a dark past in Hollywood with a sleazy horror producer (Lance Henriksen). Since they made movies of the lives of Dewey, Sindey, Gale and Cotton. Hollywood is making Stab 3, a fictional sequel to their lives. Cast MembersJennifer, Tyson (Deon Richmond), Angelina (Emily Mortimer), Sarah (Jenny McCarthy) and Tom (Matt Kesslar) might be also in danger.Directed by Wes Craven (Music of the Heart, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Red Eye) made an entertaining horror thriller. That is a blast for the fans of Scream films. The cast seems to be having a great time. Posey offers a scene stealing performance as Jennifer who is playing Gale in Stab 3. The film also co-starsScott Foley, Patrick Warburton and Josh Pais.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an fun commentary track by directorCraven, producerMarianne Maddalena and film editorPatrick Lussier (Dracula 2000 Trilogy). The DVD also features Deleted Scenes with/without commentary, Alternative Ending with/without commentary, Behind the Scenes featurette and more. This was the highlight of Craven's film career on working on the Scream movies. This film is fun for the fans, others beware. Watch for Jamie Kennedy, Heather Matarazzo, Carrie Fisher, Roger Corman, Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes, directorWes Craven and CinematographerPeter Deming in cameos. Written by Ehren Kruger (Arlington Road, Reindeer Games, The Ring). Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"... scream?","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I must admit that I didn't scream once during all three movies. This is because most of the characters are badly acted, the scripts are awful and clichéd, and the endings are predictable. Well, maybe the whole 'serial killer reveal' was not as predictable in the second one. But that's just because it was completely random.The only thing that makes these movies worth watching is the adorably dysfunctional chemistry between Courteney Cox Arquette's obsessive character Gale Weathers and David Arquette's gimpy character Dewey Riley. They are the cutest odd-couple out there, and their on-screen chemistry is as charming as it is neurotic. "},{"Title":"They were bound to run out of ideas...but this quick?","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Third & supposedly last (Yeah right!) film in the SCREAM series, has DEWEY, GALE & SIDNEY, facing off with yet another masked maniac, who's determined to do them in while a film is being made about the killings in the first two films (Yes, the film within a film story has resurfaced yet again) But who could the killer be & why is he after the survivors of the first two massacres?. Third film in the amazingly successful SCREAM series was an okay time passer, but that's all it really was. In the first two films, there was a slew of characters that could have been the killer & the films were always engaging throughout, trying to figure out who it was. In this film, this plot idea seems to have been abandon & the actual killer is only on screen (Out of costume, I might add) for about 5 minutes, all of this eliminated whatever fun there might have been left, in this supposed final entry. The only reason this sequel was really made it seems, was to cash in on the success of the first two films. Once again the death of Sidneys mom is dragged out (They had to have an excuse to make a sequel, I mean what else could they do to get a killer to chase these poor people around again)?. I could have done without the pointless JAY & SILENT BOB cameos (Am I the only one who hated that scene)? Not to mention JENNY MCARTHY's cameo as a standard murder victim. In fact, she was only in the film to keep up to par with the second films body count. EHREN KRUGER takes over the writing skills from KEVIN WILLIAMSON, whom was supposedly suffering from burn out at the time. But Kruger does not bring anything new to the table & instead relies to heavily on all the same stuff we seen in the original. Not as suspenseful like the first two. But the film was fun in way. But like I said above, the series was bound to run out of ideas, but so soon? Despite claims to the contrary from both WES CRAVEN, DIMENSION FILMS & the actors, etc. that this film would indeed be the last, the film was followed by yet another sequel, eleven years later, the much better made SCRE4M*** stars "},{"Title":"Good Suspense Trilogy III","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Prolly the best of the three. Sid is in hiding, no one knows where she is but some one is willing to kill to find out. As usual, big names start dropping like flies and the remaining crew has to find the bad guy before he he gets them all.Twists and turns, bad guy reveal, new characters, celeb cameos From Jay and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes from Clerks and Dogma) to Wes Craven himself. Movie Trivia Wes had a cameo in the first film as a janitor and the Clerks VHS box was sitting on top of the VCR when they did a close up of the hidden cam in the first movie.The first one is still the best, but this one is definitely a great ending to the series. "},{"Title":"You'll scream in enjoyment after watching this film","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is one of the best horror films I have seen since The Dead Zone. Wes Craven has worked his magic in this top-notch thriller, which stars a top-rate cast. Though the plot is not original, it is the way that Craven crafts it, which makes it so good.The best thing about Scream 3 is that I liked the fact that there were no clues given to the identity of the killer. I am one of those people and I hate when the director reveals the villain early. It takes the fun out of the movie when this happens.When it came time to unmask the villain, it was a complete and pleasant shock because Craven completely fooled me as to who the killer was.Another thing I liked about this film was that it introduced new horror sequences with better action and special effects. The dialogue in Scream 3 seemed unrehearsed and natural. and unlike other films it also seemed like the cast had a blast with one another while in production of making Scream 3.From beginning to end, Scream 3 was a brilliant work of art by the horror master, Craven. Craven really knew what he was doing when he was directing this film.I give this film two thumbs way up and my recommendation to anyone who is a horror or movie fan; it is that great.  "},{"Title":"Trilogy that influenced my life","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This trilogy changed the way I look at life.These films show that the line between fiction and reality, between art and life, and between cinema and our lives is blurry at best. In the world of Williamson, life can follow the conventions of films, or it can completely dilineate from them. Young men in love can leap onto a table and sing to the object of their affection, and those around them will support this impromptu musical sequence. Some of us are supporting cast; others are the main character, a person of tragic drama. And the ending- well, that's never written for us. In 1996 Kevin Williamson took the conventions of horror films- and, specifically, teen slasher films- added his own Dawson-style teen drama and wonderfully crisp dialogue- and created one of the most self-aware and entertaining films ever made. In 97 he continued his franchise with Scream 2, a film that fails to live up to the giddy greatness of the original but which still manages to bring the above aspects back in a strong way. And now we come to this third and final installment to the trilogy. This third chapter has some weak points unfortunately, for one, Williamson did not write it (although he had the idea, and the whole trilogy idea, in his head from the get-go), so it lacks his level of teen drama, self-awareness and dialogue. But this can be seen as a good thing- Scream 3 takes place in the world after high school and college, so the absence of teen drama seems fitting, if not necessary, and as for the self-aware ingenuity and dialogue, this film delivers in a strong way. The makers of Scream 3 not only understand the essence of Williamson's trilogy, but they also obviously use care and skill in crafting a fitting conclusion to his franchise. Bravo! 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"One of the best horror movies of 2000, see Scream 3 instead Urban Legends Final Cut or Blair Witch 2 Book of Shadows.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SCREAM 3 (2000)THE GOOD--The idea of resurrecting the story of Maureen Prescott, Sidney's mother, made for a compelling plot line. The story only gets more entertaining as the mystery continues to unravel and by the end you will be satisfied and feel a sense of closure on the series.--Like the previous two films, Scream 3 maintains interest and is constantly entertaining, and therefore has a consistent rewatchability factor. I love watching this film and have done so many times, because it is entertaining. And that's a great Scream tradition!--Scream 3 is probably the funniest of the Scream films. The Parker Posey/Courteney Cox-Arquette bantering was the most enjoyable; Posey in particular is a hoot and a half playing her over-the-top character. This instalment also has neat little comedic additions to it, especially the cameos, which are very enjoyable. Jay and Silent Bob were great, as was Carrie Fisher. Fisher particularly gets her justice in a hilarious scene.--The final instalment to the Scream series advances on the chase-stab-kill routine, giving us a few more original death scenes. I loved the mirror death, the explosion and the high-speed chase especially.THE BAD--The first two films were very gory and bloody, yet Scream 3 has toned it down quite a lot. We get hardly any blood and the killings aren't very graphic.--Neve Campbell gives a strong performance and Sidney is an interesting character still, yet it is my opinion that she doesn't have enough screen time. I love Dewey and Gale, but the entire series has been based aren't Sidney's life and I wanted her to have more time in on the action of the film instead of hiding away in her forest house.RATING8/10 - So what if I'm a softy on the Scream films. I find them to be one of the most entertaining movie trilogies ever made, and Scream 3 is a great end to the series, with extremely well crafted mysteries and an endless rewatchability factor.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDI Know What You Did Last Summer (7/10) I Still Know What You Did Last Summer (7/10) The Ring (8/10) Scream (9/10) Scream 2 (8/10) "},{"Title":"I know not many people like it, but I love it!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Scream series and after I'd seen the first 2 I was expecting this to be a let-down. I was actually pleasantly surprised! It's defiantly the funniest, not the scariest I'll admit, but also has a great script and a good twist at the end. Overall, I'll give Scream 3 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Well","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good horror movie, I will give it that. It was slightly original, which is rare in the realm of horrors, but it lacked the umph of its predecessors. Great acting, but lacked the well placed, but not over-done, gore of the originals.7/10 "},{"Title":"Deserving concluding trilogy chapter","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" While fully exploited and mimicked by every hack writer/director throughout the movie industry, this is series stands alone...without peer.This last installment of the Scream trilogy perpetuates the wonderfully creative job Wes Craven did in the first two. I expected the typical campy, slip-shod third installment that we usually get from Hollywood. Typically, the third ones are the worst. (Halloween 3, for example, Batman 3, Indiana Jones 3, Jurassic Park 3 all fell short of the first two installments of their series.)Again, the original cast is back. I admire that tremendously in any series, but in this one especially, as the acting quality and chemistry between these thespians is absolute magic. Randy (Jamie Kennedy) explains to his friends, his extended family, what a trilogy is all about. In doing so, he points out that this movie that is their life, is the concluding chapter of...(their)...trilogy. This touch added immensely to the understanding of the facts. This movie brings together the first two movies and effectively illuminates all the evidential pieces, drawing them into a solid, cohesive story. While this last installment was a bit less shocking and scary than the first two, it was only by an infinitesimal amount. Randy's explanation is one of the key factors in the drawing together process around which this movie centers.If you find yourself dealing with an unexpected back-story and a preponderance of exposition, then the sequel rules do NOT apply. Because you are not dealing with the sequel. You are dealing with the concluding chapter of a trilogy...true trilogies are all about going back to the beginning, and discovering something that wasn't true from the get-go. Godfather, Jedi all revealed something that we thought was true, that wasn't true.So if it is a trilogy you are dealing with, here are some super trilogy rules. (1) You've got a killer who's going to be superhuman. Stabbing him won't work, shooting him won't work, basically you've got to cryogenically freeze his head, decapitate him, or blow him up. (2) Anyone, including the main character, can die. This means you, Sid. I'm sorry. It's the final chapter. It could be f**kin' Reservoir dogs by the time this thing is through. (3) The past will come back to bite you in the @ss. Whatever you think you know about the past, forget it. The past is not at rest! Any sins you think were committed in the past are about to break out and destroy you. Randy.The new characters are just as well-developed as the originals, the plot is extremely well written and hugely effective in promoting the central purpose of this final film; that of explaining everything and bringing all thoughts, ideas and facts together. In the beginning, I thought that the character of Jennifer Jolie, portrayed by Parker Posey, was hollow, shallow and ineffective. But upon further contemplation, I realized that was true only when she was in her role as Gale Weathers. Her interpretation of Gale's personality was that GALE was hollow, shallow and unprofessional. When she is out of that character, and in her own as Jennifer, her performance is extremely good.That original thought, alone, made me dislike the entire movie. Wes Craven's characters up until that point were all very professionally developed and portrayed. I could not understand his allowing a horrid performance to grace these movies. But in retrospect, it was not like that at all. The characters portraying actors, when in the roles the actors portray, all seem lacking, but I think perhaps that may be Craven's personal comment concerning the recent run of massively ill-done rip-off's of the Scream masterpieces, and not poor performances by these actors. The rip-off's, such as Cut and Urban Legend Final Cut, are horrid, obvious attempts to mimic the brilliance Craven presents to us. I don't blame him one bit. I would have written in a few snide comments, myself. Probably quite a bit more bold than this.The guest star appearances of Jay and Silent Bob was a lovely touch, by the way.PLOT Sidney is living in the mountains like the UniBomber, in an attempt to have some vestige of a life. Killers can't kill what they can't find. Sidney. She works as a counselor for a crisis call center, and can do this out of her home.Meanwhile, back in the city, the killings have resumed, and the case has been given to Det. Mark Kincaid of the LAPD (Patrick Dempsey), a detective interested in Hollywood and its many celebrities.Dewey works for Jennifer as security and her personal adviser, confidante and friend. He also coaches her to help her more effectively portray her character's role as Gale Weathers. Who better for the job than Gale's ex-lover?Pictures of Sidney's mother begin to turn up at each murder site; a perplexing fact which keeps Dewey's mouth tightly shut concerning Sidney's location. But when Sidney's security is unquestioningly breached, she reaches out to Dewey for that sense of connection and the security that only Dewey can give her.Gale and Dewey begin to puzzle out the mystery of Maurine Prescott's pictures, and slowly begin to put the pieces of the final puzzle together.If you liked Scream and Scream 2, this movie is a must see. It answers all the questions and throws you for a final spin that was never eluded to in the first two.Wonderful, triumphant, wildly successful conclusion to this trilogy. I highly recommend all three installments of Scream. It gets a full 9.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Ehren Kruger Drops the Ball in a Big Way","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Final Score 5.3 (out of 10)I think Wes Craven is one of the handful of directors working today that could be called brilliant. Unfortunately, that brilliance rarely comes out in his movies as he either indulges in his own dark desires to make the movies as twisted as possible or has his good name trampled on by giving a highly profiled producer credit to schlock horror flicks that he had little creative hand in. When Craven directs he can show his stuff as he did with the original 'Nightmare on Elm Street' and it's glorious finale 'Wes Craven's New Nightmare'. Then came the 'Scream' trilogy and Craven roared back. It seemed that Craven and screenwriter Kevin Williamson were like a match made in self-referential horror movie Heaven. When working together they bring out the best in each other and Scream and Scream 2 rank as some of their biggest achievements yet. So I was jazzed about the final installment. Even when I heard that this one was not going to be written by Williamson I didn't bat an eye. Williamson had since bought into his own hype and was at the time working on his own 'Dawson's Creek' and making his directorial debut with the disastrous 'Teaching Mrs. Tingle' (my pick for the worst movie of 1999). I had high hopes for new writer Ehren Kruger who had knocked me out with his first script - the decidedly anti-Hollywood terrorist horror thriller 'Arlington Road' (one of the best movies of 1999). I thought `this guy is going to give the series a real shot in the arm' and `who knows what twists he has in store for us'. It was his turn to take this series toward the goal line.and he dropped the ball.Maybe the pressure was too high. Maybe my own expectations were too high and I hyped myself up to much, but either way 'Scream 3' is a huge disappointment. However, I can compartmentalize the failings as being at the script and story level, because Craven works like gangbusters with the few great moments he is given. Much of the show stopping moments come from cameos. None better then an appearance by Jay and Silent Bob themselves. The movie has also constructed an ingenious way to bring back series favorite Jamie Kennedy as Randy. It is all to brief and if they had known what was good for them they would have made his appearance as a running gag in the movie. One thing that is retained from the first two is the excellent casting job. While it doesn't find up-and-coming stars the way the first 2 did, it does cast some familiar faces - like the otherwise washed-up Jenny McCarthy and Patrick Dempsey - that are a pleasure to see. The jewel in the crown is Parker Posey. She runs off with it - as she always does. Since 'Scream 3', Posey has become probably my favorite comedic actress working today (next to Paget Brewster) with show-stopping turns in Clockwatchers, Josie and the Pussycats and Best in Show to name a few.The opening scene is the most intense of the movie and Craven stages it with such exuberance. But it doesn't take much reminder of what a massive evolutionary leap backwards this little thing is from the spectacular openings that the first two films are known for. The closing scene also has a cheeky little idea that ends the film perfectly. I wouldn't have changed a thing about the final scene. But beyond those two bookends, 'Scream 3' is a retread of ideas from the first film as opposed to a genuine elevation in the series' story (like the completely different Scream 2 was). Kruger's story doesn't even quite connect at times. The movie is set in Hollywood with the characters on the production of 'Stab 3'. That makes no sense because in the second film they were watching 'Stab' which was based on the events of the first film. Kruger apparently skipped 'Stab 2' and shows them making a movie about events that have yet to happen. It could have made for a great joke about how horror movie sequels take their license and run with it, but Kruger never shows signs that he thinks there is a joke in that. The movie is a plethora of missed opportunities like this. The gore, the laughs, the wit, the suspense have all ratcheted been down enormously. It's unclear if Kruger doesn't understand the Scream series or if this was his vision all along and some higher level of irony is intended that doesn't get through. But even that gives him to much credit. This was undoubtably just a writer-for-hire job that he brushed over and collected his paycheck. The movie is reduced to run-of-the-mill slasher flick exercises. Then when the big moment of truth comes and the masked killer is finally revealed we get a befuddling head-scratcher that - instead of the gasps the first films provoked - will have the audience going `Ok, who's that'.- Warning Ending Spoiler -I'm going to do something different now and give what would have been my `alternate ending' to 'Scream 3'. If I was Kruger, wanting to jumpstart the movie in the 3rd act and make it stand out I would have killed off Sydney and then had her come back to life (much like Neo does in 'The Matrix') realizing that she is the main character in a movie and thus invincible - citing the ultimate horror movie trilogy reference that the main character can't die. This would blow out the film's credibility for a novelty stunt, but it's the end of a trilogy so why not go out with a memorable and wholly absurd shot in the foot. It would take the series full circle from what started as a movie about life imitating art to a movie about art imitating life imitating art. At least it's an idea, which is one more then the movie has already. Oh, yes, and I would have killed off Gail Wheathers. "},{"Title":"Scream 3.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 hit theatres in early 2000 to somewhat mixes reviews. The film did do well at the box-office but has somewhat dissapeared from people´s memories. Scream 3 is not a good film by any means. It is very silly and also it tries to be so melodramatic which it isn´t. The acting is bad, the characters are annoying and like the second one there are way to many characters but unlike number 2 a lot of the actors are unknowns or have had careers in the indie or independent films. Scream 3 also seems more stabled than Scream 2. It was not made by such a rush and provides few scares while number two had none. It is also a lot more exciting, the cinematography is better and the direction as well.The screenplay is however missing something and it has pretty weak plot but it is way better than no.2 in terms of quality and scares. Scream 3 however could have been better and what it seems to be missing as well is humor which was one of the key elements in the success of the first two Scream films. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"The final chapter to a very idiotic trilogy","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3/ * starOut of all the slasher films that I have seen this has got to be one of the worst. When I first saw this, I was so thankful that this was said to be the third and final chapter. Right now I'm looking back to my first review for Scream and thinking about how dumb and unrealistic that movie was, and now looking at it's third film, this is even more unrealistic than the other two movies combined. The only thing that is even remotley good about this movie is that you can say with joy that it is the last of the series. Hopefully the directors of this realize how stupid it was and try and think of something more original the next time they make a movie, if that is at all possible. "},{"Title":"Broke The Rules","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS - READ WITH CAUTIONWhile this movie claimed to not follow any rule, there was still one big general rule that really should have been followed - as pointed out by Randy Meeks (who makes an appearance via a recording filmed before his death), at the end of a trilogy, ALL BETS ARE OFF. A main character (a.k.a someone from the original) should die. There will be more blood, more gore, more excitement and a killer ending. This is no ordinary sequel. But of course, Scream 3 fails to fire in these areas.It doesn't match up to the first 2 with their wit, thrills and quality. What we get instead is a product that doesn't really excite and leaves the viewer yawning. The ending was far-fetched and in all honesty is rather stupid and had me shaking my head. Some moments were good. A variety of cameos were worth a smile and so was Jamie Kennedy's video recording. Overall, could of done better. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What went wrong? My only suggestion is that they lost Kevin Williamson, the original writer; break the chain and it will dysfunction thereafter. If anyone has listened to the film commentaries provided on the DVDs, they will instantly realise which of the three Scream movies Wes Craven is less interested with. The fact he speaks little and unenthusiastically about particular his project spells it out in capitols.The story and acting are engaging, but unfortunately this just doesn't gel with what at one point seemed to be the Star Wars of the horror genre. Imagine reading and studying an entire novel but having the last chapter written by another writer&#133; It cannot work. It did not work. As slashers go, it's ok, but as the closing film for a great franchise, I was disappointed. I much preferred Wes's &#145;People Under the Stairs', or even his &#145;The Serpent and the Rainbow' when compared to the poor Scream 3.   "},{"Title":"Not such a good film to end a fantasic pervious 2","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  All the hype was for nothing, I found this film to far-fetched and very pointless. Neve Campbell gave it her best as Sid like usual but the story just wasnt quite there and Parker Posey (Jennifer) annoyed the hell out of me like she was some kind of drama queen. So all in all good in some places, very dissapointing in others "}{"Title":"Lance Henrikson bombness","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lance Henrikson is da man ~! and it's great to see him in this movie(for however short a part).  This time around the main characters do what the main characters have been doing the first two films and the killer keeps up his job too, except this time they don't have to worry about the muckymuck of Kevin Williamson's writing and into the oddertackier graces of Kruger's.Awesome sequel for Scream(s) "},{"Title":"A Weak End to the Trilogy","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 finds the survivors from the first two movies a tired lot indeed. The energy seems to have been drained from the characters, and the actors who portray them. David Arquette, Neve Campbell, and Courtney Cox are only going through the motions. The screenplay offers nothing new, and the direction seems to wander. The only bright spot in the movie is Parker Posey, but the soggy mass of the movie is too much for her to carry on her own. The trilogy started very strong, but ends on a low note. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"A Really Good Movie, But This Can't be the Final Cut","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I also did not get a chance to see this one in the theater either. After Scream 2 i expected this one to be really awesome and to most likely beat the first and almost as good as the second. I was totally wrong it was really good but it was not a good closing to the trilogy. I mean what about Billy's father? His mother was the killer in the second one. There was only one killer it was much better when there was two. Overall, it was really good but there needs to be a fourth. "},{"Title":"Best of a bad bunch","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Warning Herein there be SPOILERS&#133;This actually isn't tooooo bad, much better than its predecessors. I personally hated the other too but this one pleasantly surprised me. The script is loaded with some great pokes against the horror genre and the movie business in Hollywood as a whole-I'm sick of being 35 playing a 21 year old, which certainly sums up one of my movie-pet hates.Also, there were actually some genuine chills in this one. These were primarily provided in the form of Sydney's mother's ghost (outside the window and underneath the blood stained sheet), which proved a refreshing change from the slasher action in the rest of the movie. Carrie Fisher also makes a hilarious cameo in the film. This movie also highlights the complete pointlessness of Scream 2 (which might as well have been called Scream 2 Billy's Mum Gets Even!) In fact, you could go straight from Scream to Scream 3 and not really miss anything.However, there were also some terrible, terrible things about this film. Firstly, all those needless supporting characters that seemed to be there solely to bloody the killer's knife. Secondly, the (characteristic of a Scream movie) woefully weak ending. With all the bloody unmasking that goes on, you'd swear you were watching an episode of Scooby Doo- And I would have gotten away with it too if it weren't for you pesky kids!(-coincidence that two of the Scream actors have gone on to star in the forthcoming Scooby Doo movie?) What follows the customary killing-of-the-killer-then-killing-him-again scene is a sort of epilogue, with symbolism as subtle as a sledgehammer (Sydney opening the gates). Weak, weak, weak.Thirdly, there were a mishmash of setpieces that were no more than blatantly reworked scenes from the other two movies somebody trapped with the killer behind a soundproof screen, one of the characters getting &#145;killed' then reappearing, unharmed, transpiring to be the killer. Fourthly, the reappearance of Randy- don't get me wrong, I really liked his character, but that whole video thing was just waaaay too contrived for me. It's as if Craven was so obsessed with killing off as many people as possible in the second film, that by the time he made the third one it was a case of whoops, I've already killed off the character who recites the rules in every film, now how do I bring him back? Hmmmm..My verdict, however, is if you HAVE to see any of the Scream films, see this one. (Thank God there isn't such a word as Quadrology in the movie business...)    "},{"Title":"Weak Weak Weak Sequel","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What an uninspired conclusion to a really good trilogy. The law of bad sequels strikes again and just can't match the first two Scream films. The only good thing is that Courteney Cox looks fantastic in tight red leather pants. Hot stuff! "},{"Title":"perfect trilogy","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i dont know what all these peoples problems are there just dumb, this is a great movie just as good as the second one the first is in a league of its own but the second two are still great movies. It was such a good trilogy too with suspense, comedy, and suprises. Hooray for the scream movies! "},{"Title":"Thank the lord that this is the end.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was the worst of the entire series. It had no obvious plot and no storyline. Writer Ehren Kruger sucks. He cannot write a good script. Neve Campbell is the least used of all the film's central characters. Which is really bad, because she is listed as the film's leading star. *SPOILER* This movie is horrible. I thought it was okay, but it isn't even that if you sit down and really think about what is happening. Sidney Prescott (Campbell) now secludes herself up in her house away from the world, her only contact with other people being her job, which she does from home. *MAJOR SPOILERS* So, when this killer calls her on her home phone, we all wonder how did he do that?. Even she wonders that. She even mentions that her phone number is unlisted and has changed her name to Laura. But this killer, didn't seem to find any of this to be a problem. Writer Ehren Kruger takes everything in this film and makes it somehow so that it was tied in with the first and second films. And that really makes a terrible movie. *MAJOR MAJOR SPOILERS* When the killer turns out to be Sidney's brother, after Sidney has killed him in a very un-original fight to the death, they have a little moment where they both grab each other's hands and look into each other's eyes. That moment was stolen directly from HALLOWEEN H20. Ehren Kruger can't even steal scenes from other movies right! Atleast in HALLOWEEN H20, it looked real. Here, it just looks like something Sidney does to every psycho killer that she has just murdered out of self-defense. Pretty hokey stuff. So, the killer, goes through all this trouble to go on a killing rampage, trying to get Sidney out of hiding. Because he wants her dead. Why? Don't know. Why four years after the second film? Don't know. Again, another thing that Ehren Kruger didn't think about. He only wrote it because he thought it would be cool. Which it is not. The killer, for some reason, wants Sidney dead because their mother abandoned him at a younger age. One of the dumbest plots ever seen on film. There is even an explosion in the movie, which is clearly done just so something could blow up in the film. SCREAM 3 horrible. See it anyway, though. Its good if you're in the mood for a movie to upset you. 2/5. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  scream 3! i dont care what people say about this movie..i like it..!i saw it at the cinema..and ever since i saw it i love it(i got on dvd)the first 1 had the best plot..!nr 2 was the scariest..but nr 3 had the badest plot..but it was a little scary..and fun!love the fact that it takes place in hollywood!its a realy good ending to a good..triologi! watch it with ur frends and dont give a fu** about the bad plot..just have fun  "},{"Title":"Wasn't THAT horrible","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have a feeling that when people walked out of the movie theater after watching Scream 3 they were very dissapointed. I have to say that I thought that for a final chapter, I thought that it was great. The scene were Sid walks into the set of her bedroom was very creepy and creative. I do have to agree that Scream 3 had to be the final chapter because I think that they summed it up very nicely. The directing was great and even though everything was revolved around deadly phone calls I didn't feel any sort of repitition. I thought that under the circumstances, Scream 3 was great. I rapped up a great series of horror films. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Could be better. Without Kevin Williamson the second sequel of this hugely entertaining horror series suffered greatly. Not even the fantastic cast could save this movie. The acting is at some times poor, as is the action. Being a horror movie you'd expect the death scenes to be a lot more gory. Come on Wes, sort it out! Hopefully this is the last of the Scream movies. Making a fourth, fifth or sixth will only ruin the memory of the first two films and become predictable boring yarn. DO NOT MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE AS THE FREDDY AND JASON FILMS! "}{"Title":"great second sequel","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  starring Courtney Cox Arquette, David Arquette, Neve Campbell, Patrick Dempsy, Parker Posey, Jenny McCarthy, Matt Keeslar, Emily Mortimer, Deon Richmond, Liev Schrieber, Kelly Rutherford, and Lance Henrickson.plot  Cotton (Liev Schrieber) and his girlfriend, Christine (Kelly Rutherford) are murdered by the a man in a ghost mask. After Gale (Courtney Cox Arquette) heres, she starts working with a Detective (Patrick Dempsy). After Sara Darling (Jenny McCarthy), the actress who is supposed to play Candy in Stab 3, is murdered on set. Gale and Dewey (David Arquette) find out that the killer is killing the actors in the order they die in the movie, but that could be Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey) who plays Gale, Tom Prinze (Matt Keeslar) who plays Dewey, Angelina Tyler (Emily Mortimer) who plays Sidney, or Tyson Fox (Deon Richmond) who plays Ricky. Sidney (Neve Campbell) returns to help Gale, Dewey, and Detective Kincaid because the killer claims to be Sidney's mother's real killer.review This is way better then Scream 2!! I love the cast in this! Neve Campbell, Courtney Cox Arquette, David Arquette, Parker Posey, Patrick Dempsy, Jenny McCarthy, Lance Henrickson, Deon Richmond, Matt Keeslar, and Emily Mortimer all play their parts well. Also the gore and writing is cool! The creepiest scene is where Sidney has the nightmare about her mother! Also there are cool cameos by Liev Schrieber, Jamie Kennedy, and Jay and Silent Bob!9/10!! "},{"Title":"unremarkable sequel","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Years after the horror that occurred in Scream and Scream 2, Campbell is living a life of isolation in fear that the nightmare that was her past will come back to haunt her. The public awaits in anticipation as the newest film depicting the Woodsboro murders is set to hit theaters, but it's put on hold when a serial killer suddenly strikes targeting actors, family members, and everyone else even remotely connected to the past murders. A clever scenario with some good twists and a capable cast, but the film is lacking in scares and lacks the truly spine-chilling atmosphere that it needs to make it work. Almost plays out like a convoluted murder mystery that's in desperate need of adrenaline. **½ "},{"Title":"Craptacular","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rated R for strong horror violence and languagePlot Summary No matter how hard she tries, Sidney Presoctt (Campbell), cannot escape her haunted past.  Her past comes back to her when the cast of a horror movie based on some local murders starts being murdered, and she is haunted one again.Though I enjoyed the cornball horror of the original Scream, the second one wasn't as good, and the third was just crap.  The ending was sad, though the whole story sucks.  Sure, it may be an OK, though corny, premise for a movie or trilogy, but how many damn movies can be stretched out from one concept.  Aside from some suspenseful moments, a few funny ones, and great gore, special effects, and a brilliant hard rock soundtrack, the cast and crew of Scream 3 did clearly not put as much effort into this one as the original, or even the second Scream.The original Scream, released back in 1996, resurected the teen slasher genre from the 70s and 80s.  Long after Friday The 13th, Halloween, and The NIghtmare On Elm Street were first viewed and exploded into long serieses, a whole new breed of teen slasher movies gave teen actors work. Even Halloween and Friday The 13th have new movies coming out this year (Halloween The Homecoming and Jason X).  The plethora of teen stars such as Jennifer Love Hewitt exploded in such movies as I Know What You Did Last Summer and Urban Legend.  As long as crappy sequels are being made, what is to look forward to in this genre.  Scream was a guilty pleasure, but now with crap like this, Urban Legends 2 coming out, what is there to look forward to.  The Forsaken and Dracula 2000 didn't fare to well at the box office.  Neither did Valentine, but Jeepers Creepers did okay. While I have heard good things about Thirteen Ghosts, how much different could it be then the others.  Halloween and Friday The 13th were good, but they spawned so many sequels that the originals are just forgotten.  I guess the Snoop Dogg vehicle Bones is different, it is a ghettofied horror flick, bu this was just not worth seeing.  See it only if there is nothing else to rent.My Rating 4 .5 out of 10 or C "},{"Title":"A Great production of Maddalena films!!!","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The last film of the Scream trilogy is;1)Very, very entertaining  2)Definatly Scary sometimes   3)Fun   4) And it has a Great soundtrack!When it came in early summer 2000 the media rate it an once! Why? I mean, this film are really cool! Of course is Scream 1 the best, and Scream 2 is a super-sequel,but I think that this trilogy is the best!And yeah! I almost forgot; Great actors! Neve Campbell, Parker Posey, Courteney Cox, David Arquette, Scott Foley many more... Watch this film now!  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I guess this movie was alright. I have always been a fan of the Scream series and I enjoyed this one. The writers put way too much humor into the movie though. They didn't keep a dark enough tone like they did in the first and second. Despite this it was still a good movie, entertaining, scary, creative, etc. It is a great way to end the wonderful horror series. "},{"Title":"some good things","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The violence isn't very convincing, and the new characters are either annoying or too thin. Especially Parker Posey(in a one-note performance)as the actress portraying Gail Weathers. There are some interesting twists and turns, but there are really no scares. Plays more like a complicated murder mystery than a horror film. The ending is fairly clever, but the rest of the film is mostly the same old thing. 2/4  "},{"Title":"Killer!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie as I do all the other installments. I remember when the original Scream came out; I was only in sixth grade and it scared the crap out of me. By the third and final one, of course, I wasn't nearly as scared but I'd still grown to love the characters. They become part of you, as if they're real people. Cotton, Gale, Sidney, Dewey, Randy...they're all great and so REAL!!! This movie was pretty much the same as the other two....but still just as great. Not the best in the series but not the worst, it's right in the middle. Don't even bother to watch this movie unless you're gonna sit through the other two as well. A great final chapter to a killer series. 8/10 "},{"Title":"very inventive movie","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 wasn't a horror movie, I thought it was more of a comedy than horror. My favorite character was Jennifer Jolie played by Parker Posey. Parker nailed this role. She deserved that mtv movie awards. This was a very good comedy horror. "},{"Title":"not good as the first one but better than the second","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was not as good as the first one but better than the second one. The first is my favorite the second sucked, And the third was okay. I give this movie 8/10. It had more action. And more things going on all of the time. Pretty cool. I am glad though that there is gonna be no more. It gets boring after a while. Three was enough. Because i grew tired of Neve Campbell and Corteney Cox really fast, they are annoying.  "},{"Title":"The Final Analysis...","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3, the last of the most innovative horror trilogy ever. Okay, I hear a lot of howls of protest over this statement, but as I explained with my reviews  of the other two, each movie brings something different. Scream 3 did the only thing left, it attacked its makers and Hollywood in general. The idea of the third 'Stab' movie was brilliant, but that is only the start. We see Jay and Silent Bob, versions of the first movie's characters, Cotton Weary have his own trash talk show, Lance Henriksen do a send up of both Wes Craven and William Castle, a director with the first name 'Roman', and best of all, Carrie Fisher playing a woman who looks just like her. The 'Big Secret', the last detail the creators waited to tell us is the biggest cliche in horror movie history, but in  the context of this movie, and this series, it is a great move to add to a movie that is both parody and horror. "}{"Title":"A good ending to the trilogy","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After Scream 2, I wasn't sure what to expect in Scream 3.  Scream 2 was disappointing, but this film is much better, and perhaps better than the original was.  There seems to be a change of tone in this film, with quite a few earie moments, as well as the quick shocks of the other 2 films.   Also, being the last part of a trilogy, there is some of a development of the plot of the original film.  Thus the plot seems to be more developed than the other two films.  There are  number of plot elements that are included but then seem to be ignored later on, but mostly the plot is well written, and more focused than the others.This is well worth watching if you liked Scream, even if you were disappointed by Scream 2.          "},{"Title":"my god...what happened??","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (THIS COULD POSSIBLY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!!) I loved 'Scream' I thought it was the best movie ever. When I heard there was a 'Scream 2' I had to see it...I thought it was good, but not anywhere as good as the original...but I bought it anyway because I had the original on video. As soon as 'Scream 3' came out on video I bought it so then I would have the full trilogy...what a waste of money. 'Scream 3' is the most stupid film I think I've ever seen...quite frankly 'The sound of music' is more appealing to watch than 'Scream 3'. But okay I will say something for 'Scream 3' there was a clever scene in the house half way through the film...but the way it is set up is so stupid...not trying to ruin the plot or anything (sorry if I do) but if the person(s) don't realise something is dangerously wrong inside that house then they are too stupid to live anyway. And if you can believe that a blade tip would just bounce of somebody when it has been thrown full force into them then you are pretty naive. The plot does reveal something surpising about Maureen Prescott's (Sidney's mother) past which develops into a good motive. I suppose what made 'Scream 3' more boring was the fact that in the last two movies all but one the decent characters had been killed off and we were left with the boring rejects that have no life in the chracters. The only good part of this film is when the credits show at the end and I advise you to go nowhere near this movie.  "},{"Title":"Running on empty","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is hopefully the film that nails the teen slasher genre's lid onto its very sad and forlorn little coffin. As exciting the breath of fresh air Scream brought to the silver screen and particularly the horror genre, Scream 3 leaves a terribly bitter aftertaste like something that has been cooked to death. The momentus build up to the release of this film and the subsequent fact that it was the last in a silly trilogy that would tie up all the loose ends lying around like carved up crab sticks from the previous two. Firstly, Scream 3 only goes furthur to throw more confusion into an already warped out melting pot and secondly the neat little tie in's to previous instalments of the franchise are about as substandard as a morning episode of Hanna-Baberra's Scooby Doo mysteries. If this was the best whopper they could come up with to finally wrap things up, these film should be re-classified as comedies for our future generations to laugh at. As Scream opened the floodgates to zillions of other imitators, hopefully the big surprise to come from this film is that no other future Hollywood studio may make another slasher flick involving teens or psychotic villians in ridiculous masks. Now that would be a fitting ending to the trilogy. "},{"Title":" Clever and Chilling.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"    I watched Scream 3, and I have to say that I liked it! It wasn't as good as the original, but that is practically a rule in sequels. It was WAY better than Scream 2.Scream 3 was pretty good, and I liked it. I watched this movie at night, alone, so it was pretty creepy. I enjoyed the performances by Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courtney Cox,  and Parker Posey. This movie is very creepy, but sometimes funny. Neve Campbell did an excellent role as Sidney Prescott. If you like the horror genre, I reccomend the Scream movies, and I also reccomend this one. I give it a rating of 8 or 9 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Comments on a pretty good movie","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie, but there a few points I would like to make!First, they changed the way the killer called a person to tell them they were about to die.This time around the killer called posing as a woman and than proceeds to tell the person they are about to die!No more what is your favorite scary movie to increase the level of intensity for the people who are watching about who and where the killer could be.Second,the characters in the movie checked pulses of the characters that were presumed dead!!They did not do that in Scream 1 or 2!But, it was pretty good!I give it a 6.5/10!  "},{"Title":"Overall, an okay movie","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I went to see 'Scream 3', I was expecting something along the lines of the first two Screams - witty, sharp, and filled with dry humour. Although not quite up to the standard of these two, 'Scream 3' is pleasantly diverting.Let's start with the acting. David Arquette gives the same performance he gave in the first two movies - the same facial expression all the way through, delivered in a style that's probably supposed to be sweet and endearing, but actually makes you want to throttle him. Never mind. Courteney Cox Arquette proves once again that she is a fine actress, but that could get lost for you if you happen to be concentrating on her hairstyle! Neve Campbell is pleasant and sweet as the unfortunate Sidney; Jenny McCarthy is hilarious as Sarah; and Parker Posey steals the entire film as Judy, or Gale mark 2.The storyline ties everything up pretty nicely. We're given reasons as to why the two previous Screams occurred, and everything is ended fairly neatly. To make a 'Scream 4' would just be a travesty now! If you liked the first two movies, you should see this. If you haven't seen them - see them first.  "},{"Title":"Tired rehash (contains spoilers)","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As I felt that Scream 2 was a bit tired and devoid of the immense impact that Scream generated, this third installment is almost aneamic. It's a tired rehash of old plot elements and even the actors involved seem to notice that and only walk through their paces in semi-disinterested fashion. The telephone-voice-thing surely could have been replaced by something new. And to dig up that Maureen Prescott story almost makes the whole thing a cross between Agatha Christie and Psycho (echoes of mother), trying to put the audience at the edge of their seats with suspense but instead making a lost cause from the beginning loose steam altoghether. It is, however, competently put together and have some bright spots, mostly some funny dialogue between Cox and Posey (they both turn in quite amusing and alert performances) and odd scenes of power, like the attack on Campbell on the Stab 3 set. Other scenes simply falls flat (the beginning simply fails to catch your interest) and it's obvious who the killer is since it's the only murder that takes place off-screen. But Wes Craven has managed to renew himself before and hopefully he will again! "},{"Title":"this better be the end","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first film was original and I loved it, the second I thought was clever but a little boring, now this film is awful, I really hope this is the last of the Scream films, other wise I will Scream!!!! It is all about Sidney living with the fear that someone may still be out there who wants to kill her and guess what there is!!! I only watched this film because i wanted to know how the Scream films would be ended and i wasn't surprised when it turned out to be rubbish because most horror film sequels or trilogy's are. "},{"Title":"Nothing new....","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  They say that horror film series like these tend to deteriorate after the first film, and this is exactly what Scream does. After the magnificent opener, the above average sequel, we now have a lame third flick. I have many problems with this film.***SPOILERS AHEAD****Randy is supposed to be dead. But they can't help sneaking him in anyway, on a prerecorded tape to explain the rules.*While these rules are clearly spelled out- its the last movie,so anything can happen, and anyone can die, the movie proceeds to ignore them completely. I was waiting to see which of the main characters would die. But none of them did. Also, the killer is supposed to be almost superhuman because its the last film. But I seem to remember it being harder to kill the guys in Scream 1 than this guy.*The killer himself, is a minor character until the end, when he is revealed. You shouldn't have to think twice, and say Who? when the killer is revealed. (I thought they would have learned their lesson from Scream 2 about this one.)It's all to samey for my liking, although I did like the bit at the end, which pushed postmodernism to new extremes......I wonder if they'll get divorced too. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As most are aware this isn't the greatest film ever, and it's a long way from being that I can tell you!But you must remember that no one really wanted to do this picture...c'mon be honest people SCREAM 3!!!Wes Craven tried to introduce new aspects do the trilogy. 1) MUCH MORE ATTEMPTED COMICAL VALUES2) HIS RETRO ZOMBIE MAKE-UP FROM WHAT SEEMS TO BE 80'sWARNING WARNING SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS WARNING WARNINGFROM NOW ON....3) NOT ONE OF THE MAIN CHARACTERS DIE i) SCREAM   Skeet Ulrich & Matthew Lillard & of course Drew Barrymore ii) SCREAM 2 the one and only Jamie Kennedy along with Pinkett & Epps iii) SCREAM 3 Hmmmmmm Posey I guess!4) Blowing someone up (Eeeeeewwwwwwww)But there was one good thing about this film... in SCREAM it was Linda Blair among others... in SCREAM 2 it was Heather Graham among others... and in SCREAM 3 it was Carrie Fisher AND... JAY & SILENT BOB (Alias Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith)SNOOGANS!Yes I'm talking about cameos!!! J & SB's were fairly amusing so was C.F's!What They got wrong! i) HE DIDN'T KILL EITHER COX-ARQUETTE, ARQUETTE or CAMPBELL...WHY??? ii) EVEN THOUGH HE'S A GREAT MEMBER OF THE SCREAM SAGA, WHY OH WHY BRING RANDY BACK... IT WAS SUCH A BAD WRITING ERROR.(and wasn't Randy's sister that girl in the 'Devil's Advocate' who is in the courtroom scenes??) iii) INTRODUCE THE RULES OF THE TRILOGY, JUST BECAUSE THERE ARE 3 DOESN'T MEAN YOU MUST!Anyway let's all beg that they don't do what every other horror film saga has done and thats continue films, and thats by doing loads of them! YES I'm talking to you, the people who sucked the fun out of Halloween, The Omen, Friday 13th, Hellraiser and Freddy Kruger movies etc...SCREAM 3 ****1/2 out of **********  "}{"Title":"SO AVERAGE!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this film struck me as a bit over crowded-in fact most characters were wafer thin 2 scene/death scene parts,a literally s***e opening scene,compared to the excellent gutting of barrymore in the first-which was scary-this wasn't,just average.the ending is good though,it wraps the series up really well-ending it forever,but u can't help feeling a little disappointed that not even 1 of the three main parts went under the knife. the supporting cast was -terrible-performances by actors that were given nothing to work with and the killer is just plain boring i would recommend scream ,urban legend and screme 2 b4 recommending this-but don't get me wrong-if u have seen the first two,then go rent this ,but beware-the only shock is that there arnt ne in this one  "},{"Title":"Great, but lacks the power of the first two.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me just start off by saying that you can totally tell that Kevin Williamson did NOT write this third installment of the trilogy.  Each scene lacked whatever it was that Mr. Williamson put into the others.  The killer was quite predictable, they seemed to skip right over everything that happened in SCREAM 2 (except for the frat letters Sidney still wore around her neck) and a majority of the characters were simply there to be killed off, there was no point to them in the story.  It was still enjoyable, but not as much as the previous two.  I would like to see the Gale and Dewey characters in another film, however.  Maybe a romantic comedy?? "},{"Title":"More like a comedy","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have absolutely nothing good to say about this movie.  It was horrible!!! I found myself laughing through just about the whole thing.  The best person of the films is barely in the movie.  It had no plot, and relied things shocking you for all of their scares.  The killer(s) is/are so obvious, and his/her/their motive is so dumb that it will be making you laugh even more. It lacked EVERYTHING that made the first movie so great.  There were endless plot holes in the movie, the casting was horrible, and so was the script. I didn't expect much from the movie, seeing as though the 2nd one wasn't too great.  But I expected way more than this.  I personally can't believe that Neve, Courteney, and David agreed to come back for this one.  The only good things about this movie were the appearances by Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes, and Carrie Fischer.  Want some advice?  Save your money and wait for cable. "},{"Title":"The weakest in the series!","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Scream 3' is definitely the weakest of the trilogy, but it wasn't as horrible as others have stated! If you liked 'Scream' and 'Scream 2', I recommend this film.(SPOILER) The main problem with 'Scream 3' is that it slightly over-killed the cleverness of the first two films (I liked 'Scream 2')). The premise was decent enough but it lacked the spark, suspense and satirical nature of 'Scream' and 'Scream 2'! The cameo from Jay and Silent Bob wasn't that great, personally I thought the best bit was the cameo from Jamie Kennedy as Randy Meeks. Saying that, although 'Scream 3' is my least favourite out of the three, it's still very watchable and it still consists of a similar style and humour of the original two- but lacked in effectiveness! 'Scream 3' gets a *** out of *****! "},{"Title":"I still like scary movies","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Williamson wrote and Wes Craven directed an another Scream movie in 2000.In Scream 3 they are making a movie called Stab 3 with actors playing the characters known from the earlier Screams.And soon the ghost masked psycho killer starts killing the actors and some other people who get in his way.Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is once again in danger and so are Dwight Riley (David Arquette) and Gale Weathers(Courteney Cox Arquette) who got married during the trilogy.From earlier parts you can also see Liev Schreiber as Cotton Weary and Jamie Kennedy as Randy Meeks.Good performances give also Lance Henriksen, Kelly Rutherford, Jenny McCarthy and Princess Leia Carrie Fisher in a great cameo.Scream 3 isn't quite as good as were two earlier parts but it's pretty good anyway.There are some good moments in this slasher horror movie.There were lots of rumors going around Scream 3 while they were shooting it.Neve Campbell wasn't going to be in it at all but I'm glad she did act Sidney Prescott one more time.Scream wouldn't be Scream without her.They said there won't be anymore Scream movies after this.But who knows.It's Hollywood for God's sake.There will be at least ten more parts.But I hope this was the last.Enough is enough.But this is a very enjoyable flick and you won't get bored with this.Scream 3 is a must see for every fan of Scream movies.Scream while you still can. "},{"Title":"The final part of the most famous horror movies of the late 90's","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No matter how much I try to be objective about the whole Scream saga I can't achieve it so I will be as subjective as I can be. I was never a big fun of scary movies, but I liked watching the good ones. When I heard about Scream, I thought that the mix of horror and humour would be something interesting. Then I got Scream 1 to see. The only scene I found interesting in that movie was the one with the car keys towards the end of the film. The rest of the film was just a bit above average. The case with Scream 2 was even worst. The whole story with the psycho mother was a bit far stretched and the film was just a repetition of the first one in my opinion. And then Scream 3 came into life. I found the fact that the movie was going to give us additional story secrets quite fascinating. I love trilogies, so I thought maybe we're in for a great surprise with this movie. The movie started quite well but it didn't turn out to be something unique. In the beginning all kinds of secrets seemed to exist about Sid's late mother but the end disappointed me very much. I won't reveal anything about it because I don't want to totally ruin the movie, but I believe the writers could have been more creative. Furthermore, there isn't a scary scene in a movie which is supposed to be a horror movie. All the murders are shown as they would be shown in an adventure or gangster movie. There is no gore at all. And that is a disadvantage for a horror movie. I found the scene with Jay and Silent Bob quite interesting (Dogma and Clerks forever )). The rest of the movie wasn't something exceptional. Even Gayle wasn't the bitch she was in the other two movies. As a closing to this review I would like to say that the scream trilogy is nothing exceptional in my opinion. It cause a reappearance of all these horror movies which take place in little american towns and the victims are mostly teenagers. I don't know if this is good or not but if I want to see a scary movie I would prefer to see something more original. "},{"Title":"A poor end to a great trilogy!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a disappointment! What a sour follow-up to two fabulous flicks! Sadly, what started as a renaissance of the slasher genre, films of quality not seen since Carpenter's work on Halloween I and II and the Fog...well, maybe *quality* isn't the best word, but you kow what I mean;) What this film truly lacks is Kevin Williamson's writing. Ehren Kruger desperately tries to write like Williamson (which is part of the problem) and fails miserably. Williamson's sharp wit and hilarious satire is missing, as is his keen sense of continuity and plot development. In short this film drags and lacks plot. The jokes aren't especially funny. The characters are dry. Even Wes Craven seems to be less than interested in making this film. I expected much more from a stellar cast. But even Neve Cambell and the Arquettes' reprising roles seemed to be out of steam. Their characters had dried up...had become generic and stagnant. Indie queen Parker Posey was missing the lustre she has in Dazed and Confused and Henry Fool, Patrick Dempsey's geek-boy charm was washed out, Lance Henriksen wasn't on screen for nearly long enough...even Jenny McCarthy's breasts couldn't save this film!;) Scream 2 was a sequel well worth watching, it had new sides to it that were exciting and fun to watch, it had twists that were fresh and unexplored in the first film. In many ways it out-paced the first and made for a better film. This film, unfortunately, had a redundant feeling...a 'we've seen it all before' feeling. It begged for that spark of excitement, that breath of fresh air that the other ones had. In the end, it was average. There were enjoyable moments (including the surprise guest appearance of Jay and Silent Bob and Randy's soliloquy from the grave) but they weren't enough to keep this film interesting. And the ending!!! Oh the humanity!!! Just a touch melodramatic!! This was even beyond the normal Hollywood cheeze factory! I haven't felt that nauseated at a horrid Hollywood ending since Face/Off! They should have just killed Sidney and been done with it.  I'd recommend this at simply for closure. If one is a fan of the other two, it won't *ruin* the trilogy to see it...it's like Phantom Menace, it sucks but it's still Star Wars. This sucks but it's still Scream. And, also like ep. 1, this isn't bad enough to make me wish I'd never seen it, in fact, it was pretty much what I'd expected, so my expectations had been low and therefore I wasn't overly disappointed. Average, lamentable, a sad end to a great series. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Yeah, I really Screamed with terror!?!?","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Why ruin a good thing? Scream was a hip and clever film. And it should have ended, but it didn't... they made a sequel.. Scream 2, which was okay but it didn't have the same thunder as Scream. Now Scream 3--The After College Years. Give me a break. The plot was highly unbelievable and the movie should have been entitled The Other Scream 2 because, on my recollection, it didn't allude to the second one at all.. thus disqualifying it from the Trilogy theme that it tried to project. Well, it didn't work, and if they make a Scream 4, I'll wear the stupid mask and stalk the people of Dimension.. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"                       ******SPOILER******Scream 3 was GREAT. It made the perfect way to end the brilliant Scream trilogy. I couldn't believe that Roman turned out to be the killer and then we find out he was Sydney's brother. It was great they way they did it all without us even suspecting one thing. A brilliant film. It's a shame there will be no more Screams but then again it would be silly to make more. Anyway, i give it 10/10, yet again for another Scream film. "},{"Title":"Scream 3 Destroyed The Scream-Trilogy","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was horrible!  How could they make this into a movie?  The first two were excellent, no complaints, 10s/10s!  But this one just sucked! Everything was cheesy.  It was more of a comedy, than a horror flick.  The ending wasn't shocking (and this ending was supposed to close the series). But worst of all, it wasn't made for horror buffs.  It's just one of those movies where anybody can just walk in the theater and watch (you wouldn't even have had to see `Scream' or `Scream 2').  `Scream' was for horrorbuffs. `Scream 2' was for both `Scream' fanatics, and horrorbuffs.  But `Scream 3' was just nothing.  It had no movie trivia, wasn't even funny, not original at all, and not even scary.  The only reason one should view this trash is to see how the great `Scream' and `Scream 2' end, or just want to see if it's as bad as I say.  Trust me, it is.  3/10.  I gave it a 3/10 because at least all the returning actors came back.  David Arquette, Neve Campbell, Courtney Cox, Liev Schreiber, and even a special appearance by JAMIE KENNEDY AS GEEKY RANDY MEEKS!  Which sucked, but at least Randy was in it!  That's the only reason why this crappy film didn't get a 1/10.3/10 "}{"Title":"My number 132 movie","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is my number 132 movie. I think it is worse than part 1 and better than part 2. What I did not like about Scream 3 was that all the women scream almost through the whole movie. What is so frightening about a light that is switched off if there are three people standing next to you ?Sidney Prescott ( Neve Campbell ) has left Woodsboro and went to Los Angeles. She is a clergyman for women in trouble. One day she hears that Cotton Werry, the man that she accused for murdering her mother, but who was actually innocent, and his girlfriend are murdered. A few days later another actor is killed, and people notice that the actors are killed exactly in the same order that their characters die in ´Stab3´ ( the film dealing with the incidents of ´Scream1&2´). But there are four different versions of a script... And none knows how´s gonna be the next...I think that Scream 3 is a good horror film. The first time I really loved it ( in the cinema ), but the second time I watched it on video ( and in English ), I noticed that it was not as good as I had thought. What I totally dislike about all of the Scream-movies ( don´t get me wrong, I like all of them ) is that the murderer/s just take/s off his/their mask/s by the end, although they/he want/s to be unidentified. That is not clever is it ?!? And as in all Scream-movies, the killer/s make a sensation of killing Sidney. All the other characters are killed in less than 5 seconds, but they/he always let Sidney run away. That is quite stupid.All in all, I rated this movie 8/10  ( as Scream 2 ), but I think it is better than Scream 2, because the ending is definitely not as bad as in Scream 2. The ending of Scream 2 was very boring, but this one was quite original.I recommend this film to fans of  Scream 1&2, but you should not expect a film that is as GREAT as Scream1, because Scream 3 definitely is not. If you have any questions, feel free to ask them.  "},{"Title":"S C R E A M  3","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 isn't really like the other two movies but really i didn't like the first too much but, I am a really big fan of the scream movies it's just that the first one is just like another Halloween Or Friday the 13th. Anyway, like they say in the trailer, 'FORGET THE RULES'it means this movie is going to be different than the other two.I love Scream 3 is the Ultimate Scream it might not be the scariest but if you liked the other two then it's definite you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"The most terrifying scream is not always the last.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In my opinion, it is not the best part of the Scream-trilogy. But it is funny and thrilling. Ehren Krueger and Wes Craven give answers to most of the questions unanswered in Part 1 and 2. If you expect much blood and horror, you might be disappointed. But for it is a logic ending for the story of Sidney Prescott, it is a must-see for all Scream-fans. "},{"Title":"A let down.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"     I enjoyed this movie very much and even saw it twice. But only after the movie I realized that I enjoyed it mostly because it had characters I already got to like in the first two movies. Ehren Kruger wrote a decent horror/thriller script, but it didn't add any depth to the characters. The characters Kruger introduced were all boring and flat cannon fodder, with Parker Posey's character being the exception.    The thing that really bothered me was the device that allowed the killer to steal voices. That was plain stupid and hurt the movie.    There are very nice moments in this movie, and it's still worth watching together with the other two movies as a trilogy. "},{"Title":"Decent, but the thrill of the first two isn't there.","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is a decent movie, but the thrill isn't as big as the first two. The characters seem to be sleepwalking through the whole thing. Sidney is becoming dull as dirt, Gale is not as witty or harsh as she used to be and Dewy isn't as goofy. The ending is unsatisfying too. But the movie still manages to entertain somewhat. And some of it is clever. Overall a somewhat enjoyable movie, but just not as clever or entertaining as the first two.**1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Completely hideous; YUCK!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the worst of all of the movies. I absolutely disliked all three of them, but this one is the most annoying of all to sit through. What annoying, spoiled characters who do nothing but whine before the get killed off! And what's with Courteney Cox and all the other ditzy chicks in the cast who look so anorexic? The whole premise of this movie is tired. Neve Campbell just sits around for most of the movie, waiting for her final confronation with the man/woman behind the mask. Oh God I could go on for hours about the ineptness of this movie. Just don't rent it and save yourself the 117 minutes. If they come out with a Scream 4, it would be safe to declare that ol' Wes Craven finally fell off the deep end. Geez. "},{"Title":"Disappointing end to an otherwise great series","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first two Scream films were great, original and managed to keep your interest.  This one, however was just an absolute waste of time and film. The main reason for this is probably because the writer of the first two, Kevin Williamson, had nothing to do whatsoever with this film.  Originality is not a word associated with this film as it is basically just a rehash of the first two films.  The terror that viewers experienced in the first two are all gone because in this one it is obvious when the killer appears taking away all the suspense.  The storyline was also pathetic but the worst thing about this film was definitely the pathetic ending that apparently(!) explains fully the first two films.  When I found out who the killer was and what his/her/their motive was I actually found myself in tears of laughter at how pathetic it was.  It was obviously some quick ending written by the writer (who also wrote the brilliant 'Arlington Road') in a quick rush to get the film released while people still had interest in the series. All in all a truly terrible film saved from total condemnation by one or two fairly exciting scenes (e.g. the bit in the house with the fax machine)*1/2 (out of *****) "},{"Title":"A good movie if you haven't seen the first two","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you never have watched the first two Scream movies, then Scream 3 can be thrilling. But the problem is that many of the jokes and thrills are about what happened in the first two movies. So you have to watch the first two Scream movies to get an idea about Scream 3. Therefore it misses it marks with people who never have seen any scream movie en scream fans who did watch it all will be let down, because the ending is far from thrilling. "},{"Title":"ok","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was, in my opinion, a waste of film, however, if the scream movies was never concieved, and this movie still was made under a differnt name I think, that it may have been better. What did save this movie for me and alot of people was the fact that there was a lame movie being turned into another lame movie-Stab 3. HA! So, actually it was a good movie that got hurt because of the association with the first two. "},{"Title":"Endlessly Loveable.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is apparently the final cut, the end of the marvellous Scream trilogy. Although it is not as accomplished as either of its predecessors, Scream 3 is still an adorable, memorable and entertaining addition to the series.Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) has literally disappeared off the face of the Earth - hiding from the world and the whole haunted, bloodstained legacy that is Woodsboro. But that's all about to change. A new slasher flick based on Sidney's horrific story is being shot in LA, called `Stab 3'. And one by one, the cast of `Stab 3'are taking their final curtain call. Someone is mimicking the horrific murders of the first two Scream films, only this time, even the leads are dying. So the real Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette), Dewey Riley (David Arquette) and Sidney Prescott must step into the spotlight to flush the killer out. And that means going back to Woodsboro one last terrifying time.The cast all seem to enjoy themselves lots, the new additions are Patrick Dempsey who is convincingly hilarious, Scott Foley who is near-perfect, Jenny McCarthy who is funny and enjoyable, and newcomer Parker Posey is outstanding. Her performance is witty and watchable. But, it is still the oldies that bring the screen alive. Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette have a marvellous on-screen chemistry and their performances are excellent. But, it is Neve Campbell, once again; who ignites the screen the most. Her 3rd leading role as Sidney in the series is brilliant; her acting is absolute perfection, to say the least! Ehren Kruger, the writer has lots of comic talent. His script is clever and imaginative, and his flaws aren't noticeable.Scream 3 is a loveable instalment to the classic series; it is well worth a look for fans of the first two films.I rate Scream 3 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"That part is not a mistake","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'd just like to comment that when the killer had the five people trapped in the house with the power cut off. If you thought that the fax machine should not have been working because the power was off, you are wrong. If you look closely, next to the fax machine is a UPS Backup system. This shows that the fax machine will still work even if the power is turned off "},{"Title":"there are rules to surviving a horror movie...","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  the more i watch this extensively researched trilogy; the more inside gags, references, and homages i see.  there's classic horror, modern horror, literary, social, and political references as well as references to other serority movies and even parodies and references to itself.the best new-hollywood horror trilogy and the ground breaker for other (mostly bad) new-hollywood horror films. in 20 years, techno-hollywood will be paying homage to kevin williamson and wes craven. "},{"Title":"The best horror Trilogy ever!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream was great... Scream 2 was even better...but Scream 3?I know it's a difficult concept to grasp, and Slasher flick fans may not admit to it, but, I'm sorry to say, Scream 3 isn't as good as I thought it would be, and nowhere near as scary as it's predacessors.However, Scream 3 relies more on wit and mockings, than on gore and blood scenes which we're all used to; and seeing as the deaths are plain and simple, with little or no blood, it can actually be a comedy in it's own right (in the trend of Serial Mom).I was abit disappointed by the lack of imagination used in the death scenes - none seemed particularly original, like some used in Scream and Scream 2, but none the less, it still had some freaky moments (like Sarah Darling in  the props closet).Neve Campbell, David Arquette and Courteney Cox-Arquette return, which is good, because they all play good parts. And also returning (in only a few scenes) is Liev Schrieber, playing Cotton Weary. Newcomers Scott Foley, Emily Mortimer and Jenny McCarthy play their parts well, but Indie actress Parker Posey steals the show as quick-witted Angelina - 'Gale Weathers' in the new feature flick 'Stab 3' - which is the movie Scream 3 is based around.The ending scenes were also not as good as expected and the killer(s) didn't have the same spark as previous killers had. However, like I said, Scream 3 could be a comedy, Gale and Angelina scenes are the best, as they always try to outdo eachother.At the end, all the loose ends are tied up in a nice little package (and on the floor in millions of bloody pieces) and we finally get to find out what happened to Sydney's mom, pre-Stu and Billy. But Scream 3 is my least favourite of the trilogy, getting a 6½/10 "},{"Title":"Oh, come ON!!!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yawn! Who DIDN'T see this coming... Man this has been done to death!! No, Scream 3 is not that good a movie. I mean, the fact that the movie even EXISTS shows what's gonna happen... Don't spend your hard earned cash on this movie.Yes, there are some shockers in there, but nothing relating to the story.I shouldn't put the movie down completely. There are a lot of great performances, and visually it is very good. Nothing wrong with the direction, either. Just the story...  "},{"Title":"Been Here, Done That...AGAIN......","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *  out  of  ****If I thought #2 was unnecessary, then #3 was a sin. Again, we've seen all this before and I don't care anymore.It's stupid and re-hashed, in a formula that worked wonders for the first time. It's just really getting routine by the third time, and I don't know about any of you but I'm done seeing SCREAM films. Farewell! "},{"Title":"not really a scream","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was the worst of the sream serie. It was fun but not as good as scream 1 and 2. you must have seen 1 and 2 if you want to knowe where this movie is al about. I hope it's the last one "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I walked out of the theater wanting to like Scream 3, I loved the first two, but I just couldn't bring myself to say it was a satisfying end to the Scream trilogy. Kevin Williamson didn't write this one, he decided to focus on his other project, Teaching Mrs. Tingle (He is probably kicking himself over that right now). The biggest disappointment was that it was not scary at all, no suspense. Sidney, Gale, and Dewey don't even act like the ones we know and love from the first two. Sidney hasn't got any energy, she just mopes around. Gale hasn't learned a damned thing from her first two experiences, she is still a b*tch with no heart. Dewey is just dumb, not funny dumb, just dumb. This movie was a waste of talent, besides Courtney, Neve, and David, it has also got Parker Posey. They all act like they would rather be somewhere else, and after seeing this movie, you can't blame them.                              ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"It All Comes Together in the End!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As horror movie sequels go, the Scream Trilogy is one of the BEST! New twists and turns in the plot keep you on the edge of your seat. The ending was not a disappointment either, as is so often the case with horror movies. It truly summed up and answered all remaining questions. I give it 4 out of 4 marshmallows. "},{"Title":"Can anyone say Scream 4?.....","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was okay I guess could've been a bit better if they had a better cast, okay Neve Campbell(Sidney Priescott/Laura), Courntney Cox(Gale Weathers) and David Arquette(Dewey Riley) returned but the rest of the cast just didn't do it for me....I was glad Liev Schriber(Cotton Weary) came back but was I disappointed by his role in it...very little...as for the rest of the cast, like I said not the best...but now as for the actual movie the killing scenes werent great, not as good as Scream 1 and 2, there was hardly any blood and as for the plot, a good plot using Sidney's mother as the main storyline, i got goose bumps whenever i saw Sidney's mother especially when you heard her voice but the killer should have not been the killer cause you never would've guessed it but when you think about it the killer had a good motive and his story was good.Let me just say that the ending left a gate wide open for a 4th, although they promised that there wouldn't be, Wes Craven said he wouldn't do it but if there were to be one then I'm guessing it would suck really bad...unless they come up with a killer from the past....Stu or Mickey....do we know if Stu actually died?....how about Mickey?....okay he was shot alot of times but remember the killers dont die that easy...how do we know that he didnt run away...anyway its a long shot but that would be the only logical way to go. "},{"Title":"The sequel that wasn't meant to happen","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Director Wes Craven promised us that this would be his last Scream film only to have changed his mind a few weeks later, when in an interview, he said he'd be interested in returning to directing another Scream film. I think this also was a curse to original writer Kevin Williamson who's film Teaching Mrs. Tingle failed at the box office, and his series Wonderland didn't make it out the door because he wasn't going to do Scream 3. It shows too with weak characters and the body count is surprisingly higher than the first two. In the first two, the suspense was built up, in the third one, there is no suspense because it's just an excuse to kill more people. Some of the characters are annoying and you find yourself pleased that they end up getting killed. The usual plot twist at the end, is unbelievably ridiculous (I'm not gonna give it away). I'm not blaming Ehren Kruger, he probably had immense pressure placed on him by the studio to get a script out in time. The Scream phenomenon died after the second film. Also, don't expect Cotton Weary in it for too long, he just has an appearance. All in all, I'm glad I didn't spend $8.50 to see this movie because I would've been disappointed. Not to mention it came out in a time when crappy Scream clones have been clogging up the movie theaters. "}{"Title":"I saw more blood when I lost my first tooth","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  MAJOR SPOILERS (INCLUDING KILLERS' IDENTITIES IN ALL SCREAM MOVIES)Okay, it's not that the movie was bad. It's just that... hello? I would define this movie as more of a thriller than a horror. The first Scream was great, the second was fine, but this, I just feel like I've seen it all before (which is probably because I've seen it all before). I loved Carrie Ficsher's cameo. As for the original cast (Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Arquette and her hubby, David), they were pretty good too, just that with all the hubbub of undevolped characters they hardly had enough screen time. It is beyond me why Liev Schreiber was credited in Scream (the first one) with the main cast. He had like five seconds on TV and you hardly saw him. In Scream 2 I was glad he finally got to say something. And it's ashame he got killed off so early in the final. And as for the killer, just like in Scream 2, I didn't really care. Whod've thought, so director Roman whathislastname is apparently Sid's long lost brother who because his mommy didn't want him decided, what the heck, I'll kill her. It's a nice idea but when we find out, we just don't really care, we never even suspected him. In the first Scream they really played mind games with us (It's Billy, it isn't, no- it has to be, Jeeze! There's 2). In Scream 2 they toyed with Jerry O'Connell (even though it was obvious he wasn's the killer). And then we find out it's Billy's mom wanting revenge for the death of her son (ooh, that's original) and some guy we thought was just some extra. Scream 3 they yet again toyed with us. They got us to ponder whether it was the actress playing Sidney or maybe the detective on the case or maybe the producer of the movie or maybe... Apparently this time we have 1 killer, a guy we would hardly suspect. So, was it worth it? Yeah. They could've raised our suspicions a bit higher and God knows they could've used more blood. I think that E. Kruger (the name fits for a horror writer) just didn't get the hang of the characters and Kevin Williamson, this is your creation, jeeze! But nevermind, I'm glad it's finally over, and the ending wasn't that bad (but I won't have nightmares like I did with the first two Screams). Worth watching, just to know how it finishes (Unless you haven't watched it and I just ruined it all for you, but I did warn ya!)   "},{"Title":"A VERY Average Film.!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ill make this as simple as possible.Scream 3 is better than scream 2,but nowhere near as good as the original.It intensley tried to outcast its original,but it missed by a long shot. The movie in general was very average,i hardly found any suspense in it,i found more fake scares or as i say cliches. I think Jenna McCarthy is a terrible actor,her acting really flunked in this film. I am fairly sick of the unrealism of this trilogy,first her friends wanna kill her,then her friends relatives then,her relative.It is very stupid,its like shes got something eternal going on. I didnt toally dis-like the movie,but it just didnt do it for me.Im still wondering when their going to make true horror type films like they once did decades ago.Overall the film wasnt enjoying,but it wasnt un-likeable.It was a fair film,and is better than part 2,but nowehre near as good pas the original.In total i gave SCREAM 3 a 5.5 out of 10.GOOD POINTS OF FILM A Few Interesting Plot Recalls.BAD POINTS OF FILM Exaggerated Triolgy/ Poor Acting/ Highly Unrealistic.  "},{"Title":"Ok! But Do Not Want More Screams!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What is my favorite scary movie? I tell you this much it is not `Scream 3.' The finally of this creepy and creative trilogy is here! It follows the same old formula as the previous screams. Don't get me wrong, it is a good formula that works. However, it has lost its lusto. Watching `Scream 3' is like watching `Scream' and `Scream 2' again. This time the killer executes the same deaths as in the movie they are filming - `Stab 3.' I do congratulate director Wes Craven for bringing us this witty horror trilogy. However, I am glad that he has decided not to try another stab at it and make a `Scream 4.  *** Average  "},{"Title":"a good film, But dissapointing end to the trilogy","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The 1st Scream will go down in History as beeing the movie that revived the teen slasher flicks for the 90's.  Then there was Scream 2, that kept the humour and blood flowing both as strong as each other.  After these, we were promised an 'Extra Special' sequal, in the 3rd and Final Chapter that would finish the Scream films...and did we get it...well, allmost. It's not that Scream 3 is a bad film, it just isn't as good as the others.  The main reason is, Kevin Williamson is not the main writer, and it shows.  The humour isn't as good and the deaths aren't as elaborate and imaginative as in the other films.  Also, Ghostface is not seen much and neither is Neve Campell really for that matter.  In stead, the plot is really focused on Courtney Cox and David Arquete. Does Scream 3 answer all your questions...in a way, it does tie up loose ends, and you will never guess the killer in a million years...the ending is definately one of Scream 3's most memorable moments (along with the cameo from Jamie Kenedy as Randy) Don't let this put you off Scream 3 though...it is a good film and scream fans MUST see it...but, it could of been so much better, and i can't help but feel that it wont be long before another sequal spews it's way out, even though Ghostface's knife is clearly blunter that it has ever been.  "},{"Title":"OK this movie isn't that bad!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I do agree this isnt a third as good as Scream or even half as good as Scream 3, there are still worse movies out there to waste your time on.  I personally kind of actually liked this movie.  Anyway my suggestion is if you liked Scream it wouldnt be that bad to watch but otherwise look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Scream movies should be scary. Scream 3 doesn't abide by this rule.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 as a stand alone horror movie was okay. Scream 3 as a Scream movie was horrid!The opening sequence had nothing on the original, it was kinda better than Scream 2's opening scene, but not that topping that would be hard.Scream 3 just didn't seem like a Scream movie to me. Scream was a no non-sense no supernatural elements horror movie. In Scream 3 when Sidney started seeing her mother from beyond the grave, even if it was all dream sequence it blew it. That was a completely stupid, not scary and therefore not needed. Scream 3 is the worst Scream movie of the trilogy. There were few scary scenes, I jumped maybe once, and I'm the biggest scardie cat out. The phone voice changer that could mimic any voice really sucked. It wasn't menacing at all when you heard a familiar voice - it may be slightly suspensful as we never know who it actually is talking, it could have worked, but it didn't.I was truly disappointed with the final, and God, let it be the final, in the Scream series. I am a HUGE Scream fan and the trilogy overall would rate an 7.5 out of 10(it could have been higher but Scream 3 knocked off maybe a point, it stays a high rank on the strength of the first film).Scream 3 just wasn't scary. And that is what a Scream movie should be. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but they better not make a number 4","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  S3 is alright, because it still has a certain freshness to it, and it is the scariest of the trilogy, but the fun better stop here. The main problem with S3 is that is can't seem to come up with anything new. To those who haven't seen the first one it may seem highly original and innovative, but it is essentially just a more polished version of the other two Screams. The worst thing about Scream 3 is the ending. Sidney was supposed to die in the end. Another thing I hated about it and most other 90's slasher movies is the high amount of false alarm scares. True suspense involves a feeling of dread for the characters, not 'Aargh! Don't scare me like that Stacey!'. However, there are a lot of real scares and genuinely frightening situations, and the opening is great. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Scream 3 was fantastic","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I personally am not a big horror movie person but I must say that I have seen all of the Screams and I loved each and every one of them.  Scream 3 however, was my favorite. I have seen it many times and I think the performance of Neve Campbell was amazing. I am a big fan of hers and I think she is incredibly talented.  The emotion she shows in this movie is amazing and anyone who likes horror movies should see it. "},{"Title":"Funny rather than scary. Contains Spoiler","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   I was extremely eager to watch the third and the final movie of the Scream series since I believed that it would be a perfect scary movie; perhaps the greatest of this year. However, after watching it, I was fairly disappointed to see that it was quite funny rather than scary because there was plenty of comedy, which had never taken place in the previous two. But that is OK; though not as scary as the first one, I also liked it.The best aspect of the movie was-to me- the screenplay, which was-unlike the previous two-not written by Kevin Williamson but by Ehren Kruger. Though not as experienced as Williamson, Kruger seems to have made a successful work in Scream 3. I found the screenplay very cleverly-prepared, and sometimes very surprising. None of the details in the plot were overlooked; Kruger put emphasis on every crucial detail and he formed a realistic connection between the plots of Scream and Scream 3. Also, he perfectly concealed the killer and cleverly focused our suspicion on other characters. That's why I was quite astonished when I learned who the killer was. Besides, the movie was absolutely exciting and entertaining and unlike its counterpart, the sixth sense, it was never boring!!The casting was OK, also. ( SPOILER ) I especially liked Neve Campbell's performance during the the endless fight between Sydney and the killer.But Parkey Posey, the independent film star, was the best throughout the movie. So go and see it if you do not expect too much. "},{"Title":"It was going to happen sooner or later...","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Part of the charm of SCREAM was it was unexpected.  It was to slasher films of the 80s what TRUE LIES was to BOND films.  A parody and at the same time often being better than the source material.  Here we come full circle and SCREAM 3 losing all the cleverness and humor of the first film and wit of the second devolves into a standard slasher flick.  Kevin Williamson (who I liked but never thought was worth all the hype) proves me wrong because he's sorrely missed.  You would swear screenwriter Ehren Kruger had never seen the first two films  The film doesn't make fun of cliches - it depends on them.  Everything from the tenseless opening kill sequence (which is known for killing off in the first ten minutes actors who are bigger stars the the ones in the rest of the film) to the insipid behavior of the characters (There is a killer loose, let's split up!).  Kruger gets some credit for trying to craft an ending that justifies the first two films and misses the mark.  By the time the end came OJ Simpson could have been the killer and I wouldn't have cared.  Wes Craven, who with the exception of the first two films has never made a thinking horror film sinks back into his normal territory (which is a shame since MUSIC OF THE HEART was as good as it was and if SCREAM 3 had been better it would have been quite a coup in the same year).  What I do know is if they don't stop advertising him as THE MASTER OF SUSPENSE Alfred Hitchcock is going to pull his pudgy British self out of his grave and kick his ass. "}{"Title":"Better than 2, but nothing can surpass original!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER AHEAD I have been dying to see this film ever since rumours were being touted about concerning cast members and cliffhanger endings. When I finally got an illegal pirate copy, I shoved it in the machine as soon as I got home ( I sound like a bit of a loser don't I, but I just really wanted to see it). The opening scene lacked the gore and shock horror that the other two had. However, as the film developed, it was evident that it had a much better storyline than the sequel. The paradoxical humour is taken to a new level in this last installment and the movie within a movie idea was a clever way of approaching the task. This is not always a good thing because this film tends to make you laugh not scared. One criticism is that there are a lot of characters in this film that are not allowed to develop, and are just there to be killed (in relatively gore-free scenes).Also, I would just like to praise the way script writers managed to incorporate Randy, and through his appearance allowed them to give us an extremely shocking and unpredictable ending. Overall 8/10  "},{"Title":"Cannot be the end","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you have seen this movie, you know what I mean.  When the original Scream came out, Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson promised a trilogy making fun of every aspect of scary movie series, while at the same time being scary as well.  This third installment was like Halloween two, or Friday the 13 four.  It was the conclusion.  It was the endNot too bad of an ending, with bringing back randy for his world famous rules speech.  It includes an opening death which shocks you, as it involves a main character.  Though I admit they only flushed out two new characters, Kincaid and Jennifer, the others did not need to be flushed out.  They are actors, and what is the stereotype on actors, skin deep.  The deaths bring back memories of suspence and horrors early days, when you did not have too see everything, and it was scary because you used your imagination.On to my point though.  This is not the end.  Every horror franchise has a rebirth movie, which has nothing to do with the others,  Halloween three, friday the thirteenth 5, etc.  Lets see Scream 4 The new class.  After that, they can put the series to rest if they want. "},{"Title":"I laughed, I jumped, I screamed!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I heard that Wes Craven was returning for the final chapter of the Scream Trilogy, I knew it was going to be the scream of the year. I remember seeing this film in the middle of the night, alone in my house. It is the perfect atmosphere for a scary movie. Right when the movie started I loved it. It was funny and thrilling.I have to say that this isn't the best of the Screams but i believe it was better than the 2nd. I intended it to be more scary and more blood. It was really more laughing then jumping. I wasn't even scared watching this film but the movie was still a big hit and I enjoyed it.I think the most shocking part in Scream 3 was Scary Movie 101 starring the late Randy Meeks. Everyone, including me, loved the part of Randy Meeks(Jamie Kennedy)I thought it was very clever to add him in it. That was my favorite part in the movie but the another shocker was the killer(s) and hearing his/her motive. It answered all my questions about the original. Wes Craven ended it keeping everyone wanting more. "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKED!!!  (Spoiler)","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was the worst scream yet.  The whole pretext of this movie was absolute garbage from scene one.  The movie within a movie plot had been done to the point of exhaustion and the loose based links to new characters made the movie appear meaningless.  The characters were so detached from their former movie selves that their performances provided no satisfactory element to the audience that had followed the first two. The only cool point the movie had was when one of the tokens from the movie within a movie runs down the hall after being stabbed yelling Help, Police!  Now that was comedy.  "},{"Title":"Not a spoof of slasher flicks, a spoof of The film world","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While I do agree that this was probably the weakest installments of the best horror franchise in history, I say that the bashing that this film has received is ludicrous.  Every entry in the Scream trilogy has brought something original and unheard of to remove the  horror genre's staples. The first spoofed slasher flicks which upon the release of the Last Friday the 13th film had been eroded into a waste of film. Yet Scream maintained its own artistic credibility.  The second did the same with sequels and received the same result and critical praise.  Now the mystery, why was the 3rd so lambasted?  Was it because it took pot shots at the Hollywood mentality and hit too close to home.  We all know Hollywood has a way of milking the dough out of anything profitable even someone's own life ALA Sydney Prescott in the film series and OJ, Jon Benet, etc., in real life. Would a suit care about a person's feelings concerning an ordeal if the first installment of his/her story had grossed 100 million?  I don't  think so. When something is proved financially viable, the mainstream film industry has a way of beating it even after it is a dead horse and not caring who they hurt in the process.  Look at the horror franchise after Scream's release.  When one film is successful producers make a plethora of knock offs praying for the same affect, thus hurting the reputation of a definitive film and all involved with it. The actor's playing Hollywood moneygrubbers in the last installment of the trilogy make faces at the very people they are involved with every day; tabloid journalist's, hungry directors, starving actor's, womanizing producers.  The  effect is a quite satisfying portrayal of real show business. Was the film ripped apart due to its spoof of Post Columbine censorship? Many acts of violence in the film (fake knives and costumes) make a reference to the thick line between reality and fiction.Or did critics refuse to believe that a trilogy of sequels much less HORROR sequels still remain fresh after 4 years? Even the great films Psycho, Halloween, The Howling have never been able to successfully spin off a well made sequel (with the possible exception of Halloween H20 which still is not on a level with any of Scream's sequels).  It seems instead of being proud a once dead industry did something right and knew when to stop, critics had polemic views fueled by many awful memories of slasher sequels from the past.  In relation to the first two films Scream 3 is weak in the same sense that Armani is to Versache which is hardly a noticeable one.Following in the footsteps of its predecessors Scream 3 continues with as much wit and believability as its siblings.  Kruegar's writing is on par with Williamson's, the acting has now been honed to an art, and the new players are as volatile and interesting as the survivors.   Its only flaws are the holes in the connections between the killers in all 3 films and a belated release.  I could have used this film at the end of 98 when nothing good was released until Christmas weekend.  If it had an earlier release date it would have probably been lauded and topped the 100 million mark as did parts I and II.  As it stands, it has earned its inclusion with American Psycho, My Dog Skip, Gladiator, and X-Men as the only Hollywood films of 2000 I have seen that are worthy. "},{"Title":"Fair end to a good trilogy","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is a fair end to a good trilogy,it isn't as near clever as the first two,but it does offer an unguessable ending,and has a little bit of fun as the first two,and at least Scream 3 isn't a bad horror movie,like most teen horror films.Scream 3 is fun entertainment,but a disappointment for Wes Craven fans,probably because of the loss of Kevin Williamson along for the ride. "},{"Title":"Scream 3  More Laughter Than Screaming","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An odd movie that would make people laugh more than scream!  I personally got mixed reviews of this movie from friends before I saw it.  Some people loved it while others said it sucked.  I wanted to see this movie the night it went into theaters, but tickets were sold out! (  Plus, my friend wanted to see Down To You instead!  Oh well!Here's the plotSidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is now older, and seems to be at peace in her new home.  Yet still, she keeps her home secured just incase knowing what has happened to her in the past.  Still the spine-chilling deaths of her friends and her mom still haunt.  Meanwhile in the glamorous hills of Hollywood, Stab 3 is being shot.  Director Roman Bridger (Scott Foley) is making movie magic along with a list of young (and fictional) actors  Tom Prinze (Matt Keeslar) as Dewey, Sarah Darling (Jenny McCarthy) as Candy, Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey) as Gale, Tyson Fox (Deon Richmond) as Ricky, and of course, Angelina Tyler (Emily Mortimer) as the ever famous Sidney. From out of the blue, Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber), the man who was originally accused of murdering Sidney's mom, and his girlfriend, Christine (Kelly Rutherford), are brutally murdered at Christine's home.  Yet Cotton and Christine are only the beginning of the brutal killings that soon take place in young Hollywood.  All of the sudden, little by little, the  cast of Stab 3 are being slained, and the killer's main target is once again, Sidney.  And there's another mystery going around besides the murders of the Stab 3 cast....what happened to Maureen Prescott in the 1970's and what does she have to do with (*fictional*) 70's actress, Rena Reynolds???That's the main plot to the whole story basically.  With the return of Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette) and Dewey Riley (David Arquette), and of course, as whole new cast of helpless victims and allies, Scream 3 makes it's mark as the final chapter in the Scream series. Scream 3, unlike the first and second ones, offers a little bit of suspense, and a bit of comedy with Parker Posey's character, Jennifer Jolie.  It's unpredictable to see who the MAIN killer is (although I guess a lot of people know who it is already even though they didn't see the movie).  I have to say, I found most of the characters quite amusing.  That's probably why some people thought this movie was a bit of joke.Yet I liked Scream 3, and I must say, I'm glad I FINALLY got to see it! )  I wish the Scream series would continue, but I'm glad it ended the way it did.  Plus, once you see the third one, it connects the first and second Scream to the third one.  And after you see it, you kind of think to yourself, Oh...it all makes sense!Scream 3 didn't leave a lasting impact on everyone who saw this movie, but that's only normal.  Yet to all Scream fans, the final chapter is truly intense and not to mention unforgettable, and is a true classic that will eventually go down in film history along with it's predecessors (Halloween, Friday The 13th, etc.)! )*******PS  YOU BE THE JUDGE!!!!!*******  "},{"Title":"Better then Scream 2","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This isn't the best out of the Scream franchise, but what do you expect. It's a slasher movie. I like the first Scream the best, Scream 2 was okay,and now this one. I liked this movie. One clever scene is the fax telling who the next victim will be. And the next victim is He who smells the gas? BOOM! If you haven't seen this movie, you probably have no idea what I just wrote. But if you see this movie, you will. If you like the Scream franchise, you might like the humor they threw into it. Anyway it was pretty good and worth the money I spent to see it. I give it a B. "},{"Title":"Still entertaining, but running low on fuel","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven has produced another entertaining, high budget horror movie in the third of what is now a trilogy.  The film professes an end to the sequels, but at $100 million average box office per movie, frankly I'm skeptical.  The first three `Friday the 13th' movies didn't gross $100 million between them, and now twenty years later, they are producing number ten.This film didn't traverse any new ground, continuing from `Scream 2' with the movie within a movie concept.  Though Craven still presents a droll and effective story, he has stopped innovating.  He simply continues to present us with good but jaded themes.It seems the gore has been toned down for this film, which is probably not a bad thing.  The story answered all sorts of questions about the first film that no one had.  I suppose they needed to create questions so they could make a movie to answer them.  I didn't find Ehren Kruger's writing to be up to the standard set by Kevin Williamson.  Williamson's humor was much more sophisticated and astute whereas Kruger settled for low brow sarcastic sniping and tongue in cheek humor.The whole cast delivered a collectively enjoyable performance, although with the paranoid and overwrought way that Sidney was written, Neve Campbell couldn't have had much fun.  Courtney Cox was funny and flaky as ever as Gale Weathers as was hubby David Arquette.  The rest of the ensemble including Patrick Dempsey, Emily Mortimer, Liev Schreiber, Scott Foley, and Parker Posey and a host of other victims all did a terrific job.I enjoyed this slightly more than Scream 2, but much less than the original.  I rated it a 7/10.  Craven's once fresh approach to horror is still good, but it is starting to get threadbare.  If there is going to be a fourth installment in the trilogy (would that be a quadology?), Craven needs to get creative again and take the genre to the next level or risk running out of gas. "},{"Title":"Closer to the original in quality","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having seen the first two, I figured I should see the third even though I'd been disappointed by the second film.  I am very glad I did.  I thought this had a lot of humor as well as some nice performances and cameos.  I thought that the idea of Ricky as an homage to Randy in the latest Stab film was great and I thought having Randy's explanation of a trilogy as opposed to a sequel was wonderfully done.  I also cracked up when I saw Jay and Silent Bob of the Kevin Smith movies pop up on the studio tour.  It had nothing to do with the plot but it was great fun. Scream 3 had a good plot that was as twisted as that of the first movie.  Where I had been able to predict at least one of the murderers in Scream 2, I was kept guessing with Scream 3.  Between that and the humor, I would say it was far superior to the second movie.  If you liked the first one, you'll like this one.   "}{"Title":"The end of the trilogy...thank God","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is the supposed climatic ending to the supposedly legendary Scream franchise.  While Scream packed a wollup on its first viewing, it didn't hold it's fear factor much on any viewing after that.  Scream 2 was a much more by-the-numbers horror film, and while it's ending was a bit more predictable, it had a few genuine shocks and scares.  Scream 3 has none of this, in fact the only highlight of this movie was the cameo of Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith).Neve Campbell reprises her role of Sidney, who has moved into hiding in a secluded part of California (the H20 hideaway Kevin???).  She has changed her name to Laura and become a women's crisis center operator.   Not quite what her first two performances in this series were, but good enough for this one.The other vets returning for this one are Liv Schreiber, Courtney Cox-Arquette, David Arquette.  All play their respective characters just passable enough to say that they actually pretended to care.I'm not gonna bother with the supporting cast much except to say that Scott Foley (Felicity) obviously can act better than Noel shows, and that Kelly Rutherford deserved better.  Most of the characters were forgettable and dull.  Jenny McCarthy killed her career with her role in this one, and I'm gonna let those words serve as the proverbial final shovel of dirt.Nice touch again with Jay & Silent Bob and I do have to give kudos for the videotaped return of Randy...his character was one of the better ones in the series, and it was so great that they included him in this.Were the multiple script rewrites to blame for this one turning out as badly as it did?  Probably pretty likely.  It would be very hard as an actor to care about the film after the writers themselves change it time and time again.  I've heard rumors of Scream 4, could it be because Wes Craven wants to try to end the series on a good note?  Will we have to endure Wes Craven's New Scream???  Only time will tell, but God willing, we'll be able to take Wes at his word and say that this scream will be the last.1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Great job Wes and Kevin!!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is excellent! The fact that we had to wait 2 movies before this makes it even better. I thought that the writing was great, remember they had to keep the plot going for a while. But especially at the end when the original killer comes out to Sidney about his plan and how he had started the whole thing.The film had its moments of humor but not too much. After all it is a horror flick. The acting was good and so were the special effects - blood. Now everyone's first instinct is to compare it to the first Scream. And of course most people are going to say that it wasn't as good as it. In their opinion maybe not but I think that everybody tends to like an original more than a sequel or in this case a trilogy. The bottom line is that it carried on well and didn't get too old.I'll admit that there was a couple of things that I found pretty hard to believe. For instance, Sidney being able to move after all the pain she must have went through. Who cares! This third installment blew the second one away.   -That's just *my* opinion. "},{"Title":"The last, but not the best SCREAM (","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT First of all i went to see SCREAM 3 with all my hope that was going to be the best SCREAM ever! Well, i entered in the cinema.. The people screaming and etc... Then the lights turn out and the Dimension Films logo appear, i was really excited!! Then the first scare came out! The Killer! Christine death was a little bad but Cotton's death was just perfect!!! ¡Snikt¡ the killer stab Cotton... the blood jumps out of his body and start the final chapter of the trilogy that made you laugh and made you scream!!!For next we have a bunch of craziness and non-sense comedy then starts the really bad part of the film, when the characters start to been kill'd like chicken's in a farm!!! First Sarah Darling, then a lot of characters that are in the film simply just to die, but in the finish when idney( Neve Campbell in a perfect interpretation!!) comes out to save everybody, and the SCREAMs, the SCARES and evrything starts again! For the last time!Finally SCREAM 3 is a very good movie, with a non-good script, but ends the Trilogy with that same old Halloween charm!! And one thing that i found just soooo funny, is that when David Arquette finished to make the last scene( the one that he propose Gale) he said I want to make it registered in celluloid that I think that know is the perfect moment to the killer came back and kill all the characters!!! "},{"Title":"Not bad ending, but why can't horror movies have suspense anymore?","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers ahead... If you are like me, you usually read these comments after seeing the movie, so don't mind spoilers.The ending isn't bad, and it does provide a semi-plausible explanation for how the whole killing spree started, although it curiously makes no reference to killers or events in Scream 2.But why oh why are horror movies not aloud to have any suspense anymore (other than guessing who the killer is after weathering a storm of red herrings)? Almost every time the killer appears in all of the Scream movies (and all the other horror movies of recent years, the audience can see the killer in the background slowly coming forward. It's like there's a rule that says victims can be shocked, but not the audience.The other unwritten rule is that every time some doofus wanders off by themselves, they will be killed within two minutes. Can't somebody (who isn't the star who HAS to survive) ever wander off, face the killer, but then manage to get away?Can't a director and screenwriter put in a little effort to provide some suspense and terror other than wondering who is next to die, and who the killer will be 90 minutes after it starts?If Scream 3 had broken these rules even a couple of times, it would have been much more scary. A truly scary film like Deep Blue Sea at least breaks some of these rules to provide some true shocks, fear and surprises.And speaking of true scares, for those of you who liked the Drew Barrymore opening in the first Scream, you should see the movie this is copied from When a Stranger Calls, which opens with a terrorizing of a babysitter that has you white-knuckled, even if the rest of the movie is a let-down.And (SPOILER HERE), I thought it would have been really a good twist to conclude the trilogy if one of main characters had at least been the killer or supporting the killer, such as if Gail Weathers turned out to be the mastermind because of some deep secret history with Sydney. The half-brother director angle was mildly interesting.All-in-all not a bad movie, with some funny moments, but no scary ones scripted in, and would it really have been that hard to do so? The slasher movie would be so much more interesting and scary if you didn't have WARNING! SLASHING AHEAD! BE PREPARED! messages everywhere. "},{"Title":"Aren't you tired of this whole thing, Sydney?","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Apparently no. Despite the fact it has been made three movies talking the same thing. It still works. In the last movie of the trilogy, they make fun of the rules of .... trilogies... of course. Forget about everything you've seen the rules of trilogies is there are no rules!A secret about the past will change everything about the two first movies. All we think were the reasons of the killers aren't them. At least not all the reasons. The thing we all will know at the end of this movie is that Sydney's mother were the great guilty of everything.Sydney, Gale and Dewey are back to what seems to be last `Scream'. It follows the same plot. It starts with someone being killed, than Sydney receives a phone call and the massacre begins. It's so good as the others and finish the trilogy in great stile, but it is not so scary.I've read somewhere they are planing to make a sequel with nobody of the cast or the direction, will it work? I don't think so. I guess the final act has to be it, otherwise people will get tired of it. A trilogy is all we need.   "},{"Title":"A cool movie but not in comparation with the first two parts","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie does not compare with Scream 1 or 2. It has a much more weak script (maybe because Kevin Wiliamson didn't wrote it) and it isn't very original. The actors don't look so good the action doesn't have any big surprizes. I expect a better movie and, like many other peopels, I was a little bit disapoint when I saw it. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think Scream 3 was awesome! The best part is when Sydney finds out that the killer is...(woops, almost let it slip) and then there is the final fight scene.  It was cool when the house blew up w/ the guy in it. I think it was funny when the killer threw the knife at Dewey, and he got hit in the head w/ the handle. Al in all I think it was a great movie. "},{"Title":"A Good Final Chapter","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 provides a nice closing chapter to the series and manages to work pretty well in the process. A Lot of what worked in Scream 3 can be attributed mainly to Parker Posey, who breathed an amazing amount of energy and freshness into what may have turned out to be another slaughterfest!Overall a well done ending chapter. "},{"Title":"It's time to stop Screaming","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven's third installment (and promised last) of the SCREAM series, is relatively entertaining, however this formula has been milked dry. The plotlines are just getting too far-fetched, and there's only so much mileage left. This premise is running on fumes.      Sydney Prescott is again the object of yet a different serial killers rage, using the same devices as the first two movies. Right, like duh you say.       However, the poblem with SCREAM 3 is, besides the gaping holes in the script (like how did the killer eventually get her phone number in the back woods? This event happened before Dewey called her. The Kettles and the Clampetts would've had a darned hard time tracking her phone number down in the Ozarks...let alone the serial killer guy...) is that the movie didn't know when to ease off on the comedy and deftly blend in the tension/suspense/horror or what have you. It just moved in a clunky fashion. A pretty mixed bag for the series swan song.       The series regulars perform up to the expected par, with special mention to Parker Posey, for her humorous turn as the Stab 3 Gail Weathers. She had some of the best moments in the film.      Wes Craven knows his craft, as I'm sure he'll scare our pants off some more in the future, and I can't wait. However, I hope he lets this trilogy stay just that.   "},{"Title":"A Bloody Finale","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Unless you've been locked up deep in heart of Antarctica, then you know about Scream and Scream 2. The two films that regenerated the teen slasher and horror genres. Unfortunately, they also brought with them the copycat slasher films(the 2 I Knows, Urban Legend, H20, Carrie 2). Scream 3 is the finale in the Scream series. In this finale, Sidney is living in a secluded part of California under the name of Laura, a worker for one of those crisis center help lines. In nearby Hollywood, another film about Sid's life is underway, Stab 3(get it!). But when the bodies of the cast begin piling up, Sid, Dewey and Gail are brought back together in order to help out. But once again they become the hunted and are fighting for their lives. What this film has on it's predecessors is comedy. There is much more of it and it comes in the spoof department. In just about every scene the film spoofs it self and does a very good job at that. But this is not a comedy, it's a horror film and does a horror film justice. The body count is large and there are buckets of blood. It has many great jump moments that will make anyone fly out of their seats. Neve, David, and Courteney do thier jobs to the best of their ability but the real surprise is Parker Posey. She is down right hilarious as Jennifer Jolie, the actress who plays Gail in Stab 3. This film has many surprises, cameos and new development for hard-core fans as well as enough to get the newcomers right in to the story. Scream 3 is a great horror film, fantastic spoof, and the perfect ending to the series. If you haven't seen it already, go rent it, it's worth the four bucks. Because in the final chapter of a trilogy, all bets are off!    "}{"Title":"We can only pray this is truly the last sequel","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Disappointing sequel that'll leave you scratching your head wondering why they even bothered.  Wes Craven stated that he always envisioned Scream as a trilogy, but the third installment is so pointless I can't believe this is what he originally had in mind.  I thought the original Scream was pretty inspired and Scream 2 enjoyable for what it was (and exploitative sequel), but I found Scream 3 to be tired, humorless, tedious...and definitely NOT scary.  Once again we have a psycho killer on the loose who's obsessed with Sydney (Neve Campbell).  The killer(s) seems to pop in and out of thin air with reckless abandon and slash up his (increasingly stupid) victims with ease until the inevitable final showdown with Sydney and crew.  This films ostensibly explains (if that's really possibly) the origins of the Scream trilogy, but it's really just a half-baked attempt to justify the existence of 2 sequels when none were necessary.  It's impossible to spoil the surprise because there is none---by now everyone knows it could be anyone, and just give them any old excuse for motivation (revenge/fame/money/etc, etc).  I'm not a Kevin Williamson worshipper (I thought I know what you did... was fairly lame) but the third installment definitely lacked the snappy wit of the first two.  There's a few good throwaway lines skewering hollywood sensibilities but for the most part the movie is fairly devoid of humor.  There's plenty of scenes with characters on the run but we've already seen that about a bazillion times in the first two movies and they add nothing new.  I found myself fast-forwarding just to get it over with.  Thumbs down, I'l give it a 2.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I'm gonna scream if they make a Scream 4!!!!!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Forget analysis of the details of this lousy movie.There are two types of horror/suspense/thriller movies. In the first type, when the ending is revealed, you look back and realize all the subtle clues you never noticed. The Sixth Sense comes to mind, as well as Shattered with Tom Berenger.In the second type, the movie is laden with clues pointing to every single person in the movie, none more so than any other. So by the end, you are just guessing 'whodunit.' When the ending is revealed, you just say, ok, you wrote it, if you say that's how it ends, I guess that's how it ends.I only saw this movie because I saw the other two. To Wes Craven I say, I know there were 6 or so Nightmare on Elm Street movies, but three Screams are enough, too much actually.  "},{"Title":"Scream 3 - Murder in 3 times","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen this movie 5 times.I love the way that Wes Craven scares the people . He does a good work, because he really love doing scary movies.In this movie all the rules are broken.Scream 3 is very original , scary , funny in the same time.The killer is always unknown until the end of the movie and the ending is such a surprise.If you have seen Scream 1 and Scream 2 , YOU MUST SEE SCREAM 3. "},{"Title":"More fun than the first two put together!","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is a hilarious and terrifying movie that follows Sidney, Dewey and Gale to the final chapter of the horror trilogy. This is the movie where you find out everything you need to know about the mystery behind Sidney's mother's murder. The appearances by Carrie Fisher and Parker Posey are to die for. The hilariousness is enough to make you wet your pants and the ending could make you go into shock where you find out the truth of what's been happening through all these movies. With more killing and more creepiness, Scream 3 will take you where the other Scream movies didn't.  "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****; Grade C+","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Disappointing conclusion to this horror trilogy features too few jokes and too many cliches to be on par with its predecessors.  The story follows the same group of characters to Hollywood, which would seem to be ripe for the kind of treatment these filmmakers are capable of. Alas, stupidity reigns supreme as the corpses pile up.  The entire production feels hurried and disjointed, lacking in the surprising cohesion and solid pacing of the first two films. A great affection for this particular cast of characters makes the film more enjoyable than it should be. "},{"Title":"Shut-up and you'll be Okay.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No flesh so to speak of, even with Carrie Fisher, and violence is mostly endless leading to a careless attitued. A lot of Knees Bent-Running Around that the DVD out-takes adds a lot to.No one is dead until they fall through your screen. Sums it up. "},{"Title":"Sucked","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had to rent this film because Scream 2 was so bad, there was no way I'd see this film in the theatres (Scream 1 was great). They want to spend so much effort in attempting to get you to guess who the killer is, they toss all logic and sense of reality out the window.  The script is so completely stupid, you'll find yourself going ah, come on... at least 15 times. I could spend an hour going over how bad this film was, but I don't want to waste that much time on it. I already wasted two hours of my life watching it and I'll never get it back. The worst thing about the film is that everyone didn't die, so they'll most likely make another, no matter what they claim. Yech. "},{"Title":"Better than Scream 2, but still far behind the original Scream","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me start by saying that the third installment in this highly successful trilogy was not worse than Scream 2. On the other hand it wasn't much better than the first sequel, well, maybe a little...When I heard that the Scream-team had to do without Kevin Williamson as screenwriter I was rather sceptical. But I have to admit that Ehren Kruger did a decent job. He copied the style of Kevin Williamson instead of trying to come with new aspects and I was glad he did so because many other sequels in the horror genre failed because the screenplay contained new ideas which ruined the film. Scream 3 has a solid screenplay, not as clever as the one of the original, but without any major flaws.The body count (although it is not a very gory film) is higher than in its two predecessors. And this time the killer is able to make his voice sound like the ones of his soon-to-be victims. I think this was supposed to increase the suspense (is it the killer or is it the person it seems to be?) but personally, I think it was a rather lame and somehow cheap idea.The characters Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) looks better than in Scream 2, Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox-Arquette) looks like a skeleton with messed-up haircut, Dewey (David Arquette) returned back to normal state of mind, Carrie Fisher has a nice cameo and Lance Henriksen is cool as always (too bad he wasn't given more on-screen time). Any questions?In Scream 2 I really hated Kevin Williamson for killing off my favored character Randy (Jamie Kennedy). I always thought there was something wrong about his death. I was positively surprised by his appearance in Scream 3, even if it was just on videotape.Overall, Scream 3 is a good sequel. However, the ending should have revealed anything more spectacular than what it actually did. This trilogy should have ended with a big surprise, something that would stay in your mind (remember Randy in Scream 2? I'd let the geek get the girl.). The film wasn't as scary as the first two, the only eerie scene was Neve's first vision of her mother.Watch this one if you liked the first two films, if you haven't seen those yet, watch them first.My rating 7/10 (I gave Scream 2 a 6/10) "},{"Title":"Well, what to say of this third ( and last?) episode of this slasher/thriller series (trilogy?)","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the worst film in the trilogy, but is it bad????? NO, not at all. It is pretty good.  Why? Well read!!The first thing I noted, while watching this film, is that there are some people obviously running out of ideas here, I mean you really can tell who is going to be killed and the way they are killed are alike the variations of the first two (with a FEW exceptions of course). The &#145;Hello, is someone there??' routine gets old too. But I must admit, that there was some good stuff too. The new &#145;ways' of the killer were very cool. The story itself is pretty cool especially the ending, which unravels all of the previous &#145;mysteries'. This is very, very well done indeed. It was not only an ending that was plausible, but it was good instead, it actually only explained a bit of the trilogy's happenings, but that was enough, because the rest needed not be explained as is often done in cheap slasher/horror flicks. I also feel that the killer was a great choice with motives and all and that he, of all the supporting cast was the best.  The part after the killings I found rather unnecessary, but it was still watchable. I do not mean the Neve Campbell stuff at the end I rather liked that. But mow further on the story, I found that there was too much spoofing going on here, especially with that Gale from Stab 3 (played very annoyingly by Parker Posey). Too Much spoof that wasn't funny and all in all little laughable scenes I must say compared to Scream or even Scream 2. The supporting cast was really worse than before, but that had to do with the film being set on the set of a cheap slasher flick. I mean not all were bad, they were all OK in a way, but that fake Gale really annoyed the hell out of me. I mean this film missed the likes of Tatum (Rose McGowan), Billie (Skeet Ulrich), Stuart (Matthew Lillard) who were all great in Scream and of course Randy (Jamie Kennedy) who was good in Scream and brilliant!!!! (excuse my exaggeration) in Scream 2. Also David and Courteney's on &#150; screen chemistry, which was worse than OK in Scream 3 made the film less fun to watch. The only steadily good actor/actress was Neve Campbell and maybe David Arquette (if in this one he was only good if not joined by his wife, whereas in the others he was always fun to watch). THAT MUCH about bad things, what was good in the film? Well, I especially liked the scene where the house exploded (clever!), the cellar scene (with Courteney, David and Ghostface) plus I really liked the dream sequence in Sid's house. These were three really great scenes. The first one was really clever, the second one was quite funny and extraordinary I felt because I often wondered why that what happened to Dewey didn't happen more often in films. As a matter of fact it never did as far as I know. The third scene was probably the best, because it helped you feel the movie, it gave me a shiver and I love that. The music, the acting the camera the direction everything was perfect in that scene. Now for the actors. First of all I feel that the magic between Courteney Cox and David Arquette missed in this one, I don't know if it has to do with the both of them being married in real life or something like that, but I missed something here. It tasted like nuked leftovers. Also I must say that the supporting ladies are not quite as stunning as in the previous two, except maybe Jenny McCarthy, who looks like a total knock &#150; out. Of course Courteney Cox does not look that nice, she is far too thin and what the hell is up with that hair. I remember when I saw the commercial, that I thought &#145;Damn she looks ugly.', but I must admit that, while watching the film I hardly noticed. The killer was really good and you believed his twisted ways and you kind of understood him too. As for Campbell, I don't know, I like her almost always. It is not that she is the hottest babe in the world or that she plays Oscar worthy characters. She is just so natural and nice that you just have to like her. Also her character has evolved greatly in this trilogy, which makes her even better.Well and now for the director, well Wes did a good job most of the time and he did exceptionally well two times in the movie or maybe even three. But his directional influence could be seen in one scene in particular, and that is the dream sequence scene I talked about earlier. This scene is really a sign of how good a director Wes is, he uses the music, the plot and the actors to create a scene that influences the audience. He makes you feel something during the movie and that is a great thing to accomplish and in a horror movie it is even better.After seeing this one, I want to say to everyone who participated in the three movies great job, thank you, but do not make another one, unless you can come up with a whole lot of other ideas (as for ways of killing, ways of the killer's approach (like it was done here!!!!)) and maybe a little bit different approach (as to the Is somebody there routine). Also keep the spoofing down and the laughs up, just as in Scream. All in all generally enjoyable, but I must change my grades for the other 2 filmsScream8,0 (highly recommended)Scream 2	7,5 (recommended)Scream 3	               7,0 (pretty good)  "},{"Title":"Parker Posey Rocks!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I read most of the comments made by other viewers, and I feel like some people are A not giving Scream 3 a fair chance, and B TOTALLY FORGETTING TO MENTION PARKER POSEY!!!!  Parker steals this film from EVERYONE!  SHE is the star of Scream 3!  Every scene she is in she brings to life.  If you love...or even like Parker Posey, you have to see this film.  She's brilliant. "}{"Title":"Don't expect too much","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream was a real horror movie. At least they've killed Drew Barrymore, now if that isn't horror, what else ??? But it was also very funny. Scream 2 was only an average thriller, and this one here could be described as the show must go on.Most of the time everyone knows what will happen next. More people die, and like always in horror movies the only ones with a brain are the main characters, one really is happy when Sidney enters the fight place because she thinks before she does something. Dewey is far more adult and mature than before, but lacks also much of the humorous aspects in previous movies. Well, have I to say more? I think most people will watch this one because they've watched the two before, but its far from the level of other triologies (such as 'Alien' or 'Star Wars').  "},{"Title":"The Best Horror Movie in 2000 till now","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At last I've seen Scream 3. And it was magnificant in every thing. The direction , acting,music & effects are wonderful. I challenge any one who could know the serial killer in scream 3 Wes Craven here returned to mix suspense in the usual killer scenes with horror in the appearance of Sydney's dead mother coming from the grave. Neve Campbell looked much cute than scream 2 although she didn't appear too much in scream 3. The author made a scene at the end of the movie to make you think that there is scream 4. But I lately heard that dimension films are preparing secretly for scream 4.But Wes Craven & the cast refused it. If any one here's anything about a scream 4 please tell me as soon as possible. The last thing I want to say that scream 3 in Egypt made excellent sales in the cinemas & all the shows were completely reserved & it's still playing till the end of July 2000. "},{"Title":"Mostly entertaining, but enough already","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is supposed to be the final movie in the Scream series. I hope it is. Even though the movie is for the most part entertaining, it's not as good as the first two movies. Neve Campbell (Sidney), Courtney Cox Arquette (Gale), and David Arquette (Dewey) are back. So is director Wes Craven. But one big element did not come back for the third installment. Kevin Williamson, who wrote the screenplays for Scream and Scream 2 (here he's billed as a producer). The writer for Scream 3 is Ehren Kruger, and his screenplay lacks the wit and humor of the first two films. Also, even though Campbell and the Arquettes are fine as usual, the new supporting characters aren't very interesting. The first two movies had good supporting characters played by the likes of Skeet Ulrich, Matthew Lillard, Rose McGowan, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Jerry O'Connell, Jada Pinkett, and Jamie Kennedy (who turns up here in a cameo). The supporting characters in Scream 3 are mediocre at best. Scott Foley (terrific on TV's Felicity) acts too sullen as the director of Stab 3, a movie based on the events that took place in the first two movies; Parker Posey acts too obnoxious as an actress who's playing Cox's role in the movie that's being shot; Carrie Fisher turns up in a pointless cameo as if she just woke up from a bad hangover; Jenny McCarthy is wasted as another actress in the movie; and Lance Henriksen (from TV's Millennium) isn't given much to do as a studio owner that's distributing Stab 3. The only new character that's interesting is Patrick Dempsey who's good as a detective who's assigned the case when the murders begin. There are other supporting characters in Scream 3, but none of them make a good impression. Scream 3 is good if you like standard slasher flicks, but if you're expecting comic relief, you're likely to be disappointed like I was. It's not real bad, but I expected it to be better than it turned out.**1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"funny and original","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this time they made more of a comedy, which isn't a bad thing. I was a little disappointed there weren't any gory scenes. I thought the violence was too toned down. Some of the humor was also misplaced. But this movie's clever moments, especially the scene of Randy's video, made me forget the predictable killer scenes. I recommend this movie, it's better than #2!   "},{"Title":"Somewhat disappointing mainstream movie that lacks gore","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At first There are no spoilers in here. As I really liked the original Scream and also its sequel I couldn't wait to see Scream 3 when it was shown as a sneak preview in Germany. What I got was somewhat disappointing. It has its moments and the fans really get some things they waited for (watch out the hear the rules of a trilogy) but on the other hand it's become too much of a mainstream movie. There are no really bloody scenes, no gore and some scary moments and shock scenes seem to be somewhat out of place and made up. In Germany where youth protection and cutting films are a sad story a targeted 16 rating says it all I think. People who liked the two first movies will definitively have to watch this to get some clues about unanswered things, but despite some interesting ideas like the movie in the movie plot outline not everybody might like it's different style. I originally planned to buy this movie on DVD to complete my Scream collection but now I think I will spend my money elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Mediocre. Forgettable","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There are three holy Wes Craven films The Hills Have Eyes, Wes Craven's New Nightmare, and the original Scream. Rent them instead. Scream 3 doesn't have a single memorable death scene, and is about as anticlimactic a way to end a once energetic series as possible. Furthermore, the movie is too devoid of style to really have been directed by Wes Craven. It's an unknown secret in Hollywood that it was actually made by the second unit director of Lawnmower Man 2 Beyond Cyberspace. Neve Campbell plays a sadder, more cautious Sidney Prescott with surprising poignancy, but she barely redeems this slapped together effort. For undiscriminating genre fans only.  "},{"Title":"Great fun, wrapping up the trilogy nicely","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Funny, I came to this movie expecting to be disapointed. I thought Scream 2 sucked, and they couldn't even be bothered to bring Scream's daddy, Kevin Williamson, back to write the ending to the trilogy. Instead, we get the guy who wrote that dismal little terrorist movie, Arlington Road. But Wes Craven is doing it, so at least it will look slick. Man, what a surprise! After the opening scene I turned to the person next to me and said, It's already better than the second one! (the first Scream still kicks the most booty).The cast didn't leave much of an impression. Other than the returning characters, the only performances I enjoyed were Parker Posey and Warrburton (David Puddy!). The rest look and sound like the usual, run of the mill soon-to-be dead teenagers, and poor Lance Henrikson isn't given much to do. The guys a good actor, someone give him a meaty role he can sink his teeth into!God bless the Scream films, since they have guaranteed about another decade of cheap, slasher film clones and rip-offs, just like when the were all the rage after the success of John Carpenter's Halloween. I can't complain though. With the kind of coin the Scream films have taken in, as well as a few others (The Sixth Sense, The Blair Witch Project, etc.), we are in the middle of a horror movie renaissance, and I couldn't be happier, horror film buff that I am.Anyway, i'm giving the movie 8/10 stars. Fast paced, exciting, funny, but slows down in the third act and gets a little stale toward the end. The ending worked for me, and didn't annoy me like the garbage that was the end of Scream 2. Wes! Don't leave horror movies, buddy! They're making a comeback! G'night! "},{"Title":"Scream 3 is a awesome horror/comedy!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Scream 3' is the most funniest horror movie that I've ever seen in years!Neve Campbell did a good job, Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette did good jobs and Parker Posey did an awesome job.I rate it 9.5/10! "},{"Title":"Not All Bad","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   It might be because of the departure of Kevin Williamson, but this film doesn't have the magic of the previous two. The Big Three-Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courteney Cox Arquette has become incredibly boring. The relationship between Dewey and Gale is beyond tedious. Thankfully, the supporting cast which includes Patrick Dempsey, Scott Foley, Jenny McCarthey, Parker Posey, Lance Henriksen, Carrie Fisher, Matt Keesler, Dean Richmond and Hollywoods star of tomorrow Liev Schreiber provide much needed wit and scares. The chase scenes are over in a couple of minutes and none of the characters are well defined (with the exception of Roman) which is a shame because there were real oppurtunities for some great characters (Richmond was just warming up). Despite some clever cameos-Fisher, Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes and Jamie Kennedy as Randy (who has been doing well for himself in Bowfinger), it is all just throwing money in a burning bag. However short the chases are, however weak the characters may be, Scream 3 is a worthy finale to a superb trilogy. He may not have hit the Jackpot with this but thumbs up to Wes Craven for giving it a stab. Rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Not like the others","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I like the Scream trilogy overall but Scream 3 is by far the worst one. Some of the stuff they put in this movie really peaked the cheese factor scale.  The biggest part was the ending with the door.  They said Scream 3 was the last one but is it?  And another thing that was weak was the little secret passages in the house along with all the convenient coffins and other horror movie props.  Many other things lacked compared to the previous two, including the plot.The absolute low point of the movie was the appearance of Jay and Silent Bob.  I don't know who's idea that was but putting those two characters in this movie was just extremely bad taste! "}{"Title":"Wes Craven at his best","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is the best horror film I have seen since The Dead Zone. Wes Craven has worked his magic in this top-notch thriller, which stars a top-rate cast. Though the plot is nothing new, it is the way that Craven crafts it which makes it so good.The best thing about Scream 3 that I liked was the fact that there were no clues given to the identity of the killer. Some people like to play detective along with the movie; I am one of those people and I hate when the director reveals the villain early. It takes the fun out of the movie when this happens.When it came time to unmask the villain, it was a complete and pleasant shock because Craven completely fooled me as to who the killer was.Another thing I liked about this film was that it introduced new horror sequences with better action and special effects. The dialogue in Scream 3 seemed unrehearsed and natural. and unlike other films it also seemed like the cast had a blast with one another while in production of making Scream 3.From beginning to end, Scream 3 was a brilliant work of art by the horror master, Craven. Craven really knew what he was doing when he was directing this film.I give this film two thumbs way up and my recommendation to anyone who is a horror or movie fan; it is that great.   "},{"Title":"almost as good as the first","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  seldom does the third sequel to a movie surpass the sequel, and almost perform better than the original. Scream three was so much better than scream two... and it was almost as good as scream one. I've only seen it twice, but i loved it both times. the beginning was sort of creepy and the twists in the plot will have you confused. the deaths aren't really brutal, but the chases will make your heart pound. go see this movie! "},{"Title":"The best of the Screams!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Scream deserves much respect for reigniting the horror genre, but the original was very overrated, however Scream 2 was a blastier movie than the original and delivered a higher body-count, more blood and even more great looking babes. Unfortunately it never was considered better than the first. But I thought it was more wicked. But Scream 3 is undoubtedly the best film of the series, it pulled off some spectacular fun cheesy qualities and had more sophisticated-talking than ever before! This one was more entertaining than the first two, with very cool, varying settings and again great looking babes! The gore may have been toned down a bit and there was no reason they could'nt show the shower-girl nude! Damn!!!! But, it was a hell of a ride, and I saw it 3 times in the theatre. I saw the first two only once in the theatre. "},{"Title":"Rule no. 1 of Trilogies  Part 3 is the lamest of the bunch","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not that I particularly cared for the first two Scream movies, but this one was just awful.  Predictably, like most part 3's, it paled tremendously compared with the first two.For starters, the only actor in this clunker with any real talent--Liev Schreiber--is the first to die.  What follows is lame humor and not-so-scary scenes of the killer hunting and killing his prey.  And the way the story is resolved. . .well, let's just say the plot has holes the size of the Grand Canyon.The only thing that might have saved this film was if it followed rule no. 1 of Neve Campbell films and TV shows  her character at least talks about having sex with women.  On second thought, no.  It still would have stunk.  I rated it a 4.  "},{"Title":"Well, at least it's better than number two...","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After having not really enjoyed Scream 2 at all, I was not expecting much from this. I was pleasantly surprised, not because I found it scary, but because it was entertaining enough for me to like it. This time, I didn't figure out who the killer/killers was/were, unlike last time, where it was just so obvious that it was sad. That which makes the film work despite not being the least bit scary is that many times it's funny. Very funny. Especially the gab between Courtney Cox and Parker Posey (who gives the by far best performance in the film, by the way). It features a bunch of neat cameos and in-jokes that kept me entertained throughout, but let's hope this is the last film. Let the franchise come to an end before it's too late. Give this a go though. It's not a masterpiece by any means, but at least it's entertaining and well shot/edited/acted. And that's good enough for me. "},{"Title":"Too many characters, and not enough scares.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say, I really loved the first Scream. The second Scream was also rather scary, but not as much so as the first. Scream 3, wasn't really that scary at all. I really wish that Kevin Williamson had written this movie. You can really tell that it isn't him. The movie was good, but it didn't keep me at the edge of my seat. It went more for the laughs, instead of the throat, like the others did. This could have been a great film, except that there were too many characters. And most of them were underdeveloped. Most of them just stood around to be killed. In the first movie, you got to feel for the characters, and were upset when they died. In this movie, it was Wait, who was he again? And in the commercials, everyone was talking about some huge secret that would bring everything together. But when I heard it, I was thinking So? THAT'S IT?!?! I have to say that I was really disappointed with this movie. I do have to say that the opening scene was really well done, and it happened to someone that I REALLY didn't think it was going to happen to! ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Another Scream movie, not as good as the first two though","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Finally Sidney is having nightmares (she's been through alot) and living by her self, she has changed her name and is a councellor over the phone.Meanwhile a Scream 1 & 2 star is murdered (not telling who) and Dewey a cop from the first two (played well by Arquette) and Gale Weathers (played too nice by Cox-Arquette) are reunited. a few deaths later and Sidney shows up. a party a few more deaths, Yadda Yadda Yadda.Not even worth seing it on the big screen. Dissapointing to see Williamson no longer writing the trilogy. And he is sorely missed.7/10 (doesnt deserve such a high mark though) "},{"Title":"Can't get much worse...","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm going to keep this short and sweet.... stay away from the movie and this whole friggin franchise. I enjoyed the first one, but the sequels have killed it. Thats sad, it doesn't seem like it'd be that difficult to make enjoyable sequels, but somehow they really loused up.After my disappointment in part 2, I expected this movie to be bad. But it shocked me in being even worse. I saw this film at a dollar theater, and I felt robbed when I left. The plot is a joke, the acting is awful, nothing can salvage this celluloid pile of excrement.STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"Good enough, but still disappointing.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Even though this is a decent sequel, I still found it disappointing. Although it does have some humor and a few good scares this just isn't as good as the first two. Most of the blame falls on screenwritter Ethan Kruger, who lacking the experience Kevin Williamson has, is not able to really relate to the characters and his screenplay feels very awarkard. But the film does have its moments. The ending is a letdown yet again though and Neve Campell doesn't have enough screen time. Courtney Cox really is the lead actress. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The weary sound of a machine notching up another hit","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is a film hampered by the weight of expectation, it's own lack of truly original ideas and the general apathy of the makers toward their material.For about sixty seconds the opening is impressively different from its predecessors, before the conventions creep back in and the script starts to buckle under it's own tedium. The killer demands to know the whereabouts of Sidney Prescott from his hapless phone victim, Cotton Weary. So now we have to wait not only for the endless round of stalk-and-chase scenes on the perky heroin, but for the killer to actually find her in the first place.The post-title trawl around the various locations of the original characters gradually brings them all together. In order to continue the tension the script once again has split Dewey and Weathers and attempts to surprise greatly by re-uniting them again at the end. Meanwhile no-one whatsoever is interested in the Campbell's character, who once again plays a supporting role to the many cameos, in-jokes and new characters.Scream 3 has absolutely no focus and is a remarkably cold experience. The characters in Scream were always stronger than those of its successor but this time even the few remaining ones have been underwritten and acted with little enthusiasm from the cast (a similar flaw can be found in Marquand's Return of the Jedi). Arquette is stiff and uninteresting, Cox-Arquette nervy and thoroughly stereotyped (some may remember how impressively her characterisation just avoided obvious cliché two films ago) and Campbell simply awaiting the pay cheque. New characters provide little interest since they are predominantly actors playing Scream characters in film-within-film horror-movie, Stab 3.So the dearth of human interest thoroughly unengaged (bar an amusing and rather touching cameo from Jamie Kennedy as film buff Randy) whose personality only serves to reminds us of how inferior the series has become, one inevitably looks to the suspense elements for a modicum of real interest.Unfortunately, the identity of the killer is an area that the cynical minds behind this concoction might have paid greater attention to, but alas it has scarcely been more obvious. It would take an extremely deficient mind not to guess at once who he/she is from the early set-pieces. This is made even more obvious by the sheer obviousness of its red herrings. The chase sequences are executed with requisite gusto and style by Craven, even playing games with our memory of the sets in the original film (which have of course been reproduced in proportion-perfect detail in the Hollywood back-lots), but can not disguise the fact that they are tense but never once frightening.The hopeless (and frankly, incoherent) finale takes far too long to reveal what we have already guessed at anyway, and revels in sadism and brutality towards women even more than usual, whilst singularly failing to deliver anything new in its closing seconds. For all its smug mocking of genre clichés, it is remarkable how many there are that these films would rather you didn't notice they are adhering to. Logic, of course, has become irrelevant by now and once again the killer keeps on trying to kill the protagonist before using his final chance to stop and explain all the motives.Most galling of all is the defence of the film's existence in terms of its trilogy status. Scream 2 hinted at it with a throw-away remark, but part 3 never misses an opportunity to remind as us that we are watching part 3 of 3, even though the killer never actually states an intention to finish a trilogy. All concerned (characters and film-makers) seem intent on following the rules and guides set out by Randy in his video monologue. The three-act structure adds nothing to the drama or our understanding of the previous films, except to relentlessly point out that some detail from the past which we have overlooked may come back to get us in the last reel (it never does by the way, it just contrives new back-stories which were evidently not there first time around).If Craven, Williamson et al had never made another Scream film, who exactly would be crying out for precisely two more? Scream would be recognised for what it really  is (and the more of these films that get made, the more the original film is undermined), a witty and energetic horror spoof that conquered the hardest (and generally, most pointless) genre of all, the horror-comedy, and succeeded in both. There was nothing exceptional in the idea, but it was executed with startling technical proficiency and a real affection for the spirit of the films it lampooned. The characters may have been thinly drawn and two-dimensional but they were at least engaging to watch for the running time. And crucially, Sidney's slightly dour self-pity was nicely offset by her spunk-filled friend Tatum (the lovely Rose MacGowan). In 2 and 3 there had been no foil for Sidney and she is simply the dull centre of a lifeless universe.The swipes and references to horror films were never over-emphasised, but a believable part of the film's world; the closet small-town community that might well have been drip-fed scary movies set in towns like theirs. The move towards more commercially viable (and populated) locales in the subsequent films has lessened their impact considerably and left a fundamental flaw in their ideology the main point that 2 and 3 have kept making is that under the cloak of celebrity and fame, the plight of the individuals who suffered is forgotten. People make money out of other peoples' misery and take the benefits that come with it. Problem is, the sequel makers care just as little about human beings and are content to simply sit back and wallow in the sound of cash-tills pinging the world over.  "}{"Title":"SPOILER AHEAD!!!  IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE MOVE ON!!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me begin by saying i love the scream movies.  I thought the first one was original.  Billy and Stu were great as killers, Sydney was totally clueless and Randy was great as the horrormovie-wisdom spouting cutie.  The second on was okay.  Ms. Loomis and Mickey as the killers were a little strange,cause, i mean, you never see a picture of Mrs. Loomis in scream 1, so you don't really know who she is, but you could tie it in, y'know.  The thrid one was bad.  The death scenes were toned down to the point where they didn't even scare you.  And Sydneys brother as the killer?  That makes no sense at all.  You would never know she had a brother, i mean it wasn't even HINTED in any of the movies.  Now i think Randy should have been the killer. What a twist that would have been!!  Well, this is more venting then commenting, but i just wanted you to know how i felt about this movie "},{"Title":"It´s ok","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think this was the Scream movie that I thought was the least scariest. It was accually pretty funny sometimes when David Arquette or Parker Posey was on the screen. I wasn´t scared at all after the movie. I still think Scream 1 was the best one. This is a OK movie. "},{"Title":"Series has run out of breath at last!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lets hope that with this tired third installment the screaming will finally end. The story gives punters more of the same - red herrings, multiple uninventive killings and celebrity cameos - and fails to deliver anything new. We are told by one character that in trilogies, anyone can be killed and that in the concluding chapter, anyone can die - but Scream 3 wimps out leaving the major characters alive at the end. I prayed for Sidney to die so that this series could finally be put to rest and Wes could move on to pastures new but I fear Scream 4 is just around the corner.  "},{"Title":"Scream pee","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Now the first 2 Scream movies were good, the first one especially (even though they killed the Fonz). The second on was quite good as well with a completly over the top climax in the theatre. The third one though is a major let down.It starts well but then ignores Sydney's character for the larger part of the film. It also introduces a cast of new characters who end up being knocked of one at a time but you still don't know who they are, and Parker Possy's character is just plain irritating. It lacks any kind of suspense and lacks almost all the humor of the first 2. There are many scenes which have a major now way factor in them, including the magic fax machine scene mentioned elsewhere here. And a rather poor Return Of The Jedi type revelation at the end ( which could explain Carrie Fishers cameo, which is just weird and stupid) The one clever and funny thing about the whole movie is the return of Randy who was killed in Scream 2 this is both clever and adds some of the humor that the film lacks so badly. Oh and there is a good visual gag with a knife near the end that is a topper So I would'nt recommend Scream3 to anyone its a disapointment  "},{"Title":"Lucky girl, Sidney...","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You'll probably kick me in the head after you read this I think Scream 3 is really cool. And even better than the original Scream. Okay, kick me now. But I really think the 3 is better- actually, if they put this as the first one, I would have loved it. What I like about this movie is that you never know who is on the other end of the phone, you could never tell if it's the real person talking to you. Like David Arquette said in the film, How do I know if you are the real Gale? Isn't it what the killer would say? Forgive me for not being very accurate, but roughly he meant that. This kind of crank calls really raised the tension throughout the movie.Neve Campbell , again, fought the obsessive guy in the end. And she's getting smarter( bullet-proof vest, yeah baby) and possibly stronger, too. The bit where they played the video is just SOOOO unnecessary.I mean, if Sidney really got killed, than it's not bad to have that bit added. But hello? Sidney can't die in THIS movie. And she won't. I'm not the only person to figure that out, am I?Last thingThis is not Titanic. It's worth waiting for on the video. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but still good stuff","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Disappointing finale to the trilogy - I didnt guess the killer, not surprising since, in my opinion, the motive was pretty tenuous, presumably the director thought so too judging from the killer's long description to tell us why!! Nonetheless Scream 3 did keep me on the edge of my seat and there were some nice touches, like when Sydney revisits her old house in Woodsboro on a Hollywood set. Two points to throw in 1. Why did the killer blow up someone in the house when every other killing in every other film has been a stabbing? 2. Why on earth is (in England at least) Deon Richmond one of five faces on the promo poster (the others being Campbell, Arquette, Cox and Parker Posey) when his part is very small and irrelevant? "},{"Title":"Creditable closure (possible spoiler)","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wow, it looks like Craven meant it after all, SCREAM genuinely was a comedy. Not in the flip, 'ironic' sense, but in the traditional, ancient sense of the Greeks and Shakespeare.  All those references to theatre, performance, reality/illusion, actor/role, then, weren't just pretentious appendages, but a systematic attempt to create an old-style comedy, ending with the possibility of marriage and a casting out of demons, especially family ones. Such ambition is laudable.It helps that Craven has gone the whole hog and reduced SCREAM to its bare bones as game.  Much of the first film gained its charge as the emotionally grounded moral journey of a young woman in a very recognisable milieu.  The sequel took the plausible, subsidiary referentiality between clever young people as the film's raison d'etre to excess, but managed, amidst the hollowness, to find a romantic frisson between Dewey and Gale, culminating in the remarkable two-way mirror scene.  3's thrill is intellectual, and although once you've worked out the pattern and probable development (the cameo of Jay and Silent Bob, stars of that other STAR WARS homage, DOGMA, gives it away), you can guess the nature if not the detail of the ending, this doesn't stop the film being highly intriguing.One of the improvements on its predecessor is that it actually absorbs its sequel status into its form, rather than just joking about it.  And so it makes use of that most venerable of horror tropes, the doppelganger, but, as is typical of SCREAM's aggressive post-modernity, diffuses it, so that we've a whole host of doubles.  It is amusing and appropriate that the central 'original' trio don't die, and all the actors who play them in the film do.This can be a joke at all the poor post-SCREAM imitators, the nature of sequels in general, the idea of film being just a component in a whole nexus of merchandise and promotion.  It can also suggest the split within the characters themselves, a Lucas-like good and evil, but also being torn between solitude and friendship, ambition and domesticity, or just the sense of living in a world where you are alienated from yourself, a lovely old-fashioned 60s arthouse idea popping up in the strangest of places.3, as it interrogates the past, its own past (prequels), and that of the characters, also becomes a rumination on the medium, and there is a lot of lovely stuff about old Hollywood and its ghosts, the forgotten spooks haunting the glittering party, hints of the depravity and evil lurking under the surface.  The film is also funnily daring in implying that little has changed, especially when you consider the awesome acting talent on display.This sense of Hollywood's haunted past is appropriately figured in a glorious, Cormanesque Gothic mansion, where the labyrinthine twists and turns shadow the not very straight progress of Hollywood history.  The seriously underrated Lance Henriksen is superb as John Milton, the moral monster with the pained, sensitive face.  Milton, of course, was the poet who wrote Paradise Lost, the archetypal study of unloveable good and charismatic evil, and in a sense, Milton here is the author of the SCREAM trilogy, his creation being the motor of the horrors.It is as a critique of the family that the trilogy works best.  There is a conservative impulse here - in demonising a promiscuous mother, in ending the film in marriage - but it rejects the notion of family being a given as a force of good.  Rather it is a force of terror, death, evil, sterility, fragmentation, uncertainty, preventing its young from any growth into maturity.  Sidney spends the first half of the film withdrawn from the world, alone, in fear - this is the result of family life.  She is only safe when she is with her adopted family - a firm blow for moral choice.  Of course, this is slightly self-serving - the case against violent films being the corruption of family - but why not?3 is full of fresh air after its predecessor.  The change of screenwriter has breathed new life into the series, allowing Craven to minimise tiresome jokes in favour of something more mythic, even if it's just a parody of myth.  The only sustained self-referentiality, featuring the dead Randy, is actually quite moving.  Best of all is the increasing minimalising of Sidney throughout the series.  Her static solipsism is rejected in favour of the joys of group dynamics, often very funny here.  The scene in the Woodboro set where Sidney is chased is supremely chilling and affecting. "},{"Title":"Hello Sidney...","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is a good film when it is viewed after and in context of the previous two films.  Don't go along expecting never-seen-before, new-ground-covered, horror/slasher movie.  It isn't.  What it does is to give some understanding to the whole movie trilogy, horror-genre thing and in this it succeeds very well.There are some clever moments, for example, when Sidney steps onto a very realistic set of Woodsboro.  The acting is as good the other two with most of the familiar faces being there in one form or another.The film sits well with the other two and it would be recommended to see the other two before seeing this to ensure that all the reference make sense (in trilogy style!).  Very stereotypical, but that's not to say it isn't entertaining.In the true spirit of a Trilogy not as good as the other two but when the rules laid out are applied it does make it a good film.  Also in true trilogy form can only ruined by a fourth (no films in particular being thought of!).  I think a relations dog could have a motif&#133; "},{"Title":"The third film in most trilogys are the weakest and,yep,this is the weakest","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this yesterday and have forgotten most of it already. It's watchable enough if you've nothing better to do but isn't nearly as fun as Scream 1 or 2. David Arquette comes off the best with some amusing lines but the Agatha Christie style plotting which means that the screenwriters can conveniently pick anyone they want to be the killer and explain it in the final reel with a lengthy monologue is, quite frankly, annoying. Also this film must hold the record for the biggest use of breakable glass and pots. Not scary, not funny and not a great deal of fun. Wait for it on video.  "},{"Title":"If this is the final cut, then disappointing","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's happened before - however many Freddie Kreuger movies there are, the majority of them claimed to be the 'final chapter'. Of course, at the time of production this may have been the case, but a far more cynical view (and probably more accurate) is that this was a ploy for more publicity. Calling one of a series as final suggests that it has to tie up the loose ends that the first films didn't. As SCREAM 3's Randy says, a the third chapter of a trilogy takes us back to the beginning, connecting all three movies. Sadly SCREAM 3 does not satisfy this criteria.Good performances (bar the dreadful Jenny McCarthy) liven up this standard horror flick, but one just doesn't feel that the film lives up to the premise that the script itself gives. Fans of the series will love this for the same reasons as they loved the other 2 - fans of the horror genre may feel a little cheated. "}{"Title":"Now Complete","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't find the film too bad considering the poor reviews given to it by many critics. Having said that however, the series has now clearly run its course and it's time to move on.The plot, such as it is, has become predictable and cliched. If Sidney Prescott was an real life person I would run a mile rather than be aquainted with her or I'd probably end up dead somewhere!! ( It's a little like getting on a plane only to find that Joe Petroni is a fellow passenger or is in the employ of the airline. You are assured of a scary flight!)Overall then I would say that Scream 3 is predictable but just about watchable. If there is a temptation to make a Scream 4 however, forget it, there's no more mileage!! "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 has so much secrecy surrounding it that many people had really high expectations for it. Which is why those people are disappointed by it. I honestly thought the film was well written and nicely acted. The characters of course are another story. Ehren Krueger obviously showed a weakness here. The new characters were poorly developed throughout the course of this film. With the exception of Parker Posey's Jennifer Jolie. But even her character development is limited. Scream 3 could have saved money by not including the useless characters. The plot is of course growing tiresome. The script is very good. The movie in all was better than I expected. I expected it to be very poor because it is of course a sequel. But it is worth your money and 2 hours and some odd minutes to view it.  "},{"Title":"So bad i screamed with laughter","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Although i am not the biggest fan of the scream movies, i do believe even avid fans will agree scream 3 was very bad.This review is concluded with 3 words PREDICTABLE, LAUGHABLE,NONSENSE.Scream1(7/10),Scream2(6.5/10),Scream3(3/10).Ps. For bigger thrills i would highly recommend (TIGGER the movie).  "},{"Title":"Entertaining but flawed.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To be honest, I saw this film because it was the most promising of an unsatisfactory line-up at my local cinema.I found Scream 3 to be entertaining, but so locked into horror's narrative traditions and other lines of self-reference that is was, sadly, very predictable. The only part of the film that I didn't predict, was, of course, the identity of the killer - not through my not noticing subtle clues laid down throughout the movie, but through there not really *being* any such clues (actually there was one, but you'll have to find it yourself)In conclusion  Scream 3 was attempting to be a parody of itself. This was not a good idea.6/10 (for being entertaining nonetheless, and an extra point for jay and silent bob's appearance) "},{"Title":"Long Awaited, But A Disappointment","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a massive Scream and Scream 2 fan and this is my most eagerly awaited film for a long time even more so than American Beauty.  I was so hyped up ready to see it got into the cinema and within the first 10 minutes i was extremely upset by what happened to a main star.  The film has a good b-list cast other than Courtney Cox-Arquette, Neve Campbell, David Arquette and Patrick Dempsey the cast is weak a good performance by Parker Posey though. the deaths at the end of the film are to compact they could have spread them out made the film longer - its the shortest of the three.  Not enough of Lance Henrikson, Liev Schreiber or Silent Bob & Jay.  In general its a let down the story has never been mentioned before its completely new and its just been used to make a lot of money it tied up a few things but things which didn't need to be.  The special effects used on the ghost were not needed and really ruined the film.  But as i said i am a massive fan of the Scream trilogy and looking back it seems better, go and see it make your own mind up.  Plus i heard reports on the net and papers about a clause in Neve Campbell's contract which didn't come true and that shocked me the ending could be used to make another i hope not though. "},{"Title":"Great finish!","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say!  Was it the best one?  Hmmm still undecided.  Wes Craven has given us a fatastcally directed piece of Horror.  I was worried that this film would never be as good as the other 2 some friends told this as they had seen it in America but I personally thought it was brilliantly better than 2 and nearly matched by 1.  The plot is good, the laughs are funny and the shoicks are well done.Overall the Scream Trilogy will be the Star wars of the horror genre.  But please NO SCREAM 4 "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ever get that feeling that once you have started something you have to finish it, no matter how pathetic it is.When I saw the first Scream at the tender age of 16, i loved it. The second one was a little over the top but the third one just blew me away, i really hoped that there was going to be somekind of closure.So please bring back Ghost Face and let me get on with my life. "},{"Title":"A great ending to a great trilogy","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"    I have to say that when I first heard that Kevin Williamson was not going to write Scream 3 I felt that the greatness that was the Scream Trilogy was going titanic, but I actually enjoyed this film. It was witty and scary as well as funny. Although David Arquette and (his real life wife) Courteney stole the show away from Neve Campbell who I felt should have choosen to stay out of the movie. Neve didn't have the same likable image she created in the first two. Now Parker Posey, she was great in the film. If the movie didn't have Neve, I know for a fact that once David, Courteny, and Parker would have done just fine without her. Not that Neve did a bad job she just could have done better than she did. All in all this is a great ending to a great horror movie trilogy. Lets just hope that Dimension Films keeps it a trilogy. "},{"Title":"You want to know why this is a bad film?","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Where to begin...First of all, it's widely known that Neve Campbell did not want to do another Scream film. So they decided to come up with a script that would work with or without her. Oh dear. Considering Sid is THE central character of the first two films, this was a bad idea to begin with. Just how strong a script can you expect when its written with the LEAD as an afterthought. Hence Sid's part in the first half of the movie is throwaway garbage, with some of the poorest flashback moments ever about her mother. I thought that was the sort of stuff this series was sending-up!I doubt Kevin Williamson would have gone anywhere near some of the  garbage that ended up in Scream 3. And Wes Craven, so masterly is his direction of the first two films, seems to have sleepwalked his way through this. There are no great set-pieces, a few adequate ones at best, and the whole thing is badly structured because it clearly hasn't developed from a stable idea. The Miramax boys should have waited until they knew whether or not Neve Campbell (beautiful as ever) was going to do it before coming up with any script.A huge disappointment for this very loyal fan. I do hope these lambs have stopped screaming. "},{"Title":"more laughs than scares","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this third and final chapter in the trilogy is certainly very entertaining and funny, but seeing this one was more like watching a family movie than a horror movie. The shock effect from the first Scream's opening scene. The killer is starting to get very predictable and the way he murders people isn't bloody of elaborate. The scene where Jenny McCarthy gets killed, for example, is very predictable i knew from the beginning that she had the killer on the phone! Anyway, i liked the mystery surrounding Sidney's mom and the movie-within-the-movie element was funny. The ending in that house was again predictable but very well-made. The opening scene with Cotton Weary was very good, i love that guy who plays him, but i was kind of disappointed to see him die. All in all, a nice chiller and a worthy wrap-up for the series.      "}{"Title":"A let down.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Am I too fussy? Perhaps, but I just hope Scream 4 is a non-starter. I loved Scream(9/10), I strongly liked Scream 2 - ruined by it's ending (8/10) but on giving Scream 3 four out of ten I'm being generous. There was a surprise although only in motive and not in the actual identity of the killer(s). The characters appear tired and fed up. The lines are the same, a sense of inevitability throughout the film exists, and the film has lost the classic comic touches so brilliantly exploited in Screams 1 and 2. I'll go as far as to say that the advice beyond the grave was original and funny(In finding reasons to justify 4, I'd give this part a whole 2!). One of the characters lost from Scream 2 - sadly as this character was my favorite - comes back in an inspired part. However, in giving it 4 instead of 5, I couldn't help noticing that this character ages considerably well for someone that is dead and the make-up was also done well for what was a home video. I'm sad at this, when I saw the first two Screams I wished it would continue forever, but alas Scream 3 must now be the concluding chapter. Four out of Ten, and my recommendation is to wait for it on video.  "},{"Title":"Not the best of the trilogy but the most hilarious","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I expected this movie for 2 years, because I loved Scream 1 and 2. I know that a lot of people didn't enjoy Scream 2, but I found it very scary, despite a lack of jokes and a end a little inappropriate and impossible. But still, it was good. Scream 3 was the movie I expected the most, and I was a bit disappointed. Of course, the acting was good, there was the returning actors Neve Campbell, David Arquette and Courteney Cox Arquette, who are like always the bests. Neve has done such an incredible work on the scream trilogy, she is one of the best actresses of her generation, and I am so sad Party of five is about to end. I learned also that Friends' 6th season was the last and I am so sad about it because I am a big fan, who taped all the episodes ! Anyway, my subject is Scream 3. The new cast, except Jenny McCarthy, Kelly Rutherford, Scott Foley and Lance Henriksen, was unknown (for us in France). I haven't seen Parker Posey, Deon Richmond (whose part is useless in this movie), Emily Mortimer or Matt Keeslar in other movies or TV shows. In the first Screams, there was Sarah Michelle Gellar, Rebecca Gayheart, Jada Pinkett, Jerry O'Connell... who were famous because of their shows or some of their movies. But here, new coming actors are very good and funny, particularly Parker Posey who did a great job. The acting was good, so were the jokes. It was the funnier Scream movie. All the cameos, like Carrie Fisher or Roger Corman , were funny, the characters of Jennifer Jolie and Gale Weathers were great too and Randy's videotape was excellent. I laughed a lot, but wasn't scared enough. And that's my point. Was it scary ? Not enough. The first scene, who's the best generally (even if you didn't like Scream 2, you had to admit that the first scene was a good idea and was scary !), is here not scary at all. Kelly Rutherford is a pretty, good actress and she knows how to shout but her part was thin. And who cares if she dies ? I was disappointed by this scene, even if I jumped of my sit a little. Then were the murders not hard, not bloody enough. The killers just catch the characters and stab them, without any pursuit. Remember the scene with the murder of Tatum in the first one, or the murder of Gail's camera guy, or in Scream 2 the murder of Maureen Evans (Jada Pinkett), Cici Cooper (Sarah Michelle Gellar) or Randy Meeks ! But still, this is a Scream and Ehren Kruger did a great job. That was hard to make a screenplay in a couple of weeks ! The ending is a great end for the movie, and for the trilogy, but it is like Scream 2 and the murders in the second movie never existed ! Sidney seems not to remember those atrocities. Well, it is funny, a bit scary, well acted but not as good as the first Scream.I gave ***1/2 /5  "},{"Title":"Unexpected ....","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was not all that similar to the first two films - in fact this was actually quite dark and creepy compared to its funnier predecessors.Sidney and co are back in action, as the cast of the film Stab 3 (based on the Woodsboro murders) start getting knocked off.  Blood and guts abound, but not as much as the first installments of the trilogy.There's some standard Wes Craven effects throughout that make it watchable, but I didn't seem to get into this film as much as the first two.Arquette and Cox - now a real life married couple - are at least convincing, must be the practice!Oh, but Neve Campbell is still gorgeous! "},{"Title":"(6/10) Third Scream movie fine - but loses the edge of its predecessors","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is the much anticipated sequel to Scream and Scream 2, bringing the trilogy to a satisfying close.  What is missing, though, is the freshness of its predecessors and Scream 3 almost seems like a rehash of what we have seen before.  Of course, we haven't and the average audience member will still have difficulty in guessing the identity of the murderer.As far as plot is concerned, we are back in familiar territory with someone charging around in mask and cape, with a telephone to torment his/her victims before stabbing them.  For the details, go see the film - I'd rather not spoil anything for those who haven't seen it yet.Neve Campbell returns as Sidney, but her character has been softened incredibly.  Although Sidney is still capable of delivering the goods when she needs to, she has basically withdrawn from life in the outside world.  Campbell is, as usual, lovely as this tortured young woman but should now look for something to stretch her considerable talents as an actress.  David Arquette and Courtney Cox Arquette are also back as Dewey and Gale Weathers, and it's good to see Jamie Campbell back as Randy - albeit only in a video flashback.  New and notable to the Scream movies is Parker Posey who walks away with the film as the actress who is playing Gale in the latest Stab movie.  Also of interest are the cameos by Jay and Silent Bob (of the Kevin Smith films Clerks, Mallrats etc) and Carrie Fisher as the archive secretary, Bianca Burnett.Scream 3 does stand on its own feet.  It has some great moments of tension and one amazing twist at the end - so go and be scared before someone tells you the end! "},{"Title":"A complete load of Garbage.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The story is virtually impossible to follow even if one was unfortunate enough to see Scream 1 or 2. But even then the plot line is preposterous....sure there are a few scary moments.....but speaking for myself even with the Movie volume turned to its' highest I fell asleep in this load of trash. A few of the actors in this film have talent and not only is it completely wasted but more importantly the moviegoer is wasting his or her time in using hard earned money on this garbage. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not (you probably won't), this might be the best of the series","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  	Somehow director Wes Craven managed to get all the elements together and craft a very effective, intense horror film. Not a sequel, which it is, but doesn't play out like, but a stand-alone horror film. Normally a sequel requires viewing of the previous movie(s), but not so in this case. Actually, seeing the first two Scream films can only hurt the enjoyment of the third, as this installment follows the same formula as the others.	The script from Arlington Road writer Ehren Kruger doesn't have enough character development to make it excellent, but it does hold up, and is equally as good as the one in the first Scream, by Kevin Williamson.	The film's best sequence (and arguably the best plot twist in the series) occurs at the end. It's a climax set in a decaying manor ala FX, which manages (without giving too much away) to have you sitting on the edge of your seat, waiting for what's coming next.	The acting is pretty standard, despite a stellar cast which includes Lance Henriksen, Scott Foley and Parker Posey. The film is a remarkable improvement on Scream 2, and a slightly better than Scream, creating a rarity in Hollywood, a sequel better than the original. "},{"Title":"don't bother","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To be honest, I wasn't sure what to expect from Scream 3. I found the first enjoyable and if it wasn't for the over-acting of Matthew Lillard and the unsatisfactory ending as a whole, I would have even said that the first Scream is a really good horror flick. The opening sequence with Drew Barrymore is one of the scariest scenes I've ever, ever seen. That said, I hated Scream 2. I hated it so much that first I didn't want to see the third part at all. Now to Scream 3 I'll do it without a plot synopsis now, all you need to know is that the script by Krueger (by the way, why is everyone bemoaning the fact that Kevin Williamson was not involved in the making of S3? Williamsons script for the second one was -to put it politely - impoverished; yet I'm somehow curious to see his directional debut Teaching Mrs. Tingle which is still to be released in the UK) includes in fact a lot of plot holes and  inplausibilities, but then also a few surprises. So there should have been more effort put into the story in general, but what actually disappoints me most about Scream 3 is Wes Cravens direction. Even from lazy scripts you can make out an at least enjoyable thrill ride if you do it right and with enthusiasm for the thing. It seemed to me that Craven lost all interest in the trilogy and more engaged in making films with Meryl Streep and entering new territory. But that's just speculation in the end Scream 3 has far less suspense than hoped (well, there were, admittedly, two or three I nearly jumped out of my seat- moments). So do we get at least some decent gore scenes? Er, no.(But then again, a film doesn't really need to be gory in order to be thrilling) I should also mention the very annoying score which ruins every possible development of tension, the only moody piece of music was, as always, Nick Caves Red Right Hand. What can I say in favour of the movie? Neve Campell is ravishing to look at, Parker Poseys obsession with being Gail Weathers (it goes like I'll follow you whereever you go so that I don't get killed) and of course the gorgeous scene with the knife. Is that enough? To me, it wasn't (though it was still slightly better than the totally botched second one). As it often goes with trilogies the sequels never match the achievement of the first part... (4 out of 10)in comparison Scream (7 out of 10); Scream 2 (er, can I also give a 0 out of 10?) "},{"Title":"Certainly not the film intended to scare people","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a movie with the most predictable plot....at every turn you can always guess what is going to happen...there is no variation from the first or the second instalments.The new characters are also very thinly drawn.  "},{"Title":"Chapter one set the rules; Chapter 2 bend the rules; Chapter 3 forget the rules; Chapter 4 how 'bout using the rules in an impossible way?","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was quite surprised that 'Scream 3' was actually quite good. I missed the humor and the sarcastic tone of Part 1 (and partially Part 2) a bit... but I am surprised about the fact all episodes have different styles and atmospheres...I like the plot of #3 although there were some things that could have been even more amazing. I know this is the final chapter but if there'd ever be a #4 how about making a (final) plot that is completely unexplainable? Like in the Agatha Christie novel 'Ten Little Niggers' in which the killer dies before his final victim dies... An ingenious plot like that was what I expected of 'Scream 3'. Without revealing 'who diddit' it was a bit too easy for me to simply add a new character (nothing revealed yet since the movie is full of 'em) that has a relation to Sidney that explains the entire trilogy... we could make sequels for eternity in that way.But I liked some of the little details (and maybe I was the only one who noticed that) like the scene in which Courtney Cox Arquette refers to Parker Posey having dated Brad Pitt (when in fact it is her Friends colleague Jennifer Anniston dating him... and Parker Posey's character is in fact called Jennifer). Or the scene in which the killer drags one of his/her/its victims and the victim's hand is dragged above her head; just like in 'Scream 1' when Drew Barrymore was dragged into the backyard holding her phone while her parents could hear her breathe (still one of the best scenes ever!).Anyway let's stick to basics. The Scream Trilogy (rules #4 never make a 4th one... unless... it's really good) has ended in a good way. Not completely satisfying.. but still rather good.Good acting... some very funny characters (Jenny McCarthy's scene in which she practices her lines with her director are amazingly funny. The way she plays this really lousy actress is very funny), good settings (use a Hollywood prop-house for extra fun).8 out of 10 points ('Scream 1' 9 out of 10 and 'Scream 2' 7 out of 10). "},{"Title":"A worthy finish to a brilliant trilogy...","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This time, the story takes us to hollywood, california where Sidney has escaped to live a calm, normal life. But she choose a terrible place. The killings sets off again, beginning with the innocently accused murderer of the first film Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber). Then the killer moves on to the set of Stab 3, the final film about the killings back in Sid's hometown. Someone from Sid's past is back and furious. Someone dressed up in a familiar halloween ghost-costume, with a very sharp knife at hand. To find out who it is she must go way back in a past she'd rather not to... This part is much better than the disappointing Scream 2. It's a worthy finish, and you really don't have a clue who's going to live or who's going to die. Not even Sid is safe, because as the police on the case (Patrick Dempesey) puts it ... In the third installment of trilogy, all bets are off. The film has got humour, thrills and a clever plot (as in the first one) and it was surprisingly good. A pity Kevin Williamson abandoned the project, and gave it to Ehren Krueger. I imagine Williamson would've done it better. But as said before in the one line summary It's a worthy finish to a brilliant trilogy... If you liked the first and second you are going to like this. It's a promise. PS. The chick from Star Wars, you know Leia, has a funny cameo as an archiver. Or is it really her? "}{"Title":"Chapter one set the rules; Chapter 2 bend the rules; Chapter 3 forget the rules; Chapter 4 how 'bout using the rules in an impossible way?","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was quite surprised that 'Scream 3' was actually quite good. I missed the humor and the sarcastic tone of Part 1 (and partially Part 2) a bit... but I am surprised about the fact all episodes have different styles and atmospheres...I like the plot of #3 although there were some things that could have been even more amazing. I know this is the final chapter but if there'd ever be a #4 how about making a (final) plot that is completely unexplainable? Like in the Agatha Christie novel 'Ten Little Niggers' in which the killer dies before his final victim dies... An ingenious plot like that was what I expected of 'Scream 3'. Without revealing 'who diddit' it was a bit too easy for me to simply add a new character (nothing revealed yet since the movie is full of 'em) that has a relation to Sidney that explains the entire trilogy... we could make sequels for eternity in that way.But I liked some of the little details (and maybe I was the only one who noticed that) like the scene in which Courtney Cox Arquette refers to Parker Posey having dated Brad Pitt (when in fact it is her Friends colleague Jennifer Anniston dating him... and Parker Posey's character is in fact called Jennifer). Or the scene in which the killer drags one of his/her/its victims and the victim's hand is dragged above her head; just like in 'Scream 1' when Drew Barrymore was dragged into the backyard holding her phone while her parents could hear her breathe (still one of the best scenes ever!).Anyway let's stick to basics. The Scream Trilogy (rules #4 never make a 4th one... unless... it's really good) has ended in a good way. Not completely satisfying.. but still rather good.Good acting... some very funny characters (Jenny McCarthy's scene in which she practices her lines with her director are amazingly funny. The way she plays this really lousy actress is very funny), good settings (use a Hollywood prop-house for extra fun).8 out of 10 points ('Scream 1' 9 out of 10 and 'Scream 2' 7 out of 10).PS the domain-names for 'Scream 4' to 'Scream 10'(www.scream4.com, www.scream5.com, etc.) already have been requested by Miramax according to www.networksolutions.com (look them up under 'whois').  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have stopped expecting things from the Scream-series. Don't get me wrong, I preferred the sequel to the original, but it would be asking too much of a filmmaker to actually make a trilogy where the films keep getting better and better until the end. Especially not now, when original screenwriter Williamson hasn't written the script. So, I didn't have any expectations and I assume that's why I wasn't disappointed at all by this third Scream. I certainly do not think it's as good as the first or second Scream, but as far as horror films go, Scream 3 is a pretty good film. Some of the jokes were simply repetitions and the murders were basically the same as in the previous films, but it was still entertaining enough to *not* be a disappointment. There were a few parts of the film that dragged, but other than that I would say that it is a pretty good film for being the third, and last (I certainly hope it's the last, otherwise *I* will scream), in a trilogy.And of course, Dewey is absolutely adorable!!! -)  (6/10) "},{"Title":"More original than one might think...","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had some reservations about seeing this movie, but maybe it was because I saw it for free (connections, darling) that I found myself sitting wide-eyed, chewing occasionally on a nail, and shrieking every now and then as the killer (in that mask we've come to know and love) looms behind a character, or streaks across the screen.The gang are all here  Sidney (doe-eyed in the beginning, hard-nosed vixen by the end), Gale (bossy and unscrupulous as ever) Dewey (bit slow maybe, but ever the hero), joined by some great supporting cast, and in-jokes and plot-lines that makes this film even more darkly funny than the first two.Apart from worrying about whether Sidney's lovely dog would get it (pet hate, animals getting killed in movies), I thoroughly enjoyed this.  Okay, yes, we all know what to expect from the standard Scream format, and this delivers just that... but don't expect complete predictability.  Lean back, relax, laugh a little, and enjoy the occasional fright.  I'm willing to bet that even the most hardened cynic will jump (or cringe) at least once in this movie.  Don't take your granny... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had heard great things about this film before it was released, that it was much better than Part 2, and was on a equal par to the original.  How wrong can people be?  I thought this was by far the weakest entry in the trilogy.  The identity of the killer was fairly stupid I thought, with an additional story obviously tacked on to the original story just so they could make a Scream 3.  Neve (Sidney Prescott) seemed to have a smaller role in this film, which was fairly disappointing considering she is meant to be the main character - instead of Gale Weathers and Stewie.  The whole plot was fairly silly, members of the cast of the new movie been killed, people running around a scary old mansion been killed one by one by the killer.  It didn't take much to work out who the killer was, but the question of why was where explanation was needed and was delivered in the final act.  Even the opening scene, which although scary- did not seem to have the shock value of the first two films.  Everyone seemed a little tired of the whole scenario.  There were a few good jumpy moments, and Sidney's nightmare sequences were fairly impressive- as was the setting in Stab 3 ( I thought that was used quite effectively).  Patrick Dempsey was great as the cop, it was nice to see him in a decent role for once, as he seemed to disappear in the nineties a little.  There were a lot of great cameos, especially Jay and Silent Bob, but the whole thing seemed a little pointless.  The absence of Kevin Williamson as screen writer was very noticeable - there was no where near as many classic one liners.  It almost seemed like Wes Craven had lost his touch. "},{"Title":"the best","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Of the three scream movies, this one is the best. I think it was   a little better than the first, barely. The plot wow, it sure  suprised me who the killer is. It was a lot scarier than the second one. It had a lot of more scary scenes than any one of them. I recommend this movie who liked the original scream and anyone who likes  SCARY MOVIES .  "},{"Title":"The after-mint of a filling meal","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If Scream was the sumptuous main course, Scream 2 the delicious dessert, then Scream 3 is the after dinner mint. Not as gratifying as what went before, however, a very satisfying way to round everything off. I recommend refreshing yourself with 1 and 2 and then catching a late session of 3, as it all adds to the experience (and helps with a bit of background knowledge.) All your favourites are back. Sidney - holed up in the hills, with her nightmares to keep her company. Gale - still the gung-ho, take no prisoners reporter. Cotton - now with his own talk show and Dewey - the lovable oaf who is now a technical adviser on 'Stab 3', around which, Scream 3 revolves. Events surrounding Stab 3 eventually bring together the main protagonists and introduces us to a crop of fresh faces including Parker Posey (Daytrippers), Emily Mortimer(Ghost and the Darkness), Scott Foley(Dawsons Creek), Patrick Dempsey(Mobsters) and Jenny McCarthy(Jenny.) Throw into the mix a couple of cameos by Carrie Fisher and Lance Henriksen and, excluding Jenny M. who is but mere eye-candy, you have a very talented cast. Although I never thought I'd say this about any Hollywood slasher-flick, I found myself wishing there was a little more graphic blood-letting. C'mon Wes, where was all the blood? I fear that events in the U.S.A. involving kids and schools and what not are spilling over into the film world and forcing the bigger players to tone down the violence. It's a shame as it does take away a little from the film, especially after the first two . However the grisly opening, the humour, the suspicion and the 'all-is-revealed' ending are all there and the film skips along at a great pace. Look out for the return of Randy in a great 'voice from beyond' scene. The in-jokes and tongue-in-cheek references have your head spinning for the first half and guarantees a repeat viewing when it comes out on video. For those of you going in fresh, enjoy what is a fun film     that still has you looking over your shoulder as you walk home. If you liked the Scream series, then check out the recent Aussie effort - Cut, with Molly Ringwald and Kylie. Overall, a 6/10 fun night out. Eat it up!    "},{"Title":" Scream 3 was great","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really really like it. I don't think it was as scary as the other two but it was still great. I think the setting was perfect with re-created house of Sydney. I liked the cameo by Carrie Fisher. It was not as gory as the other two films but i found it a little bit funnier. I think Ehren Kruger step in to  Kevin Williamson  shoes nicely, and I don't really think they left the door open for another movie at all.    "},{"Title":"Great ending to Magnificent trilogy!","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit when I heard that this movie was in production i was worried.  Worried that it would turn out like most third movies is series, crap!  I decided to see it for the sake of seeing it and was pleasantly suprised.  The movie was excellent.  Definetly the scariest and as funny as the first one.  I have never been to a cinema were so many people actually yell out What the hell are you doing to people in the movie!  Very clever satire! "},{"Title":"A dissapointing conclusion to what could have been the greatest horror series","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For me to write what I'm going to say took awhile, since I am such a big fan of the series.  Scream 3 was not any good. I thought the script could have been much better, since I found Ehren Kruger's Arlington Road fantastic, but the dialogue was dull.  I also got the feeling that Wes Craven didn't put his all into it.  I am also dissapointed that Kevin williamson couldn't stick with it, I mean if he kept saying, I always envisioned it as a trilogy, then he should have taken the time to finish it.  It wasn't good enough that he provided the treatment/outline, it lacked his dialogue, and the overall tone that Kevin is so good at creating.  I have much respect for all the creators of the third film, and I will continue following the three of them (Kruger, Craven, Williamson) just as I did, before Scream 3.  They really messed up with the final Scream, but there still creative filmmakers that aspire me. "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a great film. I really enjoyed it. I have been waiting so long for this movie, and I thought that my hopes may have been to high. But they were not! The main thing which made this film great was that it was so different from the last two films. Neve Campbell also didn't have a very big part (not that it bothers me). I highly recommend you see this film. "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was excellent and the best of the three. It had great plot twists. Probably my favorite movie( i've seen it 4 times) If you don't think so then dont be so critical people read your reviews and determine whether or not to see the movie. If you don't like this type of movie don't vote on it. Thank you for letting me express my opinion. "},{"Title":"Good but not great.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed Scream 3. It's the worst of the trilogy, but if it was a stand alone and was not compared to the other 2, it's a good movie. Jenny McCarthy is a bad actor, but I liked her in this. She had some funny lines. Parker Posey was great.  Heather Matarazzo was annoying, and Patrick Dempsey was a little to serious. There were some good jump scenes as well as some very funny parts. But the revelation of the killer(s)... Well, there were no hints in the movie as to who it is. You can only guess who it is, so it wasn't that much of a whodunnit. I give Scream 3 86%.  "},{"Title":"Where's The Prequel?","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Depending on your attitude it's always a good idea to see scary movies like Scream 3 at say 8.00 PM on the first Friday of its run. You'll get to see it then with it's most lively (and noisy) audience - spooning teenagers.	Judging by the number of times the teenage girl sitting behind me kicked the back of my seat in fright, eight at least, I'd say that Scream 3 is quite a success for its target audience. 	And judging by the fact that it took about 20 minutes for the one young lad sitting with five of six girls to finally shut up with his smart arse, tough guy, girl winning remarks, well Scream 3 could have been a bit better.	But I guess that that just shows that for a while at least, sex can overwhelm horror at the movies.	The original Scream was a beauty. If you haven't seen it get it out on video. Scream 2 was pretty satisfying and Scream 3 is no slouch.	Much is made of the claim that Scream 3 is the final part of a trilogy, not just a lame sequel, and it does appear that Kevin Williamson had a trilogy mapped out. He was the writer of the first two instalments and of the overall plot line. It's perhaps of interest that the surname of the new writer is Kruger. Any relation?	It pays to have seen the previous two films, especially Scream before you venture onwards towards Scream 3. Then you might remember that the essential mystery was who killed Sidney's mother. Will you find out in Scream 3? Well you'll have to see it to find out.	Those who haven't had their lives enriched by the delights of Scream will still find Scream 3 good fun though, if a little more bemusing.	Here is basically how it goes. The third instalment of a movie series about the events that occurred in Scream and Scream 2 is being made, based on the book that Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox Arquette) has written. It's called Stab 3.	The killer reappears on the set slicing the actors up in the order in which they are killed in the script. We reach a stage though where the director (Scott Foley) of Stab 3 has three different versions of the script, concocted originally to confuse anyone wanting to divulge the ending on the internet - a  real life concern apparently for Kevin Williamson. Who's going to get sliced next!	Having two Sidneys, Deweys and Gales on the set of Stab 3 when the murders begin, the original characters plus the actors playing them in the new film, offers terrific opportunities for Scream 3 and they're not wasted.	For example there's a moment when the real Gale Weathers and her Stab counterpart, played with a great deal of hair tossing by Parker Posey, both look over a banister and Scream very loudly. That's great fun.	The final revelation is a bit of a let down but most of the favourites are there in a lively script, including Liev Schreiber reprising Cotton Weary.	Carrie Fisher, Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes and even Roger Corman offer cameos. Lance Henrickson plays of course a shifty film producer.	Scream 3 will be a must see for those who have seen the first two. And there's no guarantee there won't be number 4, or perhaps that twisted sequel called a prequel.	 "},{"Title":"Utterly predictable nonscream movie","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is very predictable, I kept predicting what would happen all through the movie and 90% of the time I was right!The first one was marginally scary...the second the same....but this movie lets the down the whole trilogy.I was expecting more suspence, gore and scares, but instead I was given a slow movie with little suprises.Yes admitadly a few people in the audience  and screamed but I certaily didn't.However it is still enjoyable entertainment and is funny in parts.My pet peive was that they had to pick such a loathsome person/character for the woman who played an actor impersonating the journlist woman (Dewy's girlfriend).MINOR SPOILER ALERT (depending on your own oppinions)I was not impressed with finding out who the killer was in the end..it should have been someone else. I thought from the start it was her mother and I was actually disapointed at finding out it wasn't her...pity and it would have been even better if they killed off all of the 3 main characters as well.I give this 6/10 stars <..> "},{"Title":"I loved this film almost as much as the original","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  because I have seen the orginal so many times I am probably inclined to say S3 was better but overall i think this wasn't as good. This review contains major spoilers including who dies and who the killer is. A new kind of opening scene, and i loved it. It wasn't as good as the other 2 bu i still loved it. Kelly Rutherford was great. She has a nice set of..... lungs (don't take that the wrong way it's a play on the the she has a nice... voice quote) but her death was bit weak! i mean stabbed in the back and the thrown on the ground. But ya gotta feel sad for cotton stabbed in the forehead. Sidney doesn't come up come in the first half but when she does the audience was happy! And let me tell you this audience was great. They thought the funny stuff was funny and whenever wes used the boo machine alot of the girls screamed! and then there's Jenny McCarthy's death! Which has to be up there with the best of the trilogies. It is defentaly the funniest (as in the pre-death stuff tatum still has the honor of funniest way to die) I don't like the fact i'm a 35 year old playing a 21 year old etc and then when she's in the room with the ghostface costumes alot of people were going Omigod, where's the killer? and then when the ghostface moved everyone screamed or yelled with pleasure! cause they were so excited. Then there's Parker Posie, she was the funniest character! because gale is such a complex character Tyson was a lousy bum and i was going come on die! Emily Mortimer i found surprisingly good! she was great and the same for Matt Keeslar despite the fact that you hardly see him! His death is pretty good The one who smells the gas Patrick Dempsey, who I would of thought was the killer if I didn't already know. Scott was great and you could tell he was getting into the coffin when jenny was yelling out his name. Lance Henrikson was okay i guess, didn't really have much to do! because well he was in like 2 scenes! I though this was the funniest scream! definately! I went and saw this with my friends (tom and dave) and my mum (cause i need a parent to get in) and mum thought there was one killer (Emily Mortimer) until she was killed and then she thought she was fake killed billy style. But then when roman was revieled she was let down. I guess cause she asked me who? Carrie Fischers cameo was hilarious everyone cracked up then! And everyone jumped when kelly rutherford jumped out with the golf club, when parker posie came up to gale when trying to get into the file area, and there was someone who kept screaming. And everyone (including me) moaned when either someone ran out of bullets or dewey and gale split up! So some con's about it. alot of the audience screamed when the killer just jumped out alot in the final scene. And to finish I have to give due credit to Parker Posie. Her death should go down in history as one of the sadest deaths. She was only half killed by the killer, dewey did the rest. I wanted her to survive so much she was the best character in 3. And to agree with some people Gale's scream when she sees Jenny was as weak as Halooween H20. And I loved this movie! I thought it was almost as good as the orginal but way better than scream 2! so SCREAM 4.9 stars SCREAM 2 4 stars SCREAM 3 4.8 stars! i liked it that much!  "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is really a lot of fun! If you enjoy horror films and being scared this film will provide for great entertainment. I went with a group of people to watch this film and everyone jumped with fright and laughed the whole way through the film. Not a film to take too seriously but one that will thoroughly entertain. Just watch your back on the way home! "},{"Title":"Nothing to Scream about","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is supposed to be the final entry in the successful series, and hopefully the last word on the recent slasher film revival.This movie is actually not bad (and certainly better than stuff like I Still Know What You Did Last Summer and Urban Legend).  The absence of Kevin Williamson is a major fault, and the movie suffers. The big, revealing climax is probably the weakest part of the whole film. We've seen it done before, and done better.  Not only that, but the new characters simply aren't interesting...with the exception of the always wonderful Parker Posey.But the film is far from a total loss. It's good to see the regular characters back, and there is the feeling that anyone of them could get bumped off. Several thriller set pieces work, but it's the more humorous scenes that provide more of a payoff. Celebrity name dropping and cameos by Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith and Carrie Fisher are highlights.When it's all said and done, Scream 3 is watchable, often entertaining, but compared to the first two entries, pretty forgettable. (**1/2 (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Final Act!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a way to end the most entertaining trilogy out there. at first i was worried that they might mess up the final film. i was worried that maybe it won't be as good as the first but i was totally wrong. in fact it turned out to be the best one out of all of them. It may not be the scariest installment but it is the most thought provoking and it will having you guessing until the very good conclusion. it does what every final film in a series should do. Ties up all the loose ends and answers all the questions that might have come up in the first 2 films.The story begins in hollywood where they are filming the final installment in the Stab trilogy called Stab 3 Return to Woodsborro. when someone involved in the film is murdered( it happens in a very intense opening scene) the stab set becomes a FBI headquarters. pretty soom we are re-introduced to some familiar faces. Sydney is in hiding under a new name and working as a crisis counselor. all is not well with sydney. the vents of the first 2 films have truly tramutized her and she is at her wits end. she's in hiding because according to her Psychos can't kill what they can't find. Back in Hollywood Dewey is working as a consultant on the Stab set and gale Weathers is a reporter for total Entertainment who is summoned to help with the case. Pretty soon Sydney comes out of hiding and now the fianl Act can get into full gear.The acting was good from all of its stars. Neve Campbell has made sydney her own and in this film and it truly shows in this film. in fact she made sydney a strong character who everyone can admire. Courtney Cox is good at playing gale in fact she's my fave character and david arquette is really good at playing dewey. in fact i don't think anyone can play him like he could.The new characters are a mixed bag(since most of them were just there to be killed) Parker posey is very good as the actress playing Gale weathers in stab.she was so funny and a very good in the role. Scott Foley is also good as the director who's cast is being killed by a violent killer. The rest of the cast are just there for a few scenes but they serve there purpose and do well with what they are given.I loved the film in fact it was great. so now i will remember this trilogy for making me scared, making me laugh and most of all making me scream. A  "},{"Title":"Relies too heavily on what it was trying to parody...","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3  is pretty good, though.  It's still not as good as the first two.  The whole deal with Sidney's mom being in Hollywood was, I thought, a bit far-fetched.  Also, it relies WAY too much on standard horror cliches.  Hello!  This is what the Scream  films were trying to parody.  Dewey and Gale both split up to look for the killer. Also, this film is not that bloody at all!  Ugh!  That was part of what made the first two what they were.  Don't get me wrong.  My heart goes out to those who were lost and their families in all the school shootings that have happened lately (that was the reason, wasn't it?), but still, don't let it affect one of the greatest horror movie franchises of all time!   "},{"Title":"I think I've seen this movie before. It was called Scream","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has all the elements that have made the Scream franchise so successful humor, self-mockery, metanarrative scenes (ask my English professor what that means), and a scary guy with a knife. The problem is, I've seen Scream. Scream 3 follows the old formula a bit too closely for my taste, almost to the point of repetitiveness. And what is the deal with Courtney Cox's haircut? Still, it was entertaining, and that is what most movies are all about. If you have the time, it is worth a look.  "}{"Title":"Well, I liked it but I ended up feeling a bit cheated.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Boy, it's been a while since I wrote a review for ANY movie. Feels good to write something. This movie, though, really made me want to write something. I saw this movie more than a month ago, now that I think about it. Anyway, I'll just cut to the chase. There will be some spoilers and I will reveal who the killer(s) so read with caution or don't read until you have seen the movie. I guess I can start with the plot. More of the same, with Sidney being stalked once again by a messed up psycho. I was sad to find out that she plays a small role in this. She was the main character in the first two but now she is just alone and isolated. Well, who could blame her after all that's happened to her? She lives in a house deep in the woods. She still talks to friends and family but keeps a low profile. She works for a crisis hotline. Good job, I guess. Well, killings start to happen on the set of Stab 3 Return to Woodsboro and Sidney gets thrown into the mix by a nosey detective played by Patrick Dempsey. Call me corny, but I actually liked the idea of bringing in an old 80's teen star. He did a good job and really confused me about him being the killer. I just suspected him all the way but was surprised when he turned out to be a good guy. Dewey and Gale have drifted apart and don't really like each other as much as they used to but still have a thing for each other. Dewey is working on the set of Stab 3 and is no longer a police deputy. Gale is not really a news reporter but sort of a talkshow host-type person. Killings mostly happen to the cast of Stab 3 and people who have something to do with the movie. I thought it was really scary and made me jump a lot of times. I thought it was funny but didn't have the edge Kevin Williamson gave it and I miss him in this one. Well, Sidney shows up for the climax which, I must say, was good but didn't live up to my expectations for the third and, supposedly, last chapter in the trilogy. The killer turns out to be her long, lost brother but he is known through the movie as the director of Stab 3, Roman Bridger. I found that to be a little odd. He wasn't much older than Sidney but said that he was sort of kicked out of the house and some how Sidney didn't even know she had a brother. Like her parents wouldn't have told her she had a brother who was born around the same time as her?!? I really wish there would've been two killers, though. Well, it was a nice twist but all that stuff about 'all bets off' was just to get people excited because they thought Sidney might actually die. She lives and I'm glad she did but it might have been good to step up all the hype by just killing Gale or Dewey or even both. It is pretty violent, though. It was way more bloody than the first two.  I still liked it but was expecting a bit more from the greatest horror series ever made. It was very thrilling and had lots of action, laughs, and, of course, screams and I liked the script but I think it would've been better if it had been written by Kevin Williamson. He made the horror genre better with this trilogy. Speaking of trilogies, I didn't really like the fact that the door was left open for another sequel. I thought they said it was the last, didn't they? Oh well, as long as the fourth is good, go ahead and make it but if it sucks, it just goes to show you, Hollywood will do anything for a buck. Scream 3 B- "},{"Title":"Ten little indians rip-off!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (SPOILER!!)It suddenly struck me while i was watching the last 20 minutes of the movie. An unknown person tricks a bunch of people to gather at a house. When they discover that they´ve been tricked it´s to late. One by one they get killed. Sound familiar?The clever thing is that it´s impossible to figure out who the killer is! Original? Hardly. English writer Agatha Christie wrote a novel (And then there were none also Ten little indians)with the same story about 40 years ago (filmed several times). It was, and of course still is, a very good and clever book. The idea of using the concept for this movie (can´t be a coincidence) is not bad at all but it is, unfortunately, very poorly executed. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The story ran dry","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The third installment of this movie was the same nonsense the second movie was. I have to admit I enjoyed the first scream; it was fresh and totally revived the horror movie genre. But the sequels where completely disappointing. Another thing about this movie was that the story they where trying to tell could have taken about 15 minutes instead we had to endure about 2 hours of it. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have noticed some people didn't like Scream III. It seems people's opinions are divided on this one. This film has it all. It is funny, scary, and it has action. Unlike the previous two, however, it is not a parody of horror films. That's probably one of the reasons why some people haven't enjoyed it. Bottom line a little different than the previous two. Scarier but less funny. Once again you will find yourself wondering who the killer is. I will help you the killer is... Go watch the movie, I won't tell you. "},{"Title":"not up to par","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie. I tried really hard; but, I just couldn't. Where as the first 2 had you wondering 'whodunit', this one just has you lost. I was expecting a big earth shattering reveal in this one but it just doesn't happen. Bad ending to a decent series "},{"Title":"Neve Campbell delivers an ending that will impress fans for years to come!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  IF YOU HAVENT SEEN SCREAM 3, DONT READ THIS BECAUSE THIS COMMENT DOES CONTAIN SPOILERS!!Scream 3 delivers surprising events as well as moving moments that will leave fans satisfied with the ending of a five star trilogy.  For one thing there is the coming of age factor in this movie.  No one is kid like, young, or inexperienced.  Everyone has developed into the grownups that so many of us want to be but never quite achieve.Neve's performance is outstanding as she screams and screams her way to even closer to imortal stardom.  The final scene where she fights her half brother and appears to be killed only to ressurect thanks to a clever trick will be imprinted on fans of the SCREAM saga forever! "},{"Title":"The kind of movie Scream made fun of.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING! SPOILERS AHEAD.For me the basic essence of the Scream movies has been that the characters know they are in a typical horror movie situation, and use this knowledge to survive. Not so in Scream 3. It seems that all the lessons that Sidney, Gale and Dewey have learned in the past two movies. You would think that these characters would know better by now, but they don't. Look at the scene where Sidney is in the bathroom. Do they check the bathroom to see if it's empty first? No. Does anyone go in with Sidney? No. What does Sidney do when she finds Angelina hiding in the stall with a ghostface mask? She chases after her, alone, into a dark studio. And why doesn't anyone think to investigate when Sidney has been in the bathroom for what seems like a half hour? More stupidity When the killer is running loose in Milton's mansion, what does everyone do? Split up and investigate. My favorite part is where Gale and Dewey split up not once, but TWO times in thirty seconds. Plot holes and implausibilities abound as well. Where did Roman get Sidney's phone number from? How is it that Roman doesn't have a pulse when Gale checks him in the coffin, yet he shows up alive later on? What was Jennifer doing the whole while in the basement while Roman was busy faking his death? How does a voice changer match everyone's voice exactly? How can the killer be sending those faxes if he's outside the house when it explodes? Why does Randy's sister find the video as soon as a new killer strikes? Ethan Kreuger's script is a mess, falling victim to all the cliches and idiocies of the slasher genre. This movie is much more like I Still Know What You Did Last Summer than Scream 1 & 2. "},{"Title":"Not scary, but still fun!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Friends of mine have asked me why I am wasting my time on these Scream movies.  None of them are really scary, and the revelation of the killer is always stupid.  With Scream 3, the way to really enjoy the film is to not take it seriously.  All the Scream films made fun of horror films, while at the same time, tried to be scary.  The first Scream was in my opinion, the best one of the trilogy.  The opening scene with Drew Barrymore was genius and it was terrifying.  After that, we the audience get to sit back and laugh at how the characters act and what they choose to do about the killer.  Scream 3 is not the best one of the trilogy, but it's definitely the funniest.  I only saw the first two Scream films on video, so I was looking forward to seeing the third installment of the Scream series on the big screen.  I was not disappointed.  Sure the killer at the end was dumb.  Sure it was silly and not the least bit scary.  But that only made the experience all the more fun.  My friends and I kept making jokes about it as we were watching it, not that we were mocking it.  When Gale Weathers and Stab 3's Gale Weathers walked into the basement full of film cans, we cracked jokes about the killer hitting one of them over the head with a film can.  People who hate this film, or any of the Scream films should lighten up and laugh at the situations and have fun with the Scream movies, movies that are attempting to be scary, yet at the same time, manage to make you laugh because of how hilariously it pokes fun at horror films!   "},{"Title":"Hmmmm, not sure about it.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I personally thought that Scream 2 was better than Scream 1, which is against many peoples opinions. And having seen Scream 3, I'm not sure which I prefer. None of the films has ever scared me, so it's not that that bothered me. Scream 3 I feel is the funniest and has some great cameos.But I still think that 2 is better, only just, but better. I didn't like the Hollywood setting of 3. It wasn't right. Don't get me wrong, 3 is a good movie, but it could have been better.  "},{"Title":"Getting kinda monotonous dont ya think?","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was all jazzed to see this movie and caught it on the first day, but I was disappointed.  It was the same plot pretty much as the first one. The killer wants Sydney Prescott (Neve Cambel)and only her and kills anyone in their way.  It is always the same voice, same accent or whatever whether it is female or male.  But Anywho, Somebody is killing cause of somebody else and they are depressed, cause so and so ruined there lives and there after her cause she is the daughter.  Just like in the S2. I can just see if they make a p.4 it will be Syndeys father trying to kill her cause her mother was a tramp, her boyfriend was a murderer, and her other boyfriend was a psychotic, and so on and so forth. "}{"Title":"Disappointing, suspense-lacking, cheap wrap-up.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Though not a bad movie, it lacks the suspense of the first two.  The original kept me guessing the whole time.  Much like Scream 2, I found that I didn't really CARE who the Scream 3 killer was.  When we did find out, I was very disappointed.  It felt cheap and contrived, and there were too many plot holes.Of note to Neve Campbell fans, Sidney Prescott is little more than a sideline character, despite being referred to in the movie as the main character.   "},{"Title":"If you go in with LOW expectations, be prepared to be disappointed.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, I have to admit it, I loved Scream...but Scream 2 was a disappointment.  Seeing as to how all of my movie-fanatic friends already went to see this movie, I thought I don't want to miss this.  This was ALMOST the biggest waste of $8.  The acting of this movie was horrible (for the $$, I hope), and it was almost impossible to figure out who the killer is (reminiscent of Scream 2), and the plot was almost spelled out for you, and you're ahead of the movie every step of the way.  Kevin Williamson dropping out of the project really made an impact on this movie.  Was he disappointed when he saw it?  If I were Williamson, I would be too.  I give it a 1.75 out of 5, because it still had chuckles and it built up some suspense in the beginning.  P.S. For Kevin's consideration SCREAM 4 - What Scream 3 SHOULD have been. "},{"Title":"'Scream 3' A Fitting End!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The original Scream was not a landmark achievement among horror films, but due largely to it's cleverly caustic screenplay about teens who know the clichés of the genre, it developed into an unexpected phenomenon. Scream 2 was accepted on a more positive note by critics, although audiences seemed relatively mixed. The third (and reportedly final) chapter will not disappoint fans of the series. Scream 3 delivers the nail-biting goods in such a manner that teeny bopper thrill-seekers will have trouble arguing. The overwhelming sense of closure during the climax is a token of gratitude toward all us fans who have been anticipating this film. Kruger finishes the cycle effectively, tying certain events back to the original in a fashion that, while not without plot holes, is more than satisfying. Sure, Scream 3 occasionally becomes the movie the first two films were lampooning, but it's executed with style and compassion.  *** (out of four stars) For More MOVIE VIEWS by Jamey Hughton visit http//Welcome.to/MovieViews  "},{"Title":"A nice conclusion to a mediocre trilogy","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought Scream 3 was better than Scream and much better than Scream 2. The killer was hard to guess, which is good. It was more original because it took place in Hollywood and not in Woodsborough and there was a movie inside a movie. I am not a huge Scream fan but I did enjoy this movie, which adds comedy and drama and horror all into one. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Sceam So Far","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved Scream 3. Sure, it wasn't the scariest, and the revelation of the killer was a small let down, but otherwise, it was awesome! Carrie Fisher's cameo was awesome, as too was Jay's and Silent Bob's, stars of Kevin Smith movies. There were many other things that were funny as well, such as scenes like when Gail meets Gail, where a knife is thrown at Dewey's head (trust me, may sound scary, but if you keep your eyes open you're in for a great laugh), and Psycho refrences in the end. The ending also makes you wonder if this truly will be a trilogy and if there will not be a fourth. Either way, though, I'll be happy. "},{"Title":"I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this film","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was more than just your typical horror movie- it was also funny and had a cute little love story between the characters of Dewey and Gale Weathers. With most horror films that I have seen I have always felt that their plots were always very weak. I also never really seemed to care about the characters. But with Scream 3 I really enjoyed all aspects of the film. The more in depth you create a character the more you empathise with them and root for their survival and I felt like Scream 3 did a great job of achieving this.  Of the three, this one was by far my favourite. "},{"Title":"A disappointing ending for an otherwise solid horror series","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Everything that made the original Scream movie stand out from the countless cheesy slasher films of the 90's was certainly missing from this third and final chapter of the series.  The main characters who made Scream and Scream 2 entertaining (Dewey, Sidney and Gale) seem like they're just going through the motions.  The same can be said for the plot.  Take the script from Scream 2, plug in new characters and a different setting and you have Scream 3.  Nothing new here.If you want suspense, chills, and a real scary movie, go rent the original Scream again because you won't find any of that in this one! "},{"Title":"What is this?  Bring back Williamson.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" No, this was not a finalization.  You want to know why this installment's horrible?  I can't tell you, I'll get blacklisted.  But I'll just think about it and use the anger that came from the so-called climax to fuel my review.  You don't just end movies like this.  I wasn't surprised.  I wasn't shocked.  I could have cared less by the time Androgynous Mystery Anybody was like, Hey Sidney!  Its me! The first one was the only reason for blockbuster success. The second one? It was okay.  For a second one.  And you know why?  Because it was the second one!  Maybe it wasn't great but it didn't have to be.  It wasn't the end. And this was?  Well I'm glad.  If you're going to end it by bringing out Androgynous Mystery Anybody with his/her unbelievable motives and completely stunning lack of Wow, it was him/her?  Didn't even know! Jesus! factor, then maybe its a good thing. This was sorely missing the Williamson touch.  Thumbs up to only Parker Posey, Deon Richmond and Carrie Fisher. "},{"Title":"Scary and/or Funny as Hell","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I LOVE Scream 1 and 2. As soon as I heard that they were making Scream 3 I was on the net everyday to look for updates, and I was very surprised to see how many people were as excited as me for this to come out. It made me a little nervous though. I thought that it wouldn't live up to my expectations. I was wrong! It was really good. Especialy for a third one! It did have a few flaws like useless characters(e.g. Randy's Sister) and the begining of the movie was obvious, but beside those It was really done nicely. Yesterday I heard that They might make another Scream. Only if Scream 3 makes over 00 mil in the box offices. In the first 10 days it made over 0 mil, so everyone...SEE SCREAM 3! EVEN IF YOU ALREADY SAW IT! SEE IT AGAIN! IT IS A REALLY GOOD MOVIE AND IT WON'T DISAPIONT YOU! WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? SEE SCREAM 3! NOW!!! "},{"Title":"Scream 3 is a good movie, but not a good horror.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I must admit that while Scream 3 is an intriguing and rewarding movie, it does not do well by my standards of a typical horror. There are great surprises and jumps throughout the film, however, I made it back to the car in the dark without even once feeling compelled to turn around in fear of some impending doom--a feeling I always get after any good horror movie. The Scream series' trademark Scooby Doo endings have always  kept the audience from successfully guessing the true killer until the crucial unveiling point, and the best job of this element was demonstrated in the last part of the trilogy. It seemed, however, that Scream 3 focused more on confusing the audience, rather than frightening it. If this was the goal of the film, then Bravo! If it was not, then Scream 3 was no more than a good time-killer. "}{"Title":"Lighten up! -- It's a campy slasher series.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you don't like blood and pointless violence, don't watch Scream, Scream 2, Scream 3, other horror movies, WWF wrestling and the Three Stooges.But if you like satire and wit, watch Scream, then Scream 2 and then Scream 3. The original Scream had some fun by making fun of slasher movies. Scream 2 had even more fun, but overdid the foreshadowing of the next few scenes.Scream 3 simply continues the process with (1) more satire about all slasher movies, (2) self-deprecating satire on Scream and Scream 2, and (3) some good chills and twists.A lot of Scream purists are complaining about the movie complying with a formula. Duh, it's called Scream 3, not Something Completely Different. Lighten up, folks. The series is about the genre, not the characters or morality.I thought it was a very entertaining flick. "},{"Title":"the satisfying ending of the Scream trilogy.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   I saw this opening night with my friends. I really expected a cheap and dumb sequel. But it wasn't. Just a few things I don't understand. If Sid wants to hide from the killer, why would she choose a house in the middle of the woods in the middle of nowhere? Your just asking for it! Who the killer was, wasn't very original. Half-brother? Never heard that one before. But all in all a good horror flick.  I give Scream 3 ****1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Not th most frightening, but certainly wonderful","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Back in 1996, the original SCREAM wowed fans with it's opening Drew Barrymore sequence and then it's amazing cast and storyline. In 1997, a sequel was made, but fell short of catching the excitement of the first. Now, Wes Craven and new screen writer, Ehren Kruger are back for the final chapter.I'm not going to waste my time giving plot stuff, cause I'm positive you've heard the plot mentioned more times than you care too. But for you to know, Sidney plays a very big roll, but stays secluded from the movie for more than half. And also look for a special cameo from a former cast member in the movie's most wonderful thing.This movie is not as scary as the first, but the second cannot hold a candle to Scr3am. However, the tongue in cheek humor is terrific and will certainly make for a terrific experience in the movie theater.  "},{"Title":"It's a sequel, alright.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Where Scream was clever and Scream 2 was hip, the third installment of the Craven/Williamson too-cool-to-be-cult series was a pretty big dissapointment.  Although they kept me guessing at who the killer was until the end, the suspenseful scenes were predictably scary (a friend and I were timing how long it would take for Ghostface to pop up in the window, etc.) and the blood and gore were rather PG.Despite fine performances throughout, here's hoping Scream doesn't continue to parody slasher flicks and turn into a six or seven-part series.  Let it go out on a marginally good note rather than mock itself into the books a la Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"scream 3 not a scream","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The three scream movies were written somewhat as a Trilogy.  I always like it when a writer(s) thinks everything through far enough to make three movies. Scream 3, however, was a huge disappointment.  It certainly didn't deserve the 35 million it grossed last weekend; the movie is a prime example of the return client idea.  None of the genres you'd think this movie would be a member of really fit.  Instead of the Suspense, Thriller, or Horror genres, it became more of a who-done-it mystery than a boo-ahh crowd pleaser. Horror movies (which this is supposed to be) more than any other require a certain amount of willing suspension of disbelief.  The idea is that as a viewer, you know what is happening on the screen wouldn't or couldn't happen in real life, but it's on the screen so you cut a little slack and keep watching.  There is a point where something becomes just so unbelievable that nobody could cut enough slack to momentarily believe what is happening.  Wes Craven and company stepped about 5 feet across this line.   There were some clever ties to the other movies, particularly the first.  You have to really look for some of the references - almost to the point where I wonder if it was done on purpose or if I'm just reaching for a trilogy tie.  The character Randy from the previous films has a short-lived but vital appearance that I really liked, and there was this hilarious part when the killer (garbed in the traditional Stab outfit) throws a knife at Dewey, played by David Arquette.  Overall I'd have to say the acting was below par, but I don't think anyone was in the delusion that Scream 3 was up for the Oscars.  The audience jumped maybe 2 or 3 times, and laughed half a dozen.  I don't think anyone was really on the edge of their seat.  The story did tie up some loose ends, and brought a little closure for the trilogy.  I said this movie was a disappointment, but it wasn't horrible. It just had something to live up to and didn't meet the standards.  Scream 3 was better than the second, but doesn't hold a candle to the original.  It might be worth it just to see that Knife scene.  "},{"Title":"Scream 3 was horrible!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" **SPOILERS**I'd like to start off by saying I enjoyed Scream, especially the ending, and I enjoyed Scream 2 even more, except for the ending which I thought was a big disappointment. As for this installment, I'll just assume you've seen it, so I'll skip right to the three largest of the few dozen gaping holes left by the whoever spent the ten minutes to write this movie.1. This movie was advertised with phrases like, forget the rules, & all bets are off. If the rules were followed any closer in Scream 3 this wouldn't have been a movie, it would have been a manual on how to make a bad horror film. Every single horror movie cliche was stuffed into Scream 3, especially that killer who turns out to be the long lost brother of the heroine (can you say Halloween?).2. This was not a trilogy. Trilogies end with a signifigant change. Remember Star Wars? There was a very definite end to that. Darth Vader dies, the Empire is destroyed, and Luke Skywalker becomes a Jedi. There was no ending here. All the main characters survived, all the new characters got killed off, and the ending was left so wide open I thought there was going to be an advertisement for Scream 4 at the end of the movie.3. In the end of the movie, the killer shot Sydney in the chest. She survived because she had a bulletproof vest on. I realize that. But then he shot her in the neck, or the head, or some part of the body above the chest. HOW THE HELL DID SHE SURVIVE THAT? They didn't even try to explain that. And no one reviewing this movie here seems to remember or care about this incredibly huge fault. Can someone throw me a frickin' bone? "},{"Title":"More wit then scare not a total waste of money.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Very witty Hollywood farce.  I had more fun with the inside jokes then I did being scared (which didn't happen more then twice).  The movie was hysterical and the casting was great.  I didn't believe Parker Posey could get any cooler but this is a great mainstream role for her and she carried it our beautifully. I was also VERY excited to see Patrick Dempsey back in the big time!  The movie is good but if you are looking for a scare rent Showgirls. Letter Grade B. "},{"Title":"From one who saw Scream 2 and hated it","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Disclaimer 1  I have not seen Scream 1.  I did see Scream 2, and found it to be one of the lamest films I've ever seen.  All stab, no substance. Unlikeable, cranky characters (except Randy, who met an unfortunately early end) did not help much.Disclaimer 2  There will be a *SPOILER* near the end of this commentary, clearly marked.  Watch out.I liked Scream 3.  I was VERY surprised at myself.  I was quite prepared to hate it, after my experience with the unscary, unfunny part 2.  I found this one to be humorous, suspenseful (the only kind of scary that ever gets to me... I like tense moments, not lots and lots of blood and stabbing), and charmingly melodramatic.  I laughed, I cried, I held my breath.  Well, I didn't cry, but Randy's post-humous scene did evoke some cheap emotion. The dynamic between the real people and their respective actors in Stab 3 was nicely done, although it could have been explored a tiny bit more. In summary, this movie was worthwhile.  I might actually be going back to see it again, less than a week after the first time, mostly for a few choice funny moments.*SPOILERS*One weird criticism  At the end, when the killer revealed himself, I didn't know who it was.  Without his colorful wardrobe and distinctive glasses, I had to ask my companion.  Could be just me.  I don't see too well.My favorite part was probably when the knife was thrown at Dewey, and the handle hit him instead of the blade.  That was the defining point of the movie, in my opinion.  The audience held their collective breath, and let out a nice uproarious laugh as he tumbled down the stairs.  It was great. There were also some humorous moments with different characters telling each other to shut up. "},{"Title":"An awkward finale to a self assured trilogy.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 starts promisingly.  It plays on the expectations generated by the first two films and their countless predecessors, and opens with a scene that you want to like!  The problem is, it doesn't quite live up.  You've come to the film to be entertained.  And entertaining it is, sporadically.  But this Scream has the most awkward blend of gags and chills thus far.  In other words, parts of it are funny and parts of it are creepy, but the two approaches clash.  It no longer has any truly novel jokes to play out.  It keeps throwing in self referential puns and gags, but they are merely designed to distract from the thin material.  To distract from the fact that Scream 3 has become no different from all of the other movies that the first two films spoofed so well.  This doesn't mean that the movie doesn't have it's moments.  Wes Craven makes the most of his material, but Kevin Williamson's presence is sorely missed in this Scream, which doesn't know where to draw the line, and leaves its audience somewhat confused.  The revealed identity of the killer at the end is so unsatisfying, that I would rather have not found out.  And the final moments are a little too conventional.  Overall, if you liked the first two Screams you should still check out the third.  It is designed as a timepasser and on that level it succeeds.  The one real standout is Parker Posey, who makes the most of her role as a spoiled movie star, who is targetted in the adventure.  Otherwise, marginal thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven saved the worst for last in 'Scream 3'","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Layers of clichés kills the entertainment value in the third installment of the Scream franchise.  In this sequel, the cast members of Stab 3 are getting killed off left and right.  The usual question we find ourselves asking Who's the killer?  For some reason, the killer is after Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) --  who's been in hiding -- and will keep killing until he meets her face to face.  Dewey Riley (David Arquette) and the journalist -- whom we love to hate -- Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox Arquette) are back and want to unmask the killer as well.  The final act is so lame.  May this sequel be the last.  My evaluation *½ out of ****. "}{"Title":"Very Cool!","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  May have a *SPOILER* or two.This movie was awesome! It was the perfect ending to a great trilogy. Although the first two Screams were unforgettable, I will have to say that Scream 3 is the best. The ending could have been better though. It was ok, but it was kind of Unnecessary.Sydney's mom was a very nice touch. When I first saw her, it scared the HELL out of me and my friend. It would have been really good if her mom had come back at the end and made up with her.All the characters were great. The were very humorous. The very beginning of the movie was great too. It was unexpected. It was great when Randy made an appearance. After all, he had rules for the first 2 movies, it was only proper that he had rules for the final chapter. But it was kinda sad when he was talking about how they would only see the video if he was dead.This movie is going in my collection. I give it a 9 out of 10. (The ending could have been better.) "},{"Title":"not a horror movie!!","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One thing i've noticed while reading many, many reviews of this movie is that people who went to see it expecting to see a horror movie were disappointed.  I'd like to make one observation about the Scream movies and that is that they aren't really horror movies, sure they have horror elements but they are really mysteries.  A horror movie like Halloween is all about the neat ways the killer can take out as many teenagers as possible in 90 minutes.  The Scream series was always about who the killer was, not particularly how he dismembered the victims. (interesting though they may be)Anyway, on to my review.   While Scream 3 isn't quite as good as the first one it is still a great movie, and one of the best finishes to a trilogy i've ever seen.  It has everything that has made the series as popular as it is.  Occasionally witty writing, graphic violence, twists, turns, and an ending that actually makes sense if you don't look to closely. All in all Scream 3 is what it should be, and ENTERTAINING movie. Maybe not as groundbreaking or original as it could be but it makes for a fun night at the movies. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe because Original Scream was an amazing piece of art, I was not at all impressed with Scream 3. It is not bad. There are a few scary parts which prevented me from being alone in public bathrooms for a few days. I definitely screamed once or twice. But then, the rest was nothing special. Plot was not awful but not great. Acting was the same sort of thing. Only thing I really liked about it was one liners. There were quite a few good ones. I suppose when one makes a creative film like the original scream, it is difficult to match it again. If you are bored, and want to spend a few hours listening to people scream, I say go for it. But don't expect anything special. "},{"Title":"Great! Not the best, but great.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Scream 3 the first day it came out. I loved how it started off and from that moment on I couldn't wait till the end. It was very good, but I don't think I would consider it being the best one out of the trilogy, I think the original Scream is still the best. This one was second. The ending was good to. You should definatly go see this movie if you are a horror movie fan, especially a Scream fan like me. I guess this ends my Trilogy of comments for Scream. Other recommendationsScream 1 and 2, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Halloween and other horror classics. "},{"Title":" To be or not to be that was the question?","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"        Scream3 is the final film in this horror trilogy?I don't know if its was ever really a trilogy to begin with? I found the film very amusing.The charcters are good.The killer was unique.Scream3 plugs alot of holes of the first 2 films.There is always a few people who are pegged as the killer.The film is better than scream2 in my opinion.Scream2 and Scream3 don't jive.These films are a thousand times better than the ol Jason,Fredy,Myers trificata of stinkers. "},{"Title":"Screamier than Part 2","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say that I was really impressed with the final installment of the Scream trilogy. This movie had everything in it including Jenny McCarthy. The only problem that I had with it was the killer. Just like in the second one there was a stupid killer. Wes Craven did provide a motive but it was kind of silly, overall he did a good job. It's just a shame it had to come to an end. I hope to see another great director continue a great horror series as this successful one. I'll see you later "},{"Title":"better than the second, but is nowhere near the first.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While the first Scream quickly became a favorite of mine, the second one left me cold and disappointed. While my expectations were low going into the third installment, i will say that i was pleasantly surprised.While the first half hour or so seemed really clunky and just a bit too goofy, the last hour and a half quickly turned on the suspense and the film has some genuinely creapy scenes.All of the cast has their tongue just enough in their cheeks so that the film didn't take itself too seriously, and Neve Campbell does a great job in addition to looking positively gorgeous in her usual understated ways.While it doesn't approach the first film's status, it's much better than the second and taken as it's own film is good mindless fun.rating8   "},{"Title":"Every trilogy has one","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Awful chapter, that is.***SPOILERS***Oh, how much potential was wasted here will probably be the most talked about thing in this movie's legacy.  The first two films built a fanbase and expectations not to be trifled with, but we were let down with this, the (hopefully) final chapter.  First off, the little things.  Randy's appearance was obligatory, and unnecessary.  Unfortunately, so was Neve Campbell (the main reason I went to see it ;).  Now the big things.  How many trilogies are there (Star Wars, Godfather, and Evil Dead), let alone horror trilogies?  Every notable horror movie has gone beyond Roman numeral three, so the only true horror trilogy would be the Evil Dead/Army of Darkness series (and I don't remember any big truths revealed in Army).  So why all this talk about trilogies?  And contrary to what Randy said about all bets being off, nothing special happened in the third installment.  Sure, the regular cast could die, but none did (Randy did in 2, so why no one now?).  The big revelation of the movie?  Sidney has a long-lost half brother, who was rejected and is now killing people.  By himself, no less, destroying the best part of Scream, the fact that there were two killers.  I myself was hoping during the entire end sequence that the actress playing Sidney in Stab 3 would turn out to be the second killer, but she wasn't.  Lance Henrikson's attempt at a career after Millenium-I mean, his character-was never a true suspect.  And neither were the actors in Stab (other than Sidney's, as I have aforementioned), which made most of their appearances pointless.  As for terror, there was none.  Right off it seemed I could tell who would die and who wouldn't.  Now if Dewey or Gail had died in the first half hour, I wouldn't have been so cocky.  But it didn't happen that way, so I knew that the new faces were marked and the veterans were safe.  Maybe Williamson can remake this in the fashion he had envisioned originally, the way Stephen King made a miniseries of the Shining after he rejected Kubrick's version.  We can only hope. "},{"Title":"REALLY SHAMEFUL","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  you know, it's funny. In 1996, Wes Craven, Neve Campbell, and Kevin Williamson created this new sub-culture. They made horror movies cool again. They made gore and campy humour the most popular thing around. Since Scream, about two-dozen films have been released that have something to do with teens being chased by someone and ultimatly killed.Among the horrors, none of them can stand up to Scream. Many people did not enjoy Scream 2...I did, because it was essentially just as scary as the original. The killer(s) were came as a suprise to me.Then came Scream 3. I assumed Scream 3 would deliver more punch than Scream or Scream 2 but, alas, it's a piece of junk. By the end of the film, not only had I guessed the killer, but was hoping that he or she would kill the main characters off because they were so stupid. Every four minutes, I turned to my friend and pointed out another stupidity that ruined the scene.I can't say that the film wasn't scary, because, for the first thirty minutes-you are scared. But then, you stop caring, you just wish Sidney Prescott would get axed already. It is true that at one point, you suspect everybody, but is that a good thing? I mean, you have to rely on someone.By the way, for those who loved Scream 3, let me ask you a question In the original Scream, when you found out who the killer(s)were, was your fear the same as in this one? I seriously doubt it, because Scream was scary, smart and silly. Scream 3 is just silly-------1.5/4  "},{"Title":"Thank goodness it's over.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The finale of the infamous SCREAM movies is here. A nutso in a Halloween costume is looking for Sidney, and starts slashing up everyone hoping to get to her. Sound familiar? Nothing new in this movie and even I predicted the ending and the revelation of the nutso's reason for attacking Sidney directly. Dewey, once again, is the highlight of the movie, followed by a lesson in Scary Movies 101. Unless you liked both SCREAM 1 and 2 do not bother with this. You will be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Thank god it's finally over","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me start by saying that i loved Scream (the original) and OWN all the Nightmare on Elm Street movies.  That said...The REAL rules of horror trilogies1. Most of the movie will be spent reminding us of past characters and actions, and basically just recapping movies we have already seen, thus wasting our time instead of adding something to the storyline.2.The stars, once considered talented and promising, will have receded into utterly terrible actors (Neve Campbell, David Arquette), or will sport a new look that is absolutely ugly and ridiculous (Courtney Cox-Arquette).3. The lack of a true plot will be obscured by unnecessary profanity (basically every line of script) and not-so-funny humor in an attempt to make an otherwise boring movie entertaining.  Also, by trying to obscure the lines between fantasy and reality, the writers must make the plot into a muddy and indecipherable mess that even Einstein couldn't figure out.4.  The plot will just rehash previous plots (Scream 1 and 2) or even plots from other series (Wes' New Nightmare).  In addition, the ending must be so out of the blue, that nobody could have even imagined it, no matter how closely he watched the movie.5. Pop-culture icons must make distinct and pointless cameos to increase the entertainment value.6. Innovations (like the phone call, voice disguising, and the scary mask and knife) will be merely imitated.  No creativity should be put into the new film.7.Wes Craven will take a once-brilliant idea and run it into the ground until it makes us sick with disgust (a la the Nightmare series).THE BOTTOM LINE This trilogy should have stopped at a single movie. Scream 3 became what the original sought to ridicule.  I can't believe I sat through this entire movie.  Wes, how could you do this to us?  "},{"Title":"Wonderful finish to a breathtaking trilogy","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a big Scream fan! However, I'm also a big movie fan and a big movie critic! I don't like cheesy, commercialized movies. Anything that could possibly live up to the first Scream would have to be great, but after a second Scream movie, a third would have to be near perfect. Therefore, despite the fact that I'm a fan, I'd have to be very impressed by this third edition or else I wouldn't feel Wes Craven did it justice. I was very impressed.This movie was not just a feeble attempt to make more money on the same hit storyline. This movie had a new and innovative plot and was definitely the final chapter in a trilogy. This movie series was groundbreaking when it came out and has now completed a wonderful finish. It brought out secrets from the first installment of Scream and completed the entire story! Nothing is left secret! All is exposed!Great movie. Go out and see this quality horror flick!  "},{"Title":"Not too shabby","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is a good film.  Not great, but good.It certainly has a lot to live up to.  The original Scream, when it was first released, was a refreshing departure from the belabored and formulaic cesspool to which horror movies had long since relegated themselves. Mixing an array of tongue-in-cheek self-referential in-jokes with legitimate terror, the first installment of this multi-million dollar franchise revived a genre that had long since been condemned to movie history, buried alive by such cinematic c**p as Critters 3 and Leprechaun 4 In Space.  Never heard of those?  Not surprised.Unfortunately, the sequel, and even the third installment to some extent, threatened to collapse in upon itself.  Part of the charm of Scream was the way it mixed a clever hook (a horror movie that knows it's a horror movie) with some very simple, but plausibly disturbing murders and motives (or lack thereof).  Cashing in on the success of its predecessor, the makers of Scream 2 hastily jammed together a conglomeration of dying college students with some shaky logic, resulting in mediocre fare.  Although it has some great scenes (with the intro being one of the best and most ironic murder scenes out of all three installments), the second of the series seemed a bit too blood-happy.  See here? the makers seemed to be saying.  We're doing it again!  Isn't it great?  And we smiled and said, Sorta.Well, Scream 3 is a winner.  In fact, the worst that can be said for the flick is that its irony is often a bit forced, and it occasionally succumbs to the very cliches that it seems to mock.  Although it doesn't reach the crystal clear tones of the original, it takes the same old cast to some impressive heights.  The film is set on the set of Stab 3, a movie within the movie that is a fictional fictionalization of the actual murders in Screams 1 and 2, which are fictional to us, but not to the fictional makers of the Stab movies.  Following me?  Therefore, there are pretty much two of every cast member.  Courtney Cox, for example, plays Gale Weathers, while Parker Posey plays an actress playing Gale Weathers.  It's pretty cute.This gives the cast some artistic license, which adds to the humor and the tension of the script.  With the performances by Posey and David Arquette (as the somewhat annoying Deputy Riley) by far the best of the cast, Scream 3 boasts not only some believable fear, but it also has plot twists that aren't ludicrous for once.  Written by Ehren Kruger (the man responsible for the fabulous film Arlington Road), this final bow by the Scream movies is done gracefully and, thank God, unpredictably.Of course, there are some hitches.  The killer, for instance, takes two ice picks to the neck, one to the chest, a nicely carved and varnished Victorian table to the skull, and several vases to face, and he/she still comes off with barely a bruise.  Ah, but do we care?  Not that much, really. Although some of the movie trips a bit over moments of unnecessary complexity and melodrama, those moments are few and fleeting.  And although it can be said that the movie itself is not quite as substantial as the first, it is certainly a fitting and satisfying close to a franchise that never took itself too seriously to begin with.  "},{"Title":"Moderately Screamful, I think","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"     Despite Randy's claim that the third installment should have the most carnage, Scream 1 and 2 actually had tons more blood and gore. Not that I'm REALLY complaining, as that stuff doesn't do wonders for me...but still, third time's the charm, and Scream 3 manages to be the most witty and clever of them all(I don't think I've enjoyed such a good laugh as when Roman and Angelina walked off saying, We'll be right back!).  And scary, too, though not quite topping the Sarah Michelle Gellar or Drew Barrymore scenes of yore. If you liked the old Screams, you'll like this one.  If it were up to me, the filmmakers should take another stab at it(Pun intended). "},{"Title":"First of all....I liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all....I liked it. Now I know what you are thinking....you thought this reviewer didn't like horror films...well that's true, I don't, because I don't like screaming out loud in the theater (tends to be kinda embarrassing).You see when I go and see a scary movie, I jump, I kick the seat in front of me, I fling my arms, and at times, I let out a loud yell. Now those seated next to me are only bothered if they are in the seat to my right, because that is the direction I jump and end up hitting them.Okay enough about me. How would I describe Scream 3, well simply put, it made me scream out loud approximately 7 times, jump twice, and fling my arms to the right just once (while I was with five others, the seat to the right of me remained empty). So in my book, that's a pretty good movie.Wes Craven, the ever so delightful Director, has created another fantastic film. He incorporates elements of the previous two movies by bringing back not only some of the characters, but also the old storylines. You see, Wes is a truly a creepy person. He creates the illusion of a movie within a movie (sure he did the same thing in the last Freddy flick, but this time he's better at it).You see in this movie, he is making Stab 3 and it's based upon the true life story of what we saw in Scream 1. He has actors playing the parts of the people killed in the first movie and has recreated the town of Woodsboro on the set of Stab 3. Well, guess who shows up...yep the masked guy with that cool voice-changing gadget (obviously designed by an MSOE graduate, because it's so cool and works perfectly).I have to stop here to make a quick comment...isn't that mask just totally freaky? We all know Freddy with his scissors and Jason with his hockey mask were a little freaky looking too, but you have to admit that the masked guy is just plain old creepy. Okay back to the story, while the masked guy keeps showing up around corners, the basement, and in the closets, the characters (and ultimately the audience) keep on going into those places only to end up being the next best thing to sliced bread. How does one believe the masked guy is still alive? Didn't we see him or her die in the previous two movies, so who is the killer now? Well, the killer is....ha, thought I was going to tell didn't you? Well I'm not, but the explanation laid out in this film is quite cool and quite believable.Neve Campbell (Sidney Prescott), Courtney Cox (Gale Weathers), David Arquette (Dewey Riley) and Liev Schreiber (Cotton Weary) are all back for another round, but this time they are joined by their acting counterparts to bring about a great movie within a movie with a creative storyline.Bottom line....if you hear a rather large male screaming out loud during a scary movie and you think it sounds like a girl screaming....I would prefer that you say it sounded more like a mature woman. I do have feelings you know.  "},{"Title":"A Worthy end to an Amazing Trilogy","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was very worried that with the final chapter in the scream saga that some how it would turn out bad. The first 2 are some of my favorite films so i was worried that this one would end up being disappointing. Boy was i wrong. Though this isn't the scariest of the trilogy, it's the most thought provoking. It ties up all the loose ends that were brought up in the first 2 and the final chapter really does have an interesting story to tell. This film gives the chracters and the audience watching the film the closure they need.first of all when the movie started i was a tad bit dsappointed. the opening scene wasn't very thrilling and it was a little short so i though oh boy this isn't starting off right. it was a descent opening scene. i jumped a few times but it didn't have the shock value the first 2 had. despite that flaw when scream 3 finally gets started we get involved in a mystery that somehow takes us back to where it all began. this mystery involves sidney's mother who had a secret life of her own. speaking of sidney, in this installment she is in hiding, this is because Psychos can't kill what they can't find. While sidney is in hiding she begins to have visions of her dead mother. proving that the evnets in her life have finally taken a toll on her. meanwhile in hollywood they are making Stab 3 and when the cast begins to die in the order they die in the script it's up to dewey who si working as an aid on the set and Gale, who is summoned by the FBI to help in the case to solve this mystery. pretty soon sidney makes it to hollywood and the real fun begins.I've always thought that the scream films always managed to produce and create interesting characters. this one is no exception. Neve Campbell is in top form as sidney. In fact in this one she becomes a fighter and has no intention on giving up. neve plays her well and shows us that sidney has grown between films. David arquette is also good as dewey. he isn't as goofy this time around but he's still very funny. i like courtney coc but this gale weathers was different from the firsr 2. i think that she shouyld've played it bitchy again, when she's nice she loses her edge. she was still good but she could've been betterThe characters are a mixed bag(since most of them are just there to get killed) Parker Posey supplies the film with most of its comice relief. she was really good in the role and i thought she was a good new character. jenny macartney was adequate as sarah darling, an actress who is 35 and tired of playing 21 year olds. Scott foley was also good as a directer who's film is being sabotage by a violent killer.The ending was much better than the ending in scream 2. i thought that this endingsolves all the problems that sisdney had been wondering about. at times it seemd cheesy but i do think that it was good and much better than scream 2's ending.I'm glad they decided to end it now because i would hate to see them ruin a good thing. they ended it like they should've. i'll now remember this a trilogy that made me laugh and most of all made me Scream. A- "},{"Title":"The original is still the best one...","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 starts extremely well with a sequence that has the suspense and chills as in the original Scream, just before the main titles. Unfortunately, everything goes downhill from there.  Suposedly, Williamson had always sustained that the Scream franchise was a trilogy from the start.  I sincerely doubt it.  Not only was this one not penned by him, but the ending, the killer with its far-fetched killing motives and modus operandi, will leave more than one disappointed and maybe even saying what?.  If you thought the killer/killers in Scream 2 were far-fetched, you have seen nothing yet!. This chapter takes even less seriously than the others, and there's a lot of inside Hollywood jokes.  Jokes that, for many, will go unnoticed and even for those in the know, will probably still feel flat.  From the Kevin Smith's characters cameo to many of the lines uttered by Jenny McCarthy (...the shower scene in Vertigo ;). One problem with this installment is that Sidney is almost nowhere to be seen for the first 80 minutes of the movie.  I'm not a fan of Neve Campbell, but her character is supposed to be the main reason for the killings.  And she does not play any significant role until the third act! But the biggest problems are the big holes in the story (there are so many, I could fill a couple of pages listing them).  Most of the plot turns stretch the audience belief, and it is too obvious the writer was running out of ideas on how to get all the characters together under the same roof to have the killer go after them.   The one thing that made the original Scream great was its solid script and its great and original ending, while still adhering to all the rules that were listed as necessary for scary movies. And nothing of that is found here in this, I hope, final chapter.  "},{"Title":"You've Seen It All Before","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The original SCREAM may have been smart and suspenseful, with neat references to the slasher films of the early 1980s, but it is quite obvious that this latest installment is just another stupid, though mildly entertaining, teeny-kill flick tailor-made for the non-discriminating 16-year-old. The plot of SCREAM 3 concerns Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) and the other survivors of the first two films, who end up in Hollywood on the set of STAB 3, a film based on the events of SCREAM 2. Not surprisingly, they are stalked by a mysterious killer.This is barely a horror film. Much of it plays like an inept black comedy such as TEACHING MRS. TINGLE, complete with annoying cardboard-cutout characters spewing out mindless dialogue. Campbell (in the few scenes she's in) and Patrick Dempsey take their roles seriously, and they turn in good performances. The other cast members play it strictly for laughs and give uninspired performances. As dumb as the film is, it is fairly watchable. The stalk-and-slash sequences are fairly well-directed by old pro Wes Craven, and there are some fun cameo appearances. However, if you've seen SCREAM or the slasher films of the early 1980s that it parodied, there isn't anything here that you haven't seen before.** out of **** "},{"Title":"A fitting goodbye to a great series.","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream was a great, great horror flick.  It took the cliches that horror movie fans have been enjoying (and bemoaning) for years and twisted them back on themselves, for the first time making a horror movie that acknowledged the existence of horror movies and their fans.  Scream 2 was less of a thrill; it had some great scenes and set pieces, but faltered in the denoument, giving us a laughable finale instead of a scary one.Scream 3 gets back to what made Scream great.  What sets this series apart is the intelligence factor, and Scream 3 doesn't dissapoint.  Plots get turned around and eat their own tails, everyone's a suspect, and in the end the answer is both completely obvious and impossible to predict.  It dovetails perfectly into the first two, expanding the mythos without cheating the audience.The director and screenwriter are savvy enough to realize that just hearing some guy's distorted voice over the phone isn't that scary anymore, so they look elsewhere for suspense and scares, and find plenty of both.  There are great scenes involving Sidney Prescott's supposed mental problems, they're both frightening and make perfect sense -- wouldn't you be a little ding-y if all your friends were killed by a series of psychopaths?I won't say anything about the plot, because the less you know, the better.  Just make sure you've seen the first two before you go in, or you'll be completely lost.  I'm sure non-horror fans won't like this one (witness the critical beating it's been given), but anyone who's looking for a good scare will find it here. "},{"Title":"Law of Diminishing Returns Applies, BUT!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SCREAM 3   * * 1/2   They've basically made the same movie for the third time, with a ghost-masked killer slicing through one cast member at a time, only to reveal in the final 15 minute no-holds-barred showdown who s(he) is and why s(he)'s doing it.   Nevertheless it's reasonably entertaining and the cast and settings are always watchable, and there's enough red herrings to keep you guessing. The worst of the series but not the disgrace to its predecessors that some say it is. "}{"Title":"Scary? No?","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a Scream fan.  I do not think that I set my goals unreasonably high by asking that I would be scared during the movie.  I was extremely dissapointed  After seeing this movie and several reviews on this site, I would like to remind everyone that Scream is a horror movie.  It is not a comedy.  While I enjoyed the comedic elements to the movie, it simply didn't keep my interest that much.  It just wasn't scary, and I think most will agree.  I think just as Scream 2 focused too much on being scary, but shifted away from some of the humor, Scream 3 focused too much on being funny, but shifted away from being scary.  The child violence goriness cut-backs are much too obvious, and I don't think Wes Craven has a good grip on how to be scary without being gory.  The ending was satisfactory at best, and the twist was rather dumb.  Overall I still enjoyed the movie, mostly due to the hilarious conversations between Courtney Cox and Parker Posey (who, in my opinion, saved the movie.) I'd give it a 'B' "},{"Title":"Very Good for the final film","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I went to Scream 3 to see the finale to one of the greatest slasher series of all time and I wasn't disappointed.  I got just what I wanted. It's all there the killer, the original cast(that have survived the last two films), and a story that will have you pointing your accusing finger at more than one suspect before the film is over.  I found that this one was a bit more comical than the last ones but it still had the audience shrieks of fear throughout the entire film.  Sydney is now an adult.  The killer is also more professional than the others which makes it a little bit more creepy.  I have seen this movie twice now and I liked it even better the second time.  Personally, I am kind of sad to see this rather successful series go, although they really can't do much more with it.  I would give this film 7 out of 10 stars.  It was a worthy finale to a great series. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but a good finale","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well I can say it's finally over. The film was good, but I didn't enjoy it a hell of a lot as the other 2 because it was way too damn predictable, I'm sorry but it's the truth, if u know how to play the game with this trilogy by now then none of this should be new to you. The ending as always was a surprise I never saw this one coming, you really had to think about this one, and it was a complete who dunnit type of movie cause it wasn't scary at all. The trilogy is over no more to see folks, there is nothing to fear or scream about anymore, no more possible openings about this one, Sid can live her life in peace, best horror trilogy I've seen. "},{"Title":"it rocked","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw it twice and one part, I got really scared and i had the popcorn and it flew all over me cuz i jumped.  It was funny.  But the movie was really good.  I always thought the killer was someone who wasnt the killer.  Wes Craven did a very good job at making you think the killer was someone it wasnt.  It was a good movie, good acting too.  I give it an A. "},{"Title":"By far, the greatest...","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't think they could do it, but they did. I believe Scream 3 to be the best of them all. Not only does it have you jumping every minute, but there's a great blend of comic relief as well. This movie contains some of the greatest, most horrifying scenes of all time. Ehren Kruger DID do a great job in place of Kevin Williamson. Also, Wes Craven did an incredible job directing, of course. You'll have to see it to believe it.  "},{"Title":"Scream 3 is suprising and fun.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"      If you ask me,Scream 3 is one of the most exiting horrors, keeps you guessing and thinking all the time! Just when you think someone's the killer, or something's gonna happen,you're wrong. Its hard for me to pick where Scream 3 ranks in the trilogy for me, but one thing's for sure. It's pretty dang good.  Grade-  A "},{"Title":"Small plot; big action...well worth it","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To a true Scream fan, it was a perfect installment of the series, but a let down of sorts as,the final act. Scream 3 gave us more to go on and excellent story developments, but towards the end the story didn't have a safe landing on its way down from the climax. Also, way to many unbelievable things were thrown at me at once. > "},{"Title":"The worst one yet","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was bad.  How bad was it?  As bad as it gets.  First of all it wasn't scary in the least, it also wasn't funny, and the plot stunk.  The plot was basically just a jumbled version of the second one.  Don't get me wrong I love slasher movies and the first two Screams, but this one felt rushed.  Is it just me or does the Scream franchise seem really old?  Avoid it until it is a rental. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and disappointing.","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie makes you laugh, jump, startle, and shake your head with disappointment. The plot is interesting, actors good, suspense excellent, but Scream 3 after all makes no sense.There's not even a single clue to what might happen. It's a little unfair to the viewer, who can only marvel at the director's and screenwriter's imagination, but can't really participate in the movie. Scream 1 was different, because we were toyed with now we think Billy is guilty, now we think he's not, but then he actually is. With Scream 3 we're just lied to. "},{"Title":"Parker is hilarious","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  With this as the third Scream, it could easily have been the same thing over again.  But with the addition of Parker Posey it becomes hilarious.  Her interaction with Courteney Cox Arquette makes for most of the film's high points.  Liev Schreiber, Heather Matarazzo, and Carrie Fisher also add some colour to the film. This is probably the most entertaining and enjoyable Scream. "}{"Title":"It's ok in my book.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, I'm just gonna start off by saying that a lot of people here that anaylze a film are just trying to make themselves sound holier-than-thou.What is it that makes a film good? Personally, I enjoyed this, along The Green Mile, and the what could possibly be the new Citizen Kane of pictures, American Beauty.True, this is a horror movie. So is it right there that we're supposed to treat this movie as though it has no redeeming value? A) The ending was very good. It was a suprise. I find that most people who say the ending suck say it sucks because they couldn't figure it out =) I thyink that *was* intentional on the director's part. B) The acting was good. The character's filled their roles, and hey, not everything has to be overly dramatic indepth, and certainly the film would lose meaning if we had to know the ins and outs of every character in order for us to have feelings for them when they die. When a person dies so tragically it IS emotional because a life is being taken so a person can fulfill a petty vendetta.That's just a few reason I find this movie good and I'm afraid I'll go over 1,000 words, so adios =) "},{"Title":"SCREAMED that I wasted $8.50 on this!!!(spoilers)","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There is a point in this film where the rules for a trilogy are expalined to the audience. Why none of these rules apparently APPLY TO THE FILM AT ALL baffles me. Folks...this movie sucks. I think it's biggest flaw was that it takes absolutley no chances whatsoever. New characters are introduced here solely so the killer has someone to off and the audience won't feel the loss. There is nothing new, nothing scary and nothing accomplished!!!! I won't go as far as to reveal the killer simply because it is such a piss-poor conclusion to this already dopey film. Ever see a movie and think that it was written as they film it...you will now!!!  "},{"Title":"better than the second, not neat the first.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The three scream movies were written somewhat as a Trilogy.  I always like it when a writer(s) thinks everything through far enough to make three movies.  Scream 3, however, was a huge disappointment.  It certainly didn't deserve the 35 million it grossed last weekend; the movie is a prime example of the return client idea.  None of the genres you'd think this movie would be a member of really fit.  Instead of the Suspense, Thriller, or Horror genres, it became more of a who-done-it mystery than a boo-ahh crowd pleaser.	Horror movies (which this is supposed to be) more than any other require a certain amount of willing suspension of disbelief.  The idea is that as a viewer, you know what is happening on the screen wouldn't or couldn't happen in real life, but it's on the screen so you cut a little slack and keep watching.  There is a point where something becomes just so unbelievable that nobody could cut enough slack to momentarily believe what is happening.  Wes Craven and company stepped about 5 feet across this line.  There were some clever ties to the other movies, particularly the first.  You have to really look for some of the references - almost to the point where I wonder if it was done on purpose or if I'm just reaching for a trilogy tie.  The character Randy from the previous films has a short-lived but vital appearance that I really liked, and there was this hilarious part when the killer (garbed in the traditional Stab outfit) throws a knife at Dewey, played by David Arquette.  Overall I'd have to say the acting was below par, but I don't think anyone was in the delusion that Scream 3 was up for the Oscars.   The audience jumped maybe 2 or 3 times, and laughed half a dozen.  I don't think anyone was really on the edge of their seat.  The story did tie up some loose ends, and brought a little closure for the trilogy.  I said this movie was a disappointment, but it wasn't horrible. It just had something to live up to and didn't meet the standards.  Scream 3 was better than the second, but doesn't hold a candle to the original.  It might be worth it just to see that Knife scene.Grade C+  "},{"Title":"Scream 3 is a good thriller, but a lousy Scream movie","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This review contains spoilers I've had a few days to analyse Scream 3 and I came to the conclusion that it made a good thriller, but a lousy Scream movie. Kevin Williamson's absence was definitely felt and the movie itself seemed to lack a Wes Craven feel to it. I'm one of the few who thought that Scream 2 was not only grossly misunderstood, but in fact brilliant, conveying the message of how lame a sequal is suppossed to be. For Scream 3, the glorious moments were few and very under developed. In this latest outing, everyone seemed to annoy me in their character portrayals (With the exception of the recently departed Randy). The fact that the characters had nothing to do script wise hurt the story. Sidney was uneccessary, Gail was a watered down version of her former self, and Dewy lacked the child like innocence seen in the first two movies. Things that had to go The constant reference to Sidney's mother, her ghost, the fantasy voice box that mimics other peoples voices (whatever happened to just striking fear with the original voice of Roger Jackson?) and absolutely Courtney Cox's hair. Even Roger Jackson, who provides the voice of Ghost Face, seemed underused. The opening scene had great potential, but that, along with Jenny Mc Carthy's run in with the killer, fell flat and could have had more substance to it. In the movies better scenes, the video taped Randy warns that even the original cast could die, though it never comes to fruition. My final gripe was the identity of the killer, who was a big let down and I felt cheated that it could have been someone who mattered (I always thought it should have been Randy ). I'll have to watch it again when it makes its way to DVD, hopefully I'll find some hidden genious I missed the first time around. "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but falls flat at the end.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is the final installment in the film series that reinvigorated the slasher film.  This  time, various members of the Stab 3 film are being killed off in rather grisly manners, and  somehow it all finds its way back to Sydney Prescott.  Neve Campbell is the resourseful heroine  who must match wits with a deranged lunatic in order to get her life back.  Back for round three  is Dewey and Gail, the only other cast members to survive the previous two films.  Wes Craven  knows how to manipulate you, and he can scare the pants off you when he wants.  He managed to  do it very well in the first one, and the second one had its moments too.  The third time around,  we start to see the tricks of the trade.  We know that there will be one or two false scares  before the big one.  We know what to listen for with the music and we know that if you don't  have top billing in the credits, chances are you won't survive.  What made the first Scream so  much fun was the fact that you didn't know what was going to happen.   It's too bad that the  final Scream is so uneven.   There are some nice set pieces and some good cameos from various  celebrities, but overall, you'll end up wanting more.               "},{"Title":"Kevin, where are you?","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Warning  may be spoilersWhen Scream exploded onto the scene, horror movie buffs rejoiced.  Here was a film that rejuvenated the genre.  It was directed by horror master Wes Craven and it was written by a guy that obviously grew up liking the same films that we did as youngsters.  Kevin Williamson wrote a brilliant screenplay that showed us how much he loved horror films, and not just by writing a scary film but by including all of the horror insider stuff that only true horror fans would know about.  He threw in a line right from Halloween at the beginning of Scream.  He gave one of his characters the same last name as the doctor in Halloween and a character in Psycho.  He knew of the non harmonious split between Craven and Robert Shaye after the original Nightmare On Elm Street was turned into a comedy for its sequels.  He was smart enough to trick his audience into falling for the question that asks who is the killer in Friday the 13th.  We all think it is Jason but of course he doesn't come around until the sequel, in the first one it was Mrs. Voorhees.  He had Fred Krueger references in the film, he had brilliant and witty dialogue about the horror movie rules for survival and he even had subtle moments of genius when he wrote lines like  you're starting to sound like a Wes Carpenter film.  and  what's the werewolf movie with E.T.'s mom in it?   Kevin Williamson cares about Scream and he cares about horror films.  That is evident in the awesome Scream and even the quite good Scream 2.  But Scream 3 is terrible.  I won't go so far as to say it is an abomination but it is pretty bad.  It alienates its core audience, maybe not the teens that love it for all that it is but the audience of 20 and 30 somethings that know the roots of Scream.  This is not really a true sequel to Scream, it is nothing but a cheap standard horror film that a 90's audience has gotten used to.  There were no real scares, there was no great movie references to it that we could all feel proud that we understood and there was no great ending to sum it up.  Straight up, this film is quite a disappointment, and that is too bad considering who is involved and who they got to take over for Kevin.Ehren Krueger penned this copy of Scream and when I learned that this guy was doing it I was excited.  He wrote one of the best films to come out of 1999 with Arlington Road.  It was smart and frenzied so I had high hopes for his version of Scream 3.  But it was a letdown.  And it goes to show you that no matter how good a writer you are, it is not necessarily easy to take over in a series that already has a certain style of writing.  If this was the first in a series of films, it might not be that bad, but it is the final showing in the great and epic series that had a generation of people scared and another generation of horror geeks ( like myself ) excited that someone had written almost a tribute to us, the horror generation from the late 70's and early 80's.  Ehren Krueger, although he has a great horror last name, is just a cheap and blasphemous copy of the original writer.The film itself suffers from lack of logic.  The killer should have been someone that we know and by giving us a brand new character that somehow ties into to our familiar family of characters really jeapordizes the credibility of the film.  Maybe this is just me but I think a great way to sum up the film would have been to either bring Stu and/or Billy back somehow and/or to have maybe Duey be one of the killers as well.  That would have been good and it would have also explained Duey's behavior in the first one and why he never got killed in the films.  Now I know that is just my opinion but it needed more shock than what it had in the film.  It was a terribly unsatisfactory ending and with the film being just okay up until that point, it left me with a terrible taste in my mouth.  It's too bad really because this was such a good series.  They say this is the last one, well they said that about the Friday the 13th series in 1984.  But just a year later Paramount realized that they could still make money off the name and they made another and another and another and.... well you get the point.  I just don't think this is the last of them.  The very last shot left way too much to be interpreted.  I do think there will be a fourth.  Maybe it will be better than this one is.  Then again, any film may be better than this was.It always seems that horror sequels, and maybe just sequels in general don't know when to quit.  Halloween, Friday the 13th, First Blood, Rocky and so on, they all suffer at one point or another from bad sequelitis.  Now you can add Scream to that unfortunate list.  5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie ROCKS. I thought It was REALLY good. It was funny and scary to. Scream 1,2, and 3 rule. usually sequels suck. But not these,hehe. See this movie, you won't be disappointed at all, so I'm going to give this good movie a 9.9=) "},{"Title":"Overall Good Sequel, but the Ending was disappointing","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Overall I liked the movie well.  The comedy was good and there was plenty of suspense.  Unfortunately I don't think that ending was enough.  Granted the killer(s) was(were) reasonable and made sense, but there was something missing.  I don't want to say much and give anything away, but I just think it lacked a little. "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am not a fan of gore or excessive violence, but I really enjoyed this movie. The elements of suspense and humor were very well done. The moments when you know someone is about to get it are intertwined with moments of humor. You can't guess the ending, but it is fun to sit back and enjoy the ride. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Only read this if you've seen it.  It's a spoiler.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is without a doubt the scariest of all three and definitely better than 2.  It did a good job at making you think Angelina and Milton were the killers and then surprising you by making it someone you thought was dead. Still, I can't believe that Roman was the only killer, that just seemed unlikely, and I didn't like that they gave him a motive we could never have known as they did with Debbie in 2.  In 1, when Billy reveals his motive it all makes sense while in these two we're just given new data which takes a moment to process in our minds.  Also, even though making Billy's father the killer would have been too obvious, I was kind of hoping they would.  I feel sorry for that guy; his son and ex-wife both became killers and are now both dead.  E-mail me if you wanna talk about this some more. Oh, well, now the triology's over and I'm kind of glad it is, Sidney deserves a break.  And I did like the way it ended overall with the door opening by itself.  It's a good way to remind us that this world we live in does have psycho killers who love movies and victims that become cold blooded killers themselves, but despite all that, the majority of scares that this world has are really...just...the wind. "}{"Title":"It was NOT better than Scream 2","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ok most likely this contains some kind of *spoilers* so watch out.the first thing i have to say is to the freak who left a comment and said he knew who the killer was when he noticed sidney's necklace.  that was her dead boyfriend's FRAT symbol, and as most normal people know, fraternities use the GREEK letter system, not the stinking roman system.my first problem with this movie was that Kevin Williamson didn't write it, and you could tell.  I'm sorry, but i didn't think this movie was very funny at all.  It could have been the lack of Randy (i screamed when he died in 2), but most likely it was the lack of writer. the movie lost something without the original writer from Scream and Scream 2, and that was enough to distance it from the other two movies. there were three funny moments in the whole movie that i remember (and the one's that you remember are really the only ones that count)--carrie fisher's cameo was classic.  Jay and Silent Bob's cameo was hilarious (plus it brought back fond memories of Dogma, thus bringing on the funny-endorphins).  The part i laughed at the most was when the killer throws the knife at Dewey's head.  To be honest, as the knife was flying i was cheering for dewey's death (he really should be dead), but the hilarity of how the knife hit him made up for the fact that he survived. also, there was so little character development in this movie you couldn't make one full-blooded character from it.  all the little actors on the set (parker stinking posey included) came from nowhere and went right back there.  for crying out loud it only took the killer three minutes to get rid of half of them all at once in the producers house. none of them had a really interesting death because _nobody_ in this film had an interesting death...not even the killer, because we didn't care enough about any of them for it to matter. plus, the acting stunk.  especially the killer at the end; billy was a psycho and that was fine, and his monologues at the end of Scream established the scary guy thing.  but then Mickey went crazy in Scream 2--the moment we find out he's the killer he starts cocking his head funny to one side when he talks and being all nasty.  and of course, the killer in this movie does the same exact thing, completely sheds the character he's had throughout the whole movie to turn head-tilting-voice-changing psycho in his ending monologue.  i just think thats obnoxious. finally, Sidney really should have been the killer.  we knew right off once the Gails discovered that Maureen Prescott had been in Hollywood for a couple years that the killer was going to be some long lost relative. whoopie.  we knew it wasn't the cop because he was too _obviously_ a red herring.  anyway all her weirdo dreams and hearing her mother's voice and all that lovely stuff should have meant that she'd gone crazy.  plus the fact that she wasn't around for the first half of the movie!   anyway too many loopholes for what they did with it--how _did_ the killer get Sidney's home phone number? how the heck did Randy's long lost (bad actress) sister know to come to hollywood (and how the heck did a fifteen year old get there by herself?) to bring that tape--and why the heck didn't she show anyone the tape sooner? (if they were going to go that far i wish they just would have made her Randy's twin brother instead, and kept him in the movie, that would have been so much more entertaining.) and as far as i know bullet proof vests really don't work at such close range, i'm probably wrong, but still i wouldn't think you could stab through one? anyway. it was not as good as the first two movies, endings included.  it did finalize the trilogy, however.  it loses half a point for killing Jenny McCarthy and another half for keeping Parker Posey around so long one point for Dewey surviving, and half for Gail's haircut! a point for such little character development and half a point because nobody called that one kid Bud like they should have done. and one more point for the AWOL writer. wow that brings it down to a 5 out of ten.  well make it a six and a half and wait for the video.  sitting in the theatre with bunch of junior high schoolers definitely brings it down to a four. "},{"Title":"A sliding scale","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved Scream.  I appreciated Scream 2.  I was entertained by Scream 3.  As this series goes on each one gets worse than the previous.  The second movie was comprised of some really creative scary scenes but overall lacked the continuity of the first movie.  The third movie is nothing but a collection of death scenes none of which are as creative as in the previous two films.  Both sequels fail as a movie because of their focus on the scenes rather than the big picture.  Still when rating horror movies you have to be more lenient because of what is out there.  Scream is one of the few movies that has attracted a budget and a cast.  So I am glad that it is making money because I like horror movies and if we could get good people working on them the genre would improve.  Instead we usually get garbage and when you make a real good horror movie it usually gets put into the drama section like Silence of the Lambs or Psycho.  So it was not the greatest movie but I was entertained. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you enjoy watching the other 2 screams, this one will not disapoint.  I enjoyed the last 2 films and find this one up to par.  It has new plot twists, and fresh faces, yet keeps the good older tricks that work well.  The begaining is very good with Bob Cotton, and I will not ruin it by telling you any more; a few twists keep you guessing, and we have scarey movie.   This is a good Drive inn or date movie, and I would not miss it for the world. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sticking with a straight review so as not to reveal anything, I will say that of the 2 sequels, this was the best. Although not written by Kevin Williamson, it was still smart and hip - as critics might say. I didn't know Williamson didn't write it till the credits at the end. As for the scare factor, I was shivering more because the theatre was set at 50 degrees. Seriously though, it isn't anymore or less scary than the first two. I must say overall it was a good movie. To comment on the acting, I would say that it was impressive. The 'Scream' francise is of the horror genre after all. "},{"Title":"Better than 2?  Come on!","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie A) dragged in it's pacing, B) had acting and characterizations analogous to SAVED BY THE BELL, C) didn't surprise or scare me once D) and had a generic of a soundtrack as they come.  Scream 2 had the best scares of the trilogy, most intense soundtrack, most impressive dialog (mainly from the Randy character), great pacing transcending the original, and a very silly ending.  The only thing this installment shares with part two is, a very silly ending.  Why do I get the feeling that the only reason could possibly like part two about part three is because it's the newest thing.  Then again, it was a hard task to write a closing act to a story, that was not really designed as a trilogy, though Williamson will claim otherwise.  "},{"Title":"A Great End to A Great Trilogy","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I *love* the Scream movies!! So then I don't have to tell you that I was looking forward to the final act in this amazing trilogy. The 3rd Scream is just as hip, funny, scary, and thrilling as the first one was and possibly even more!!!I should tell you not to read or believe all the stories you hear about this movie. You should just close your ears to all of it. There are a lot of things on the web and in the media that might lead you to believe that this movie ends in a way that it doesn't. Therefore, you might end up being disappointed because the ending was ruined for you or you expected it to be something it isn't ... just see the movie for yourself.It is a great film and if you are a Scream fan ... you will love this one too!! "},{"Title":"NOW IT'S YOUR TURN TO SCREAM ASSHOLE!!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this is the best movie i have ever seen!there has never been a 3 as good as this. i am a HUGE scream trilogy fanatic and this is by far the best one yet. with superb performances by neve campbell and parker posey this movie can't go wrong. it is full of humor and is the scariest on in the trilogy. i couldn't belive how good the ending was. it ended the way it deserved to end. it was just full of action and suspence. i love how cold and mean the killer was in this movie. thats what made it so scary. wes is a brilliant director. they did good by picking ehren krueger to take kevin williamson's place in writing a brilliant and scary script. i cant get over how good this movie was. go see it now if u haven't. i give the movie two thumbs up and 4 stars. ( just as i did w/ the first 2) "},{"Title":"Well-done summary of the film series.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There are those who criticize the film's finale, and while I have to admit that I found the ending convoluted, and the identity of the killer anticlimactic (the killer removes the mask, the music swells... and my friend and I had to look at each other and say, Hey, uh, is that...), I had the same reaction to the second film.  It is really only the first film that provides any kind of shocking revelation, which really isn't such a shock to begin with since the killer has been identified throughout the film.  Thus the Scream series is composed not of whodunnits but howdunnits.  The thrill here is not the revelation, it's the pulse-pounding moments leading TO the revelation.I felt the film's strength was emphasizing Sidney's being haunted by her mother.  The moments in the film with her nightmares was easily more frightening than the cheap slasher techniques otherwise employed (which were still far better done than other films in this genre).  While the first two Screams only alluded to Sidney's demons, it was a much stronger step to actually see Sidney being stalked by her own fears.  In this way the film seems to have transcended the genre.  Less well-done was the social commentary attempted in the film's climax -- the self-referential argument the filmmakers use in the early part of the film as a justification for the violence of their film seems too pointed, perhaps even defensive.  And the killer's final comments definitely leave a bit to be desired, taking what is a satire and turning it into heavy-handed commentary.  But this has always been this series' modus operandi.The mother link is interesting to follow through the film (and through the series), and perhaps says something about modern expectations of feminism. The mother starts out idealized in the first film, until she is finally demonized in the final film, as a ghost, as a walking corpse, and (in the incredibly eerie close up of her picture with Sidney) a preying killer.  It seems that the mother is herself haunting Sidney throughout the film, beyond what is stimulated by the killer.  The point seems to be muddled -- in the first film, the perfect image of femininity is deconstructed as the mother is killed because of irrepressed sexual desire (sexual infidelity).  In this film, the mother is further deconstructed, but the other way -- she has now been killed in no small part because of her attempts in the past to become an independent woman -- pursuing a career in films that has only led to disgrace and personal moral bankruptcy.  Sidney starts out as a girl holding to her mother's ideal, only to see that destroyed.  Now she watches as her mother as a career woman is also destroyed.  What role is left for Sidney to play as a woman?  The reversion to the idealized situation at the end of the film is bizarre.  Suddenly the few surviving cast members are back in a perfect world, one that seems almost surreal when compared with the rest of the film.  Perhaps the point is that throughout the film series Sidney has been projecting her issues into that of a film world -- but where film ends, where the black and white characters stop, life begins.  Ironic in a horror movie series.  Is it pretentious to write this way about a film that is itself self-aware?All I know is, I threw popcorn seven times in the theater, I was so scared. Especially during the first hour. "},{"Title":"decent enough","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am no huge scream fan by any reach, but i will say that this film delivered exactly what it should have... it is no masterpiece, of course films like this are not meant to be... Those of you who are so critical of this film and horror films in general need to take a breath... you go to this film and turn off your thinking caps and just take it all in...simple... Of course it was a bit anticlimactic...but MANY films can claim that...especially in the horror genre....anyway...if you liked the first two...see the third on general principle...it is equal with the rest... "},{"Title":"A Poor End to a Landmark Horror Legacy (SPOILERS AHEAD)","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Scream trilogy began as a poorly-marketed independent film in late December of 1996, and slowly grew to become one of the most popular and highly critiqued horror films of all time.  But, like all film series, the ride must end at some point.  And in Scream's case, instead of gracefully ending on a cathartic note, it came to a crashing halt with it's final film, Scream 3.Many things were missing from this production.  Not marketing strategies--that was never neglected, with commercials running nearly every five minutes.  Not in talent--this film was injected with such normally fine actors and actresses as Courtney Cox-Arquette, Parker Posey, and of course, Neve Campbell.  Even the dialogue, although lacking Scream's paternal touch from it's creator Kevin Wiliamson, was still upbeat and, once in a while, provided the audience with a laugh.No, it was none of these things it was more of a lack of passion.  From the carelessly-knotted plot lines, to the tired and unimaginative trademark opening scene, to the final showdown between Campbell's lethargic Sidney Prescott and the awkwardly-cast Scott Foley, Scream 3 lacked not only material qualities, but also a lack of respect for the film's main ideas. When Scream first began, it was about a daughter paying for her mother's crimes.  But as the series progressed, that theme was slowly wiped away by Dimension Films' hunger for creating a film that will simply keep the teenagers at bay until the next teen craze washes up on our country's shores.In conclusion, although Scream 3 may have made $35 million in its opening weekend, it did not deserve that kind of audience praise.  But, I suppose after the first two Scream films won both high acclaim and high box office returns, Wes Craven and the Weinsteins had nothing to lose.  In reality, it is only the true Scream fan that loses out while watching this reprocessed, over-hyped film.  Everyone else can take some sort of satisfaction out of it, be it the thrills, laughs, or money.  But a sincere Scream fan only leaves with an empty feeling inside, where the satisfaction of all ends being wrapped up would have been. "}{"Title":"SCREAM 3; AUDIENCE 1.5 to 2.0","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If the Scream films are a generation's idea of what the new horror film is to the century-old genre, then the franchise has now become this generation's lesson in another, MUCH older idea prostitution. Perhaps that's a bit harsh, so let's call it doing it for love versus doing it for wampum. While it might seem apparent to those knowledgeable enough to recognize the dozens of horror movie references (both blatant and subtle) in the first film, the commentary on the laserdisc of the original makes it abundantly clear that the two men who created the film are very much taken with the little respected genre.Not wanting to miss a single reference or in-joke, I rented the first two films, watched them and listened to the commentary by Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson that is included on the first, along with 20 seconds of material deemed NC-17 worth by the increasingly hard-assed MPAA. Seeing all the feints, references and cliché inversions as they point them out makes you really appreciate who much care went into that first film. Much more so than The Sixth Sense, this is a film that can be as much fun the second time as you try to find holes without success (if you think you have found one, remember that there are TWO killers and any discrepancy in time is accounted for).But if Scream was the film Williamson had wanted to write for most of his life, then Scream 2 is the film he had to write meet a deadline. As admitted to in the commentary, pre-production on the sequel was started before a first draft was even written and the first was still in theaters. There are some cleaver moments, but too often the very clichés that are ridiculed in the first are given to us straight in 2. While the first seems taken with the straightforward Halloween, the second grooves to the more gruesome original Friday the 13th right down to the very plot device of the mother did it.For the supposedly final chapter the filmmakers could be said to be borrowing from Craven's own A Nightmare On Elm Street, but the evidence is pretty weak. There's one sequence that plays on the is-it -real-or-isn't-it? idea, but it's dropped pretty quick.  Williamson decided not to write the script for Scream 3 for reasons assumably to do with his involvement on Dawson's Creek and his directorial debut, Teaching Mrs. Tingle. Reportedly he wrote an outline, which was either ignored or was pretty weak judging by the film. From the opening sequence, there's a notable lack of continuity with the traditions of the series. Instead of a name actress like Drew Barrymore or Jada Pinkett to play the first victim, it is a complete unknown. Which is a puzzle, because in a small role later in the film they have Jenny McCarthy who would have been perfect.There's is one tradition upheld, albeit an unintended one the worsening of Courtney Cox Arquette's hair. I spent most of the time she was on screen wondering what is it with this actress and bad-hair. It's a theme that is not limited to just this series. On Friends, there has also been this deterioration of her 'dos. If ever an actress needed to seek professional stylist help, all one has to do is look at the Morticia-meets-Cher/let's-hope-to-God-it's-a-wig affront salon workers everywhere she sports here. That said, please excuse this rather personal rant and return to the review already in process.While most sequels have the burden of living up to the preceding films, Scream 3 has the extra handicap of operating within a genre it's predecessors have turned into a minefield of hipness. If lumped in with standard, cliched horror films and sequels Scream 3 is no better or worse than most. You have some decent chills, a few funny lines (nothing to compare with Guess I remembered the safety that time, bastard) and a horde of implausibilities (ask yourself how the killer manages to copy the voices of people he hasn't found yet or, much worse, long dead). But from the start, these were films intended to be smarter than their audiences. Over and over, the filmmakers have sucker-punched the usual horror fans by feinting with a cliché only to hit them dead-on with what would happen in real life in such a situation.In the end, I am reminded of the reoccurring skit on Second City where Joe Flaherty and John Candy would review straight-to-video (drive-in for those who remember) type films where the only redeeming quality was the size of the explosion to the du riguer line She blowed up good! It seems a sure sign of any horror franchise getting desperate is to throw in a fireball for spectacles' sake and to spice up the trailer. To wit, for Scream 3 She blowed up REAL good! "},{"Title":"Good but a lame ending.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This may continue minor spoliers but I will not give away the endScream 3 reminded me a lot of Scream 2.  The pace of the movie was right on. It was suspenseful, scary and funny.  But like the 2nd in the series the ending was quite a let down.  Once the killer was exposed the move lost all energy because of the poor choice.  Besides that it was a very cleaver, fun movie.  GO see it. "},{"Title":"Better than the second installment","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didnt think the third film would come close to the first flick...since this film didn't have Kevin Williamson on board. But I was pleasantly surprised the intensity this had.The final quarter is incredible, a non-stop bloody ride that only comes to a screeching halt once the killer is revealed.In the first scream the ending worked great, because the killer was the one we least suspected and actually cared for and trusted. But in this film the killer is a minor character and it does not carry any emotional impact at all. But it dont matter...this series ends in style and with respect for the characters. "},{"Title":"Third time a strike","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sydney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is being stalked once again by another serial killer, but her character doesn't become an active participant until late in the movie.  The focus is more on mixed-matched couple Dewey and Gail (real life married couple Courtney Cox Arquette and David Arquette) who meet up with each other on the set of a movie detailing the murders that surrounded Sydney in the last two films in this series.  Dewey is a bodyguard to Jennifer (Parker Posey), a neurotic actress who provides much of the comic relief.  As usual, everyone is either or suspect or a potential victim, but in this everything-but-the-kitchen-sink plot, the red herrings have become too familiar and the cleverness that was apparent in the first Scream has grown thin.  	There are some nice hommages paid to the horror movie genre.  Legendary horror director/producer Roger Corman appears in an early scene as a studio executive.  One ill-fated character makes a reference to Hitchcock's Vertigo when they really mean Psycho.  The killer takes out a victim then looks them over just like Michael Myers did to his victims in the Halloween movie series.  Unfortunately, the plot, which involves another secret concerning Sydney's murdered mom, leads to a conclusion that uses a plot device that's been done in too many movies in the past. Recommended only for fans of this series.  "},{"Title":"One last stab at the best horror movie franchise ever!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I will not say too much about this movie because I'm afraid I will give it away. I intentionally did not read or listen to any reviews before I saw it and I am glad. I will say, however, that this is an excellent horror film and it closes the door on the best horror movie franchise ever.Scream3 has the same feel and look as the first two Scream movies. It is funny, fast-paced and remarkably scarey. Although the first Scream is the best, Scream3 succeeds where Scream2 failed. It is believable and the ending is not totally lame. It is actually kind of cool and follows the rules of the trilogy as put forth by Randy the movie geek who makes a beyond the grave appearance. All our favorite characters are back from the first two movies; Randy, as mentioned, Sydney (Neve Campbell), Dewey (David Arquette) and Gail (Courtney Cox). They are joined this time around by Jenny McCarthy, Patrick Dempsey, and Scott Foley among others and you will be kept guessing who the killer is and why s/he is killing right up until the final revelation.If you like horror movies and, particularly if you like the Scream movies, go see this as soon as you can. You will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"it so rocked!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, I've been waiting forever for this. ) It was very, very good. Many details from the previous two were resurrected, for us, the supreme fans. Boots from previous movies, etc. Several scenes from the first two movies recreated and changed. If you are a fan you must (and probably will) see it in the theater. I saw the 11pm showing opening night after having watched the first two again, and I'd bet a large portion of the packed theater had also. The atmosphere was awesome; much yelling when portions of the first two were related. The scene at the movie set was the best--the more so, I think, the more you've seen the first. This was the best of the trilogy, but that would never have been possible without the first two. "},{"Title":"Disappointing (Spoilers)","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As a major fan of this series, I loved Scream and I even really liked Scream 2, but Scream 3 had WAY too many holes to satisfy me as an ending of a trilogy.I would give this movie 6 stars out of 10, and those 6 stars were earned in the first 60% of the movie. The end seemed forced and the movie began to take itself too seriously. Just 2 of the GLARING HOLES in S3 was 1) When Roman shot at Sydney for the 2nd time, HE SHOT HER IN THE FACE, how the hell could he miss from 2 feet away? So that's one Syd should have been dead. And the second hole In the scene where the house blows up, how did ONE killer shut the power off, open the gas line and Fax 4 pages at the same time? Not to mention that the power was off but the FAX machine was still working!Not that any of the movies endings were believable but the ending of 3 just didnt seem right, totally reminds me of other movies such as Wes Craven's New Nightmare, Halloween 6, Psycho IV, Candyman3 all sequels that try too hard to explain the past. Not to mention the blatent rip-offs of House on Haunted Hill (secret passages, creepy basement) and the Sixth Sense (Scene with the Syd seeing her mother)...I would slap Wes Craven on the wrist saying Bad Wes, Bad Wes! He should have dumped all the money in the world to Kevin Williamson to write this last chapter....maybe someday they will do something titled Scream S20 to finally get the end right as they did with Halloween.....tsk tsk tsk.... "},{"Title":"This movie could have been a lot better!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought Scream 3 was a all right for a third installment but I was kind of disappointed with the way they wrapped up the trilogy. I thought they could have done better and made the killer's identity a little more shocking and surprising. The movie wasn't nearly as scary as the first two. I don't think I jumped once. Some of the new characters never seemed to develop and the end was kind of thrown at you all in a few minutes with nothing really building up towards it. This one just really didn't hold up to the creativity of the first two Screams, it was kind of like your basic horror flick.  "},{"Title":"It's time to put this series to rest before it becomes a parody of itself.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 Poor Sidney.  After weathering the murder of her mother, being slandered in the press, and escaping the clutches of psychotic killers, not once, but twice (sending scores of screaming young men and women to the Grim Reaper in the process), she appears to have found peace living a life of solitude..  Unfortunately, the killing isn't over yet.  Actors on the set of Stab 3 - a movie based on the Woodsboro murders - are being butchered like livestock, and once again, Sidney becomes a target.  The first installment of the trilogy was timely the teen slasher genre was alive and well, and bloodier than ever.  An informal set of rules governed the actions of all victims-to-be any couples having sex had to die, people always split up to look for the killer, the first place to be searched was a cellar or similar dark and dangerous location, flashlights always died and no one ever carried a weapon.  Scream embraced these rules (and many others) and tried to circumvent them at the same time.  Once the rules were set, Scream 2 went about bending the rules, most importantly core characters were brutally done away with.  Finally, in the last (?) installment, the rules no longer apply and anything goes.  Or at least that's what we're told.   There are a couple good scares, several wonderful cameos (my favorite was Roger Corman's character who is rails against the violence in films and their negative effects on society, but I was apparently the only one who got it) and well spaced moments of hilarity.  Unfortunately the theme is growing thin.   The victims are as one dimensional as those in any second rate blood fest.  They have no connection with the main character, and are simply accessories waiting to meet their inglorious ends.  It is interesting to note that whereas many well-known actors were dispatched in the sequel, only one name victim gets offed in this outing. I was also annoyed that the characters do everything they're not supposed to do - apparently Randy's wisdom died with him. And what's with Cox and Arquette?  They look horrible she is haggard and emaciated, while he appears to have absorbed all the pounds she lost, and the chemistry between them is nonexistent. But most frustrating was the fact that they resorted to a cheat this time around (I won't spoil it, but it has to do with the killer) rather than spending more time on the script.  Don't get me wrong, the movie was fun, just not as fresh or clever as the earlier installments and it is time to let it Rest in Peace. "},{"Title":"still scary -- a 7 out of 10","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went into Scream 3 with only one hope -- not to be disappointed.  With a new screenwriter on board (the guy who wrote the abysmal Arlington Road), I was concerned.  But Scream 3, thanks to its director Wes Craven, is every bit as scary as the first two (with the exception of the first 10 minutes, which have gotten progressively worse with each film).The movie is funny as usual, though not as funny as the first and especially the second one.  But it IS genuinely scary, and I especially appreciated the closure that a fan of the series will get at the end.Recommended to anyone who liked the first two. "}{"Title":"a fair movie","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   Scream 3 is a decent horror movie.  However, in falling in with the other Scream pics, it doesn't have the same humor.  It seems to take itself to seriously.  The best part is the inspired Jay and Silent Bob cameo.  The ending beats the hell out of the ending of scream 2, but the rest of the movie falls behind it.  Overall, its a decent movie "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Worth the $7 just for the brief appearance of Jay and Silent Bob.At first I thought the whole I Still Know What Disturbing Behavior You and The Bride of Chucky Tingle Did With Your Idle Hands Last Summer era was over, but after getting a sense of closure from seeing the last and final episode I think the whole world can move on and over play something else now. "},{"Title":"good movie & a good ending","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, there will be good opinions about this movie & bad opinions about the movie.  Some opinions (that are bad), will come from people expecting another version of Scream 1 with the same intensity, but I went in expecting NADA....just for the movie to be somewhat entertaining, and to a level-headed 26-year old male who's movie chair was kicked a lot by an idiot behind me, it was a good movie.  O.k., the acting wasn't great, but to me, who cares, it was still entertaining.   So, if you haven't seen this movie, do not expect it to be like Scream 1..like some idiots chose to do, it is better than Scream 2 though. ) "},{"Title":"I miss you Kevin Williamson.  Spoilers included...","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of the first two Scream movies along with horror films in general so therefore I was greatly anticipating the release of the third. I was slightly disappointed when I heard that Kevin Williamson would not be writing Scream 3 but I figured that since Wes Craven was directing it would still be pretty good.  Boy, was I wrong.  From the very opening it was evident that the movie was missing Williamson's touch.  I agree with the fact that some of the big name characters in the movie should have been killed off but opening it with Cotton getting slashed was a bad move.The acting in Scream 3 was sad, even for a horror film.  Neve Campbell and Lance Henriksen were the only two in the movie who acted like they wanted to be there.  The fact that Neve did a great job again was odd considering all the fuss she made about even wanting to appear in the third installment. Again, I think the reason for the poor acting is due to the fact that Kevin Williamson did not write the script.  They were his characters and they seemed flat without him giving them life.I also thought this was the least scary of the three films.  There were a few moments of tension however.  The scene where Sid was dreaming and her mother appeared in a zombie type why was somewhat creepy.  Also, Sid's recollection of the events of Scream in her room on the set of Stab 3 provided some chilling moments.  Unfortunately, the movie tries to scare the audience by using the sudden entrance of an actor into the frame followed by the stinger of music blaring throughout the theater.  This is a poor technique and really gets old when done as many times as it is in this movie.   I view it as a bale out attempt by the writer or director or whoever when they can't think of anything else to do in order to scare the audience.For some reason, however, I gave the movie a 6 out of 10.  Probably because there are some well written things in the story and because it has the Scream name and Wes Craven's attached to it.  I know that is pretty sad reasoning but it's the only thing I can think of. I guess I could go on about how bad some things are in the movie and even how some things are done well, but it's not worth it.  I recommend that you see the movie for yourself and form your own opinion.  At least, hopefully, this is the last installment of the series.  Please, Wes, do not do a Wes Craven's New Scream or anything along those lines.  Just let the trilogy be as it is. Those last two lines go for any other director or producer at Miramax wanting to resurrect the series.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith RULES!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was basically the same dumb movie as the other 2. If you liked them, you'll probably like this one, but I'm sorry I wasted my money. The only good thing about the movie was the scene with Jay and Silent Bob. "},{"Title":"Not the best ending, but at least is an ending...hopefully","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is all that I expected, which isn't much.  It's an ending to the Scream trilogy, assuming Wes Craven, and the cast members have the integrity to stay away from the easy money, and never again return to Woodsboro.I'm sure everyone hoped for a great surprise when they went to see this, like the firt movie provided, but it's just not here. The only surprise is the actual identity of the killer...as far as the twist ending, it's fairly obvious to anyone about halfway through.  Nothing in the movie made me scream, or anyone else in the sold out theater for that matter.  "},{"Title":"Does the job","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm sure a film major might like to deconstruct the movie for all the subtleties the writers may have used, but if you're just watching the movie for kicks, then let me say this...it's popcorn.  Scream 3 is an okay movie, I admit the difficulties in making this movie.  It's the last of the series and they needed to tie up any loose ends.  So as far as that is concerned, they did their job.  But here's the question.  Does doing your job mean that you did a good job?  They did the best they can, but if you're expecting more than doing one's job, then your money is best spent elsewhere. "},{"Title":"It's not right, but it's okay.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes it's derivative, anemic in tension-creating chase scenes, and the killer is nearly impossible to guess. Still, you can't dismiss that it's a good ol' slasher movie with enough killing, gore to satisfy. It never chills you (save one scene with Randy on videotape) quite like the 6th Sense and TBWP but it gets the job done (but why does the killer have everyone's voices?). If only the characters had seen Scream (or stab) then they wouldn't split apart so often to find the killer. B  "},{"Title":"A good interesting movie","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie wasn't as funny as the other two but really good none the less. It had a lot of twist and turns which kept me on the edge of my seat and the end was great. Throughout the whole movie I thought I knew who it was but in the end I was dead wrong. I plan on seeing it again, because I know there are things I missed. "},{"Title":"Not just another sequel...","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...but the third and final chapter of a trilogy.  Critics who bash this movie as just another sequel obviously have been subjected to too many movie series not intended as trilogies (Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th, Halloween, etc.).  Like Jamie Kennedy's character says from beyond the grave, trilogies are completely different from plain old sequels.I went into the theater with a vague idea of who the killer might be, but nothing definite - the way it should be.  Right away, one of my guesses was shot down (or cut down).  The rest of the film left me guessing - eventually, I picked up on the even more vague clues and figured out the motive and the killer's connection to Sidney, but the identity of the killer was a complete mystery to me until the mask came off.  A satisfying end to the whole ordeal - the whole thing makes sense now.Maybe it was just me, but I found the overall tone and mood of this one to be much darker and somber than the first two.  A friend of mine who went to see it with me said that it was more of Hannibel Lechter kind of horror flick than a teen scream queen flick.Overall, I thought that this movie was every bit as edge-of-your-seat-ish as the first and as humor/satirical as the second.  It's not just another sequel - it's a very well put together trilogy. "}{"Title":"Good Entertainment","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Obviously this movie isn't incredibly complex, and if you're looking for a movie with a meaningful message about life you're going to be disappointed, but all this movie is trying to be is entertaining and that it is. My usual recommendation is to stay far, far away from any movie with a number larger than two after its title, but Scream 3 is the exception. If you liked the first two, my guess is that you will like this one. A good conclusion to the trilogy with a completely unpredictable ending. Go see it! "},{"Title":"See the first two again to catch all inside jokes...","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was made primarily to serve as the final chapter in the Sidney Prescott saga, and with that being the goal it succeeded.  Making a threequel to any film is hard, and if you have a different writer penning the storyline, it is more difficult.  Ehren Kruger has a new fan in me after seeing this movie.  He apparently watched the two previous Screams many times before even attempting to continue and close the heralded series.  He even brought closure to some small minute details from the earlier films, and little inside jokes.  One of the best jokes was when the police were looking for a suspect, and they said, Probably just some wacko who didn't like the fact that Randy was killed off in 'Stab 2'.  While not approaching the classic stratosphere that the original has, this film is worth seeing at least twice.  People expecting to see a superior film to the first installment will be sorely disappointed. And those who say Sequels by their very definition suck. remember, that Scream 3 is 'part of a trilogy, a totally different thing', and that's the way that it should be remembered, as part of a whole not a separate entity.  "},{"Title":"A great end to a great movie trilogy","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was very excited about seeing SCREAM 3. The main reason was that this was the first of the SCREAM movies that I did not know who the killer was before seeing it. I also knew that it was possible this time that the three main characters, Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell), Dewey Riley (David Arquette) and Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox) could die. So I didn't know what to expect, and my expectations might have been higher for SCREAM 3 than the others. After all, this is supposed to be the grand finale, as advertised. I was not disappointed.Stab 3, the movie series based on the stories that happened in the last two SCREAM movies, is only days away from opening. But then the murders start again. Sidney Prescott, who has gone into hiding, is discovered by the killer. She goes to find Dewey for protection. Gale Weathers also returns when she learns of what is going on. Cast members of the Stab 3 movie start to get killed as the killer, straight out of Sidney's past, closes in on Sidney for the grand finale.I thought this story line was better than in SCREAM 2 because it was not too similar to that of SCREAM, which SCREAM 2 was. This movie really had the grand finale feel (and I know all about how Kevin Williamson didn't return for SCREAM 3, so if they do make a Scream 4, I don't think it will work) and, although the plot was similar, it seemed to be more of it's own movie than SCREAM 2 was.The acting was just as good as in SCREAM and SCREAM 2. Cambell, Arquette and Cox did their usual good jobs. The small part that SCREAM 2's victim Randy Meeks, played by Jamie Kennedy, did on video was priceless. It was one of my favorite parts of the movie, if not my absolute favorite. Scott Foley did an excellent job. The cameo-like parts done by Lance Henriksen and Carrie Fisher were cool and Liev Schreiber did an OK job for the small part he had. And of course, Roger L. Jackson did great as the phone voice.I was praying throughout the movie that Sidney, Dewey and Gale would survive. I am sure (and I certainly hope) that this is the final SCREAM movie, and I really hope that the three of them survived, even though Randy said it was possible that they could die. Obviously, the character development that was done to them throughout the SCREAM trilogy was well-done.I hope that there are no more SCREAM movies, because it really did end on a high-note. I also hope that the SCREAM trilogy will be remembered as one of the greats, along with the STAR WARS trilogy and the GODFATHER trilogy, because it certainly deserves it. Go see SCREAM 3 in theaters now, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Fair enough.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well After I saw the original Scream I loved it and couldn't wait to see Scream 2.  Scream 2 wasn't all that good.  I went to see the end of the trilogy Scream 3 on opening night and had mixed feelings.First of all I loved the opening scene and how we first are introduced to the killer.  It is swift like Scream and way better than Scream 2.The characters weve come to know and love are forgotten in this installment except Sidney who seems to have some human side.  The comedy is extreme which I never expected but liked.  I really enjoyed the movie for the most part other than that.The ending was a surprise and wrapped up the trilogy but not as well as I expected.  They left the door open for Scream 4 and if they make it I will go see it as well. "},{"Title":"a tired rehash","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Rule #1 success of a horror film lies in it's simplicity (see Halloween, Scream, Friday the 13th etc.) unfortunately the makers of this third installment in the Scream saga didn't listen to themselves about breaking rules and went ahead and broke this golden one. Scream 2 bent the rule by placing Sid in college (with every oppertunity to destroy the killer at her disposal, forgetting that what made the original Scream scary was it's simplicity, a group of teenagers being stalked one by in their house, and eventually killing the culprit violently and again, SIMPLY! in Part 2 we suffered through watching an elaborate finally between pretty much every character in the cast (or at least those who survived) and the killer in a totally, for most viewers, unrelatable situation, taking place on a theatre stage which plays a key part to our hero's survival with it's prop placements and it's design, where as the house in the original was just that, a house. Now we have Scream 3, which places our hero Sid in the most unbelievable of places, Hollywood, where practically and how convenient, everything is at her disposal. Being the average Joe i am, i know i really related to the whole Hollywood thing. What a crock! About the only good thing about the film is it's beginning. As with the previous two films, this Scream is very intense and grips you from the git go. The opening sequence is a notch above Scream 2's opening, bringing it back to the level of the first one's opening. Unfortunately for Scream 3, that's about as good as it gets. The rest is pretty much down hill. After seeing this final installment and looking back at the three films as a whole, they are not so much a trilogy as they are simply just a rehash of something that was good and downright scary, the original Scream.  "},{"Title":"Tied it all up in the long run, hopefully!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Don't let the tag lines and plot summaries fool you.  The movie never returns to Woodsboro.  It stays in Hollywood the entire time.  As for the final chapter, it succeeds at tying up all loose ends as the killer explains it all in the end.  All your questions will be answered.  The plot itself is a little thin at times, some unrealistic things happen, but overall a pretty good scare.  I didn't find myself jumping too many times though, maybe because I'm just a bit use to it by now.  Most of the time it is pretty predictable.  There is a lot less gore involved in this one, also.  The original Scream makes Scream 3 look like a patty-cake party.  However, the giant condo explosion is great eye candy half-way through, and renewed my interest in the movie totally.  If you have seen 1 and 2, there is no excuse not to see 3, right?  Go see it.P.S.  Whatever happen to the Dewey Music from Scream 2?  Every time Dewey appeared in the beginning of Scream 2 they played this cool tune in the background, which is also to be found in Broken Arrow.  Should of hooked that tune up in 3...       "},{"Title":"Go. Enjoy. But don't think too much.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was slickly put together, but was all over the place. I'm not talking about the usual misdirection, of which there is plenty. It just seemed scattered.The usual cast of survivors are once again brought together by murders that are apparently following the script of Stab 3, which is currently in production. Did anyone really try to follow the script to figure out who would be killed next? Well ... no. But that was explained away quickly.Once again, we are treated to people who insist on splitting up whenever possible to explore the darkest of corners, including Sydney, who has been living sort of like a recluse in the hills. You would think she would be a little brighter by now after living in such fear. Speaking of which, she is also haunted by the spectre of her dead mother in this film. Or is she?Finally, the conclusion leaves MUCH to be desired, including the fact that it is totally inadequate in explaining how certain things could have taken place had the murderer(s) actually been the only one(s) involved in the murders. Certain things simply don't add up. Some of the new characters were simply added just so there would be people to kill instead of the primary players throughout the flick.The best things about this movie were the cameos. Carrie Fischer, Jenny McCarthy (don't worry, she isn't on-screen long enough to annoy you with her special brand of mental retardation), and Jay and Silent Bob.Overall, though, I would recommend this flick for Scream fans, or just basic horror fans. I didn't take the movie seriously, although I didn't find that it resolved as well in the end as the previous two seemed to. You don't go to these movies to have something to discuss over latte and croissants anyway. You don't even really go to be scared. They're just fun, with perhaps the occasional fright, and this one is no exception.Go. Enjoy. But don't think too much.(2/4) "},{"Title":"I just had to see it opening weekend","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay I do in fact like the Scream series.  Part 1 was great as a movie on it's own, but sequels were not necessary.  Nevertheless when Scream 2 came out I saw it opening weekend, and the same goes for Scream 3.  Where Scream 2 had it's faults Scream 3 improved on them and visa versa.The opening was just lame.  When I first saw Scream 1 back in the winter of 96 I loved it.  The opening double murder sequence was truly tense.  With this one I had no idea what was going on.  It just sort of started and before I could decipher what had happened the title Scream 3 flashed up on screen in all it's CGI glory.Anyway this time around Sidney is less featured and the focus is more on Gale, Dewey and a whole bunch of newcomers that play the parts of Gale, Dewey, Sidney etc. on the set of Stab 3.  I still am confused as to what happened to Stab 2.Well the usual stuff happens people get stabbed repeatedly over and over (gets boring after a while) without really establishing who they were. There were too many damn people in this movie!  On the plus side, there was a considerably less use of MTV-ish rock soundtracks blasting in the background.Not as bloody, not as suspenseful and the ending was a COMPLETE letdown. *SPOILER** * * * * * * * * *BEGIN SPOILER NOW* The idea of Sidney's brother being the killer all along (he supposedly motivated Billy to kill Sid's mother all those years ago) is just a pathetic way to end the series.  It's just wasn't shocking.  You might think this sounds silly, but I was thinking that either a) Sidney's mother never really died and now she is doing the killing. b) or maybe somehow someway Billy or Stu would come back.  Something that would make sense (although dead people returning to life doesn't make sense either...LOL).  What I mean is someone who had been there since the beginning not just some guy who claims to be Sidney's brother.  Even having Sidney's dad as the killer would carry a bit more umpphh in it.All in all Scream 3 was better than part 2, but will never and could never surpass the original.  The plot twists and turns are now expected while part 1 breathed new life into the genre and actually left you with a feeling of something fresh.  It will work once, but after two sequels and a half a dozen witty, self-referential trendy teen horror rip-offs I just get plain sick.Do yourself a favor and wait for video.   "},{"Title":"Better than the second","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 definitely gets a thumbs up for me.  The second film in the series was kind of disappointing, so I walked into the theater with low expectations.  However, I did thoroughly enjoy the film and didn't see the ending coming at all.  Fans of Kevin Smith films will want to watch for the cameo by Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith as Jay and Silent Bob, respectively. "},{"Title":"Better than the second","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 definitely gets a thumbs up for me.  The second film in the series was kind of disappointing, so I walked into the theater with low expectations.  However, I did thoroughly enjoy the film and didn't see the ending coming at all.  Fans of Kevin Smith films will want to watch for the cameo by Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith as Jay and Silent Bob, respectively. "}{"Title":"Wraps things up with a nice, twist","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  From the frantic opening 10 minutes to the final, shocking showdown, Scream 3 is an entertaining, conclusion to the succesful horror trilogy begun back in 1996. The plot centers around the movie, Stab 3, in production in Hollywood, Stab 3 is the movie within a movie about the murders depecited in Gale Weather's novels.  A killer begins offing the cast members according to their deaths in the script, Dewey is a technical advisor to director Roman Bridger, Gale Weathers becomes a police advisor, and Sydney is drawn into the fray after hiding out in the woods. To say anymore would spoil the suprise and suspense, one thing though, if you havent seen Scream 1 you will be totally lost. "},{"Title":"RIGHT UP THERE WITH THE ORIGINAL!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SCREAM 3 was, I think, way better than SCREAM 2, and right up there with the original SCREAM!  It provided laughs, chills, mystery, and horror throughout the whole movie.  I liked the combination of those elements, it made the movie more than worthwhile!  I highly suggest that you go and see it!  It's just a great movie and a great ending to the awesome trilogy that started the teen horror craze and set the ground for films like I Know What You Did Last Summer and Urban Legend.  The ending is great and provides closure to the best trilogy of all time.  All in all, I'll give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"A good ending to an awesome trilogy","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In 1996, Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson gave us Scream...the revival to the horror genre. Two years later, we get Scream 2...a great sequel to a great original.  Now, we have Scream 3.  Who would have thought?Personally I am a huge fan of the Scream trilogy, and while I am sad to see it end, I am happy at the same time.  Anymore would probably ruin the whole Scream franchise and it better be over at Scream 3.This movie had it all, the laughs, the scares, and the shocks.  It starts off with the famous opening scene death, which was done greatly once again, but nothing can top the Drew Barrymore scene.  Next we're reintroduced to Gail Weathers, who gets the news that another murder has happenend, in connection with the Woodsboro Murders and the Windsor College murders.  We than see Sidney, who now lives in hiding, fearful that somebody will find her and kill her.  She says something along the lines that whoever she gets close to dies...hmm...yeah I think she may be right.I'm not gonna say much more...but we are introduced to a great supporting cast after that...Scott Foley, Jenny McCarthy, Patrick Dempsey, Matthew Kessler and in my opinion, the person who was my favorite character, Parker Posey.  Parker does a fantastic job acting like Gail and in the movie all together.  I'm not gonna ruin the ending, but I wouldn't be lying if I said that it was a little disappointing for me.  I think it could have ended a bit better, but that didn't ruin the movie for me.  Scream can be put to rest and have a place in horror movie history as the best horror trilogy ever made.Thank you Kevin Williamson for creating Scream and Wes Craven for making Kevin's words into a masterpiece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable trilogy","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this movie the night in came out.  The suspense had been eating my guts out on who the killer was, so I called in sick and waited (no, I'm not  obsessed, just highly anticipating the moment) for 700 PM. When the time finally came, I walked into a theatre of noisy teenagers, which is extremely agrivating if you have been waiting for months to see this movie. And yes, I did type months.I did find out who the killer was (of course) and it's very suprising.  I spent as much time laughing then I did screaming, or maybe more time laughing then screaming.  Ehren Kruger did a bang-up job on this one, and it's not for the elite Scream fans.  You'll enjoy this film even if you haven't seen the first two. My grading B+ "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After viewing Scream 3, this is what was the general opinion of the audience that were in attendence of the showing that I was at. Many thought it was the best of the series. Others thought it was as good as the first, and almost everyone agreed that it was the scariest of the three.This movie is VERY INTENSE. From the opening scene on it never lets up. It doesn't have the humor of the first two, but it makes up for it with scares - and there are plenty.This is by far the most violent of the three Screams. In fact, not since Saving Private Ryan have I seen a movie in which almost the entire cast dies.The script and Wes Craven's direction are once again top notch, but like Scream 2 the characters aren't as developed or likeable as the first Scream.The only frustrating thing about Scream 3 is that there are several opportunities to bring back Billy and Stu through flashbacks or through new information that is given to the audience. Unfortunately, we are just left with audio clips of the two and long narrations about them.I wish that Wes Craven would have realized that the audience was really wanting to see Skeet Ulrich and Matthew Lillard one last time. Scream 3 gives them the opportunity to return, but Craven never takes advantage of it.All in all, though, Scream 3 is a very good and scary movie. "},{"Title":"Great Trilogy","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw the movie, and I have to say...it was definitely a great ride.  You have to look at all 3 movies as a whole and see how every piece of the puzzle fit in.  It was great how this movie summed up the whole thing and brought you back to where it all started and touched on the original, base plot of the movie.  The 3rd movie was very EEERRIEE, unlike the the first 2 which was just fright and horror.  This had a few Nightmare on Elm Street-ish scenes, and made you feel a different form of fright.....those who saw it, know what I'm referring to.I DID expect something at the end of the movie, that DIDN'T happen...and I was little bit disappointed, but none the less, it was a GREAT movie!  They had a few different ideas in this one, and the beginning was horrifying.  Well done!  Can't wait to get the 3rd on DVD! "},{"Title":"All's well that ends well...","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I remember Winter of 1996, I was drug kicking and screaming (no pun intended) to the original Scream.  I've always been a huge horror fan, but since the late 80's horror films have become sad send-ups of there own kind.  I walked out of the film saying what did I just see???  I was amazed, a horror film, that was a send-up of all the horror films from my past, on purpose, but it was something more.  It was fun, frightening, and so damned clever. A film that took a dead (yet again, no pun intended) industry, and turned it into something new and fresh, and began a string of horrible rip-offs.  The second Scream film fell into it's own storm it created.  Scream 2 was still better than 99% of the horror films that were released since the original, but it still echoed Scream.  Now in 2000, 3 years since our last 'Scream' (pun intended) we have the long awaited final episode to the Trilogy.  All remaining main characters return in this dark, revealing, violent final act.  Scream 3 cleans up a lot of the mess and gives us the bang for our buck.  Every secret is out of the box, and we don't know who it is until the last moments.  Neve is better than she's been in the first two films, her acting is flat, but here there is more range.  Arquette and Cox are wonderful as usual, but the rest of the new cast leaves little to be desired.  Most of the supporting characters are killed off before we even know there names.  The only other complaint was the first hour of the film drug a little too much.  I will not let any more out, for respect of other true fans.  I give this film a final rating of a 7.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first or second","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just want to say that overall this was NOT a BAD movie. It just wasn't as good as the first and second Scream movies. I went into the theater expecting to see something as clever and suspenseful as the first two movies, but left feeling a little disappointed. Courtney Cox, Neve Campbell, and David Arquette all returned in this one, but I have to say--who cares about them anymore? The characters are getting old now in the eyes of most movie-watchers. I was hoping that some new characters would be introduced to liven things up a bit, but it was still the same old focus on the same annoying characters (the only one that I still find interesting at all is Gale Weathers). Parker Posey is the real star of this movie; she was the only one in a string of butchered characters that you remotely liked. I enjoyed seeing Jenny McCarthy again also, though she isn't given a starring role by any means. Maybe if the death sequences had been longer and made as suspenseful as those in the first two, then the movie would have been better over all.  "},{"Title":"GREATEST MOVIE EVER MADE","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Only joking. It was c**p. It lacks all the originality of the first. It makes Urban Legend look like 'The Godfather' of movies.Avoid this.  "},{"Title":"Some rules still apply, some rules don't.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ---The taglines for this third installment of the Scream movies told you to Forget the Rules, and Patrick Dempsey in the trailer tells you that All bets are off. The obvious idea of the buildup was to get you psyched for a completely original capstone to the Scream movies, but in truth Scream 3 still contains a lot more of the same.---Not that that's necessarily a bad thing. Some of the key (and I'll admit -fun) ingredients of the Scream movies are still there. Phone-stalk-chase-and-kill-a-few-minor-characters-in-the-beginning-before-t he-opening-credits-roll?Check.Give-the-condemned-a-few-prophetic-lines-about-their-own-death-before-their -slaughter?Check.Fill-the-cast-with-a-whole-bunch-of-blade-fodder-so-we-can-raise-the-body-c ount-without-hindering-the-important-characters?Check.Show-our-black-robed-white-masked-killer-from-as-many-different- camera-angles-as-can-be-imagined-before-during-and-after-he-strikes?Check.Even the Have-Randy-Meeks-explain-the-rules-of-the-movie-to-us ingredient is here, despite the scripting challenge of having the late Randy come back from the dead. Personally I loved the way they wrote this one in. Obviously, not all the rules are forgotten.Not that the movie doesn't have it's moments of originality. In fact it has several. The movie is rife with  moments when you think the characters are in danger but they're not, and of course with moments when you think they're safe but they're REALLY not.Far more common however are the elements that would have been boring and predictable had they been in another movie line, but for some reason come off smelling like a rose here. I think there's an odd form of originality in this movie. Most of the horror-slasher clichés that the first two movies spent so much time tearing down are now resurrected. Many have critiqued this as being in a rut and falling in line with other slashers, and perhaps they're right. But it comes off as surprising and unexpected since the audience was never counting on a Scream movie to act like a regular cut-'em-up.Example? The stalking the girl in the shower and butchering her either in or just after she gets out bit has been done so many times, you'd think we were done with it. Screams 1 and 2 were so unconventional that I didn't expect the writers of 3 to touch it with a 10-foot pole. They did. Just as some animals can be so-ugly-they're-beautiful I thought Ehren Kruger's script was so-cliché-it-was-original. I choose to believe that was the point, rather then an accident.All and all, I say it was a good movie, and this is from a person who doesn't watch many horror movies. Scream 3 is a worthy ending point for the genre and if the packed theater I was in last night is any indication, it'll make it big.  "}{"Title":"A mostly satisfying conclusion to a memorable horror trilogy","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As a film on its own, Scream 3 fails miserably. But as the concluding chapter to the plot threads raised mostly by the first Scream, Scream 3 gives us proper closure with the characters we've come to know and root for, and gives us a clear and underlying theme of vengeance that will color the entire trilogy on future viewings. Is this good or bad? It depends on you, though the final revelations do diminish the power and intensity of the killers we met in the first two movies, now that there is really a clear culprit to blame rather than society, psychology, etc. Still, Scream 3 fulfils its duty by ending the trilogy and keeping us entertained for another 2 hours of bloodshed and mayhem. Who knows, we may see another sequel down the line, but assuming we don't 3 brings things very happily to a satisfying close. "},{"Title":"finis","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A longtime fan of the horror genre, I was amazed at the brilliant and creative stabs that the original Scream took at the genre.  Scream was a breath of fresh air, one that reinvigorated the horror movie.  When Scream 2 was released, I was just as impressed.  Not only did Scream 2 again take on the horror conventions, but it also had fascinating subtext about the pitfalls of fame and the illusions created by the movie industry.  Now, Scream 3 has arrived.I was wary at first.  I had seen all of Kevin Williamson's movies, and thought that they boasted an excellent writing talent (a rarity for horror movies).  Plus the fact that he created Sidney, Dewey, Gale, Cotton, Randy, and all the others.  He alone knew their characters, and he should have been the one to put his baby to rest.  So I approached the box office of the local theater last night with some trepidation.Scream 3 turned out to be better than I expected.  I figured that the new writer, Ehren Khruger (irony, anyone?), would fall back into the horror genre cliches, forgetting about the self-referential scripts that Williamson had penned.  My fears were unfounded.  Sure, there were typical horror movie scares, but Craven made these the most suspensful of the series, and Khruger also included numerous Hollywood and movie jokes (Princess Leia, the two guys from the Kevin Smith movies, Hasn't the shower stuff been done already?  I mean, 'Vertigo,' hello?) and added more subtext about the movie industry.  I found the ending to mesh terrifically with the first two, the killer was a complete surprise, and, although mawkish, the final tacked-on post-movie wrapup did provide some measure of completion for the surviving characters.  All in all, the series ended where it should have, with the characters finding out new and unexpected secrets.  Though I can't help but wonder how it would have turned out with Williamson writing, Khruger had a tough job to do, and he pulled it off better than I ever expected; he should be commended.  If you're a fan of the Scream films, see this one, if for no other reason, just to bring everything to a close.(Oh, and by the way though a bit off the subject, look for Dewey's encounter with a knife. It's brilliant, hilarious, and it's just his luck.) "},{"Title":"Just an above average horror movie","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't find any of the stabbing scenes scary or gross and the characters just do stupid things, like not sticking together as they should.The motive was apparent half-way through, even though the killer could basically be anyone.  The identity is randomly assigned and I never suspect the 3 main characters or the black dude (if you guessed the motive...) or Parker Posey (who did a great job as a comic relief).  The motive is really contrived, though not as silly as in the 2nd one.  Take away the fun factor (thanks to Parker, various cameos and in-jokes), this is a very average & play-by-the-rules horror movie.  Sadly, it doesn't measure up to its two predecessors.  Since it didn't break any new rules, it's not a real trilogy as it claims in the movie.  Although the ending refers back to the first one, it's a so-so finale in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"Okay, but could've been better.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I must say I was slightly disappointed last night when I saw the premiere of Scream 3.  It lacked a certain horror genre of the first two movies.  I appreciated the comical outlet however, it was a little over done.  This movie seemed to be missing something the first two had.  The first two left us guessing up until the end and showed more creepy details than this one, not to mention they could have gotten better cast members to play the characters in the movie within the movie, although Neve Campbell, Courtney Cox-Arquette, and David Arquette did do a good job as usual.Since I purchased the first two movies I will purchase this one (after all it is a trilogy) when it comes to video as it wasn't too bad, but my recommendation folks is don't waste your money at the theater, wait for video. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really thought that this film could have done better. They threw in all these people only to have them be killed off 10 minutes into the film.IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM, THERE ARE SPOILERS BELOW.  I guess one reason that I didn't like the movie was who the killer was. It was kind of obvious that she would have a half brother since her mom slept around with people. I didn't guess which one...but I didn't like who was the killer. I love him for his other roles that he plays and don't think he pulled off the killer role very well. But one thing I will say. Is that I liked it how Sid took his hand as he was dying....H20 tried that but they didn't pull it off that well. Scream 3 did a good job of that. I also thought that this was more funny then scary. Go watch the film. I recommend it if you liked the rest.  "},{"Title":"Did you expect this to be that good?","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, first rule... this is the third part of a trilogy.  Therefore, I think it's unreasonable to place such high expectations on Scream 3 to deliver big.  It delivers, but not even close to the way that the first two did. The plotline was fairly typical of trilogies (probably intended from the start), there were many loopholes in the story (like Randy's unmentioned sister appearing out of nowhere to deliver his 'eulogy'... a bit of a stretch there), and Neve's performance was even worse than the original. However, there are moments in the film that make it all worth seeing.  For star wars fans (no spoilers here), there is about 30 seconds of film in this movie that are worth paying full price to see it twice.  I was so happy that my favorite character (Randy of course), got his spot in the film, and explained things so well for himself.  Finally,  we see technology runamuk again in this film with the clever new devices used by the killer.  Those three points alone give my recommendation full force.  (but don't see it without the first two of course) "},{"Title":"A little weak on the outside, but solid as a rock","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was a great finale.  I am mean, I think the acting was weak at times, but other moments made up for it.  The effects seemed fake at times, and some characters were a bit two dimensional lacking depth and personality.  Unlike all the other characters in the Scream Trilogy who had so much personality you felt like you knew them.  But that was what was so great about this one.  You didn't get attached to the characters, in fact you didn't mind that much when the killer got a little knife happy.  But that's good, because this movie didn't rely on the supporting cast.  The movie was well made and delivered with the main characters (Dewey, Gale, and especially Sidney), a great story and finale, and great directing job from Wes Craven.  It put three movies together like puzzle pieces which when in the end are together make one hell of a trilogy.  "},{"Title":"S3 Good, bad & ugly. Warning **Contains spoiler info**","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The opening was interesting, but lacked the intensity, depth or suspense of S1 in particular. When it was all over, I wondered why it was so easy and quick. It turned out MOST of S3 was underdone or incomplete to some degree compared to the rest of the franchise.The inexplicable shift of Dewey & Gale into cheap imitations of S1, S2 characters by the writer should have been prevented by Wes Craven. They used to be likeable, but were completely devoid of any redeeming quality, leaving them with little audience empathy. Their prattle wasted so much time I was hoping they would be next to get them out of the movie.Gale's Hollywood double was the biggest mistake by Craven in the entire series. She was supposed (??) to have some comic relief, but trying to out-Gale Gale Weathers face-to-face  did NOT work. Her screen time was a total disaster.The killer had very unusual patterns for a slasher. Forewarning via FAX, using the exploding house trick, wearing bullet resistant vests only when fired upon, but NOT having one when Sidney Sharon Stone's him only seconds later. Maybe he had the Hollywood thick skin, tough to some things and not to others. Poor writing effort for the bad guy. And only one?How can one person keep track of all the potential victims, be an expert at cloning phones, causing power outages, knowing what doors are locked on the set, leaking gas from a stove, creating an untraceable FAX #, and make a super-voice duplicator? Maybe leaving evidence behind was a tribute to Seven or the Bone Collector, but it differed from S1 & S2 too much. I am sure the Mark Fuhrman had to do similar things to frame poor ole OJ.Also, the guilt trip about Sidney's mom's demise was worthless. Didn't she get over that in S1 when she boned Billy?Enough characters to keep you guessing, but some people (cop, for example) were thrown in only to be red herrings. Because none of the new characters was developed, I didn't care if they got waxed anyway.The best part? Maybe a posthumous video tape of Randy admitting he lost his virginity at the video store. It was vintage Randy. Thankfully, the writer didn't screw him up. Why did he have to shaft with the other characters? Didn't Randy say that horror was killed by cheesy second rate sequels? Maybe that's why he died in S2.Too much shift in character dragged this one down, even more than Gale's disgusting 1970's retro look or Dewey's upscale GQ style.As bad as the review reads, it is still far better than the average Hollywood (trash) film. As Randy says I'll wait for video. "},{"Title":"The Final Cut","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 turned out to be much better than I expected. I hadn't seen any previews for it until about 2 weeks ago, and I knew its' release was delayed from December. Well, nothing to worry about, it's a good flick. Is it as good as the original. No. But how could it be? The original was the most innovative horror film of the 90's. It was a slasher pic like no other. It was one of a kind. No follow up could hope to match it. Does that mean you can't enjoy  the sequels? Not at all. Now I will say, I read the script for Scream 2 months before it was released. The film that was released was much different. Suffice it to say, that if they filmed the script I read, Scream 3 would be completely different Why? Everyone died. Sidney's fate was left unanswered. There were different killers. There was no happy ending. It had an open ending like Empire Strikes Back. Had they shot that script, it would have been better than the original. Trust me. But as it is, we had a lesser version of 2, and now we have 3. I was pleasantly surprised. I expected it to stink. But Wes Craven has put a fine finishing touch on the series. Not as much self aware humor this time, but lots of scares to go around. There are nice differences about 3. Not only do you have to guess the killer, you are given clues to his/her motivation that provide the second mystery of the movie. In the first two, you never really wondered why the killing was happening. This killer has a real agenda, and the wrap up is, I think, a great one. Neve Campbell's acting has improved. She is very convincing in this one. There were three acting surprises in this one. First off is Parker Posey, the indie queen. I don't get it. If this is as good as her acting gets, then she is WAY overrated. I thought she sucked. On the other had Patrick Dempsey, who I always ignored as an actor, was really good here. He was believable as the detective, and provided suspicion about his character without being hammy about it. Good work Mr. Dempsey. Third is Jenny McCarthy. Now I'm a guy, and I always thought she was one of the most beautiful women I have ever seen. However, I thought she had no talent. Well here, not only does she look GORGEOUS, but she plays her spoiled, B movie actress bitch perfectly. The biggest surprise was the script. For everyone who thought this movie would suck without Kevin Williamson, I have three words for you, Teaching Mrs. Tingle. I read that script (when it was called Killing Mrs. Tingle) long before that movie opened. I thought it sucked then, and the movie proved it. Williamson is not a God. He turned out a great first script, had his second script mangled by the theatrical version of 2, and has been mediocre ever since. I mean Faculty was fun, but hardly great. I Know What You Did Last Summer was a joke. Let's face it, if Dawson's Creek didn't have an attractive cast would anyone watch? Doubt it. Ehren Kruger did a fine job. But the movie belongs to Wes Craven. He knows what his audience wants and he delivers. I'm glad the series is over. It goes out on top. 3 endings were filmed to this movie. I hope they are all included on the DVD. By the way, watch for the HILAROUSLY CLASSIC cameo by Jay and Silent Bob. That alone was worth the price of admission. Scream 3 is a fun movie. Good laughs, good scares. Guys, bring a date, she'll be clinging to you the whole time. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Good Stuff!!! But watch 1 and 2 first.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First of all, did anyone notice that Bud (aka. Kenny) from the Cosby Show was in this? He was playing the movie geek character in the movie within a movie Stab 3. Cool hey? Not really. Anywoo, Mr. Craven repeats the general plot line of the final Nightmare on Elm Street although he definitely improves upon it. In classic trilogy fashion (and good essay form as well) Scream 3 closes by return. The third installment delves deeper into the events of the original flick. More specifically it is concerned with Sidney's (Sydney?) mom and her past. I've read that Craven had always planned the Screamers to be a trilogy and I think that after you process no. 3's plot that's pretty clear.I think that after about one hour of Scream3 most will have a fairly good idea of the motivation of ghost face (but why would anyone want to skewer poor, innocent Jenny McCarthy?). However, and I caution you, once again it's not who you think it is. My girlfriend and I thought we had it all figured out, but nope... Overall, the first hour or so seemed a little forced. There were so many characters (none of which really got a chance to develop) and it seemed like they didn't have a sense of the movie. But, once the show picked up (especially on the Woodsboro set with Neve and ghost face) it was great. The plot was really tight and it more clearly explained the first two movies. If you sit and think about it, even the seemingly incongruous inclusion of Dewey (from cop to technical advisor on the set of Stab 3??? Come on right?) makes perfect sense. If you liked the first pair you'll surely enjoy this one. If you have a problem with 1 and 2 then you probably won't like it. Two more notes notice the Silent Bob and Jay cameo, and fax machines have backup batteries so even if the power is cut you can get a fax. The latter will be important for all of you who think you've found a glaring error in the movie.Scream your little hearts out! "}{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but still provides plenty of scares.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 grabs you from the get-go.  It delivers more screams - and laughs - than the second, but in my opinion does not top the original. People thought that in this movie, Sidney Prescott moves to Hollywood to become an actress.  Not true.  Following a string of murders directly related to the script of Stab 3, the movie-within-a-movie, Sidney comes to Hollywood to try to shed any light she can on the murders, and perhaps stop the killer once and for all. Scream 3 definitely delivers good old-fashioned scares from beginning to end, and also delivers an intricate plot, which keeps you guessing, and brings closure to the previous 2 movies.  "},{"Title":"The End","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As the other bookend for the Horror Movie Explosion of the 1990's, I was expecting something great and insightful, reminiscent of the first one.Nope.  Sorry.  The original film flirted so close with becoming art, a true classic deconstruction of the film genre.  It didn't quite deliver, either because the screenwriter wasn't smart enough, or just didn't want to bog us down with TOO much horror movie trivia.Neither of the sequels fulfill the promise of the first one, but this is not art.  A good scary movie, yes... suspenseful, bigger budget, and much scarier than the previous ones, I'd say... but this wasn't a parody of the horror genre.  It was just another scary movie, and while you could argue that Scream 2 was either a bad sequel, or just a parody of one... well, this was just a pretty decent sequel, with much less to read into it than the others.  Pity.8/10 ... but, Hollywood being Hollywood, the door is always wide open. "},{"Title":"not so good","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know I could have done something more productive with the two hours I spent watching this movie.  I expected some really good closure to this interesting series, with some scares at least as good as the previous two movies, and got neither.  The person/people revealed to be the killer/killers seem really inconsequental.  I hoped for some interesting secrets that really tie together all three movies to be revealed, and it just didn't happen.  Although the movie sets up the whodunit very nicely, the denouement is too much of a letdown.  When the killer/killers is/are revealed, you think what the hell?  And the suspense that was in the first movie and to some degree the second one just isn't there. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good end to a Great Trilogy.....","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Where do I begin?  I really went into this movie thinking that it would be horrible.  Why?  No Randy, but to my surprise, the Scream crew more than made up for no Randy by having a humorous script, funny characters, and enough who dun it to keep everyone guessing.  Plus the cameos will in the movie make it also worth the price of admission (J&S.B.).  So trust me, if you enjoyed Scream 1 and was pissed at Scream 2, you'll luv Scream 3.Happy Screaming. "},{"Title":"A been there done that feeling but still good","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was never a huge fan of slasher movies until I saw the first Scream in 1996. It became one of my favorite movies of all time, and when Scream 2 came out I was there to watch it the first night. Of course, it wasn't nearly as good as the first, but as sequels go, it was pretty good. So, last night was the opening night for Scream 3, and you can bet I was in line expecting a lot but knowing it might not deliver. Well, I pretty much got what I expected and thats okay. No, the movie does not come near to ranking with Scream 1 but sequels never do. But I would say it was on par with Scream 2. It still had a clever, sarcastic sense of humor, and some genuine tension, excitement, scares, and memorable scenes. Some of the disappointing aspects of the film were that there really was no bets are off types scenarios or surprises in the movie. Even though the killer was a surprise and the how and why of it all, the ending was just rather weak for the final showdown of trilogy that is supposed tie up all the ends and give you, what you would think should be a really BIG, all out, not necessarily happy ending. And in that respect Scream 3 fails but still delivers for the most part and I do recommend it. "},{"Title":"Where did all of the violence go??","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In the last two movies, those of us who like cartoonish violence were treated to some great scenes of violence.  Who can forget Drew Barrymore's steaming intestines, or the expression on Jada Pinket's face when she got stabbed.  In this movie, however, all the violence seems to have disappeared.  Why?Sure, characters got killed, and sure there was blood.  However, there's more blood and gore on my TV every Thursday when I watch ER.  If anyone from the movie ever gets a chance to read this, please note that we horror movie fans like our violence in big, fat ladles full of gore.  If there's pressure to reduce the violence in movies, then that pressure should not ruin horror movies forever, rather it should force parents and movie theatres to more carefully screen impressionable minds out of certain audiences.In short, Scream 3 was OK, but it was disappointing because it lacked truly violent scenes.  It was more like an episode of Matlock. "},{"Title":"Trilogy Succeeds!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Part 3 of the Scream Trilogy succeeds.  We were reluctant to go because of the risk of seeing an average or clone sequel but they pulled it off.  Enough new characters, plot twists all bringing the past into the present. Good pace, good action, not enough blood to make you puke and enough suspense to keep you watching. Who done it is not clear until the last 10 minutes.All characters did there part. Touching at the end knowing what has happened in the lives of 2 main characters. Very good dialogue and exchanges in some scenes. If you liked Scream 1 & 2, you'll enjoy Scream 3.  I hope they don't try it again. Hollywood can always write a script to open up dead stories, characters and events but it would be tough to  be credible after 3 successes.  Quit with a winner! "},{"Title":"worthy - an equal to the first two","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not surprisingly, this film feels a lot like the first two (even with new screenwriter Ehren Kruger), but I found that I really didn't care.  Sure, it's full of one-dimensional characters that only serve to raise the body count.  Granted, it feels a little contrived and slightly far-fetched.  But, whatever.  Scream 3 is, like the first two installments, fun and entertaining almost despite itself.  It's both suspenseful enough to keep a viewer interested and smart enough not to take itself too seriously.Also, although the film suffers from the relative lack of Jamie Kennedy (he has a special appearance), the killer is less predictable than in Scream 2.  But, like Scream 2, the ending seems a little weak, though it manages to get the job done.So, here's the basic litmus test if you don't know if you want to see Scream 3.  If you liked the first two - at all - then you'll probably enjoy this.  If you didn't like the first two, avoid this movie.  Personally, I give this movie, and all the Screams, an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Scream 3 ends the Trilogy the right way!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After the past two films, this one is the best! With an all-star cast a to-die-for plot line, Scream 3 tops my list of the best horror movies. Packed with humor, chase scene after chase scene, well thought plot line, unique death scenes, and the perfect ending for the trilogy that put the spark back into the horror film legacy. In my opinion, Scream 3 beats the Friday the 13th's, Halloween's, and all the other recent follows. A+! "},{"Title":"Solid ending to a great trilogy","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Scream 3 this afternoon and was pleasantly surprised at how well they managed to end a great horror trilogy.  This one was definitely played more as a horror/comedy than the prior two, but the inspired casting made it work.Parker Posey is perfectly cast as the actress playing Gale Weathers in the pseudo movie Stab 3.  She steals every single scene she is in, make sure to watch her facial expressions throughout.  The movie is worth a watch for her alone! Carrie Fisher also has a hilarious cameo.   "}{"Title":"Better than Scream 2","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Like so many other fans, I didn't have high hopes for this one, but I must say I was pleasantly surprised at how good it was. It didn't have the desperate feel so many sequels trying to keep the magic alive have. In fact, it was right on par with the first movie in its freshness, humor and scares...but of course it wasn't as good as the first. It was, at least, better than the second.Scream 2 suffered primarily from a pathetically bad ending and low-grade humor. It felt like a sequel, trying to do everything the first movie did. Scream 3 takes things to the next level. It's more twisted and psychological and very reminiscinet of Nightmare on Elm Street in places. I enjoyed the many allusions to the first movie in this one, which gave it a nostalgic feel.  The ending IS a complete surprise and generally a satisfying one, but the wrap-up goes by way too fast and conveniently. I have to agree with what one IMDB reviewer. I didn't like the person who played the REAL killer either.As good as Courtney Cox is in the movie, her performance is overshadowed by her horrible outfits and hairdo. What the heck were makeup and wardrobe thinking???! Interestingly, Cox has some of the best moments in the movie and she even has a sidekick in this one. The two have some of the funniest moments in the movie. The most endearing scene in the movie, and perhaps the triology, takes place between Cox and Arquette at the end. I won't say what happens but it's nice.Okay, so if I had to grade the trilogy, here's the report card. Scream A Scream 2 C- Scream 3 B  "},{"Title":"This is not my favorite scary movie.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob are the best part of this film. Without getting into any spoilers, the biggest problem is that this movie doesn't live up to any of its promises. It isn't anymore than another sequel. What promises are broken, well they talk about the rules of the third installment of a trilogy and don't follow them. This could be consider fake foreshadowing to throw the viewer off, but I think it just shows just how unwilling they are to do something different with this film. Now there are a few good laughs and exciting moments, but I feel that although it is better than the scream 2 it isn't anything more than an average sequel and not a good ending to the trilogy.        "},{"Title":"SCREAM 3 was good! AND YOU KNOW IT!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I can't believe I am saying this. I just got back from SCREAM 3.. and I loved it! What is everyone's obsession with Kevin Williamson not writing the script to this one? WHO CARES? The formula involving hip teens with great hair who have a flair for referencing to HALLOWEEN isn't exactly difficult to copy. I think the new SCREAM is better than anyone has the right to expect. Writer Ehren Kruger jam-packs this movie with so much tension, I left the theater literally shaking.  The movie had its humor, and I think its great how this movie is more of a parody of the recent awakening of the slasher genre, featuring those airheaded teens from the WB network.  Neve Campbell was less annoying in this one than in SCREAM 2, and I actually felt bad for her.  Parker Posey and Jenny McCarthy are both good.  Though Courtney Cox Arquette looked like a swizzle stick with really bad hair, she was good. I can't believe she let herself film a scream movie with weird bangs like that. She should have kept the same style with the streaks like in SCREAM 2..  David Arquette was a riot as usual. There are some very elaborate and psychologically disturbing scenes that mirror the first SCREAM.  This movie was really good. The beginning was and ending of the movie was both satisfying and exciting, though I think the role of the killer should have been played by someone else being that I don't like that actor in general. This movie is on par with the first SCREAM, and though it is not perfect, its a hell of a lot fun to watch on a big screen to laugh at and scream like hell!P.S. I'd like to thank the creators of SCREAM for screwing with our heads and making me believe those news updates on those badly concieved SCREAM fansites were true, and trying so hard to keep us completely off guard. That's the reason I love the SCREAM movies even though they are too trendy! "},{"Title":"A Little Disappointing","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I understand that my expectations were so high walking into the theater that practically no movie could've satisfied me, but I'm still a little disappointed at the long-awaited finale to the Scream trilogy.  While the first two were character-driven with murders to increase tension, this film was blood-driven with minimal characterization -- it felt like only Williamson could write these characters as being kinda wacky and out there but believable.  I don't deny that Scream 3 delivered on the tension and scares -- it definitely did, and once again, the ending was a surprise to me, so I don't consider my time wasted, but I feel rather let-down by the flaws in the characters I have come to know and love. "},{"Title":"The next Godfather Part III","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wrote an earlier comment on Scream 3, and was rather harsh on the film without having seen it- simply based on the fact that the story was not written by Scream creator Kevin Williamson. So, I was surprised more than anyone how much I enjoyed Scream 3, the third and final chapter in the Scream Trilogy. Indeed, I loved the first two and was always in anticipation of the third, but the fact that Williamson was not an integral part of writing Scream 3 sounded to me like the nail in the coffin.I was disturbed early on by the news that Ehren Kruger would be writing Scream 3 instead of Williamson, less because of Kruger's talents than the fact that Scream was Williamson's vision and his trilogy. People greatly undervalue how difficult it is to write a GOOD slasher film, i.e. something above the likes of Halloween 5. Kruger has, miraculously, pulled it off. A big mistake a lot of people make is that they think Scream 2 and Scream 3 are sequels. They are not. The three films are really meant to be a trilogy, and just like Randy (Jamie Kennedy) pointed out in the second film, a trilogy is inherently not subject to the same criticisms alotted to sequels. Sequels are cash cows, made for making $, whereas the obligation with continuations of Star Wars and Scream is strictly creative, regardless of public opinion. Some of Williamson's crucial ideas for the Scream 3 outline, such as the making of a film within-a-film, were fortunately able to survive through Kruger's script, thus completing the Scream saga rightfully. Also, while I did enjoy Scream 2 immensely, I did feel that at the end Williamson was becoming a little desperate for ideas. I would sincerely doubt that he could have pulled off the major twist ending Kruger did at the end featured in Scream 3. The killer revealed at the finale of S3 ties everything together, not just within the film itself but the trilogy as a whole.Perhaps the performances in Scream 3 are not above-par. While Neve Campbell actually does elevate Sidney into a changed person, David and Courtney Cox Arquette do leave a bit to be desired. Dewey is less of a dim-wit than before, which may fit into the whole advance the characters thing, but he was much more enjoyable as the Gump cop he played in the first two. And the Gale Weathers hair-do has got to go! Her hair was good in the first, and went downhill from there. Despite such shortcomings, Scream 3 does manage to put itself alongside the first two in terms of quality. I imagine the following for this chapter will be much like that for The Godfather Part III. It has a lot of detractors but I thought that was a great film too. What made both G-3 and S-3 work so well was that they realized that anything new introduced in the final act must be minimal, and that everything introduced in the first and second films' events must come full circle. For contrast, just look at how poorly the concept of a final act is handled in an actual all-out sequel in Alien 3, the prequel-survivors crashland, ALL die in the film, and all because there was another alien stowaway (recycled from the original). What a waste of 135+ minutes of screentime in Aliens of developing these characters only to knock most of them off without any mercy in the first few minutes of Alien 3!In Scream 3, we are not just given another serial killer, there IS a backstory that absolutely ties very neatly into the first film, and by the last shot of the movie, we know that Scream is finished. Of course, this is the art form in which sequels have been made to Gone With the Wind and Psycho, so what's to stop the FIRST Scream sequel from being made? Now that would NOT be my favorite scary movie...  "},{"Title":"Much Better Than I Expected!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Through the first two Scream movies we've been exposed to many laughs, many screams, many thrills, and (sadly) a couple problems. I must admit, when I found out that Kevin Williamson would not be writing the third and final movie in the surprisingly good Scream series. I actually had very low expectations for Scream 3, mostly because I did not like Arlington Road, the movie Ehren Kruger (writer of Scream 3) wrote before this one. When I saw the movie, I was very pleasantly surprised. Sure, it had some bad acting, the beginning was sort of cheesy, and there were tons of pointless characters. But still, the movie shined very bright in both the comedy and horror elements of the script. The movie was both the funniest Scream movie as well as the scariest. I was laughing almost to tears in parts of the movie, and in all the other parts I was jumping in my seat. The movie had so many more scares in it than the first two. Scream 2 was not scary at all, and Scream had some scares, but it still doesn't hold a margin to the many, many scares in the third one. The story had some plot holes, but so did Scream 2 and even the first one. It also had some very clever and extremely fun and funny scenes. Randy's special appearance was a classic element in the movie. The characters in the movie were pretty normal and average. That's one thing Ehren Kruger didn't have, Kevin Williamson's lush and excellent characters. But still, it didn't matter one bit, because this Scream, as the others, has one goal to entertain and thrill the audience. The killer(s) of the movie was unpredictable and unexpected, but not to the point of ridicule, as the second one did. That one element of the movie was one of two things. It was cheesy, but it also worked very well. I was pleasantly surprised.  So all in all, Scream 3 is arguably the best, and worst, of the Scream series. It was definitely the scariest, and funniest, of the trilogy, but it also had the weakest plotline and characters. I personally think it was worse than the first, but better than the second. Either way, though, it was defintely a worthwhile and enjoyable ending to a great series. "},{"Title":"Not exactly the sharpest knife in the drawer....","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, folks, another hallowed rule of thumb about movies, horror, drama or otherwise there has never been (and maybe never will be) a movie franchise where the third feature in the series surpasses what has come before. GODFATHER 3. HALLOWEEN SEASON OF THE WITCH. RETURN OF THE JEDI, (though thanks to Jar-Jar Binks, I suddenly have a growing affection for Ewoks). FRIDAY THE 13th 3-D. JAWS 3. Should I go on?That having been said, even if Kevin Williamson had come on board to write the script and it had been the best thing he'd ever written in his entire career, the expectations for SCREAM 3 were too high not leave SOMEBODY disappointed. So if you're expecting the hip, self-mocking reverential slyness of 1, or the wince-inducing body count of 2, get over it.What we have here is pretty much a Woodsboro class reunion of sorts. You know? You're dying to see all the people you went to school with, but you're not exactly thrilled at the prospect of some less-than-pleasant memories being resurrected. Let's just say that for Sydney, Gale and Dewey, that is a bit of an understatement.Without the guidance of Kevin at the wheel, the new characters do seem pretty one-dimensional and shallow. But there's two reasons behind that A)the new story IS set in Tinseltown, and B) since they're mostly cast members of STAB 3--actors playing real people, what else would you expect? I think it attempts to make some pretty sharp commentary about the present Youthquake left over in TV and the movies, (which the first SCREAM started, by the way), while wearing its guilt on its sleeve for perpetrating the same trend it's criticizing.But how is the MOVIE overall, you shout angrily? On a scale of one to ten, about an eight. Just like off-screen in real life, the relationship between Gale and Dewey takes the turn we hoped it would, (but not before a lot of carnage takes place first.) The requisite it-came-from-the-TV-Teen shows cast is on hand, represented by Jenny McCarthy, Scott Foley and Deon Richmond amongst others. The standouts are Parker Posey, the girl with indie-cred who gives a dead-on, hysterical take on playing Gale as if she knew her better than Gale knows herself, and Patrick Dempsey, who's aging well into that hunky, more mature-guy look he always wanted. (He should get more roles along those lines after this.)There are the usual surprise movie cameos, one that only film buffs will get, and two that everybody will know right off the bat. A former character makes a shocking cameo that will leave you scratching your head, though probably not as much as the ending, which as a writer myself I saw coming from a mile away. I just didn't guess...but I won't post any spoilers here.Is is a waste of time? As the final curtain to a very lucrative and enjoyable horror film series (such as they are these days), I'd say no. Will it inspire the loyalty and multiple viewings that were generated by the first two installments? Probably not. It's nice, though, that all of us, Syd, Dewey, Gale and the audience finally do have a sense of closure.Note to Wes, Kevin, Bob and Harvey let's keep it that way, okay?  "},{"Title":"Williamson's last scream","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Hey, I gave this a 6 out of 10. A good film, but not as good of an ending to a great series as we needed. If you want to see my in-depth review of Scream 3, go to External Reviews and click on the Movie Navigator Explores Scream 3 link.Respectfully, Sam Levy "},{"Title":"A nice ending for fans of the series . . .","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you are not a fan of 1 and 2 or haven't seen them, don't bother with the third installment.   All of the inside jokes and the story line will not make any sense.  Scream 3 offers up more of the same but picks up a lot where Scream 2 dropped the ball.  The jokes are funny, the cameos are great, and this movie actually had some of the creepy remnants of Craven's Nightmare on Elm Street.  Kudos to Wes Craven for not letting Kevin Williamson continue his fall (Teaching Mrs. Tingle, Halloween H20).  Hopefully this will be the last Ghostface killer, but unfortunately I won't be surprised if we begin hearing about Scream Episode 1.  Bring on Freddy VS. Jason. "},{"Title":"Better than the second SCREAM, not as good as the original","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  WOW! SCREAM 3 was almost as good as the original. I liked how the obsession of Sydney's mother was involved, and who ended up being the killer. This had some funny parts to, but also some VERY jumpy parts too. I was kind of freaked by the beginning scene, (as I was in the original) but the rest wasn't that scary. I really like the voice mixer in this one, with its little feature it had. If you like any of the other SCREAM movies, see this one. 8/10 "}{"Title":"fabulous","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was amazing.  I just saw it tonight and trust me wes cravens still got it.  The plot was great and so was the killer. I knew it would be good but I didn't think it would be this good.  The only bad thing is that this is the last Scream.  Their probably will be another made but Neve or Courtney or David probably won't be in it so it really won't be Scream.  This is one of only a few horror franchises to keep at least one main character in all 3 movies.  They are Scream and without them Scream will never be the same.  I gave Scream 3 a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Excitement takes a vacation in this non-thriller.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was so disappointed in this movie.  Scream was hilarious, Scream 2 was pretty good, but Scream 3 just didn't measure up.  The regulars were fantastic - David Arquette, Courteney Cox, Neve Campbell, and a special video appearance by Jamie Kennedy were all great.  But the rest of the movie just couldn't support them.  The writing seemed weak and contrived, and the movie seemed more like a vehicle for cramming in famous people who wanted a cameo than the funny/scary as hell franchise we're all used to.  There were few screams, fewer laughs, and I went away wanting a better ending. "},{"Title":"Hmmm... Let's be thankful there won't be a fourth one","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, firstly let me just say that I am someone who glances into the horror genre at times. I am not a die hard fan of the series, but sometimes horror is more entertaining than normal movies. I just wanted to say that so no one would think I am just some greenhorn critic who just didn't like the movie cuz it was horror. Anyways, Scream 3... It was very BAD in the beginning. God, this was some bad acting. REALLY bad. ~.~ I was actually glad some people died. They were really annoying me. Especially Parker Posey. She overacted. o.O Despite the horrible intro and semi-middle, the rest of the film actually woke me up with some new details and elements. The comedy in this film had toned down from the last two IMO, but thas all right. The ending was the usual brawl, but it wasn't as bad as Scream 2. I HATED SCREAM 2. Just thought you would like to know. Anyways, pretty good movie thanks to a decent ending. I just wouldn't wanna see this movie over 5 times. I'd then hate it. "},{"Title":"Is it going to make boom ? Indeed my dear.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Do I really have to tell you the story ? Well, actually I might tell you that Sidney is NOT going in hollywood to act in the eventual Stab III  and that's great because it would have ruined 99.8% of the movie ). On the other hand, she's more and more secluded than ever, being an helper on an anonymous telephone line till she got a call from... I would have say Barbara Streisand, but NO it's the Ghostface Killer ... ouh.In fact, it makes boom more frequently in the last instalment of Sidney's pitiful social life than in the two other episodes.What did Scream 3 pretend to be ? Well, nothing and that's the fabulous part of it. If you take a hard look the the third Scream ( won't be difficult for you natural born defaitists )you'll be the spectator of great plot twists ( don't expect too hard ) some excellents ( and my words are right ) cameos, the ususal gore killing ( the oh-my-god-I-have-a-knife-in-my-chest-where-is-my-pay? style and some smiles( two or three laughs are expected, more if you've got a 3 chromosome 21 ) thoughout the movie's two hours lasting.Is it scary ? Well, depends on what you may find scary ! The whole set is not scary ( slasher-I'm-gonna-rip-your-insides-out ) but there's many BOOM ZING CRACK POW along your trip to find who is the mysterious killer ( are they 2 ? Can it be Sidney ? Or Gale ? God ... I'm confused ). Talking of the ending, ( don't worry I'm not going to reveal anything ) it is kinda odd, there's a side of it which is   Cool, great idea and uh? well ok then, if you say so, but I liked it eitherway.To make some sense to my review, Scream 3 is purely entertainement, with good ideas, nothing more, 10 / 10 for the genre, 7 / 10 for the global thing, I maybe be too much generous. It supplants all the imitations  Urban Legend, I know what you did last summer and all the siameses that Scream gave birth to )Inconditional fans will be on exctasy for a full 120 minutes.P.S. Do not close your eyes or block your ears during the representation for a complete and full satisfying experience.What's left ?Scream.  "},{"Title":"i just had to see it the 1st day","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes i saw it the 1st day that it came out,yes because I am a fan of the last 2 parts but most importantly because I just had to see it before my brother did. You see before I saw the last two parts I allready knew who the killers were,thanks to my brother. And that made my Scream movie expereance bad. But not this time. I had to guess who the killer(s) is . And it was much better. The first think I did when I came home was telling my brother who did it. Ohhhh it was so good.Now you may think that I am a bad person but if you have an older brother you would be proud of me.Oh about the movie.... It was great.I give it ********* out of **********.It was funny,scary and it kept me guessing WHO DID IT. I was totaly suprised by the killer(s)'s indentety but I guessed right the relation of the killer. All the actors are great especialy David Arquette who is a total goofball. They just closed the whole story at the end, its so clever. The only problem I had was the haircut that Cox had.Common whats up with that. But overall GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Pointless but fun entertainment; cameos worth the price...","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   I can't say that Scream 3 scared me, as there's nothing really original in this movie that hasn't been covered in the original and the sequel.  The plotline is familiar, yet the movie does contain some fun. Two different cameo appearances gave me a chuckle, so these alone were almost worth the price of the movie.  I'm not going to reveal who these cameos are, but if you've been to some one star was made famous in the 70's while another duo is a youth pop culture favorite of the 90's. The style of the movie is familiar, and why not. Scream 3 is directed by Wes Craven, so it has the same feel and rhythm of the other two Scream movies.  Fortunately, the movie has three of the main surviving characters returning, which adds to the fun of the film. There's also a nice video return of a character who doesn't live past the first sequel.  It explains the rules for the final chapters of trilogies--but this movie doesn't follow all these rules... Does that mean that this is NOT a trilogy?  Literally, and symbolicly the door is left open in the final shot. I suspect that there'll be another Scream in the works as long as the money keeps rolling in.  Didn't they do that already in the Friday the 13th movies? "},{"Title":"scream is a great series i am sad to watch it go.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  great film,but not as good as the original. the ending was great but the killer wasn't. Wes should have stayed with the two psychos formula, and Sid should have been killed, that would have made the movie perfect. "},{"Title":"A great end to a good trilogy","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just saw the film and I enjoyed it. It was well written and it tied up all 3 films nicely! Very clever stuff, especially the way the killer(s) got his victims. Scream was good as satire with inventive dual killers gimmick. Scream 2 featured more death and gore but neither was truly scary. Scream 3 is scary especially Sid's first nightmare. Great stuff. The humor is still there but toned down, thankfully. It's a great whodunnit with great cameos, great suspense and actual chills. And it all made sense in the end. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Horror movie cliche...not necessarily a bad thing...","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'd been looking forward to seeing Scream 3 ever since I found out that the Scream movies were meant to be a trilogy.  I was not disappointed...well, at least not too bad. Like the other two Scream movies, this one starts off with a killing, and the story just takes off from there.  There were many surprises (such as unexpected recurring characters), humorous cameos, and great inside jokes.  There were also many heart pounding moments.  In true trilogy fashion, Scream 3 goes back to where it all started, even before the first Scream, and gives us a background, answering questions many never thought to ask.  Once again, the writer (this time Ehren Kruger) and the director (Wes Craven) have found the way to change tired cliche into something surprising, and great film making. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining fare.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For the climax of the trillogy we get a few laughs, a couple of good jolts, but nothing new. It's fair to call this a diversion, a nice diversion, but nothing special. Frankly, I think the absolute highlight of the movie, as well as the secret surprise, is the appearance of Jay and Silent Bob (of Clerks fame).  After their appearance, the film slowly degrades into exactly what these films parody...a lame slasher flick. Pity, there could have been some great new stuff going on, but nothing like that comes out.Might as well leave after Jay and Silent Bob...the rest isn't really worth staying for. I give it a 4. "}{"Title":"A very disappointing trilogy finale","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have never been so disappointed. Scream was the best horror I have seen. Scream 2 was almost as good as the original, except it was a bit less intelligent. The second sequel is a lot dumber than both previous movies, but it still has some smart moments. I liked the way they killed off one of the characters, by blowing him up. The one who lives is the one who can smell the gas. Or something like that. Unfortunately this was the only idea worthy of the movie's predecessors. Where there are no ideas, there is fun. A lot of fun. And by saying this, you can easily identify what kind of movie Scream 3 was. Do you think you saw a horror movie? You're so wrong. This was a very black comedy.There are three things that are part of the Scream trilogy frame. A scary beginning, furious and engrossing stabbing scenes and a high energy ending. Scream 3 fails in all of them. In the beginning of the first two movies, special guest stars Drew Barrymore, Jada Pinkett-Smith and Omar Epps were killed in a very stylish and scary way. In this movie, Liev Schreiber is killed off in a scary, but not so stylish way. He was not a guest star, but a regular. Secondly, the stabbing scenes are very much diluted. I want to see them just like they were done in the previous movies. Call me morbid, but I want to see the knife entering the flesh of the victim. None of those kind of scenes are present in Scream 3, save one when the knife actually stabs an anti-bullet vest. Finally, the ending. The previous Screams had a very high kinetic energy. This movie ended for me when the killer (yes, it is only one killer) demasks himself about 20 minutes prior to actual end. And I said to myself What? Several seconds passed until I remembered who he was. Most murder mysteries are like that, you never know who the killer is until the ending. Usually it is a asset, but in this case it is a flaw. Boring. The acting is as usual strong. Neve Campbell, Courtney and David Arquette have great fun as regulars. Parker Posey is wonderful as the actress who plays Gale Weathers in Stab 3. But I think the biggest surprise is Patrick Dempsey. I saw recently a scene from the abominable Meatballs 3 made 12 years ago and he looked hopelessly geeky and icky. Now at the age of 33, he looks fantastic. You do not see too many examples of such surprising changes.         Some very funny cameos are present. Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes as Silent Bob and Jay (from Dogma) and Carrie Fisher (Princess Leia from Star Wars IV, V, and VI) make the movie even more funny than it actually is.But I did not come to see a comedy. I have come to see a horror movie. And I do not believe this is the end of the series, since all 3 protagonists survive. I recommend only because it is mindless fun. What a shame.Scream -10/10; Scream 2- 8/10; Scream 3-6/10  "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 leaves a bad aftertaste of a big-budgeted, dumbed-down version of Scream. It flashes its money on the screen. I was surprised at how elaborate, and somewhat boring, this movie was. It definitely felt like it was written by somebody else. I guess since this is the LAST, it decided to go all-out, doing things the other two films didn't want to even think about Explosions, CG-effects, and the constant investigation of strange noises that occur every five minutes. The film doesn't take itself seriously enough and almost seemed like one big joke. Sidney wasn't a very focused character this time around, and I didn't get the whole emotional thing going.But I liked it. Sidney's first encounter with the killer is both clever and exciting. It's probably the best sequence in the movie, but I grew tiresome of seeing the killer pop out when he wasn't welcomed by the characters or the audience for that matter. There are also annoying and unnecessary dream sequences Sidney has about her mother. The whole back-story was a nice touch and I loved learning the truth about EVERYTHING.Scream 3 may be the worst of the series, but it is still fun.  "},{"Title":"Sorry sequel","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream- clever, hip and scary. Scream 2- clever, hip and suspensefull. Scream 3... Well that's a whole nother story. First of all Kevin Williamson did not write this one Ehren (Arlington Road) Krueger did and it shows. The character's from Scream 2 are back and with Ehren's writing it wasn't a pleasant suprise. Each character did not feel (act and even talk) like they did in Scream/2 they seemed different, and they lacked emotion. I knew  It could never work because only Kevin knows the characters because he created them. The movie has some chuckles and a few scare's the ending was sorry and the plot holes were ridiculous. I am saddened to say this because I am a HUGE scream fan I seen scream over 100 times and the sequel about 60. The movie takes everything you love about the Scream series and throws them out. There was no resolution and I will tell you this remember the Blair Witch where the movie ended everyone went Huh? is that the ending, well deja vu. I hope there will be a scream 4 maybe in a few more years and that Kevin writes it, to make up for Ehren's sorry excuse of a sequel. "},{"Title":"SCREAM 3 is only a little better than STAB 3  (Potential spoilers included!)","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's unfortunate, but the more I think about Scream 3, the more I think they messed it all up.  As far as I can tell from everything I've read, the powers that be at Mirimax demanded that the film be set in Hollywood, which was not what Williamson originally intended.  (He planned for it to start in Hollywood and then move back to Woodsboro -- hence STAB 3 RETURN TO WOODSBORO.)  That explains why all the pre-release synopses I've read were all wrong.Rumor has it that Williamson bailed out on the film, using the excuse that he was too busy, because he preferred to have nothing to do with the film rather than have his name on a script that he didn't like.  That makes a lot of sense.  With all the connections the film tried to make between Stab and Scream, why was Stab 3 called Return to Woodsboro when Scream 3 never actually returned to Woodsboro?  I think it's because they kept some of Williamson's ideas and changed the rest.  As a result it falls flat. One of my major complaints after seeing the film was that all the victims were lame Hollywood types, and not anyone that we really cared about (with the possible exception of Cotton).So I think Wes Craven did his best to keep Ehran Kruger on track with the script -- in fact Kruger makes comments to that effect -- but even Wes himself couldn't save the film from all the lousy cooks that insisted on being in the kitchen.  And that's too bad.I have been hearing for a long time that Neve Campbell was iffy about whether or not she was going to do the movie.  I think she should have said This movie sucks.  Get Tori Spelling to play 'Sidney'.If you liked this film, please don't feel like I'm dumping on you.  I actually enjoyed sitting through it.  (The opening sequence with Cotton and his girlfriend was just great!)  What really bothered me was what I DIDN'T feel after I left the theater.  In the first two films, I was moved by the lives that were lost, and by the grief of the people who would miss them. After seeing #3, I felt nothing, because there was no real loss to feel.So all I can do is hope that Williamson will one day be able to make his own final chapter, and pretend that Scream 3 never happened, like William Peter Blatty did with The Exorcist.  "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining fare.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For the climax of the trillogy we get a few laughs, a couple of good jolts, but nothing new. It's fair to call this a diversion, a nice diversion, but nothing special. Frankly, I think the absolute highlight of the movie, as well as the secret surprise, is the appearance of Jay and Silent Bob (of Clerks fame).  After their appearance, the film slowly degrades into exactly what these films parody...a lame slasher flick. Pity, there could have been some great new stuff going on, but nothing like that comes out.Might as well leave after Jay and Silent Bob...the rest isn't really worth staying for. I give it a 4. "},{"Title":"Eh... You can't win 'em all","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Being a loyal fan to the Scream franchise (as short as it may be) I of course was eager to see this movie. Not bad, but not in the same vein as the Scream franchise. What we have here is horror/comedy ghost-masked as a psychological thriller. Interesting concept, but could have had so much more done with it. This could have been one hell of a thriller if it did not have so many expendable characters or twists & turns that run into dead ends. Not to say this is a bad movie. I only wish it would have gone in a different direction toward the end.I love how Sidney's character has really matured as a real person would. Secluded... paranoid... a bit crazy? Hell, if I'd been through all the crap she's been through, I'd definitely feel a little nutty. Another wonderful sub-plot to the story was the digging back to the past and the entire Maureen Prescott revisit. If the Scream 3 would have focused more in these particular areas, we could have come up with one of the finest suspense films of the decade (despite the decade just starting). But, eh, whatcha gonna do? Another nice touch was how the film chose to spoof the Scream series itself instead of coming out with the same predictable jokes about slasher films in general.Dewey Riley and Gale Weathers are just as enjoyable as ever. Sexual tension just under their hostile exterior. So suspicious, yet so likeable. Two great characters dumbed down just a bit for humor's sake.Overall, probably not the best film you'll see this year, but definitely something to watch for entertainment. Great direction, mostly wonderful performances, a nice storyline, and a pretty good ending. B average. 8/10. "},{"Title":"The best Scream yet up until the ending","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was a blast and the best Scream yet up until theending. I'll have to get used to the ending for Scream 3.I didn't like the ending for Scream 2 that much at first,but I got used to it. Even though The Scream movies aren't that scary, they do have some suspense and Scream 3 had  the most suspense of the Three in my opinion. Also Scream3 is maybe the funniest of the Three. The new charactersin Scream 3 are all funny and cool. Scream 3 has so manytwists and turns up until the ending. I have to admit themore I think about the ending the more it grows on me. All in all Scream 3 was just awesome and the best Scream yet  up until the ending, which I'll probably like soon. I give Scream 3 ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Definitely has its weak points, but overall a pretty good time!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'll admit, I had low expectations coming into this movie. The whole teen-slasher movie formula is pretty tired by now, and I wasn't sure if even the Scream franchise's self-mocking humor could redeem it. Yet, on the whole, I was pleasantly surprised. Yes, the movie lacked solidity on the plot; yes, it was sometimes a little predictable. But this predictability didn't diminish the fright factor one bit. You hear the scary music, and you *know* someone is going to jump up at the window, but you still gasp and grab the person sitting next to you. It's involuntary, and that's what makes the movie entertaining. Fear is one of the most basic human emotions, and no matter how much we're expecting the scary killer, you're still shocked when you really do see him.The plot, I do have to note, was a bit thin at times. It seemed at times to be struggling to connect with itself, especially when discussing events that took place in the earlier movies. It was in places such as these where Kevin Williamson's absence was truly felt. Williamson was the one who gave life to the characters; he supposedly had begun the series planning a trilogy, and it would have only been proper for him to stick it out until the end. Unfortunately, however, producer Wes Craven apparently felt differently, and the decision to substitute virtual unknown Ehren Kruger was a detriment to the plausibility. Now, don't get me wrong here, I did indeed enjoy the way Ehren Kruger writes; `Arlington Road' was enjoyable, and the writing in the `Scream 3' was certainly of high quality. It just wasn't *right*. First of all, Kruger has no experience with the genre, and more importantly, he has no experience with the `Scream' franchise. Joining as a writer in the middle of a series is always a difficult transition, and you could see a general stylistic difference between Williamson's and Kruger's screenplays. Kruger has a great deal of potential, but it must be refined first; the finale to as successful a series as the `Scream' movies is simply not the time to be testing untried talent.The characters also seemed more artificial this time around than they had been in previous installments. After the last 2 movies, the only original characters remaining were Sidney (Neve Campbell), Dewey (David Arquette), and Gale (Courtney Cox Arquette). One would think that, after all this time, their personalities would truly shine, yet they come across as thinly as the new additions to the cast. While I mostly fault the writing, problems with the acting certainly existed; it seemed at times as if the actors were simply trying to get through the scene so they could go home. In fact, this `are we done yet' attitude was persistent throughout much of the movie, almost as if the cast realized that the slasher-movie boom was dried up, and they just needed to get through this final performance before putting the genre back to sleep.I'm being a bit critical here, probably because the negative aspects are easier to put into words. What I do have to say, above all, is that I *liked* the movie, quite a lot. Looking at it as a reviewer, there were plot holes, and weak acting, and a fuzzy script written by an unknown; but looking at it as a teenager, I have to say that it was a fun movie. Although it lacked certain elements, it did manage to keep the most important it was entertaining and enjoyable to watch. Just don't try to look too deeply, because you'll find that not much is there beyond the surface.  "},{"Title":"As good as anyone would have expected","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Personally, I'd be very happy if horror filmmakers permanently retired the fake scare-- those dumb little moments when there's a big stab of high-pitched music and one of the normal characters pops up out of nowhere, and we're supposed to be fooled into thinking the killer is there.  The makers of Scream 3 are obviously aware of how idiotic and contrived it feels whenever this happens in a movie, but they don't mind doing it to us fifteen or sixteen times within the movie's hour-and-a-half timespan.  And it's that kind of stuff that keeps this film from being a worthwhile experience; the movie is too busy parodying the horror genre's conventions (and bashing us over the head with them) to be even remotely scary.  They've fallen into the same rut that the original Scream protested against-- the point where horror movies become just rehashes, staying within the guidelines set by an earlier, genuinely scary film.  That's what happened with Halloween and that's what's happening with Scream now.  It's like they're not even trying to scare us anymore.  They just want to see how many times they can surprise us by having some character pick up the phone and talk to someone else who turns out to be the killer speaking through one of those little voice-changing machines.  It's entertaining enough, but you leave the theater with a definite feeling that these guys are guilty of the exact same offenses they want to protest. "},{"Title":"A winner, I give it a thumbs up","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't go to many opening night's. But this movie was pretty darned good. I won't give away a thing, but Scream 3 tied up most of the loose ends, and was good till the end. My daughter and I are both movie buffs, and had planned on this one for awhile. We almost went thru the line again, but it was sold out. I expect it to make a ton of money, cus this one has legs. I enjoyed Scream. Scream 2 was a bit of a let down, but Scream 3 was I think the best of the bunch. I am glad it was a Trilogy (don't ya know they have different rules than sequals <G>).  "}{"Title":"not bad, but not good either.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's always hard when you try to compare sequels to the originals, but in the case of scream 3, there is a difference. It seems at this point in the series, the actors and the script itself are just going through the motions. I am glad however that they are ending the series now leaving it with a little credibility. After about 4 installments of a horror franchise, it becomes old and boring. Scream 3 doesn't break any new ground, and you can almost predict things before they happen. Believe it or not, but the scream franchise is starting to show its age, thanks in part to the third installment. For the scream fan such as myself, it's enough to get you through the night. If you liked the first two, you'll probably enjoy the third. However, the satisfaction may not be there as you watch the credits roll.  "},{"Title":"Parker Posey, Do you like scary movies?","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In effort to try and not give away the trilogy's climactic moments, I will offer praise for the one and only PARKER POSEY!  One of the best moments of this film comes in the form of Gale...wait, Jennifer...wait, well...the Gale Weathers' in this film.  Parker Posy's impersonation leads to much of the film's comedic appeal.  High action and true suspense make up for the lack of originality plot wise.  Scream's 1 and 2 were genius, Scream 3 is formulaic, but only in the sense that we may have seen this before.  And that is the point...WE HAVE!  Originality in the horror genre is as dead as, well...Drew, Jada, Buffy, and Randy.  Scream 3 may not be the best in the trilogy, but it does offer a great sense of closure to a familiar open wound...Syndey, Dewey, and Gale.  A must for true fans.  "},{"Title":"I stood in line for this? Where's my bang for my buck?","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a huge fan of the horror genre. I've seen great horror films and I've seen horrible horror films. I'm going to have to say that this one fits right in the middle. There's no new ground broken here and you'll get that hey, I've seen this before feeling many times before the ending credits roll. Skip the lines at the theater and go rent Nightmare on Elm Street to see a movie when Craven still had some creativity going for him. "},{"Title":"Wait for it to come out on tape","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It was nice to see what happened to the characters from the first two movies, but otherwise, not that great a movie.  A smart series was turned into a run-of-the-mill dumb slasher flick.  I did enjoy the performances by Mr and Mrs. Arquette and Parker Posey, but otherwise, wait 'till video. "},{"Title":"I rank it 3rd in the series","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the first film, liked the second one even more despite it's silly ending, and liked this the least.  It's not horrible, or even bad.  Just not very effective.  Seems like Wes lost his passion for the material.  The new characters are under developed, and all but two of the horror sequences are uninspired.  I partly saw this because I wanted to see if it could be pulled off; to see if I could guess the killer(s) and his/her motive.  Answer is...no, because, I thought to myself, that's too stupid for him/her/it/them to do it!  And the motive made the killers at the end of two look completely believable.  I was expecting more from the final chapter.  But, heck, it would be one hard task to bring surprises to this storyline.  And from the looks of it, this really was never really intended to be a trilogy.  Final assesment Scream **1/2 out of **** Scream 2 *** out of ****  and Scream 3 **   "},{"Title":"A Worthy Installment and Good Finale","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let's all admit it, we all got sketchy when we all heard about Scream 3.  I mean, how much further could they go with the one of the most original concepts ever conceived?  To be honest, I was sketchy up until the opening day about this movie, and I'm a huge fan of the Scream Trilogy.  But after seeing just the opening sequence, my worries were put to rest.Scream 3 was very much worthy of bearing the Scream name.  It was as smart as its two predecessors, and sometimes even better.I'm going to skip the pretentious summary and just get on with it.  First of all, it had great scares.  This movie just set up everyone....setting the audience up with false scares, real ones, and the you-think-nothing's-gonna-happen-but-then-it-does-happen scares.  And like the trailers and promos say, the third one breaks the rules, which Scream 3 does with the wide variety of tactics that are used for the elaborate death scenes. It just didn't rely on the stabbing, it used different methods of killing, one of which was completely unexpected.  A great build up of suspense, which was done better in this one than the previous two.  This film only let the audience rest for two minutes before it had us back on the edge of our seats again.  Then, there were the cute cameos, which was a real treat for me because I love little walk on cameos; especially one little cameo that was a bit heart-wrenching for me.The two greatest things I found in this film is how it ties up the two earlier films together.  It makes great and appropriate references from Scream 1 & 2 at the best times and it was very well done.  The next thing was how it harks back to Scream 1 were everybody was a suspect.  Unlike Scream 2 that only had a few red herrings, Scream 3 like Scream 1 pointed the finger at everybody.  It accused everybody in the film.....everyone had a motive to do all the killings....at some points you might even suspect any one of the three survivors of this trilogy.But, because there is no such thing as a perfect movie (well, except Citizen Kane), this movie did have some parts that didn't blend with me.  As someone already pointed out, this movie does take itself too seriously, which is not really what Scream was intended to be.  The Scream movies was almost more like a satirical horror.  Scream pointed out all the cliches of the horror genre and avoided to do those same cliches half of the time, and do them the other half.  Scream 3 was a pure horror movie with some moments of satire.  It was meant to scare you, not make fun of what it is.  I felt that the satirical edge was a missing element of Scream 3.  Then, I felt the ending was a bit cheesy.  I mean, in many ways original, but still a bit cheesy. Although not written by Kevin Williamson, the man behind the idea, it was very much a Scream movie at its core.  Other than the two problems I saw and had, I really like this movie; almost loving it.  Scream 3 is sure to entertain...and scare. "},{"Title":"Horror movie cliche, but worth watching.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing this movie ever since I found out that the Scream movies were a trilogy.  I wasn't completely disappointed. There is a lot of horror movie cliche stuff in this, but all in all, it was a great experience.  The movie neatly ties off the whole series, answering questions some never thought to ask.  The horror movie cliche brought it down a bit, but the action, words, and well placed cameos add to the fun and humor that helped make the original Scream a modern classic.  All in all, it wasn't a perfect movie, but I'll definitely buy it when I see it at the video store for sale. "},{"Title":"Entertaining...and that's what counts!!!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me start by saying I really enjoyed this movie. NO...it was not the same as Scream 1...but it is NOT supposed to be. It was fun, entertaining, cheezy, funny...and some chills too. Now I must digress for a second and say, this movie belongs to Parker Posey. Her hilarious, over the top performance as a spoiled new age Hollywood star...as Gale Weathers....provides many of the best moments in the film. I have been a big fan of hers and I think this movie finally brings her immense comedic talents to a more main stream crowd. So...this may be brainless and cliche ridden...but you can not deny the entertaining fun of it. "},{"Title":"AAAAAAAARGH- and I mean that in a good way!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...Just let us outta the theatres. Have heard mostly negative things from the other patrons. The hell with them. Can't really comment on why they hated it. All I can say is at the very least it elevates the quality of the second Scream entry, even making it seem a bit kidred to Empire Strikes Back (since we are on the topic of trilogies). In addition it approximates the shortcomings of Return of the Jedi (Neve's sorta Sidney performance, bearing similiarities to Mark Hamill's sleepy Luke). Even Randy's materialization of sorts suggests an Obi-wan Kenobi motif (a very contrived motif at that). But Jamie Kennedy's cameo is a welcome one, especially since his witty banter and self-reflexive attitude gave the original and part of the sequal it's edge. This film manages to just barely avoid the after-the-fact irrelevancy of such films as Beverly Hills Cop III and Child's Play 3. The plot is more involving this time around, less concerned with pop-culture commentary. There is repartee aplenty to boot, especially between Dewey and Gale (if you can avoid gaping at Mrs. Cox-Arquette's elfish bangs, bad hair movie). What makes Scream 3 a solid entry is the fact that it solidifies the entire series. The second two will never top the original in ingenuity, yet give it a few years and fans will have their favorites. Parker Posey crops up and adds a few laughs. Genre vet Henrikson has an amusing role too. The denouement suffers in parts, but is far more convincing than Scream 2s, )with two irrelevant characters as the knife wielding cutco representatives). Guess it's time to start waiting for official Scream conventions. One thing we can be sure of is Neve's lack of participation (much like her performance here) in such gatherings. And let's see if David Arquette can outrun his role as Dewey. And where have Jamie and Skeet Ulrich gone? Even if their careers never pick up, the Scream trilogy, finely wrapped up here, will guarantee them a slot in cult flickdom, which in this viewer (and sometime director)'s opinion is more worthwhile than any oscar.     "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a Scream LOVER!! I have been so excited about Scream3 coming out. I was very disappointed in the third installment. I had heard such great things about this movie but didn't find any of  that in the third movie. I didn't find it as funny as the first, and I had heard that is was funnier. It had it's funny parts, but not as funny as it could have been.I hope you like it more than I did. "}{"Title":"Scream 3 offers less of the same.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say that I went into the theater with high expectations for this film, partly because I am a big fan of the series.  It was decent enough but not really what I had hoped for.Good movie sequels earn their kudos by offering more of what the fans of the films have come to expect more frights, humor and more of what made the previous two films unique it's self-commentating parody.  But unfortunately Scream 3 offers less of all three elements.Enough familiar aspects remain to entertain the most hardcore Scream buffs.  But Scream 3 makes the mistake that it's predecessors succesfully side steped-it takes it's self too seriously.As many Scream fans know the films always open with a pre-credit murder sequence that is often the highlight of the films.  That is certainly the case in this film.  And in this aspect Scream 3 does equal the first two films.  Most of this movies suspense and originality is crammed into the opening 10 minutes of the film.  The scene makes disturbing use of one the vetrans of series, and it is a scene that left me feeling queasy for quite some time.The new killings seemed to be linked to Sidney's long ago murdered mother. The film tries to resolve the various loose ends of the series by going back to the beginning.  As for the rest of the plot details I will leave that for the rest of you Scream fans to discover.  However, to my disapointment very few of them are at all shocking.Overall I think that Scream 3 puts a period on the trilogy when there should have been an exclamation point. "},{"Title":"Almost matches the original, but falls short...","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sid, still recovering from her traumatic past, hides away in a remote cabin working as a call-in phone counselor. Meanwhile, back in LA, another sequel to the Stab films is being produced. Murders begin to occur, eventually bringing together the survivors of the previous films. As with the other two, this one begins with a long sequence of the killer stalking his first victims. The lucky couple this time is Cotton Weary and his girlfriend. Anything beyond this would spoil the development.Truth be told, I really enjoyed this. However, I did have a few problems with it. It's almost too serious. The in-jokes and other self-referential material all but ceases after the first third. Without that, it's really nothing more than a slasher flick. The other is, as with part two, there's very little that will actually scare you.On the good side, it's fun. The acting is acceptable, the dialogue is intelligent(most of the time), and the set pieces are great. One of Scream 3's best scenes is a videotaped tutorial(Scary Movie 101) by Randy. Listening to him describe the differences between an ordinary sequel and the last chapter of a trilogy was a great idea. Then again, it wouldn't be right to have someone else taking his place as the resident film buff. Then, of course, there are the numerous chase scenes and even a chance for some special effects. In a slasher flick, how often do you get to blow up a house? The mansion provides an awesome place for the final confrontation. The best scares in the film(though not used to full effect) were Sid's encounters with her dead mother. There's always the fun of watching for references to other films, too. I can't be sure, but the position of Angelina's body and the way Wes filmed it as she was dragged out of view reminded me an awful lot of Tina in A Nightmare On Elm Street, as did the sheet-covered body as it stood before Sid(in the recreation of her house).After it was all over, I was satisfied with the way the Scream trilogy had ended(though I still prefer Alien 3), so they'd better not make another one. "},{"Title":"It's all good","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was actually quite shocked...This movie was better than scream 2....but nothing can beat Scream...ahahahah...I liked this movie very much...It was a little different...from the first two...so...if you haven't seen it yet, I highly advise you to see it...All three Screams were successful...They were damn good for horror movies....  "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob are back","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That's it, the highlight of this film, Jay and Silent Bob, (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, DOGMA) are back.  I won't give away the ending of this film, as I'm writing this on the day of it's release.  But the Cameo by these two is both the funniest and most shocking moment of the film. "},{"Title":"Disappointing series ending","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Definition the `stupidity' factor  &#150; 1. smart characters doing stupid things which result in peril; 2. underestimating the audience's intelligence.   With the Scream trilogy complete we now know that it really is all about the script. Craven's direction remains a constant as do the leads. With part three, the in-crowd humor shines as brightly as parts 1 and 2. Sadly the last of these films eventually meets it's Waterloo in Ehron Kruger's script, especially in the second half of the film. Kevin Williamson, who scripted parts one and two, held his audience and characters in much higher regard, keeping the `stupidity' factor almost non-existent, or at least within believable limits.Unfortunately Kruger's `Scream 3' pushes the `stupidity' factor back up to the typically intolerable slasher film level, with main characters, who avoided stupidity in parts 1 and 2, now demonstrating they have not an ounce of sense or learned anything from past experience. In addition the plot twist to supply us with the reason for last of the slasher/slashers is blatantly guessable from the minute the first hint is dropped, even if the slasher/slasher's identity is not. And there is such an over-abundance of red-herrings and `off-camera' doings, that guessing the identity is simply pure luck &#150; it could be any of many.Sadly, while a passable film, `Scream 3' ends the series on a very disappointing note.  "},{"Title":"A great finisher with a bad finish.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is here.  Was it worth it?  Oh yes, but I have my guffs and I want to share them with you.Without spoiling any of the details of the movie, I will just sum it up that the Sindey character is still the 'target' of the killer, but the main focus of the movie seems to be on the Gail and Dewy characters.  They have almost twice as much screen time as Sindey does.This is a problem.  It seems like the writers couldn't figure anything out for the Sindey character to do.  It's as if they thought Neve Campbell wouldn't do part 3, wrote a script without the Sindey character in it, and when she signed on to do the film, put her in the script anywhere they could.Now for the fun part.  Scream 3 is a lot more scary then the first two were. There were far more jumps from myself and my friends then there were viewing the first two films.  It's all the classic get ready to jump out of your seat stuff that horror movies make their money on, but far more false starts then any other scary movie then I have ever seen!  By false starts I mean YIKES, IT'S THE KILLER!  No wait, that's not the killer... YIKES! You get it.  Be ready to be on the edge of your seat at all times.  Avoid holding an open container!Now here comes the big letdown the ending.  The first Scream had a wonderful ending.  The second Scream had a very bad ending.  Scream 3's ending was down right awful.  Be set to be disappointed.Still, anyone who likes the jumps that horror movies provide, then Scream 3 is right for you.  This is a must see for people who enjoyed the first two, simply because this is it for the series... I hope. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The last installment of the Scream series is, in a word, okay.  For some odd reason it's filled with B-list movie stars (Jenny McCarthy, Matt Keeslar, Parker Posey) who give adequate, but predictable performances--basically just acting scared and in danger.  The writing isn't great, and although it did make me jump a few times, it falls into some of the horror movie cliches the series used to make fun of.  The body count is higher, and the ending is very far-fetched.  Overall, once again, it's not bad, but not great.  "},{"Title":"Been there, done that.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"       Let me start off that I do not see what the big deal is with the SCREAM movies.  It's like a HALLOWEEN or FRIDAY THE 13th film except you have movie freaks like Quentin Taratino as characters and people analyze horror films the same way that character's on SEINFIELD analyze daily life-styles.  I see it as a trilogy of films that looks and discusses horror films, without the scares.      This third (and hopefully the last) film has Sydney Prescott (Neve Campbell) in hiding somewhere in California as a new killer is looking for her.  Some more people are getting murdered and the killer wants blood, Sydney's blood! Dewy (David Arquette) and Gail Withers (Courtney Cox Arquette) also return in this film to help protect Sydney from the dangerous killer.  But things get scary when the killer is killing people in order the screenplay has them killed.      When I go into every SCREAM movie, I give it a chance.  Instead it feels like I get slapped in the face everytime.  Where the first SCREAM is a bit creative, but deep down it's  nothing more than a tired retrend of the slasher films. SCREAM 2, is just a analyze film of are sequals better or not? Then SCREAM 3 just talks about trilogies.  They mention such trilogy greats as STAR WARS and GODFATHER, but no BACK TO THE FUTURE, DIE HARD, and Clint Eastwood DOLLAR trilogy? Yet they do steal a bit from the DOLLARS trilogy (when you see it you'll find out, think FISTFUL OF DOLLARS).      I have to admit that my I.Q. dropped when I watched this film.  No disrespect towards Wes Craven, but I felt like I was being ridiculed while watching this film.  The dialogue at times is silly, and the acting is pretty bad.  A example how many times does Jenny McCarthy have to say SH**?  And how many times does one have to see Neve Campbell cry.  And Parker Posy is being typecasted as playing a annoying characters.  The only plus points are the performances given by Cox, Campbell, and Arquette.  And also some nice cameos in a movie soundstage and lot.     Overall, I just hope that Craven does end the SCREAM films. But then again, if this film grosses over $100 million, you know that Miramax will sweet talk Craven for a  a la FREDDY'S DEAD or NEW NIGHTMARE type SCREAM sequal.  The ultimate, safety clause finale.  Personally, go home and watch BLAIR WITCH or some Alfred Hitchcock thriller.  You'll get more chills with those film than with SCREAM 1, 2, or 3. ** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Scream 3 rocked my world!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not only was I not disappointed, but I was greatly impressed and quite satisfied with Scream 3.  The only fault I had with the movie was that some of the witty dialog between Gale Weathers and Parker Posey, as well as the actors' conversation on the set of STAB 3, seemed a little too forced, like the writer was trying hard to sound like Kevin Williamson.  Otherwise I loved the movie.  Sydney truly is a role model for us all--strong, stable, and able to bounce back from traumatizing incidents with gusto.  Maybe a little too much gusto, along with a nonchalance bordering on autism...  But whatever, it's a great film.  Wonderful, I loved it, etc.   "},{"Title":"Serves its purpose... nice and tidy.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Williamson is sorely missed, but as a movie written by an outsider who, to my knowledge, did not participate in the writing of the previous two, it does well. The smartness of the first two films is not easily apparent, and the film relies on visual gags and in-jokes to make up for what is lacking. But it does well as the final act in this three-act play. It ends the series well. Also, in that there is not too much of the glossy slickness of the first two, it cuts right to the chase and pretty much puts you on a rollercoaster ride of thrills and fun galore. True, sometimes, you feel like you're watching two or three different movies, and the focus has shifted slightly from Sidney to the other players, but it does resolve itself. We know too little about the meta-movie stars to really care, but Parker Posey and Jenny McCarthy do a good job of going on what little they have. The cast is excellent--Patrick Dempsey adds a good deal of tension to the proceedings. Watch for a visual reference to A Nightmare On Elm Street--the way a body is dragged out of the frame really reminds me of Tina Gray's hallway visit to Nancy. Looking at past series enders, this stands out as opposed to Jason Goes To Hell, Return Of The Jedi, Lethal Weapon 4, and others. The pacing and direction are good, and the tension never really lets up until you see Directed By Wes Craven. Hats off to the folks who have worked over 5 years to bring us a great trilogy. Score 8/10 "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, I saw it at an advanced screening, and going in I totally had my doubts. But as always, the Scream movies managed to triumph over every other slasher series.  A fitting end to the trilogy it was. It had a nice varied cast  varied meaning mixing main-stream and art house actors) good writing, and great use of suspense.The one thing that totally made the movie for me was Parker Posey. I know I'm not that great of source, being as how I love Parker Posey in any role she's in, but she totally stole the show. Her character was funny, bitchy, and one of the best dressed people in that movie.All in all, I'd say it's a worthy sequel and definitely worth seeing in the theater. "},{"Title":"Satisfying enough!!","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This 3rd chapter to the trilogy was satisfying and that is about all I can say about that.  The ending was very clever I thought, but still does not compare to the first in the series. Definitely above your average slash'em flick and it is also worth checking out.    "},{"Title":"The perfect horror ending for the perfect horror trilogy.","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Watching this movie I had fun.  That's what watching the SCREAM trilogy is about.  Although I do not agree with the fact that Kevin Williamson did not return for the last installment, the script writers ended it the way they should have.  I was tense through this movie a lot.  It reminds me of the first SCREAM, and watching it brought back good memories of being scared the first time. "},{"Title":"Might give away some overview ideas of the plot. Just fair warning.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3, Stab 3. Murder Hollywood Style. Specifically, Miramax style. Don't get me wrong! It is funny, entertaining, amusing, heartfelt (it has its moments), even bloody, but lacked the suspense of the first two. It was like watching the post-Oscar parties from your bedroom television set. All too aware that these happy, shiny people are glamming it up while you brush your teeth and set your alarm to wake up and trudge back to work the next day. As excited and connected as you want to feel with these party-goers, you just can't quite connect. They all seemed to be having a good time solving the mystery, no longer even glancing at the piles of dead bodies. But then again, if everywhere you go a killer follows, after the first twenty or so murders, I guess your compassion might fly out the window.But to the writers/directors credit, I found myself laughing merrily along with the rest of the audience when time after time, Dewey and the rest of the gang repeat the same mistakes, never quite learning from the first hundred or so murderous attacks.  Yet, Sydney, always cool, calm, and collected with the Why me? expression wisely locks herself away, only to discover that barricading her doors provides no more protection than erasing her past.  So, as with all trilogies...(even while it pokes fun at them) Scream 3 smoothly takes us back to the beginning and asks the unanswered questions in an attempt to find the real killer. If this seems jagged it is not your imagination. There are so many ideas, so many stories, so many strong characters that it is hard to not jumble it all up and just give the main idea. All the little ideas, minor characters, cameos (Yay Kevin Smith and Jay Mewes), are what make the film worth paying a ticket for. Maybe don't spend 8 bucks at night, but definitely catch it in theaters some afternoon for half the price. If ya love it, you can see it twice for the price of once. Cant beat that. If ya hate it, well you only blew half the money. "},{"Title":"A comeback?","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Two's a company, three's a crowd, but maybe a crowd is what we need for this picture to get profits in the box office. The original Scream had its punchlines, which made it attractive to the common viewer, but then the second people got tired with the whole killing deal. I know that when I saw it, I already knew what to expect and the only qustion going through my mind was, OK, who did it this time...? But the then the third one seems much sexier than the first two and the question this time isn't who did it, but how's all this craziness going to end?  "},{"Title":"The series lost 50 IQ points with this one","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  And that's about the nicest thing to say about this film. Williamson and his cronies have attempted to match the success of the original Scream twice now, and have failed both times. While Scream 2 was at least enjoyable and boasted of a semblance of a plot (and good writing), Scream 3 has fallen victim to the worst pitfalls of horror movies Bad dialogue, ignorance of pre-set history, and overall cheesiness.Williamson has helped breathed life into the horror industry with Scream and The Faculty, but with Scream 3 he puts himself in the same category as Moustapha Akkad. The fourth through sixth Halloween movies were all the victim of great build up, bad ending syndrome, and now Scream 3 has sunk to the same levels as the never-should-have-been-made Halloween III.Hopefully Williamson will do what should have been done after H20; put this baby to rest. The first was good, the second was so-so, and this third installment...go see Halloween III. The writing is better, and unlike Scream 3 (which is due TO the writing), there is the impression that the actors can actually act. It's unfortunate that they took a collection of good actors and put them in such bad roles that it even makes THEM look bad.Rating? 0.5 out of 10, and only for the cameo aspect. "},{"Title":"very sleek, stylish, and cool.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I first heard about the script for Scream 3 I was a little nervous about it, it seamed a little weak.  But, when I finally saw the movie, I was blown away at how well they managed to pull it off!First of all, it's not the least bit corny, as I was expecting.  The movie is also very full of suspense.  This was a lot better than a lot of the other movies I've seen recently(Supernova, Eye of the Beholder, and Magnolia.)So, if you really want to see a cool movie, check out Scream  3.  You won't be disappointed with this one. "},{"Title":"Theater Mints","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just to clear up those rumors... Unfortunate news has it that the outline originally penned by writer Kevin Williamson for Scream 3 was rejected completely by director Wes Craven & company in favor of a completely original screenplay written by little-known Ehren Kruger.To me this is an injustice. The filmmakers should have waited for Williamson to have the time to write a full script instead of rushing into production as they did. Sure, we get the same tired excuses, such as the scheduling conflicts of the stars and the increasing demand for higher salary, but the fact is, the Scream saga was originally planned as a trilogy by writer Williamson. Craven, gifted though he may be, did not create Scream. He was merely an interpretor.Scream 3 may turn out to be fun and perhaps even good if Kruger and Craven are lucky, but all it can be viewed as is a sequel- no more, no less. With this kind of deal who is to stop Dimension from pursuing a Scream 4, 5, and 6? Scream was hatched by Kevin Williamson, and Scream 2 was the second act to it. Scream 3 will not be the third act; at best and in true definition it can only be described as the mint you are handed by the theater clerk on the way out of the movie. "},{"Title":"It ends the way it should. Almost. Not at all bad for third helpings...","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  From the rough cut I saw, Scream 3 is as good a film as we can expect it to be. The film ends the trilogy where it began, back in Woodsboro, and thankfully has retained the two leads (Neve Campbell and Courtney Cox Arquette).I was concerned, after all the pre-production difficulties I heard about, that Neve Campbell wouldn't appear or that she would only cameo and therefore probably be disposed of. After all, this trilogy is really about Sid and no-one else. To end it without her would have been a big mistake. Thankfully, those generous Miramax boys offered Campbell the money she wanted and we all get the film we wanted. I mean, sure, Cox is a good bitch as Gail and David Arquette is the sweetest cop you ever saw (or is he?), but Sid is the heroine here. Or is she?I suppose you all will want me to divulge who the killer is/ killers are. Well, sorry. All I will say is that its satisfying AND surprising. And it dovetails back to the first film very nicely.Like I said, the trilogy ends where all trilogies should, where they began, with Sid and her troubles in Woodsboro. That's all I needed to see. When it hits theatres, I'll be there at the front of the line... "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as two, but still pretty great.","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Another underrated sequel. Scream 3 gets ragged on a lot for being a little more flashy and fantastical than the the first two scream movies, saying that it became the sort of movie it was making fun of, but I think that all this was just to put a new twist on the movie, like Scre4m (scream four) has more comedy. So that aside, I also liked the rest of the movie a lot. The writing is very good. The dialog is decent and the finale is excellent, and just like in part one and two, the suspense is effective. You will be on the edge of your seat for many scenes. The characters are once again likable, and they finally did one of my favorites justice. So I would recommend this movie to fans of the other Scream movies, and people who are into the teen slasher genre. I give Scream 3 8.4/10 (P.S. Don't visit Scre4m's IMDb page so you won't know what characters survive. "}{"Title":"Cheap Installment","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The film starts out on the Hollywood Sign. A new Stab movie is being filmed (Stab 3). A killer begins killing cast members, starting with Cotton Weary (from the previous movie) and Kristine, Cotton's girlfriend. Meanwhile Sidney is working in seclusion for a domestic violence hotline, Gale is a famous journalist delivering talks, and Dewey is working as security consultant for an actress from the Stab movies. The mysterious killer begins the other cast members in the order of the script, which itself changes. He uses the typical Scream outfit, a voice synthesizer, and a knife. The key to the power is his use of a voice synthesizer, which doesn't exist in reality. Gale and faux-Gale from the movie investigate the killer and Sidney's mother, realizing that she herself used to work in Hollywood. The script writer is revealed to be Roman, the lost brother of Sidney. Roman wanted fame for his movie and vengeance for him being the lost brother. I'm glad the same cast members were brought back, and I liked how meta this movie was. This was a good ploy, but better used in the second. Here it wasn't enough to overcome the fictitious voice synthesizer. Obviously, this is as much a thriller as a horror, and the use of a synthesizer cheapen the audience. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back debuted about a year and half after Scream 3 and made the joke of an orangutan as a killer, which about sums up how ridiculous the killer was in this. I feel like they only made this movie because they thought it would make money. I like the relationship between Gale and faux-Gale, I found that very funny. In fact, the only thing I liked about this movie was how Gale's reporting seemed to upset so many people, Dewey and the faux-Sheriff from Stab 3, and even an audience member in a lecture she gave.I'd avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm rating this quite low because it was much below the expectations set by watching Scream 1 and 2, of which I'd really liked 2.This one somehow appeared to be a lot of comedy with not much of tension, really. There was way too much screaming, quite a few red herrings, etc. At times, I wondered if I was watching Scream 3 or the spoof series called Scary Movie.Even the villain of the piece did not look convincing and I did not understand his motive either. Overall, this one is a good candidate to win the comedy award for slashers. One can watch it if one wants to complete the series but there is not much of thrill to speak of. "},{"Title":"Posey perfection","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Even though I liked the first two Screams, Scream 3 is the only one I own on DVD.The Scream trilogy is a good example of irreverent humor done well, and it's probably what's to blame for all the failure imitations that came after it. But what makes Scream 3 exceptional for me is the inclusion of Parker Posey in its cast. I looove Parker Posey and how she plays neurotic so hilariously. Unfortunately, while I always enjoy her performances, I haven't liked most of her movies. I'm not a fan of the Christopher Guest troupe movies, and all too often Posey's a supporting character with not enough scenes. Well she is too in this movie but at least she was on screen enough to make herself the best part of it. I did like her Broken English but it was an atypical Posey role (i.e. not very neurotic), so I think at the moment, Scream 3 is still Posey perfection for me. "},{"Title":"Decent Ending, but could have been much better.","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK, I am a huge fan of the Scream trilogy, and first let me go over some things from beginning to end.Scream (beginning) Awesome, scary, and clever.Scream 2 (middle) Scary, mysterious, and awesome. One of the best sequels to any horror film.Scream 3 (final act) Not as scary as 1 & 2, decent, could have been better.Alright, as I said Scream 1 & 2 were amazing and scary. Now Scream 3... kinda rushed a few things. They went into killing right away. Cotton Weary who was the big hero at the end of Scream 2, was killed off way to early. Now we have Sidney Presscott who is staying hidden up in California, living under a different name and is a Crisis hot line operator. I felt like Sidney's role wasn't that big, because she didn't really have any scary fights besides the end, like she had a lot of those in a lot more scenes in Scream & Scream 2. The murders were too predictable, but the only best part of the film is the end of knowing how these horrific events of Sidney's life have happened. Kevin Williamson should have wrote Scream 3. All in all, it was a good ending, but just could have been better.I give this a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not scary, but weirdly thats the point","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" On the set of Stab 3 the cast are targeted by a serial killer using the same disguise as with Sidney Prescott (Campbell) who is once again brought into the equation.In the third instalment of the most renowned serial killer series in the world we see Wes Craven once more use an exquisite horror slasher motive to get the adrenaline pumping and once more the stakes are higher as Neve Campbell is once more at the centre of attention for the masked villain.Opening with the annoying Cotton rushing through traffic to save his girlfriend and the motive is set as the killer reveals his desire to kill Sidney and once more the central character from the franchise is up against the odds.Sidney has developed throughout the screams to be a developed protagonist. The first film depicted her as a nervous wreck and thanks to her difficult life has progressed to be a profound figure in the series. This film encodes quite a bizarre usage of her mother coming back and is rather uncomfortable than scary.Courtney Cox's Gale is as mouthy and uncaring as ever and though this film encodes some more sentimental scripting on her part, the friends star adds that necessity bite to portray her as the stubborn cow the reporter should be.But thanks to many films having many horror ideas this is never about the acting and is all focused on what mayhem the killer can ensue. Thanks to a clever part revival of the best character in modern horror we see more rules demonstrated and acted out but critically this film isn't scary.When you watch a film you usually know what you're getting into. If you watch a Richard Curtis flick you'll know automatically its trashy love and if you pick up a Stanley Kubrick picture you're going to see something other worldly. And the connotations of scream you obviously aspect to be on the edge of your seat clutching desperately to the cushion. Whilst the first two films weren't especially groundbreaking in terms of scares they were certainly profound in demonstrating the motives and activities of a psycho, which this 2000 release does not accomplish.There are frequent appearances of the white face and predictable jumps. And the fact that he keeps falling over and bashing into things make him appear as a clown rather than an established murderer and so your scare factor is down basically to the situation.And yet that does work as once more the scripting is effective enough to keep you guessing right until the final stages and this is the franchise's strong point. With all 3 films you never know till the end and you simply have to keep viewing.The first scream was definitely the best and since then the screams have dwindled but ultimately the films keep you guessing and this is its purpose, to entertain, which it does. "},{"Title":"Finally, I screamed, but only for my money back.","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As 'Scream 3' opens, it automatically gets that typical sequel feeling that the series is running out of steam. That's only in the first 10 minutes or so, and unfortunately, the movie only goes downhill from there. Make that, it crashes/burns way before the ridiculous finale. Apparently, Sidney Prescott is the most wanted (for dead) woman in the world. Everyone wants to kill her. And like the 'Saw' franchise, they keep coming up with new (but highly uninventive) ways to want to kill everyone on screen just to prove they want to kill this character. As much as I am a fan of the other Craven-created series, 'A Nightmare on Elm Street,' it would be an incredible drag to see Nancy be stalked in all 7 original movies. Luckily, for more than one reason, they stopped this incessant need to murder Sidney with #3. Now all grown, Sidney follows something she mentioned in #2 living alone in isolation to prevent another killing spree, but alas, it happens again during the production of another movie-within-a-movie Stab 3. So all the series regulars return, a la the Scooby-Doo team, to solve the ooohhh mystery of whodunit this time. This movie was awful, awful, awful. The clever cameos couldn't save this mess. Horribly edited, scenes just begin without reason and just as quickly end without conclusion. The script/dialogue was laughable and stale. Cox who looked great in #2 now looks like (probably intentionally) Margot Kidder's Lois Lane, but unfortunately the Kidder from 'Superman IV.' In other words, Cox looked like a plain mess. The suspense on who's behind the mask was gone, Kennedy's return was useless, and Posey? What the&#x85;I guess no actress is perfect. Summary it was like Craven simply gave up half-way through. Suggestion don't even watch that much of it. "},{"Title":"Scream 3 Is A Hoot & A Holler!","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As the final entry in famed horror movie helmer Wes Nightmare on Elm Street Craven's genre-busting slasher film trilogy, Scream 3 combines carnage with comedy, chalking up more than enough suspense, surprises, and shocks to conclude this profitable franchise on a high note. The survivors of Scream 2 reprise their roles, with Neve Campbell as Sidney Prescott, the most stalked woman in film history; Liev Schreiber as wrongly imprisoned murderer Cotton Weary, David Arquette as Barney Fife-style Deputy Dewey Riley, and Courteney Cox as catty tabloid journalist Gale Weathers. Joining them in this cleverly staged slice & dice saga are Patrick Dempsey, Parker You've Got Mail Posey, and the ever reliable Lance Aliens Henriksen.Several years have elapsed since Sidney eluded the last two slashers at Windsor College in Scream 2. She has take refuge at a remote ranch compound near Monterey, California, far from the scene of the original slayings in Woodsboro, changed her name, and works as an anonymous telephone crisis counselor for abused women. Meanwhile, Hollywood has continued to crank out sequels to Stab. Remember Stab, the movie-within-a-movie at the start of Scream 2 where Jada Pinkett and Omar Epps were the first blacks to die in a slasher flick? Anyway, Scream 3 occurs largely on the set of Stab 3. Ex-Deputy Dewey Riley has signed on as the technical consultant, while Cotton Weary, an infamous TV talk show host now, has agreed reluctantly to make a cameo appearance until he receives a cell phone call from a copycat slasher who demands to know Sidney's whereabouts. Not only is the new murderer offing the actors and actresses in Stab 3 who impersonate the Scream characters, but this psycho is also leaving photos of Sidney Prescott's mom at each crime scene. This prompts LAPD Homicide detective Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey of Run), a movie buff himself, to reel in Sidney for questioning, precisely what the villains want, too! Inevitably, Gale Weathers, who enjoyed short-lived fame as the author of a book about the murders, starts snooping around the set as the corpses pile and picks up where she left off with Dewey in Scream 2.Director Wes Craven and Arlington Road scenarist Ehren Kruger have carved out an above-average, razor-sharp horror comedy that brings the series full circle and offers some cutting edge commentary on the film industry as well as copycat killers. As in Scream, Scream 3 indulges in Tinseltown terminology. Sequels qualify as movies that keep replicating the original, while a trilogy boasts a beginning, middle, and an end. One of the worst things about Scream 2 (8/10 stars) did was killing off geeky Randy Meeks (Jamie Kennedy), the video store clerk who dissected cinema the way that the villains did their victims. Imaginatively, Craven and Kruger have resorted to the cliché of the &#133; if you're seeing this video, I'm dead to resurrect Jamie in an exhilarating cameo. According to Jamie, In a trilogy, nobody's safe. Even the hero can die in the final chapter.Audiences that flocked to the first two Scream movies will be delighted to know that the third installment follows the formula. The pre-credit slasher sequence in Scream 3 tops previous Scream gambits and delivers the first surprise by disposing of one of the series survivors. What distinguishes Scream 3 is mirror image symbolism. Everybody has a double here, and quite possibly the funniest is the hyperactive Parker Posey, who&#151;as fictional actress Jennifer Jolie&#151;doubles as Courteney Cox's bitchy Gale Weathers. During one of their many confrontations, Jolie informs Weathers that Everywhere you go, I'm gonna follow you, so if he wants to kill you, you'll be there to be killed, and he won't need to kill me.Unless you are a psychic Sherlock, you shouldn't be able either to unravel the multi-layered mystery or to guess the identity of the killer in Scream 3. Unlike earlier Screams, the third entry settles for one killer rather than two. Kruger's complicated screenplay stacks up so much action and exposition that you may have to take notes to cull the clues from the red herrings. Basically, all but one of the survivors from Scream 2 gets out of Scream 3alive--but not without a hell of a lot of howling. Nevertheless, the resolution is pretty clever, and like Scream 2, the back story is what makes Scream 3 so interesting.Appearing in cameos are Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes as Silent Bob and Jay from Clerk, Mallrats, and Dogma. Craven and Kruger take the mirror image symbolism, beyond the fringe with Carrie Fisher. Cast as an embittered studio archivist with a photographic memory for faces and screen names, she explains to Jennifer Jolie and Gale Weathers that she only resembles Carrie Fisher who won the Princess Leia role in Star Wars because the real Carrie Fisher slept with George Lucas!!! Hardcore film fanatics will chuckle when they spot schlockmeister Roger Corman as an antsy studio executive who puts Stab 3 on hold when the murders start and warns director Roman Bridger (Scott Foley) that Violence in cinema is a big deal now.Comparatively, Scream 3, a sequel to shout about, is better than Scream 2 but not as good as the devastatingly original Scream (10/10) that revived the slasher genre back in 1996. At this point, Craven and company have all but painted t themselves into a corner, even though a fourth installment could conceivably be hacked out. "},{"Title":"Hey Dewdrop...","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Brace yourself...Because I have something very shocking to say. Feelings will be hurt, eyes will bulge, emotions will fly, and my useful comment rating will plummet...This movie was as good as the second, which was better than the original.There, I said it!But its true. The murders have moved to Hollywood as the movie Stab 3 begins filming. However, the actors of the movie soon start to be killed off, and the murders become the real movie. Sidney has gone into hiding this time, and is not in much of the movie. But Dewey, Gale, and a group of actors are targets for this new string of killings. We have many new interesting kills in this movie, as well as a great storyline. The story here takes after events which occurred before the first Scream.There's also a lot of great lines that they characters spew at each other. I recommend this to fans of Scream and Scream 2, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not necessarily downright bad, but not up to par for the series","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After the first made fun of slasher films(and was one, partially, as well), the second had more of such, and also tapped into sequels within said sub-genre, and with this announcing itself as the end chapter, the one that turns it from a series or a single film into a trilogy, it would be obvious to gather material from such... but hey, maybe there wasn't enough, it is revealed herein that horror trilogies are rare. What it does instead is broaden its aim(sacrificing the references and jokes, that the first two featured an abundance of, somewhat), target the movie-making business, and specifically having in-jokes from the second and the production of this. I'm not sure this was (necessarily) a bad idea, maybe it just relied on the viewers being obsessed with the series, and/or the makers wanted to take the movie-within-a-movie to another level. It almost becomes self-parody, and I'm not sure that was the best approach. It should perhaps be noted that this is the only of the three that has Comedy as one of the genres. Taking things up a notch(while I suppose I can appreciate the point of view that it was important, possibly even vital) most definitely did not help. The killer is (too) superhuman, and the inconsistencies and unexplained phenomena too glaring, and they tend to bother the viewer more than just be disregarded for the sake of enjoying the film, as with the first two. The grand quality of some of the stuff in the film, I don't know, not sure it worked out. The writing suffers more than that of the second. I'm not sure the blame lies with the new writer, according to the Trivia page, he did rewrites during production, too. A new plot device is added, and it comes off as cheap(like some of the scares) and, frankly, stupid. The voice's lines aren't as good as those of the second, definitely not as those of the first, and the killer's plan, yeah, same thing. An interesting scene or two do come out of it all, and hey, if you like stuff that pokes fun at Hollywood, knock yourself out. There is still suspense and tension, if maybe not as much as in the first two, particularly the original Scream. Campbell's character is featured less(but she is still there), with the lead taken more by Cox-Arquette, joined by Posey, somewhat. This does add to the overall story-line, and it is worth watching if you liked the first two, as long as you lower your expectations. I recommend this to fans of the first two, and urge no one to watch this before watching both. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A brilliant underrated ending to a great trilogy 8/10","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3. Starring Neve Campbell, David Arquette and Courteney Cox Arquette.After the original Scream (1996) Director Wes Craven and writer Kevin Williamson continued the story into a disappointing Scream 2 (1997). After that I wasn't sure about Scream 3. But, I went to see it and I was amazed.Scream 3 is brilliant. All the surviving characters are back (Even a video recording of Randy (Jamie Kennedy) who died in Scream 2) This time they are in Hollywood filming Stab 3 the second sequel based on the events of the 1st and 2nd scream movies. Sidney Prescott (Campbell) is living under a new name in a isolated house. But she gets a call from someone with a familiar voice Hello Sidney. While that is happening ex-cop Dewey Riley (Arquette) is working on the set of Stab 3, and after a couple of deaths (and a series of clues to Sidneys mother's death) reporter Gale Weathers (Cox Arquette) shows up. When Sidney arrives they decide to try and find him.The suspense is still there, great dialogue, good humour and great special effects (especially on some of the death scenes). If you liked Scream and Scream 2, you must watch this, it ties up all of the unanswered questions that all fans will be asking.I know this can never live up to the original Scream. But it is definitely better than Scream 2. If you're a fan, watch it. If you haven't seen the other two movies first, watch them, then this one.8/10 "}{"Title":"Satisfying chills in same tradition as the first two entries...","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" NEVE CAMPBELL is again being stalked by a killer, this time when she returns to the sound stages where Stab 3 is in preparation for filming. COURTENEY COX is again on hand as an intrepid reporter and David ARQUETTE is back as Campbell's protector, who needs protection himself from the caped killer trying to murder most of the cast.It's strictly Halloween stuff for slasher fans, this time a little more suspenseful than SCREAM 2, with a tighter script and better direction.CARRIE FISHER has a fun two minute segment looking up someone's name under Reynolds. But along with some sly humor, it's the scary stuff that still works pretty well despite the sameness of the theme.PATRICK DEMPSEY makes a good impression as a police lieutenant who actually becomes one of the suspects. The revelation of the killer's motive doesn't quite ring true, but there are hints along the way that make it seem somewhat probable.Summing up The Wes Craven touch is evident. "},{"Title":"No Williamson? No SCREAM!!!","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The original SCREAM was spectacular and utterly scary when it first came out in 1996. And SCREAM 2 was even a lot more suspenseful than the original. These two movies were written by Kevin Williamson, and they had a very simple formulaic structure. Unfortunately, Williamson was not available to pen the third and final script of the series, so, Ehren Kruger was signed on to write it. His SCREAM 3, in the end, tried so hard to copy Williamson's style of writing, but did not succeed.He got the opening sequence right. A couple is attacked by a menacing caller. But he got the murders wrong. In both SCREAM and SCREAM 2, the boyfriend dies first. In SCREAM 3, the girlfriend dies first.Sidney is no longer the main character. SCREAM 3 focuses more on Dewey and Gale and the cast and crew of Stab 3, the movie within a movie. This may be because Neve Campbell, who plays Sidney, was only available for 20 days. Plus, she lost interest in playing the same character.Randy comes back in a videotape to give the rules in surviving a trilogy. In the first SCREAM and SCREAM 2, he references to horror movies. But in SCREAM 3, he does not use horror movie references, he uses The Godfather and Star Wars trilogies. Randy says that trilogies are a rarity in the horror genre, but they DO exist. So, why didn't he reference those horror movies? Such as the Evil Dead trilogy? There were always two killers in SCREAM and SCREAM 2. But in SCREAM 3, there's only one killer.In both of SCREAM and SCREAM 2, the span of the movie was 3 nights and 2 days. But in SCREAM 3, it was 4 nights and 3 days.Overall, it's a good movie, but the tone is very different than the first two films. "},{"Title":"The Only Way To Die Is To Go Out Screaming!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" By the time that Scream 3 was released around the turn of millennium, pretty much everyone in the world was familiar with the style of the film, and its storyline. Such is the immense popularity of this film series that you can't help but not think of it when you think of the horror genre. The first Scream film was ground-breaking and original in every way possible while Scream 2 slightly improved the suspense and nail-biting moments while retaining the same old formula. With Scream 3, director Wes Craven has wisely drawn a line under this phenomenon and called it a day. However, Scream 3 is no bad film. It's a great ending to a fantastic trilogy, but one thinks that anymore films in this series would become too predictable and familiar.In Scream 3, Kevin Williamson, scrip writer from the first two instalments is absent. Unfortunately the absence is painfully noticeable. The scrip goes too far and tries to reach areas of the storyline that are too deeply rooted in the unfamiliar to be believable after all that has happened in the first two films. The film attempts to complete the circle by rounding it off with this film, yet it can't help but bringing in new facts and stuff like Maureen's ghost that we really didn't need to know. The long and overdrawn explanation of everything that has happened towards the end is not really needed either. You finish watching the film feeling a little disappointed by the lack of action and suspense, but there's certainly one thing that this film has in copious amounts that the first two didn't - blood and guts.Most of the action that goes on in Scream 3 is featured on the Hollywood-style set of Stab 3, the sequel to the original which featured the true-story events of Sidney's events that we saw in the first Scream film. Stab 3 focuses more on Gayle Weather's account of the goings on around the Woodsboro Murders. Having the characters of Stab 3 play the real life characters that we seen on screen is a delightful touch, and adds many humorous moments to the film. As with the first two films we are treated to a fabulous opening sequence that last some ten minutes to get the audience worked and hyped up. With Scream, we saw Drew Barrymore brutally murdered in the opening, while Jada Pinkett was killed off in the cinema in Scream 2 while watching the Hollywood blockbuster Stab. This opening is the worst of the three, but it's still very good and entertaining.Neve Campbell completes her role as Sidney Prescott in Scream 3 with grand style. Her acting peaks here and she shows raw emotion as the traumatised woman. Courtney Cox is fabulous once more as the news reporter Gayle Weathers, but she has lost her snappy edge from the first two instalments that made her the shiniest character in the film. David Arquette has now fully transformed into a very likable character, and is a different man to the geek we saw in the first film. And that's pretty much it as far as main cast stars go. Scream and Scream 2 had many extras and minor role-players, but Scream 3 focuses more on the three main characters who have been in the film since the beginning. "},{"Title":"this film rocks","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Let me tell u something right the first scream was fantastic and the second one kind of sucked but it had the best attack scenes ( when there in the car and when gale is in the sound proof glass) and then there's scream 3. This film made everything come together in a great motive and is also the only scream film 2 have 1 killer. And you see why he managed to do everything so brilliantly i mean as he says just give a kid some few pointers and a partner to help him and your all set to go but what really set him off was the video of his father. and its true and then you start to think wow sydney is in a room with the killer who is her half brother and its just them to we are EXPECTING A HUGE 1-1 and you get it they both batter each other until sydney gets shot or dis she . and we see that she has a bullet proof vest and this shows how much she has learnt over the previous attacks.now the scene where roman is nearly bout to die is a fantastic scene because it shows there was sympathy there and that sydney did not want to do it but she had to . So she could end the madness that had haunted her for years. the deaths were the only thing that put me down in this film. because they weren't as big and it did not feel that it had the whole I'm stalking you and your gonna die kind of feeling, it was haha here i am your all gonna die. Bt also this was the only scream where the killer was in the same room with about 5 people and he was in costume. and he delivered a great action scene and to death scenes so all in all this film was brilliant and it also had the most difficulty of finding out who the killer was. "},{"Title":"Worst Scary Movie I've Seen(Yet)","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is the worst of the Scream trilogy.The acting is terrible Parker Posey was a bad actress in most parts,but during the climax(where she gets killed)she is great.Emily Mortimer did okay in her medium-sized role.I thought they did too quickly,though.Okay here's my summary of this horrible ending to a great trilogy.SUMMARYWhen Cotton Weary(Liev Schriber) and his girlfriend,Christine are killed in their own home,Sidney Presscot(Neve Campbell)has taken a new name,Laura.She hears about Cotton's death and goes on the scene to figure out who the killer or killers are.Then,while making Stab 3Return To Woodsboro in Hollywood, a cast member, Sarah Darling(Jenny McCarthy) is killed,Gale Weathers(Courtney Cox Arquette)and Dewey Riley(David Arquette)go on the scene to help Sid solve this mystery.Detective Mark Kincaid(Patrick Dempsey)helps them,too.Along with cast members Angelina Tyler(Emily Mortimer),Tyson Fox(Deon Richmond),Jennifer Jolie(Parker Posey),and Tom Prinze(Matt Keeslar)as suspects(and targets) go with the director Roman Bridger(Scott Foley)and producer John Milton(Lance Henriksen) who had ties with Sid's mom,Maureen Presscot.This movie was a rip-off.I rented it from Family Video and it waste of my dollar!It had pretty bad acting,barely any blood,not a surprising killer(but a surprising motive)here are my scoresACTING 3/10 BAD,OH SO BAD ACTINGBLOODBARELY ANY,6/10SCARES0/10LAUGHS2/10OVERALL5/10 I don't recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" by Brandi Hutcherson.Scream 3 is a killing, bloody movie. All of the characters are trying to find out who the killer is.My favorite character is Cindy. She kept her self on lock down. She does this by not leaving her house and getting herself a dog.The killer can change his voice and sound like a different person. He calls them and asks them questions, then he kills them.The best part is when Scream blows up Gail's house. There were people running away and putting up a fight to get away, but it's no use because they know they are going to die.So how about you get off that couch and go rent Scream 3. "},{"Title":"Scream 3/ and the rest of horror movies!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i haven't seen this movie but i am all for the scream trilogy...its my favorite. I cant wait...until Scream is back for one more scare...i hop they make a Scream 4! the thrill of a man/woman in a ghost mast scaring people is my idea of a thriller...(laugh out loud)...i cant wait until i see it...the whole idea of the freight factor of someone out to kill you...is very thrilling...so i recommend you try to see as many horror films you can!! i absolutely love the Halloween movies...and the Friday the 13th movies...and the all so famous Nightmare on Elm Street! you must see them! i swear you will wet the bed...especially in your dreams...(nightmare on elm street)-matt "},{"Title":"good movie but not as good as the other 2 screams.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 (Scr3am) I did like this movie as i thought it was good, but this one was not as good as the other 2 scream movies (Scream and Scream 2) This movie was made in 2000. I give this movie 7 out of 10. I doubt it if there will be a SCREAM 4 because we have already had 3 scream movies and the end of scream 3 i think was a good ending and i think that was good to make it to the end of the scream series. I think it would be a disopointment for Wes Craven to direct Scream 4 which i doubt he will be up to it.  "},{"Title":"I think I did a good job about what I thought of the movie.","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I seen Scream 3 it is a really great movie. It will keep you guessing the whole way through the movie. The killers on the first two Screams I got alot sooner then I did on the third one. Scream 3 keeps you guessing the whole way through you think it is one person then that person gets killed and you have to pick some one else. Screams 3 answers alot of questions I had after watching the first two Screams. I would recomend Scream 3 to any who asked,but first I would tell them to watch the first two before they watched Scream 3 . Otherwise part 3 won't make any sence to any one. I liked the Scream movies so much that i bought the videos and the dvd collection. The cast in all three Screams and the music made you feel what the actors were feeling and also like you were right there with them. One of the great things about these movies is there is no nudity that is very rare for horror movies,but I thought it was just great. The guy who wrote this Kevin williamson really knew how to write a great story. With Wes Craven directing these movies you know they have to be good. "},{"Title":"One big huge disappointment","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie begins about three or four years after Scream 2.  The gang is all back in California, Hollywood to be specific, working for Sunrise Studios on the set of Stab 2.  Sydney has gone into hiding using an alias, working for a crisis hotline.  Pictures of Maureen Prescott start popping up next to dead bodies, one by one the cast of Stab 2 is being hunted down and murdered...in the order their characters die in the script...and the mystery behind it all unfolds and eventually draws Sydney out of hiding to battle her demons one last time.The movie was extremely disappointing, and extremely predictable.  The thing that disappoints the most, I think, is that we open with Sydney in hiding. In the two previous movies, we get the sense that not only is she vulnerable but she's also strong and brave and a woman who knows she can't run away but must face this head on and does so.  Not only was the character of Sydney written differently (and much poorly, in my opinion), the story itself comes from so far out it's really unbelievable.  I truly believe that if Kevin Williamson had been able to stay onboard and write this final chapter in the trilogy, it would have surpassed the sequel...just as the sequel surpassed the original.  But as it stands, it's two hours of my life wasted that I'll never get back, and that irritates me. "}{"Title":"Over-hyped and much too ironic","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is definitely the weakest of the three Scream movies. The main problem is the film's over-emphasis on irony. If this were a horror movie we'd all be dead by now. I won't reveal exactly what the twist is in the end, but how exactly did it break the rules. It just told us some stuff that we already knew and then added on one or two facts.The acting was pretty bad too. In particular from Courteney Cox who doesn't leave her one-dimensional demanour. Scream 3 is a huge dissapointment. Watch something else instead. 4.2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Warning Spoilers within, spoilers within.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When you study this film in depth you begin to understand why so many were killed for no real reason in the whole Scream Trilogy. I know Scream 3 probably wasn't pre-planned, but the way the film directors tied it into the first Scream Movie really fits well. Many think that it's confusing because Roman Bridger wasn't in the first, and second film, but I on the other hand believe that it works beautifully. After watching Scream 3 and then re-watching Scream you realize where Billy Loomis' direction comes from.As for Roman Bridger, Director, Brother. His motivation, to me is well... being born under a bad sign or from a terrible damaging cause. I  believe, and with good reason, that Roman Bridger is the results of Maureen Prescott's gang rape. The main reason I think this is because he's so messed up, born into or from evil literally. The other reason is because in the film Roman says that he's almost thirty, which would mean that he was conceived some time in the seventies. He had said it himself that he sought out find his mother and when he did, she rejected him in the worse possible way. (Pure assumption here) When he showed up at her door all she saw in him was the evil that was unleashed upon her.  Due to this Roman can do nothing kind or love....at least until Sidney shows him her understanding and forgiveness at the end. Overall this film is one of the most interesting of its time.     "},{"Title":" The killer found me","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Neve Campbell is dull as Sidney in this brash horror film. The remaining cast is drivellike. The costumes are redeeming. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Scream 3 issues illiterate scares. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is one of the BEST slasher movies I have ever seen.  The plot twists keep you guessing Who's the Killer throughout the whole movie. You never know who the killer is until the very end.  This just might be the best movie in the trilogy! "},{"Title":"Someone has taken their love of horrible sequels too far...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was one of the biggest disapointments I've ever experienced in my life. I loved the first one, tolerated the second one, and was really looking forward to the final chapter. From the beginning, there were all these wild theories about a third killer conspiracy and I was so excited to hear the film would be bringing all of these one time rumors into the light. What's more is that for the most part the series has never been one to pull punches. It's got balls. Even for all of its errors, Scream 2 had enough courage to kill Randy. I believed they were capable of surprising/shocking me. Which is why it breaks my heart that the only thing Scream 3 did was play it safe in every possible way. For starters, where's the blood? I know this was post-Columbine but if you're going to make a Scream movie, make a friggin Scream movie! Craven said this wasn't going to be a reader's digest version of Scream, that they weren't going to tone it down. Um, excuse me? Other than the obviously fake blood on Jenny McCarthy's face after she's thrown through the window, where's the blood in this movie? I don't need two hours of gore but it's a fair assumption that a great deal of horror/slasher fans had certain expectations when attending this film that were not met. This is ScreamLite. A TV friendly version of the other two. *SPOILERS AHEAD*Then there's the issue of our returning cast members. Even the main character can die. This means you Sid. Randy says on his ridiculous taped message (what a cheap gimmick). He goes on to say Good luck, God speed, and for some of you... I'll see you soon. No you won't Randy! Because this movie doesn't have the balls to do anything remotely surprising!Now let's talk about the killer. I was really looking for some profound revelation. They promised a mystery more terrifying than you know. What do we get? The most ill conceived ending yet. Had it actually fit into the scheme of things their concept might have played out well. As it was executed, it's the biggest plot hole of the entire series. If Roman was around during Scream 1, why didn't he reveal himself and his motive when Billy & Stu did? He's obviously made Sid the embodiment of everything that was wrong in his life. So I'm supposed to belief he just sits in the background, lets the others do all the work, and then doesn't even show himself to confront his sister/explain his motive. I'm not buying it. Furthermore, where was this guy when Scream 2 was taking place? It discredits both movies immediately. First, it tarnishes the first film by trying to add a conspiracy to what was a tight, self contained movie. Then it discredits the second by basically saying it never had to happen. You can go right from Scream 1 to Scream 3 and not miss a thing. So why did Roman go after Sid now? He had no desire to be behind the mask and kill her in Scream 1 or 2. It's flawed. It's an insult to their audience's intelligence.There are a few things about the movie that are good. Parker Posey has a memorable character and some of the verbal exchanges between her and Gale are very funny. Actually, there's quite a bit of funny dialouge in Scream 3. Too bad they forgot about the satire. Wasn't that after all, what this series was all about? Randy's retarded cameo is supposed to give us some but it's horrible. A trilogy is a rarity in the horror field but it happens... Really? Name one. Name a series that was conceived as a trilogy and didn't just happen to end on part 3. The fact that the only trilogies he could mention weren't horror films speaks for itself. This series lost its focus. It has come full circle and turned into the kind of movie the original Scream parodied. Right down to the girl in the shower, the token black guy, etc. This was a horrible way to end the series. I cannot recommend this movie. You're better off watching the original Scream and even its sequel. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was by far the weakest of the trilogy.Kevin Williamson who wrote the first 2 Scream movies did not write this one.Ehren Kruger was the writer and his script was very weak.The first 15min with Ghostface and Cotton(Liev Schreiber) was well done after that the movie goes downhill.The setting this time is Hollywood on the set of Stab 2.And once again the murders happen.The part with Randy(Jamie Kennedy) on video where he is telling the rules of a horror movie trilogy was dumb, one second he is talking about rules of the trilogy then all of a sudden he brings up Star Wars and The Godfather.What do those films have to do with Horror movies?Scream 3 was the type of movie the first 2 Screams made fun of.Wes Craven does the best job he can with a weak script.Only reason to watch is for Parker Posey as Jennifer she steals the show.I give Scream 3 5/10only for Parker Posey i give it a 5 "},{"Title":"Better than the 2nd, but still pretty darn weak","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I was literally bored to tears. However, I caught it in the middle of the night a couple weeks ago on a movie station for the second time and for some odd reason, I enjoyed it a little more. The premise of the movie is pretty much a movie taking place on a movie set (Wes Craven did this once before (and better I must say) in New Nightmare). The movie being filmed is Stab 3 (A takeoff on the events of the Scream films) and all of a sudden actors from the film are being picked off one by one as they die in the script by a mysterious killer. Ok, not so bad, huh? But there are so many boring spots in this movie! The whole middle hour just lingers around and doesn't do anything! It's so uneventful. And all the characters are so one dimensional and flaky, you don't really care if they die. And I must stress how horrible Neve Campbell's acting was in this movie. You could tell she just wasn't into it. It seems like she is forcing herself to remember her lines, like the producers are holding a gun to her back saying Alright, you're next line is 'How did you get this number?' But on the plus side, the movie has one helluva ending (Even though I'm the only one who thought so) and I really liked how they tied the other movies together and gave you a little more backstory. But overall, if you've seen the first film, you know how horrible this is in comparison, but I must applaud them for taking things in a different direction and for finally ending the series. "},{"Title":"You'll scream 3 times when you see this movie.And I dont mean screams of fear,or excitement...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 just doesnt have the formula that the last two did,and what I mean by that is Scream 3 isnt scary,the same old thing happens,and worst of all,it isn't entertaining.(SPOILER)Like in this one,you would expect Cindy to die,but she dosent,she just survives again,which isn't fun to see.(ANOTHER SPOILER)I'm sure Wes Craven wanted to make something unpredictable,so he made the outcome of the movie unpredictable,but in a BAD way,because it was Cindy's brother all a long,that just doesnt fit,Its impossible for Cindy not to know that she's had a brother for so long.The only good part about the movie is that...uh...there is no good part about this movie actually.I do have to give credit to the acting,it was pretty good,but that dosent make up for a bad movie.Bad ending,a BIG lack of entertaiment make Scream 3 a terrible horror movie.I give it a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Pathetically bad, not even funny ...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The absolute worst of the trilogy, not even comedy could save it ... Unrealistic, unbelievable, loud sudden sounds the only scary component. Really should have quit after one ... No. two was bad but not in the ball park compared to this disaster.  Nev Campbell the only saving grace with the four votes given placed solely on her performance having to work under atrocious conditions. "},{"Title":"Wes should have hung up the phone.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I hated this movie so much I can barely put it into words, Well I could but I don't think IMDB would let me post this messege. The only saving grace was Carrie Fishers (funny as all hell) cameo. But not even that could salvage the rubble that is this picture. SpoilerYou know how you sometimes think if i was making this movie i would have done this or that, Well if i was Wes i would have had at least Gail Dewy or Sydney getting bumped off.End Spoiler I loved scream, And i thought Scream 2 was a good film aswell. But I would rather stab myself in my leg Rub in salt and pour on vinegar than watch all this movie again. But if you do get this film save yourself the time and effort by Fast forwarding to Carrie fisher then pressig STOP.Jesus Wes, a monkey ?!? You guys arn't even trying any more - Shannon Doherty Jay and Silent Bob strike back "}{"Title":"Pointless and disappointing sequel","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 wants to be clever. It wants to be tongue in cheek parodying itself through having the cast mixed up with the cast who are making a film series based on the original events of Scream. However it doesn't change the fact that it's all a bit tired. I was never once filled with tension throughout the proceedings and each death was greeted with a shrug. The movie felt like it was only made because they needed a sequel to close the franchise - there was no love in this movie.It's not all bad. I didn't feel in pain or bored by the movie but never ever caught up either. Neve Campbell took her time turning up to star in her movie (I don't blame her) and then, much like the rest of the cast, wandered around aimlessly. The killer turned out to be an utter disappointment (much like Scream 2). The acting was as much as you'd expect from such a franchise (i.e. what acting?). The black humour of Scream had been replaced with irritating irony.In the end watch Scream 3 if you're a completist or extremely bored. There's no other reason to bother with this movie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Pointless and disappointing sequel","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 wants to be clever. It wants to be tongue in cheek parodying itself through having the cast mixed up with the cast who are making a film series based on the original events of Scream. However it doesn't change the fact that it's all a bit tired. I was never once filled with tension throughout the proceedings and each death was greeted with a shrug. The movie felt like it was only made because they needed a sequel to close the franchise - there was no love in this movie.It's not all bad. I didn't feel in pain or bored by the movie but never ever caught up either. Neve Campbell took her time turning up to star in her movie (I don't blame her) and then, much like the rest of the cast, wandered around aimlessly. The killer turned out to be an utter disappointment (much like Scream 2). The acting was as much as you'd expect from such a franchise (i.e. what acting?). The black humour of Scream had been replaced with irritating irony.In the end watch Scream 3 if you're a completist or extremely bored. There's no other reason to bother with this movie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"O Kevin, where art thou?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream lived up to its title, being a masterclass from director Wes Craven and writer Kevin Williamson on how to deliver a horror-comedy that managed to poke fun at conventions of the genre while at the same time being truly tense and scary. Though I don't subscribe to the view that the second film is a member of the Sequels That Are Better Than The Original Society, it wasn't a disgrace either.Unfortunately, Kevin Williamson was only a producer this time around, leaving script duties for the third and hopefully final film in the considerably less capable hands of Ehren Kruger of Reindeer Games infamy - just as I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was penned by someone without the initials KW. The result, though admittedly not stinking out the screen the way that wretched movie did, is a long fall from the previous two films... basically, we're talking worst second sequel since The Karate Kid Part III.Killing off Cotton in the first ten minutes (who as essayed by Liev Schreiber was a highlight of Scream 2) was a big mistake, and the majority of the movie's fright scenes are similarly messed up; writer Kruger and director Wes Craven fill the proceedings with self-knowledge and cameos in lieu of turning the screws tighter - the stalking and killing of Jenny McCarthy's Sarah pales in comparison to the demise of Rose McGowan's Tatum (in the first film) and Sarah Michelle Gellar's Cici (in the second) - and telling a strong story (something both previous films did manage) also seems to be beyond them. The chronic lack of wit and mounting implausibilities also get in the way (how does Sidney know about a hidden passageway in the director's house?), and in the end you feel Craven spent all his self-reverence points on Wes Craven's New Nightmare, a movie that was also up itself but managed to be entertaining as well. Thank goodness, however, for Parker Posey (a better Gale Weathers than Courteney Cox Arquette), Emily Mortimer, David Arquette, Jamie Kennedy, Carrie Fisher, Lance Henriksen, Scott Foley, and Neve Campbell. The cast is better than this movie... but the Scream trilogy is still preferable to the likes of Friday the 13th. (Not to mention Urban Legend.) "},{"Title":"The best in the trilogy!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is definitely the best in this trilogy! It is the funniest, scariest, and most entertaining out of the three. To me, the trilogy got better and better as it went along. The cast is top-notch! Neve Campbell (Sidney Prescott), David Arquette (Dewey Riley), Courtney Cox (Gale Weathers), Liev Schreiber (Cotton Weary), Roger L. Jackson (Phone Voice), Lynn McRee (Maureen Prescott), and Jamie Kennedy (Randy Meeks) all reprise their original roles. New stars include Patrick Dempsey, Scott Foley, Parker Posey, Lance Henriksen, Jenny McCarthy, Deon Richmond, Matt Keeslar, Kelly Rutherford, Patrick Warburton, Heather Matarazzo, Josh Pais, and Carrie Fisher. Parker Posey gives one of the best performances in the entire trilogy! Her hyper, Gale-wannabe Jennifer is absolutely hilarious, which is not to say that the rest of the cast isn't incredible also!Once again, Wes Craven gives horror fans a movie to love! "},{"Title":"This movie is worth of watching.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Okay, I've seen all the scream sequels... Scream  was  mostly gross and nasty movie. Scream 2 is better than scream. But Scream 3 is my favorite. I love it so much... I bought it to keep it forever...If you haven't seen Scream 3 yet... Then you better watch it cause it's the best out of them all.. "},{"Title":"A great finale to an outstanding trilogy!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, let me start by saying that Scream 3 is definitely the worst of the series.  However, that doesn't make it horrible overall, considering that the first two were phenomenal and this script unfortunately wasn't written by Kevin Williamson.  The violence was toned down WAY too much, and on top of that, the death scenes were very uncreative.  Almost everyone died the same way a knife in the lower back.  I was particularly disappointed with the opening death scene.  First of all, the choice of characters to kill was very poor, since we already knew one of them.  The actor that played him isn't even that well-known either, and that's what one of the best things about the first two films' opening scenes was.  Seeing Drew Barrymore, Omar Epps, and Jada Pinkett die in the first scene was completely shocking. This opener just didn't have that same effect.  Also, many of the characters were very one-dimensional.Alright, enough on the negatives - now I'll focus on the good things about this movie (surprisingly, there were many).  Although this movie was not very scary, Ehren Kruger, who took Williamson's place on this one, was able to make it very action-packed and came out with a decent thriller, only because Wes Craven returned as director.  This was also by far the funniest of the Scream movies.  I enjoyed the clever dialogue between Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox - who by the way looked TERRIBLE in this!  My God, her hair! I don't get it!  She looked so hot in the second one!) and Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey - the funniest character in the film) who is playing Gale in Stab 3.  David Arquette is funny once again as Dewey, and Neve Campbell rocks reprising her role as Sidney.  I also loved the part where Randy (Jamie Kennedy) explained the rules of a trilogy on a video.  Everyone else - Jenny McCarthy, Scott Foley, Patrick Dempsey, etc. - were all great as well.Another fantastic part of this movie was the fact that the mystery was not just simply who is the killer?.  It was more complex than that - it involved how is the killer related to the 'back story'?.  The killer would leave a photo of Sid's mom after each murder, and that built up to the very clever identity of the killer at the end.  This is what makes me believe that it's a really great finale to the trilogy because it concludes the story so well.Although it has its flaws and it's not quite as enjoyable as the first two, it's not as bad as it may seem.  I found it to be fairly disappointing, despite the fact that it was fun to see at the movies, because i waited over two years to see it, and i couldn't help but expect something spectacular after hearing countless rumors about how well they kept the script and everything under raps.  But I saw it again on video and realized how well it concludes the story.  It's very entertaining - not as much as the first two - but still a can't-miss for fans of the series nontheless. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Neve saves the Final Act","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good way to end the Trilogy (hint, hint Dimension Films!), but after watching the movie a few times I realised that Neve Campbell's scenes were easily the most entertaining, and Courteney Cox looks awful.The good parts of the movie  The pre-credit kill, the confrontation with Sidney and the killer and the brief return of 2 old characters (Neil Prescott and **SPOILER-SKIP TO NEXT PARAGRAPH** Randy)The bad parts of the movie The movie-within-a-movie (UL2 did it well-this was just lame!), lack of characters and therefore lack of suspects, poor cameos and too much of Gale & Dewey. Oh, and the murders were appallingly uncreative.Overall 8/10- as I said, Sidney saved it. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever!!!","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After hearing such bad reviews for this film I wasn't really looking forward to this movie but once I saw it I was blown away.  The acting was great especially from Neve Campbell and the storyline was just as good if not better than the other two.  I thought that the way they decided to add more of a comical effect throughout the whole story worked well especially the relationship with Parker Posey and Courtney Cox Arquette was brilliant. But I do have to moan about The way most deaths were killed in the same fashion,How Gale and Dewey totally ignored the rules that they had learnt,The unrealistic voice changerAnd..Spoiler nextThe way you could tell who the killer was as it was the only one where you couldn't see the actual murder taking place. Overall I give it 9.6/10 "},{"Title":"Just another politically correct slasher flick for teenagers.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all,I don't like Scream series.So why am I writing this review?Simply because I want to watch as many horror flicks as possible.Scream 3 is pretty bad,but definitely better than really awful Scream 2.The film isn't scary at all,there are some thrills,but nothing is truly nerve-wracking.The killings are not original,mostly stabbings.My another complaint is the lack of gore.Scream 3 is so politically correct,without any graphic bloodshed that I really miss those days when a real,risk taking horror movies like Maniac,The New York Ripper or Cannibal Holocaust were made.However I must admit that the 35-minute climax ,set in the eerie mansion,complete with dark corridors,is pretty exciting.Overall,I was definitely entertained by this movie,but if you want to watch something truly creepy,avoid Scream 3 like the plague.Recommended only for Scream fans. "},{"Title":"It sucked...","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If it wasn´t for the Jay and Silent Bob scene, I wouldn´t even bother to comment it. That was great, but it doesn´t make a movie. All in all, it was just a death-list of beautiful chix and  dull boys and when the killers identity was shown, I realized that I didn´t even care "}{"Title":"Before you compare it to #1, compare it to other second-slasher sequels","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There is no way this movie could have been as good as the '96 original.  By the time it was released there were so many imitations, I for one was burnt out on slasher movies.  But, this one is an improvement over #2, and definitely better than most slasher movies get by the time the second sequel rolls around.  The only real downfall here is the cast can't seem to hide their knowledge of being in a popular hit movie, and the corniest most contrived ending in the series.  This time around, I didn't care who the killer was because no one other than the regulars was on screen enough to create any suspicion. "},{"Title":"Oh MY GOD!!!!!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That was the most awful movie...it was...i think...the end when...i can´t find words to express my feelings...the first 2 were great....they shouldn't had taken Williamson from the project this Eren Krugher guy is ..well, not a writer...the cast was lost...like a Blind person in the middle of a shooting... "},{"Title":"Okay end to mediocre series","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This threequel massively improves over Scream 2. But that ain't exactly hard. The photography and direction are still very bad but Ehren Kruger's script has a few neat ideas. Unfortunately these idea are ignored in favor of ultra-cheap scares backed up by a lethally loud soundtrack. How many of these sub-genre flicks are going to resort to these cheap tricks?After a pointless, and very long opening, the film relocates from a college campus to Hollywood. The members of the STAB 3 cast are being killed by the masked one and the gratingly awful and highly clichéd 'who's the killer?' conversations follow.People are chased down dark corridors&#133;again. And loud noise, that is apparently music, attacks our inner ears and numbs our brains. In-jokes are lazy and not funny. Lance Henrikson is only in it for 2 seconds. And it gets quite boring. The only reason to watch this is the few decent ideas that are never realised or developed. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not scary, not funny, not entertaining.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed the first Scream, but this one was a major disappointment.  The first time we saw the killer's costume, it was actually scary.  There is just something about that mask that really gets to you.  But by now, we have seen it so many times, that it just isn't scary anymore.These characters are so one dimensional, we simply don't care what happens to them.  The movie is supposed to be self aware, one of the things that made the first one great, but this one is just a generic slasher film. There is only one brief scene where the horror movie trilogy is discussed, and that's about it.  The characters do the usual stupid things otherwise.There are also many ludicrous coincidences.  Time after time, the victim runs around and hides somewhere, and the killer just happens to be right there.  How did he manage to set up things so perfectly?  And the voice device he uses?  Things like that made me begin to hate this movie.The last straw was the ending.  The killer could have been anyone, even a random person off the street.  The motivation we are given is a joke.  It's painfully obvious that this movie was made just to cash in on the Scream franchise.   "},{"Title":"Neither scary nor funny","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The best scene in any one of the Scream films was the opening scene of the first film-the now classic &#145;phone call' scene in which Drew Barrymore is cut in half. It was true horror, a tribute to those that came before, as scary and gory as the best of them. It was the kind of adrenaline rush good enough for any horror fan. The rest of the film was more funny than scary, as everything else seemed to play comedically off of it. Still, horror fans loved it.I didn't even remember the story enough to follow along with the connections to the next two installments of the series. I enjoyed Scream 2 anyway. The opening scene, set in the movie theater, was almost as great as the original's. Not all that scary, but clearly they were pulling out all the stops to create something fresh. Another memorable scene in 2 was the one in which Sidney and her friend are trapped in the back seat of a police car, the only way out being to climb over the unconscious killer sitting in the front seat. As white-knuckle as they come. A short time later, however, comes the completely disappointing ending, the kind that leaves the audience wanting, priming it for one more installment, just so the series can redeem itself.Not that anyone was worried there wouldn't be a third film even as the second was being released, they were already shooting number three. This time Kevin Williamson decided to watch from the sidelines and passed writing duties to Ehren Kruger. Kruger is a good writer. He even gets the Scream formula right (if there is such a thing). What he doesn't do is write a scary movie. Not even the usually dependable Wes Craven's direction could make it scary (he's gone soft officially, starting with last year's Music of the Heart). When the opening scene with Cotton Weary and his girlfriend comes and goes with nary a tense moment and barely a drop of blood, the film has already made it clear that its creators are going to let the more squeamish off the hook this time. We have now entered the realm of 'Horror Lite' or 'Horror for Wimps' or, more specifically, Horror designed to draw the widest audience possible.The first two films, along with having genuinely scary moments, were also funny. Scream 3 is not. Kruger was probably selected for his ability to write twisty plots. When it comes to the dialogue, however, Williamson is missed. Kruger's other recent effort, Reindeer Games, had some humorous moments, but witty youthful banter is not his specialty. Maybe this is a good thing.This was supposed to be the fitting grand finale to a proud series. Instead, it becomes the one that beats its own conventions to death. It makes you realize how tired and repetitive the whole man-with-knife-chasing-young-beautiful-girl thing has become. Yes, this means that the Scream trilogy managed to both revive and re-kill the teen slasher genre. Of course, the genre is like any good horror movie villain no matter how many times you kill it, it keeps coming back. Maybe next time they'll think to blow it into bits instead of just shooting it in the head.Grade D-  "},{"Title":"An awesome and funny shockride!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really like this movie! I wouldn't say it's better than Scream but it  is far above Scream 2! I watched it twice so far, but I will see it again. In Germany it is already more successful than the previous two, after two weeks!!!The end is also better as Scream 2! Parker Posey and Matt Keeslar have done a very good job! And Neve Campbell, well, you know how perfect she is! So if you want to see a great, thrilling, funny and mysterious movie, then go and SEE SCREAM 3!I rate this movie  10 "},{"Title":"Finally closure...","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To start, I love the original two films in the series and so obviously I was overly-hyped to see this supposed conclusion piece in the modern day classic slasher trilogy. Knowing that Kevin Williamson dropped out, and word that Neve Campbell may be next seemed to give the film a preemptive ill-fate feel. The outcome is fantastic. Personally, the first is and always will be the best in the series, and I'm not sure which comes next between two and three. There is the return of horror director Wes Craven, accompanied by Neve Campbell's nice portrayel of an innocent victim, Sidney Prescott, Courtney Cox Arquette's savvy reporter, Gale Weathers, and David Arquette's oafish deputy, Dewey Riley. This time the script is written by Ehren Kruger who gave us the excellent Arlington Road, though Williamson is obviously absent. The dialogue is a bit different, and the chills are lost a bit in too much self-referential dialogue. The cameo by Randy is great, as is this film. My few complaints come from the complete lack of gore, the somewhat less than impactful conclusion where the killer is revealed, and a mistake with police photos of Sidney I am surely one of the few who noticed.The film is excellent and it brings wonderful closure. I have to say that right now, this is the strongest horror series, for all of its films are mesmerizing. Halloween (the best horror film by far) was accomanied by two good sequals, two and seven, yet three through six were wretched. A Nightmare on Elm Street was great, as was Wes Craven's New Nightmare, but two through six sucked royally from bad one-liners and cheesy effects. Friday the 13th never had an astounding film, and from the rumors of Jason X, set in outer space, there never will be a great one. Don't miss Scream 3 for its one of the few teen slashers of the nineties that still holds its intelligence. "},{"Title":"Lame, lousy, mediocre, irritating, annoying, and inadequate","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Calling Scream 3 disappointing, as so many critics and fans of the series already have, wouldn't begin to describe it.  Try deplorable, disheartening, unsatisfactory, ineffective, uninteresting, second-rate, inferior, lame, lousy, mediocre, irritating, annoying, and inadequate, and you might get an idea as to what a rotten little afterthought of a sequel this movie actually is.Instead of ending the series with a refreshing bang, new screenwriter Erin Kruger mimics original Scream scribe, Kevin Williamson's every move, and winds up making Scream 3 seem like nothing more than a faded Xerox of something that wasn't all that wonderful to begin with.  It is ironic that, by not following the all bets are off rule that Kruger himself concocted, this film is going to end up making far less money than it would have, if it didn't choose to play it safe.  In the end, it isn't the audience that will be scared by Scream 3 . . . it's the investors. "},{"Title":"DON'T EXPECT TOO MUCH!!!(potential spoiling)","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To me, and the majority of people, this movie definitely wasn't that great at all. I had great expectations for Scream 3, seeing as how part 1 and 2 were pretty good. I even thought up my own plot for it which was where Gail Weathers was the killer with someone else because she wanted to have stories she could report on and make books one. Dewey would find out it's her but too late because she would kill off Sydney, and then would have to kill her. That's not my whole plot but the main idea of it. Scream 3 was a HUGE disappointment. Here are some reasons why - a different script writer... WHY? ( - Sydney doesn't have a big enough part - plot doesn't really make sense - no main characters die (except Cotton) I think Sydney should've died - too many new people - only the new peope die - the deaths aren't gory enough**What I mean here is that the killer just went stab stab and the person died. In part 1 and 2 the killings wee more bizarre. Like in part one when Drew Barrymore's mom listens to her being dragged on the grass and then finds her hung. In part two when Jada Pinkett is dying in the theater but everyone else thinks she's just acting it out. The garage door, etc. - not enough suspense - a main character should have been a killer - only one killer, not two - too much confusing and stupid past crap about her mom and her death - not a good enough motive - what's with Courtney's hair??? There are more reasons but none I can think of now. I watched the movie last night and nothing really stands out in the movie that I can remember as being scary or that totally made me jump out of my seat.The one part i liked was when Jenny McGarthy was in the room full of the ghost mask costumes and then one moves. Well I don't want to give away the killer if anyone wants to see it. They ended the trilogy so that they could make a fourth movie... PLEASE DON'T IT WOULD WRECK IT MORE.I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, don't expect a freaky, wow i didn't think he'd die movie, and I would say it was a total waste of time and money. If anyone that reads this has a different view of this movie or agrees with me, feel free to email me.  "},{"Title":"Even a 'One' is way too much credit for this movie.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First I have to say I never saw part I and II of Scream. That was one of the reasons to find out whether or not the movie was any good.The movie started and it was immediately clear there was no story line at all. Scream 3 referred too much to the previous two parts. The script is flawed, for instance After 3 murders, a girl says two people are already dead! In combination with lousy acting, I have to conclude Even a 'One' is way too much credit for this movie. If there would be a prize for worst movie ever, they would not even consider Scream 3, for it's ghastly. There should be a severe penalty (think in the category of death) for making such a movie. It was a waste of my money, I should sue Wes Craven. "}{"Title":"Praise for Scream 3","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie finishes off the Scream trilogy very nicely, and clears up any questions you may have had about the first two.  The ending in this movie lets you know that everything is over for good.  The opening scene has to be the most ironic one to date.  I loved it how the actor playing Gail Weathers and the real Gail fought throughout the whole movie, it was so funny.  This is so far my favourite movie out of the trilogy (my old favourite was Scream 2 because of Sarah Michelle Gellar).  Well done to everyone involved in this trilogy. "},{"Title":"A positive review of one of the decades best movies.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In my opinion, SCREAM 3 is only topped as the greatest horror movie of all time by the original Scream. I know that many will rebuff this comment, but that is my opinion. The original was surprising and much mimicked, and this one was not as original, but still managed to make laugh and make me scream (in a manly sense). The killer(s) were not as stupid as people are saying, and the revelations about the past were shocking. If you have not yet had the chance to see this movie, GO SEE NOW.PS I am from London, but I have just returned from a trip to NY where I watched the film three times. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was the worst finale that I have ever seen in horror movie history.  I have seen quite a few of them too.  I had high expectations for this movie until I heard Kevin Williamson wrote the script.  I will give everybody the fact that he can't write anything serious, or completely original, on his own, but he sure can satirize a movie genre.  That was the whole problem, and that seemed to be what Kruger did not understand about the Scream series.  (Although I also hated Arlington Road, his other movie) He seemed to think that Scream 1 and 2 were just horror movies that had jokes about others of the genre.  These were great satires that followed a formula, but acknowledged it by telling the formula.Kruger strayed from the finale formula.  The finales in most horror series have the most explicit death scenes of all.  This one seemed to have almost no gore.  That might have been appropriate for the first one (Halloween had no gore) but not for the last.  (We can forget the crappy H20.)  All finales take risks.  Freddy's Dead had the idea of 3-D glasses, Jason Goes to Hell almost recieved an NC-17, and did get it in the video version.  If this movie did not have the M.F. word, it could have easily recieved a PG-13. JGTH had a death scene in the middle of an orgasm.The movie had a desperate feel to it.  There was one scene where I was laughing, simply because it was funny, that was played out for dramatic purposes.  *SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER*  This was when Randy's sister brings a videotape from Randy describing the rules of finales.  This would have been played out for laughs in other Screams.  But the rules were shallow compared to the other rules of the game.  They all boil down to all bets are off.  I thought that this was a hint of things to come, but no...Wes Craven played it safe.  He ripped off John Carpenter for the killer, kept everyone alive, and took away all spice to the series.  There was no special spark in this movie.The opening sequence even fell flat by being extremely stupid and over-played.  There was nothing particularly ball-grabbing about it.  The first sequence in Scream ripped out your mind, and showed you what over-knowledge of movies can do.  It was a highly original opening, even if it did rip off movies like Don't answer the phone.  The second one had an even more original opening that called attention to movies like RHPS.  (if you don't know those initials, get help.)  This one seemed drawn-out and boring.  This should have been the quickest, tensest, and most horrific of all the openings.  Well, maybe not tensest.I couldn't help but hate this stupid, boring, and completely clumsy finale. However, you will like it if you thought the other two were only scary.  If they were not clever or funny or mocking, then you will probably like this one.  However, anybody who does think intelligent things about the Scream series and saw them as mocking movies, will hate this.1/10 (can't give any lower) "},{"Title":"Save $6.50 rent Scream 2!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw Scream 2 I didn't think that it could get any worse.  It can! (e.g. the latest installment)  They should have not made a second, much less a third movie.  But at least the killer was in the movie for more than 2 minutes in this one (BOO Scream 2!) Very bad plot line.  Very sad way that they tied this movie in with the others... This Trilogy started with alot of potential but ended like a bad train wreck... Sad enough, everyones watching... I'm sure Wes Craven wishes he hadn't tied his name to this one!  "},{"Title":"The film was excellently written and directed as well as brilliantlt acted. I, being the horror fan that I am, think that Scream 3 is the best Scream movie in the series.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film was excellently written and directed as well as brilliantly acted. I, being the horror fan that I am, think that Scream 3 is the best Scream movie in the series. Parker Posey did an excellent Job as well as David Arquette, Courtney Cox, Jamie Kennedy, Patrick Dempsey, and Neve Campbell. The movie was all around awesome and should get more credit than it deserves. The Scream series revolutionized the horror industry, and deserves much credit. The movie was also somewhat scary unlike the prior 2. "},{"Title":"it should have been titled AWFUL!!","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Very disappointing!! Not revealing the murderer would have been better. The murderer was not even believable. Bottom line--waste of talent on a terrible script and direction was blahhhhhhhhhhhh. Patrick Dempsey was good. Neve Campbell came across tired and that was great. As for Mr. Arquette and Ms. Cox, they should save their little eyes for one another off set and remember that they are characters in a movie. "},{"Title":"Sad, depressing and insulting","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The most insulting horror film since I Still Know What You Did Last Summer. Also a real sad ending to a great series. This movie involves the filming of Stab 3 based on the events from Scream. Sidney is in hiding and the masked killer shows up looking for her and starts to kill everyone involved with the movie. The story is by the numbers, some of the acting is atrocious (particularly David Arquette and Neve Campbell) and the movie constantly insults the audience's intelligence. A masked killer is running around so people naturally go walking out alone or separate in a huge house to search for the killer! Basically this is exactly the type of movie that the first two Screams made fun of! It isn't remotely scary; you don't get to know (or care) about any of the victims; the killing scenes are boring; the dialogue is HORRIBLE (I couldn't believe some of the lines!) and the final revelation of who the killer was was supremely stupid. There were a few cute lines here and there, but that can't save an entire movie. A total piece of garbage. "},{"Title":"THE BEST OF ALL!!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yesterday evening (Saturday, Feb. 5) I saw Scream 3. When I heard there would be a third motion picture in the story I tought it would be like the others but after looking at the previews on the web I found something different. This final part of the trilogy is, as far as I'm concern, the best of all. Go and see for yourself and you will want to see it again just like me. "},{"Title":"saved the best for last?","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  when i heard about scream 3 i could not wait for it, i am a big horror movie fan though i like old school horror more i do love the scream movies, but when i heard Kevin Williamson did not write it i was not sure how it would be, but i had high hopes though cause the master of horror WES CRAVEN is the director and i must add my favorite director as well, scream 3 was an all out great movie, better then scream 2 but not better then the first, the movie was full of action, when it slows down they pick right up again, the twist at the end was ok but i did not see it coming, there is not much i can say cause i don't wanna give anything away, all i will say is the ending is a bit silly but that does not matter it does not hurt a truly great horror movie. i never get scared of horror movies there are only 3 movies that scare me but you can now add scream 3 to it, my heart was racing the whole movie. i was very nervous praying that my favorite character Dewey would make it out alive. did he maybe, maybe not, so as i close this i have to say see scream 3 you won't be upset with it, the cast is great, and Wes Craven gave us a great job at the directing, this is one of his best works ever. i just hope that there is no scream 4 casue the trilogy ended on a very high note, i give it **** out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Strange to say but it's better than the first !!!!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 blows the big screen like any movie before ! It got better twists and turns than the first and the second. Wes Craven did an perfect job by closing this trilogy. It's scarier, bigger and better than the two first films. I was a little worried that Kevin Williamson did not write this movie but this new screenwriter did a great job (maybe better than Williamson) by writing this movie ! And the end....wow!!!! It is so unpredictable and breathless !!! What a way to close the best horror movies/trilogy of all time !!! I give it *****+*/***** and it's one of my all time favorite ! Great job Wes !  "}{"Title":"The best Scream yet","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Scream and Scream 2 and I just returned from seeing the latest Scream, Scream 3.  I loved it.  The script was scary and funny and the acting was really good (esp. Courteney Cox Arquette, Parker Posey, and Jenny McCarthy was good in her small role).  All in all, a great movie!!! "},{"Title":"Probably the biggest cop-out I've ever seen","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *****WARNING  SPOILERS*****As Randy says in a video tape he so luckily made before he was offed in Scream 2, anyone, including the lead actor/actress, can die.  A cop (Good to see Patrick Dempsey working again) says to Sidney, for the final chapter of a trilogy, all bets are off.  These two scenes got my hopes up.  This movie should have ended with Sidney being the killer.  Or Gale or Dewey, the only returning cast after Cotton gets it in the first five minutes.  Or at least one of these (Sidney, Gale or Dewey) people should have died.  They needed to die or kill.  This would have given Scream 3, the final movie of the trilogy, enough oomph to be different than the other two.  To be better than the second (As if that would have been a challenge).  Even better than the first, which actually would have been tough to do.  Instead, we get a film that is worse than it's predecessors.  Why, you ask?  Simple.  It's a sissified cop-out.  Aside from not even being scary at all, (O.K., in Dewey's trailer when Patrick Warburton gets it made me jump) the only people who die in this load of crap are bit players.  People you barely see and don't have any clue who the hell they are.  So why should I care if they die?  They're new, one dimensional characters, who've been on screen for about 4 minutes a piece.  Then we get to the end.  The biggest dissapointment of an ending I have seen in a long damn time.  The killer is a new character to the trilogy (I'm telling you, it shouldn't have been someone new), and again, one that's on screen for literally 10-11 minutes before he's unmasked.  And then, it turns out it's Sidney's god damned long, lost brother, who it turns out, had Maureen Prescott killed before the events in the original Scream.  Of course, Sidney saves the day.  Boring. Boring, boring, boring.  And then, to add unexcusable sap to a let down, Dewey proposes to Gale, the woman who was broken his heart twice already. This scene was just too much.  Overall, what a crock of shit.  Ehren Kruger, who wrote a great movie and excellent ending for Arlington Road, should have done better.  Instead, he wusses out.  Think about it, after the events in the first two movies, Sidney snaps and by the third movie...is the killer!!! That would rock!  Or how about this...Gale Weathers, wanting a pulitzer prize so bad, dons the mask and knife and begins murdering just to get a story!!  Or Dewey, having his heart broken by Gale twice now, snaps and begins a killing spree!!! (O.K., sure that's a little weak, but still...) Those would have been great endings.  Plus, it would have gotten originality points, of which Scream 3 gets 1/2 out of a possible 5 in my book (Getting 1/2 a point, even though it was lame, for the long, lost brother which was at least somewhat creative). Now, why is it a cop-out, you ask?  Simple. All those annoying teeny-boppers who are getting picked up by your moms outside the theater right after the movie in the Winstar minivan, so they can all pick up their soccer uniforms we unfortunately have to share a theater with would whine and complain about how much it like totally blew that this movie had the courage to do something different and kill off/make the killer one of the main characters because a few 7th graders don't like anything new or dark.  Damn shame.  Oh well, at least it wasn't as bad as the I know what you did last summer movies. "},{"Title":"Perfect Ending for a Perfect Trilogy!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't so sure that it could be done, but Scream 3 is actually better than the first two!  I was amazed at how well the plot twisted and was interwoven with the previous two!  It is a very nice bookend to an excellent set of movies.  I'm sad that it's over, but I'm extremely happy that it ended on high ground.  Good job, Craven! "},{"Title":"I'm a Believer-Small Spoilers if you've been living in a hole)","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Boy, w/Kev gone, it seemed that all that could go bad was going bad, so I went to the movie yesterday expecting drivel, or close too it, but I came out of the theater a changed man.  I felt that this third installment was better than the second and equal to the first, if not better.  Sure, its different, but it still retains that making fun of yourself humor.  Of course, as many of you will know, the insaneness takes place on the set of Stab 3...and one funny thing is how everyone makes fun of the third installment of Stab, and how stupid it is.  Convenient that this all takes place in Scream 3.  If you've seen the comemercials, you've seen Randy appearing on a vid...this is a good way of bringing back a dead character...as opposed to having him show up, not dead!  Anyway, the movie exceeded my expectations by miles, in fact, I'm out to see it again now!  "},{"Title":"Third time is a charm?","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film was not written by Kevin Williamson and it shows.  From its non-humorous dialog to its fragmented plot, this film does not do much justice to the 'Scream' franchise.  If this is to complete the 'Scream' story, then I hope that Williamson does to the franchise what he did to the 'Halloween' franchise, completely ignore the piece of trash that this sequel is and write a new conclusion.  One can only hope.  If you're looking for something to do for the evening, do yourself a favor and rent the original. "},{"Title":"Worth the trip for Scream 3!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought the film was great.It not only gives a good name to the first Scream,but it also explains story.We follow Sidney as she talks to people about their problems on a hotline.Also in production is a B-Type Horror Film called Stab 3...a movie with-in a movie!Gale Weathers is not as uptight in this one,Dewy is a technical advisor for Stab 3,they needed a survivor from Woodsboro.I can't really say much more without spoiling it,but go see it.It was way better than Scream 2,but still not as good as the first Scream.Go see it,don't listen to bad reviews,it's worth the trip...Drew...  "},{"Title":"~SPOILERS~   Garbage","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  To tell you the truth I liked Scream 1 and Im ashamed of it but it was funny so I liked that.  Scream 2 just plane sucked and now they made the trilogy horrible by topping it off with Scream 3.  This movie wasnt to bad, mediocere makeup effects.  The scene where Sidney dead mother is in the window could of been terrifying but it wasnt.  The death scenes werent origional just your basic stabing and stuff.  I kinda liked it until I figured out the killer.  (HERE COMES THE SPOILER)  In the scene were Sidney is talking to the cop in his office I noticed that Sidney had on the necklass Jerry O'Connell who played her boyfriend gave her in Scream 2.  I figured this is weird then I remembere what the necklace had on it ROMAN letters that's right ROMAN letters.  And what was the name of the director of Stab 3 ROMAN.  Right there I knew who the killer was but I didnt know his motive.  I figured O.K. maybe something really cool happens at the end. Then the climax hits,  Roman reveils himself and I was right (and I made my friend pay up because I made a bet with him in the middle of the movie) Then when I found out that Roman is Sidneys long lost brother I fliped out,  that is such a let down to a suposide UNBELIEVABLE trilogy, which is the words my friend Colin used after he saw it the first time.  The only thing that was Unbelievable is that Wes Craven could allow something that crappy in his planned Trilogy.  The movie wasnt all bad,  some parts were funny and my favourite charactor Randy had a cameo but because of the ending I gave this movie * out of **** Dont waste your time or money See the first one because its atleast decent~Jesse~ "},{"Title":"I could have spent $7.00 so many ways","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I go to the movies practically every week, and I've seen the art films, the comedies, the dramas, the action movies, and I know what to expect from each.  Don't look for character development in 'Dumb & Dumber', for example. Now, with that, I give you my review of 'Scream 3'.  I read that this movie was slapped together.  Now I'm sure of it.  This movie was so corny, so repetitive, so predictable.  And I liked Scream 1 and 2, so I'm not biased. The ending leaves nothing to the imagination and actually ends up ruining the first movie. This theater was packed to the brim, and nobody was satisfied.  "},{"Title":"better than the first two.....","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just got back from seeing scream 3 and i loved it, i thought it was better than the first two movies.This movie has more twists in this one, and i also thought that the ending was the best. I would give this movie at least a 15/10 but since i can't i'll give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"A GREAT Wrap-up of the Triology","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was the best one yet.  It was funny and truly suspenseful.  It definitely kept you guessing on who it was til the very end. The new characters in this movie provide a nice comic relief, as well as screams. Definitely the best Scream yet, with the perfect wrap-up  "}{"Title":"Best SCREAM Yet","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 is the best Scream movie yet. I mean it offers, laughs, thrills and great acting!! Sidney isn't in it as much but I think it's good for this movie because instead you get to see what happened with Gale and Dewey.The only bad thing about this movie is I didn't want Jennifer Jolie(Parker Posey) to die. She was the best new Character TheScream Trilogy could give!I hope they come out with a 4th movie (which is in talks right now). Overall this is a very good movie !! I like it because you get to see all 5 characters that were mentioned in 3 movies, in this movie. When I saw this movie I was with my friends and 6/7 of them said they liked this movie the best out of all three. "},{"Title":"The Most terrifying Scream is always the LAST!","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am not usually one for Part 3's of films, but I must say 'SCREAM 3' is really good.With more comedy than the first two Scream 3 begins with a loud bang as Cotton Weary is murdered. The film then takes us to young Sidney Hiding in the hills in a secluded home, using an alias name. The film then takes you to Hollywood California where Gail is once again reporting, and Dewey is a 'technical' adviser on the set of the film 'STAB 3' the latest installment of the Woodsboro murders. But when a masked killer starts to kill the stars on the set and stalk Sidney, The games begin until the suspenseful climax where the final act and twist is revealed...Scream 3 delivers with fresh jokes and good kills. The film has plenty of eye candy. The twist is good as well something you will never see coming.Overall Scream 3 was a hip, entertaining final chapter to the series! "},{"Title":"Back For One Last Scare","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The plot In Hollywood, the filming of Stab 3 is interrupted when Ghostface returns, offing the actors according to the order they die in the script. Sidney (Campbell) is forced out of hiding, re-unites with Dewey (Arquette) and Gale (Cox) and must face yet another serial killer.OK Scream 3 may not be as strong as 1 and 2 but I still say that it's perfect end to a perfect trilogy. Sidney must the most unluckiest girl in the world every time she makes friends they die, lucky for her in this one she doesn't make any friends smart move for her. also love that they changed the setting, this time the film takes place in La La Land witch opens up a new door for this entry&#133;poking fun at Hollywood and self absorbed actors. We still get to see Woodsboro the town the two other films took place in but this time it's in the guise of a movie set. They use that set well, giving us a breathtaking stalk scene with a few surprises. The film has a few things we didn't find in the previous entries. We get a kool car racing down a highway scene, a massive explosion and way more gun play. Directer Wes Craven has decided to use elements of Nightmare On Elm Street in this one such as Sidney's freaky dreams about the killer and her dead mother, This being the third in the series I will admit that it doesn't come close to having the edge, the wit or the suspense the first one had. We're use to the format this time around. The opening murder was a bit of a disappointment it wasn't as gory or effective as one and two and way to predictable and the twist ending was a bit of a let down as if to say it's all been done before. But the film does bring the series full circle and also what we thought we knew about the past something comes back and bites Sidney on the ass. This movie again brings back Sidney, Dewey and Gale one last time and even a cameo of dead Randy giving yet again more horror movie survival tips from beyond the grave, well videotape. Again we also have a host of new characters such as Detective Mark Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey) the policeman on the case of the recent murders going and is also a film buff, Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey) the eccentric actress playing Gale Weathers in Stab 3, Producer Roman Bridger (Scott Foley) angry that his movie gets shut down because of recent murders, Tyson Fox (Dean Richmond) playing a Randy type character in Stab 3 but deterimed to make the character his own, Angelina Tyler (Emily Mortimer) the new Sidney Prescott in Stab 3, directer John Milton (Lance Henriksen), Tom Prinze (Matt Kessler) Dewey in Stab and last but not least Sarah Darling b-movie actress plays an early victim in Stab 3.The Acting Firstly I was surprised to see Carrie Fisher in this movie even though it's just a 2 minute cameo but she rocks, Jenny McCarthy was very sexy charming and I liked her in her short time, Neve Campbell (Sidney), Courtney Cox (Gale) and David Arquette (Dewey) reprise their respective parts and nothing new is brought to them, Parker Posey I loved her comic and manic performance she was the real star of the movie Patrick Dempsey was great very handsome in his role he deserves bigger movie roles and more success because he's a great actor.All in all, well the killings were a bit of a let down much less graphic than the other two but Wes Craven does it again doing a brilliant end to an awesome trilogy. "},{"Title":"If you love the original, stay away from this film.","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you're a fan of the actual PLOT of the original Scream, STAY AWAY FROM THIS FILM!If you though, only like the slasher-horror theme and the idea of a serial killer haunting people hen I guess you'd enjoy this part too but honestly, if you liked/loved the idea who and why the killer was in the original Scream, this film is so gonna shoot it down. Ruin some of the fascination of the ending. I swear. I'm nowhere near the only one who thinks this way.The first Scream should have, for this, and even generally, remained the only Scream. In my opinion it was and is a classic film that needed no sequels but even though it got them it doesn't lose too much of it's greatness - unless you watch this third part.'Scream 3' makers know the thing has gotten old and try to make this movie good by strongly pointing at Sidney's mother to bring something new but in my opinion, they fail. That seems only desperate effort to me. This part's killer's motive is way far fetched as is it's character completely. It's a useless character with useless motive.This film was even generally poorly made. They had almost ran out of new ideas and some scenes really seemed more like a parody or a comedy when I suppose they were supposed to be exciting.I gave this 3 only because this has some characters with the same actors from the first Scream (Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courtney Cox and even someone well-loved character shows up for a time.) I loved them all as characters and their actors, so it earns 1 point for the vote.The rest 2 I give for the ONE scene in this movie that actually was effective and well-done. It points to Sidney's past and to the original killer in a fascinating way.So there you go. Remember, I still say - if you loved the plot and the motives of th killer in the first Scream, please, do NOT watch Scream 3. They may have made it work in a way but it takes so much away from the first part's idea and is anyway useless.SCREAM should have never become a trilogy. "},{"Title":"A waste of time.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I loved the first two Scream movies. But Wes Craven needs to understand that just because his other films were a hit, he expects sequels better. But as it is said sequels never do as good as the original.Spoiler here...I found Scream 3, to be honest...boring and drawn-out. Mainly because I am so sick of the same characters in every one, but also because they ruin it with new ones. What a surprise it is that Sidney, Gale and Dewey survive(!) In fact in the final scene I almost was happy when Sidney was shot, but not surprised as she miraculously survived. (How come they were too stupid not to shoot for the head?).The story line was seriously screwed up with...no storyline?! Except for the usual. Oh come on! Roman, the killer!? It's pathetic. They couldn't have tried a little harder could they?! He turns out to be her brother! I think they struggled for an ending so just settled for the most stupid ending they could rush through. They could have at least used someone we didn't suspect from the start. Why didn't they have Kincaid as her brother instead? Or Angelina as her sister!? But Roman!? Why!? He was the most annoying selfish character in the whole trilogy. 'I'm a Hollywood director, I've been through Hell'- Get a life. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!!!!!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 started out well but when it came to the climax it fizzled as once more the writer used one of Hollywoods worn out reasons for murder, mommy loved you best!!! Oh please. Couldn't they have been a bit more original? Couldn't they have used anything but that one. I saw it coming a mile off and yet was hoping that I was wrong. Sorry I wasn't wrong. Then the actual ending was bogus too. There were two killers in both Scream 1 and 2 but not in 3. In my mind here is how it should have ended. Dewey and Gail do there little engagement scene and disappear into the house. Sid comes up with the dog and walks into the kitchen closes the door and proceeds to the living room where she finds Dewey and Gail butchered. As the look of shock floods her face we see Ghost Face appear in front of her and we hear that familiar voice say, Hello Sidney, we always comes in two's remember? and with that he or she leaps onto Sid and stabs her to death, roll credits............ That would have been the perfect ending at least after the bogus, brother didn't get mommies love and had to kill mommy and all of little sisters friends. Ho Hum!!!!!!!!!! I guess we the public can't have everything. "},{"Title":"The best of all 3!!!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A great movie!!! The best of all 3, it's unique! I love it!I think that no one knew the end of the movie, you just could not guess the end.One of the best movie's I have ever seen! Go and see it, if you haven't seen it!  "},{"Title":"on my list of ten worst movies of all time","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  around the time that this movie came out, i thought that scream was one of the greatest movies i'd ever seen <i'm pleased to say that my tastes have expanded a bit since then>. I was one of those people who knew all of the words and the useless trivia and could find any excuse to discuss the movie. Well i liked scream 2 <though it of course didn't compare to the first. So i had pretty high expectations for scream 3. My friends and I bought our tickets in advance and got their early and were just extremely excited. I sat during the movie with a horrible glare on my face. I left completely furious. Everything about this movie was horrible. <not to ruin the ending for anyone.. because the ending ruins itself> but I thought that was the weakest ending i had EVER heard. I honestly think they had a five year old write the script. They tried too hard to add humor. they had their token black guy who of course died. Every character in the movie was horribly written. They HAD no character. I was horrified by every aspect of the film. I couldn't believe somebody allowed for them to film this piece of trash. I've had all of this bubbling inside <and even more> but for the sake of time I will stop here and tell everyone who has any sense of taste to never see this movie.. ever. "},{"Title":"Now it's the final one!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This third installment of Scream was making all the sense to me. The survivors of Scream and Scream 2 returns to Scream 3. Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courtney Cox Arquette, Parker Posey, and more. The story begins with the murder of Cotton Weary Liev Schrieberas the killer comes back to Sidney's life. This movie 's killer was really hard to figure out because during the movie, Emily Mortimer gets this creepy Stab 3 souvenirs. But it was a pretty fine sequel. Who knows if there's going to be Scream 4? "},{"Title":"All Good things come to an endâ?¦. Sometimes Terrifying","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was released on February 4th, 2000. Miramax Films decided to finished up the wildly popular series that revived the horror genre, one that has been dead for years.  What most audiences expected to see out of Scream 3 was it to be just like the first two, and in fact to follow the same basic horror pattern, but in fact Scream 3 did the opposite. While the first two films were as predictable as they come, Scream 3 decided to kill off that pattern and start fresh, while still finishing up the series in one film. While the same basic horror films says to follow the rules, Scream 3 in fact had none.  But what was ashamed in fact was that Scream 3 served to be one of the least liked. But no wonder at that, after the original created a legacy leaving all kinds of films just like it; I Know What You Did Last Summer, Disturbing Behavior, The Sixth Sense, The Blair Witch Project, and many others. By the time Scream 3 was released it was like the genre had already been killed off, just leaving Scream 3 to dish up the leftovers. But in fact Scream 3 succeeded as being a better sequel than itâ?Ts predecessor - (or more like a trilogy) Scream 2. Scream 2 was in fact lame, and dull, never proving originality, but exploiting it. Scream 3 decided to alter that course and the only time to get around audiences the third time was to change that path. Scream 3â?Ts plot continues with the survivors of the second, Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox)  is now going network traveling everywhere and promoting her franchise, leaving the Woodsboro murders behind, as well as the Windsor ones. Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) no longer really moved on with her life, but lives a life of seclusion in the boonies in her California home, leaving her past to haunt her. And Deweyâ?Ts life (David Arquette)  is shown in the limelight as he is on the set of Stab 3 promoting the new motion picture as itâ?Ts in itâ?Ts final days of shooing, and has a girlfriend, Jennifer Jolie who plays Gale Weathers in Stab 3, (Parker Posey).As everything is all merrily and dandy, Cotton Weary (Live Schreiber) who was suspected of killing Sidneyâ?Ts mother in the first film, is brutally murdered in his LA apartment, along with his girlfriend Christine. As the story moves on Sidney gets a disturbing phone call, as the killer stalks his way back into her life. The media is going toward a pauperize frenzy all over the set of Stab 3, as the disturbing news is at large. Not long after, bodies begin cropping up around the set as Sarah Darling (Jenny McCarthy) is found dead in the studio. As the pieces of the puzzle make their way to a spine tingling conclusion, all the leading survivors find that there is a party as Roman Bridgerâ?Ts home the writer of Stab 3, and as they find their selves there they found out the party becomes a blood bath as Sidney is confronted with her worst fears once and for all, as the loose ends find themselves tied. Scream 3 has a hot cast featuring Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courteney Cox,  Josey and the Pussycatâ?Ts Parker Posey, Felicityâ?Ts Scott Foley, MTVâ?Ts former host on Singled Out Jenny McCarthy, and many others as the bubbling trilogy proves more than just another sequel, as some of the most climatic, and anticipating long awaited moments are over as the horrifying series comes to a hault in Scream 3. "}{"Title":"The final scream is always the last ... or so we're told.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The weakest of the three Scream movies in my opinion, although many people I know preferred it by far to Scream 2 and some even to the original!Whereas Scream was an original post-modern take on the slasher movie, very much something we hadn't seen that much of before or to such an extent at least (1987's Return to Horror High and Wes Craven's 1994 New Nightmare had their moments); and Scream 2 was a refreshing sequel, Scream 3 very much has the feeling of Been There, Done That.Despite all the talk of script secrecy and changes, the plot is rather lacklustre, and manages to misplace Sidney at every turn. The identity of the killer is not really surprising, and the whole backlog story that goes with it is very had to swallow.Most disappointingly, the death scenes have no impact whatsoever (think Drew Barrymore and Jada Pinkett's deaths in the first two, etc.) Not just are they virtually gore-free but they have no power behind them at all, leaving the movie very much a Disney or Lite version of Scream.To his credit, Ehren Krueger does his best with the script, and no doubt it was difficult coming up with a completely new killer, etc. - and Wes Craven directs with his usual slickness.There are certainly some fine moments - most notably Carrie Fisher's cameo with bite, and the bitch-fights between the Real and the Fake Gale (Parker Posey is the best of the cast, and it's a pity her role couldn't have been to more effect).Despite its bad points, there is enough energy left in the serious for this installment, but it just could have been so much better, especially considering all the time and secrecy invested in the project.Scream 4? Quite possible. And why not? Perhaps it could do a HalloweenH20 and disregard it's 2nd sequel. "},{"Title":"Thank gawd the triology is over!!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ick! This is what I thought of the whole Scream trilogy. They only got worse, but thank gawd the misery is over. All three movies are the same. A new ghost-face killer is on the loose on the movie set 'Stab 3' , a parody of the original Scream story. As usual the gang is all here, & they of course are the only ones who can get the baddie. The only highlight of this movie is genre favorite Lance Henriksen. The younger 'Dawson's Creek' audience won't know who he is, but then again, they will be the ones who like this movie.  "},{"Title":"A perfect example of Hollywood's vacuity","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is a perfect example of Hollywood's vacuity. This film is like the first sequel to Scream and was obviously made for money only. There is no passion, no invention, and all the cast members play awfully. Films like this one aren't really films to me. They're just boring products and I always feel like I'm being taken for a fool when I find myself watching such crap. "},{"Title":"Blows the second one away, although it can't reach the first.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Best Despite being another killer chasing teenage playboys and playmates like horror movie, it is horror in it's most pure state. The scares are even stronger and appropriate the story is good and the killer is absolutely unpredictable, and even when you see it second time everything fits perfectly. Sidney's nightmares with her mother where awesomely scary, congratulations to both, specially to Maureen. The Worst The movie didn't work out in the Box Office as well as we all expected, while it wasn't for sure a flop, not even close&#133; it could have worked a whole lot better. Rating 7/10Chapter one Makes the rules. Chapter two Brakes the rules. Chapter three All rules are off!Three years and a half after the Woodsboro incidents, Sydney Prescott moved to California, where she keeps a quite life in a house in the hills, changed her name to Laura while she helps women in distress. This life is secret and alone as she is haunted by the ghost from the past. When at the Stab 3 studios the actors start being murdered by the order as they die in the script, Dewey Riley and Gale Weathers are involved in the researches done by detective Mark Kincaid, due to their involvement in the past experiences. Attracted to the crime spots, Sidney once more has to face  her biggest nightmares and find the strength to defy in this explosive and profound end of the trilogy which changed  forever the story of scary movies.Alongside this movie my all time favourite scary movies are (the misunderstood, but hell fantastic) THE HAUNTING, the original SCREAM, SIXTH SENSE, and THE EXORCIST. True to be said, this movie can't even reach the heels of 1999's THE HAUNTING, the most fantastic psychological and supernatural horror film ever!, but this movie sure keeps on the edge of your seat as well as jumping from it (!) presenting good actors, scared and a plot that scares when it should, makes laugh when needed, and make cry the more sensitive ones.Did anyone else noticed the enormous plot hole? On Scream 2, it was presented Stab, but in this movie, Stab 3 is being shooted and there ain't no reference to any Stab 2!  (You know how to count 1,2,3 &#150;you know?-)Seat back, enjoy the ride, let yourself be haunted, chased scared cause the movie will certainly do that, if you allow it&#133; 7/ 10  "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was the best one...shouldn't have stopped here!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER Scream three kept you in suspense the most.  Who was there left to want Sidney dead?  In Scream it was her boyfriend and his twisted friend Stu. In scream 2 it was Billy's mom, in a way it was suspected to be her cause a mother is going to want revenge.  Of course no one thought it was that nobody reporter that showed up every where.  So who was left?  Her brother that no one knew existed... I thought it was great and there should have been more to follow up. "},{"Title":"Did they HAVE to make a 3rd sequel?","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I mean it was bad enough with Scream 2. They should have just left the original alone and let it be a classic, but no, they had to ruin it again with another sappy sequel! (Although I do find Scream 2 better than Scream 3)Scream 3 is basically Neve Campbell (wonderful actress) getting stalked a third time by a completely different person who has no relation to the first 2 movies! I mean that just does not happen. I mean one girl gets stalked and almost killed three times over the course of 4 years. "},{"Title":"Three times the charm, the blood, and the personality","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Did they disappoint us before?  They made sure they didn't this time. Scream 3 is just a great film.  Warning to any fans who have not seen this movie yet This comment may contain some spoilers.  Fans of previous Scream films should gladly accept this third attempt as another worthy effort, but it is by no means better than the first.  It could be, but that just isn't the way horror movies work.  Always credit the first film with the most points.The setting and environment of Scream 3 is choice and inspiring.  Could see many horror films working this way.  Sidney's dark and eerie cabin in the woods (where she is hiding) provides for some very suspenseful moments.  A few visits lure Sidney out of hiding, out under the lights and cameras on the set of Stab 3 in Hollywood, and everything just gets better from there on out.  It never lets up.  New main characters include Posey and Dempsey, who provide top-notch performances with Parker Posey as the wannabe Gale who takes the whole murder mystery way too seriously and tries to annoy Gale by acting out her role as Gale, and Patrick Dempsey plays the perfect role of the suspecting cop who suspects too much and therefore makes himself a suspect.  The movie is funny, but yet really serious, and I have to say that I felt disturbed watching the characters die in this film.  That only happened once before with Tatum in the first Scream.  Well, in this Scream almost every death scene was disturbing for me.  The blood is there, lots, and I hate to say it but Scream 3 is actually more frightening than the previous two films in the trilogy.  The killer is almost like a ghost, a mistakable entity.  I could feel the killer's presence.Another plus in this film is the incredible use of bad lighting in the final scene.  Choice!  Go, Wes!  That's what we want.  You can't really see what is happening, but you know that something is.  You hear the knife blade. The fake studio scenes within the film provide perfect traps for some of the stumbling characters, and there is even a new phone-voice gadget that the new killer(s) use(s).  Wont tell ya what it is though.  I'll tell you, honestly, I haven't been really scared, and I mean FRIGHTENED-scared, by a film since the first Scream and possibly Halloween 666.  But Scream 3, it outdoes all of the nineties horror flicks.  No lie.  However, it does start off a bit cliche and a little lame, but it works well.But Scream 3 absolutely, positively, and intentionally never, ever stops scaring for the whole two hours.  In the previous two Scream films, the audience actually had time to contemplate the killer's(s) next moves, motives, and/or identities given the gaps of dying time between death scenes.  In Scream 3, the dying and the action almost never stops.  You won't get to suspect any of the characters because they drop like flies. But, please fans, take this movie seriously, but not TOO seriously.  It is a landmark compared to other horror genres and their third sequels.  Watch it with an open heart.  Let me spoil at least two things now  Jamie Kennedy makes a cameo, and there is a very big secret shuffled into the trilogy very smoothly.  Also, there are so many red herrings and fancy plot twists in this film that by the end of the movie you will feel literally drained by it.  This movie had a personality, and it had class and style.  Stuff that the first Scream had that other horror films didn't, which makes Scream 3 a nicely made, different stretch from both films with a bit of its own flavor. Scream 3 on the BIG SCREEN is fresh on my mind right now from last night (fri 2/4) and all I can think about is going to see it again and again and again.Overall, there could be more to ask for out of it, but this works well enough.  If I would rate Scream with an 9.0 rating on the IMDb website, then Scream 3 should get at least an 8.5.  Three point deduction from Scream's rating for a little bit of bad acting, and a two point deduction for some poor casting choices.  Preferably, Jenny McCarthy.  Please, don't let her ruin the movie for you.  Her fate is obvious, just bare with it.  The acting/casting was good, don't get me wrong.  I wasn't able to get out of my seat for the whole duration of the film.  It's hypnotic.  I was so hyped to see this film and I wasn't let down one bit.  I won't talk about the ending in my review much cause I'm sure that some fans won't like it.  But it is still a great film.  For casual movie-goers, as well.Here's the crack down Scream  -9   stars, A+ Scream 2-7.5 stars, B+ Scream 3-8.5 stars, A- for actingAnother spoiler, maybe.  One scene almost made me cry, and the ending of Scream 3 is seriously odd and eerie.  I mean the dead last shot, not the climax.  Never before has there been talk or suggestions of ghosts or entities in Scream, but the ending of this film makes for some pondering. Hmmm.  True fans always love another open door.Just remember.  All bets are off. "},{"Title":"More Soul Numbing from Wes Craven !!!","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven , a truly gifted Director, churns out another Stabfest as GhostFace goes on another rampage, in order to eliminate Sidney Prescott(Neve Cambell), who is back from Windsor College in Cincinatti, and relocated to an unknown location in Northern California and working the phones as a Crisis Counselor !!!Well, got all that, but hey, they are making a film in Hollywood of the Woodsboro murders(Scream,the original), and they have a complete set of the house , where Dewey(David Arquette)is the technical adviser!!!But as fate would have it ,cast members are being killed, you guessed it by GhostFace, who else !!! With Sidney getting weird phone calls from someone disguised as the voice of her mother, Maureen Prescott, the slut butt bitch of Woodsboro, she travels to Hollywood, and meets up with Dewey, Gail Weathers(Courtney Cox Arquette), and they try to solve the mystery of the USELESS and Soul Numbing killings !!Unbelievable as it may seem, Wes introduces us to another unlikely killer who is completely detached from the first two movies !!! Incredible !!! This means he can find NO other solution to tie all 3 movies together except some MYTHICAL device !!! It is MY opinion that Sidney Prescott, will go completely MAD if there is a Scream 4, and become a mass murderer herself !!!If you are looking for some motivation for the murders, Sarah(Jenny McCarthy) for little or no acting ability , Cotton for just being dumb,and anyone else for getting too close !!!I suppose the subplots make the movie more palatable, but at this point, who cares...The Director keeps us guessing as to who the real killer is, until the last 20 to 30 minutes of the film, but he leaves so many clues, even the police can figure Sidney doesn't do it !!!There are several guest performers, but they can't save the film...If you are new to killing and mass murder, then you might get through the film!!! I can't recommend Scream 3 for its' lack of humanity. it ranks with You Spit on My Grave.This may be the Third and Final installment in the series that killed itself . "},{"Title":"oh my god...**spoiler**","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  oh my god... i thought scream 1 an 2 were horrible. Well wait till you see number 3. It takes the cake for being the cheapest and most corny scream of all time. The fact that the movie is based on making a movie of the first scream movie already spells it out that it will be a horrible movie, i mean the first one was horrible... anyway the killer being the long lost son who is actually a successful Hollywood directer is lame just lame. This movie was like a high budget C rater. I think that after scream one the director should have been executed or at least banned from ever making a movie again. Worst part of the movie is when the 'bad guy' gets shot. and they think its over only to discover *SUPRISE* he isn't dead?!?! my god nice twist I'm amazed.... no. I from now on boycott any scream movie or future movie this director makes.  "},{"Title":"The law of diminishing returns strikes again","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  On the set of Stab 3 it seems that the Woodsboro killer is at large again and is killing his/her way through the cast in order to get to Sidney who has gone into hiding.  With suspects galore Sidney, Gale and Dewey must catch the killer as he rewrites the script to make his own film where anyone's a target.No matter how many times we see horror franchises get worse and worse we never seem to learn.  How many people think that the Jason or Freddy films get better with every sequel?  However Wes Craven sees the money and can't seem to say stop &#150; the spoof of Scream in `Jay & Silent Bob&#133;.' was bang on when the killer was revealed as a monkey!That's the problem &#150; the story is forced and it becomes all about the scares.  Unfortunately these are toned down and there is very little real horror or gore.  As for mystery &#150; forget it.  I like being able to work out the killer(s) and in the first one I thought it was clever.  The second was unguessable &#150; some bit actors turn out to be the killers.  However here it's even worse.  The film is littered with red-herrings and false clues that take away from the action and the actual killer is impossible to guess as his/her motives are just plain made up!It almost feels like they know that the film will make money on the strength of the name and that the rest just needs to be so-so.  Of the cast Neve Campbell is really strong in her now familiar role and brings more to it than just a scream queen.  Cox and Arquette are OK but indie queen Posey is good despite the fact that this is a poor film by her standards.  Kennedy as Randy makes an on-video appearance that discusses the rules of trilogies (although isn't as convincing as his other bits) and is the best performance in the thing.Overall, it's not scary and it lacks gore.  The plot is stupid as it fills every scene with so many red-herrings that the whole film smells of fish!  Please, lets just kill this series off now &#150; we don't need a Scream 4. "}{"Title":"The final installment of the highly successful Scream Trilogy lives up to the standards the first two set.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  With the original stars coming back, and a load of new friends and killers entering the fray, Scream 3 was a highly entertaining and satisfying end to the most original horror film to come down the pike in a generation.Scream 3 takes place after our heroine Sidney (Neve Campbell) has graduated from college. She's now living up in the hills somewhere, determined to put the horrors of her life behind her. If you remember in Scream 2, they were making a film about the events that took place in the original Scream, entitled Stab! Well now they're filming the 3rd installment of the Stab! trilogy, called, well Stab 3! Our favorite cop Dewey (David Arquette) is now an advisor on the set. Gale Weathers is still a reporter, and when Cotton Weary (the man accused by Sidney in the first movie) is murdered in his home, the detective on the case (Patrick Dempsey) calls Gale to come and help.One by one the people on the set of Stab 3 are being killed off. The only clues left behind are pictures of Sidney's dead mother. Who's coming after Sidney now? Has everything we believed from the first two movies been wrong? Is there someone else out there who's been behind everything all along? Or has one of our favorite characters finally snapped? After a slow opening, Scream 3 kicks it into high gear with a lot of brutal killings, and a surprise ending that finally ends the nightmare for Sidney.I love true horror films. And the Scream movies are definitely some of the best of the genre. It has taken horror films to another level. It's no longer just good enough to kill innocent scantily clad women (not that I don't enjoy that as well), you need to write the movie with the understanding that the audience is smarter than in the past (when it comes to movies at least). And the one thing the Scream series doesn't do is insult the intelligence of their audience. Scream 3 continues in the tradition of its counterparts by having smart dialogue, and creating a believable story line (for a horror film). While the eventual conclusion may leave some people with a bad taste in their mouth, I personally feel satisfied with it. A lot of horror film series (which shall remain nameless) keep going in the series, without ever coming to an end. This time, director Wes Craven has made a movie trilogy that comes to a final conclusion. Sure, as with all horror films, there could be another installment, but no one wants that. By bringing the major story arc to a finish, and by explaining how and why the entire series got started in the first place, the story ends without p***ing off the audience.As usual, the acting is pretty sharp (with the exception of Jenny McCarthy who still looks great, but needs to work on her scared look). Along with the characters mentioned above, there were other good turns by Parker Posey (playing Gale Weathers in the Stab! series), Scott Foley (of Felicity fame) as the director of Stab 3, Lance Henriksen as the Producer of the Stab! series, and two special cameos by Carrie Fisher and Jaime Kennedy (by means of videotape). I especially liked bringing Kennedy's character back (even though he was killed off in the last movie) and having him explain the rules of a trilogy. It's things like that that keep the Scream movies fresh and entertaining. The script (this time not written by Kevin Williamson but by Ehren Kruger (nice name)) was well written and kept the spirit of the first two films alive, while still creating a new story with a lot of new characters.So overall, I found Scream 3 very entertaining and fun to watch. I thought that it did a good job of using elements of the first two movies to create the story, and then giving the audience a final ending to one of the best trilogies of all time. "},{"Title":"Wanna know who the killer is?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The killer in Scream 3 is.............. WES CRAVEN! Because he probably killed the careers of every actor in this movie. The first Scream was pretty decent, the second was disappointing, but not all bad, and Scream 3 is just plain DULL! There's nothing left in this franchise to hold my interest. You'd think since the first Scream was fairly original and innovative, that there'd be something new and fresh in Scream 3. But it's all the same boring scenes and killings that were in the first two, just with different actors. In the original Scream film they made a point to almost mock and make fun of typical slasher films. Now this series has just become everything that the first film set out to make fun of. I knew about 30 minutes into this film that I was going to hate it. But once they revealed the BIG SHOCKING ENDING, all I could do was laugh. Laugh really loud, and really hard. And I wasn't the only one in the theatre doing so. If you're going to waste your time and rent this, you'll at least be entertained by the music. That's about all that kept me watching. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Disappointing sequel to the mega hit series finds Neve Campbell forced out of hiding after a ghost faced killer starts murdering people in Hollywood and leaving pictures of her mother at the crime scene. Fast paced, scary, and exciting, but it simply doesn't have the charm, humor, and originality of the first two. The first two presented violence with a wink and had you screaming & laughing at the same time, all that is left this time around is carnage. The cast doesn't have none of the appeal that the previous entries did.Rated R; Graphic Violence & Profanity.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as the other Scream films.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I must say I'vie once was a massive Scream fan but as the years went on and my film watching grew I slowly realized that Scream isn't the god send to the horror genre as most people make it out to be and Scream 2 was just a even more stale version of it's predecessor. Now we get to Scream 3 sure pretty bad but certainly the best of the franchise. Scream 2 instead of brining nothing new to table that admitted Scream the original brought something Scream 3 brought something new. The film is about our typical Dewey and Gale relationship that's been getting old but unlike Part 2 it seems a little bit more heart warming to see this relationship grow into it's happier state in the end of the film. Sydney in this film comes off more like a lame Halloween H20's Laurie clone same thing goes for the equally horrendous Rob Zombie's Halloween II. We got a lot of blank almost non existence characters in this film like the security guard & plenty of others. I like the element that they we're playing around with Hollywood and the sleazy underbelly of it. The killer in the film comes off a little too whiny and complainer but I'll take a solo man act over the very much gay relationship between Billy and Stu or the generic almost comical Billy's mother of which was only saved due to her sidekick having a small bit of social commentary but with Roman I like a solo case and the emotion behind it. Scream 3 unlike Halloween H2020 Years Latter should'vie been the end of the series but we got a worse film eleven years later in Scream 4 of which I consider to be the worst of the whole franchise might review that soon. Scream 3 seemed like a perfect closure to the Sydney,Dewey & Gale storyline instead of a lame bastardization Halloween H20's ending would'vie brought to Michael Myers something non Halloween fans would consider great. "},{"Title":"Satisfying final entry...until it wasn't.","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you find yourself dealing with an unexpected backstory and preponderance of exposition, you are in the final part of a trilogy. A rarity in the horror genre, but a force to be reckoned with! And so film geek Randy comes back from beyond the grave to explain to us what's going on one last time, as the Scream trilogy, as it was originally intended, comes to an end with a satisfying tale of jealousy and revenge.Scream, in the end, is a series made by a horror movie nerd for the entertainment of horror movie nerds, and this third film is as nerdy as they come. We get one of the original 80's teen flick nerds Patrick Dempsey as the love interest, we get the love interest from Felicity, Scott Foley, as the killer, and we learn that even nerds like Randy and Cotton Weary can and did get the girl in the end.Scream 3 picks up a few years down the track from the second instalment. Cotton now hosts a talk show with the cringe inducingly punny title 100% cotton. Dewey and Gale have broken up again, Gale is back to being a current affairs anchor while Dewey is now an assistant on Stab 3, the latest instalment of the film series based on the 'real life' Woodsboro Murders. Sidney is living in seclusion working as a counsellor for the women's help hotline, with only Dewey and her father knowing where she actually is.But when the kills happen in this one, the victims are accompanied by a photo of Sidney's mother, Maureen Prescott, the very first victim in the Woodsboro murders, all of them showing her around the age of 18, the only time in her life when no one knows where she was or what she was doing.From this interesting and promising opening comes a pretty decent little mystery/ comedy/ thriller. I really enjoy the consistent internal logic and characterisations in this film compared to the first two films in the series.The newer characters, specifically Parker Posey's faux Gale and Phil Roman are very enjoyable additions to the cast. Cameos from Carrie Fisher, Jay and Silent Bob, and a minor role for Lance Henrickson further up the enjoyment. Dempsey's tortured cop and his droll partner are good as well.The resolution is reasonably satisfying and the well realised. Better than the second film and a quality finish to a good horror film series. Until they made another one. "},{"Title":"No where as neer as good as the original but better than scream2","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" scream 3 starts of with survivor of the 2nd scream Cotton and his girl friend playing a deadly game with ghost face, and just like the other 2 scream movies the opening was one of the best parts of the film seeing 2 deaths before the real action starts.i liked scream 3 better than scream 2 for the following reasons.1)the characters didn't revolve around Sydney so gave the viewers more time to like and get to know them.2)there were more characters so even more victims AND suspects.3) parker posy was the funniest Character to ever be on a scream movie.although they had plenty of laughter, the real let down were the scears, it was all very predictable but still fun to watch.scream 3 has a different story to the first 2, with Sydney having a long lost brother (ROMAN) getting jealous and going on a killing spree.that was a fantastic twist.scream 3 is not better then the first far from it but is better than the 2nd. i would recommend this to a scream fan. 7star "},{"Title":"Getting Better","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'Scream 3' follows an okay-ish 'Scream 2', the third instalment and final chapter goes back to its roots a bit.The acting from the three main characters (Courteney Cox, Neve Campbell and David Arquette) is as good as it was in the two previous films; Campbell's performance is probably the best out of the three because her character has developed significantly since the last film. The other actors in it are either atrocious or are just really good at pretending to be really atrocious actors in the movie-within-a-movie 'Stab'. The only exception from this would probably be Patrick Dempsey though he is not really in the film for a great amount of time anyway.The plot is a lot better than the second film. Some of the murder sequences are a bit far-fetched and ridiculous but I think this was deliberate. The major difference between this film and 'Scream 2' is you are genuinely shocked when you find out who the killer is because you had no idea. The script is a lot better than the previous film but dialogue between characters is not quite up to scratch. In 'Scream 2' the dialogue was a lot more believable and not quite as wooden.Overall, this film is better than 'Scream 2', not better than the first one but it is definitely worth a watch. Again, if you have not seen either 'Scream' or 'Scream 2', don't bother watching this until you have seen them because there are so many references to each of them from start to finish that you would not have a clue what was going on. "},{"Title":"all bets are off","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 is one entertaining film.like the previous two films,you're left guessing to the end as toe the identity of the killer.i don't know if it's the best of the trilogy,but for sheer entertainment it cant be beat.it gets a bit chaotic at times,and b becomes a b it of a mess,but then again in third chapter all bets are. and ti is nonetheless.it ends the trilogy on a high note.the actors really get into their roles and look like they are having fun with their characters.it will be interesting to see what happens in the fourth installment.as for this film,i enjoyed it immensely and would watch it again.for me,Scream 3 is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Someone's out  looking for blood as in Sydney Prescott's blood!","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I loved this film so much. I was happy that Cotton was in the film for a short time but at least he had a chance to have a life until the killer found him and killed him inside his home. I had thought that the killer was trying to get to Sydney last instead of trapping her in a room with the killer(aka her half-brother). I was shocked and terrified when he had revealed his identity to Sydney. I thought that he would knock her out and tie her to a chair and talk to her then figure out how he could easily kill her. I was holding my breath when the camera centered in on Dewey and Gale tied up and nearly killed right around Sydney. But I was scared when the killer trapped her in a room and revealing himself to her and showing her clips of her mother before she had died. I loved this film so much that I hope that another sequel comes out and really is a bit more modified to this version a little. I did hear of a new film Scream 4 coming out this year and I am so excited because I graduate this year and this one was of my favorite films. I hope that Sydney still lives and the killer dies in the film! "},{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" What happened to Kevin Williamson, the writer for the first two movies in the scream series. I like him better than whoever did this movie. This movie is a good movie, but don't raise your expectations too high about scream 3. The fear that the Prescotts face is unbelievable and the ending of scream 3 is fascinating. Not as Fascinating as Scream 2 though. Kevin Williamson is coming back for Scream 4, Thank god. And if Scream 4 is a success he will do Scream 5 and 6. Thank god for that too. I hope you find Scream 3 more entertaining than I did. Im not saying its a bad movie but it could have been better than it really was. "}{"Title":"Horrid! Horrid! Horrid!","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK. I am a fair person, sometimes I watch a movie and HATE it, but I will give it another shot. For this film, I gave it around 50 shots, alright? I love Neve Campbell, she's cute, she's adorable. But, her features are exactly as attractive in the 2nd. When I first saw her hair I thought maybe she would grow it out. Short hair is not pretty on her. The cast, the originals are skating past like they are doing a home movie. While the rest are just fabulously (sarcastic) gingerly reading their lines with retardation.The killer, Roman, has a good reason to hate Sidney. However, his sore acting skills don't help. I mean, the voice box, it may seem good in the script, but however will not work while filming. It just brings the killer is trying to hard, and the actor is, as well to a new level. Gale or C.C. as I called her once with affection, should've died. Her fan base, was obviously a bunch of hormonal boys waiting for her to go in the shower and have a nice view of her plastic. "},{"Title":"The trilogy fizzles...while it still entertains it doesn't touch the original two films","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream literally re-invented and brought back the slasher flicks of the seventies and eighties and as a devout fan of the genre, I was thrilled. Even better was the fact that Scream 2 was just about a step above the original was impressive. Both films also stacked the cast with hot, young up and coming stars, and a brilliant horror film maker (Wes Craven)and brilliant writer (Kevin Williamson.) Enter the 'final' part of the trilogy. Let's look at what has changed. Original cast...check...Wes Craven at the helm...check...Kevin Williamson...producer but not writer...hmmm interesting. Enter new writer Ehren Kruger who at this point hadn't had a lot of experience with big budget films. I don't blame Kruger for the stumble in the series necessarily. He did pen the script for both The Ring films which I adore, but then again he also penned Transformers 2 which compared to its original was nothing short of a disaster. Scream 3 is a must see but only because the trilogy as a whole is brilliant because where the series starts out in brilliance, it falls flat by the end with a lower standard of story, a rather disappointing conclusion, less variety and creativity with deaths and just extended characters that don't have the same appeal.In my opinion especially in the horror genre it's always good to have the original cast come back. I love this cast. Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox (while I love her character...she looks awful in this movie), David Arquette, and Liev Schreiber however brief has a terrific scene at the beginning which will give you high hopes for the rest of the film. So enter the newcomers, the hot young cast we have come to expect from Wes Craven's Scream series and for the most part they are young, hot and decent actors but they aren't given the roles to sink their teeth into so you don't care about them. Patrick Dempsey is the head Detective on the case with an apparent crush on Campbell's Sid although that is never established nor explored whatsoever its just simply assumed. Dempsey is a great actor and they really short changed his character who could have been as good as Jerry O'Connell in Scream 2. Scott Foley is decent as young director Roman Bridger but again he never really gives us anything outstanding with his character. B-Movie King Lance Henriksen could have had an epic cameo role (think Henry Winkler in Scream 1) but instead he is drab and unimportant. Deon Richmond, Emily Mortimer, and Jenny McCarthy are just simply fodder for the Ghostface killer and they didn't give them anything to work with. I mean in the past films even the supporting cast had significant roles in the plot. The absolutely disastrous attempt to bring back fan favorite Jamie Kennedy in his role as Randy Meeks was even more disheartening and meant an awkward, forced and downright stupid cameo by Princess Diaries alumni Heather Matarazzo.So where did they go wrong? Well first and foremost the film was clearly rushed. They lost all heart and passion for the series and the genre and forced out a sub par entry to 'wrap' up the trilogy. The so called final solution to the Scream franchise was downright silly and not explained or linked together. I don't blame Wes Craven as the man is nothing short of brilliant and I don't even blame the lack Williamson at the helm of writing but simply bad timing and perhaps a rushed film schedule. Fortunately for Scream 3 it will be watched because the first two installments draw you in and make you want more. In true slasher flick style it is now official that Scream 4 (with the potential of a second trilogy) has been green lit and I couldn't be happier. Still be prepared to be let down when the screaming is over. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Scream Yet","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When i usually read comments about Scream 3, i generally find that many fans of Scream aren't satisfied with the second sequel and that's just weird. This movie was very good, and the new characters and previous characters were all better in this movie. The storyline of Scream 3 is better then Scream 1 and 2.Scream 1 was very average and i say that this movie is fit to be a TV movie; it's just too small for theatres. There isn't much action in this film and the storyline (even though not very good) is better in lines then in teleplay. Also Rose McGowen is annoying in this movie and once her character was dead i said inside THANK GOD.Scream 2 was neither good or bad, but still better than Scream 1. This movie is fit for theatres but the way the movie was written was not good enough.Scream 3 was the best. I guess the way the movie was written is very good. Also the truth about Sidney's mother in this movie is way darker and cooler then the other stories about Sidney's mother back in Scream 1. This movie is just enjoyable and really its worth buying on DVD.I hope Scream 4 would be more similar to Scream 3 in writing, but of course development would be expected. "},{"Title":"Sequels suck","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" By the time they got to making the third one, there was really no charm left in watching Neve Campbell overpowering the killer every time but screaming anyway. Sidney is just really irritating here. The writing is about as lazy as can get, with the revealing of who's killing everybody as an absolute low. I can't believe somebody actually got payed to come up with something as lame as that. Even by slasher standards this thing is just really lacking in creativity. If there's any fun in seeing nameless secondary characters being stabbed I haven't detected it. How I long for Rose McGowan and her garage door. You'd think Wes Craven would put in some decent horror value, but you'd think wrong. This seems like an assignment for him, I've seen beer commercials with more identity. I suppose the sound of the box office is hard to resist, but they really should have put in more effort for this. "},{"Title":"A really good movie","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i think that this one of the best horror movies ever made i can't really choose out of scream 3 or the other two but i love scream 3 and i think that Kevin Williamson done a fantastic job with writing the movie and Wes Craven done a great job directing, I say well done to Neve Campbell, David Arquette & Courtney Cox-Arquette. But i didn't like in the movie how fake Parker Posey was with her acting and also how bad Courtney Cox-Arquette's hair looked. But overall it turned out to ba a great sequel to scream 1 & 2 and all the actor's / actresses the writer(s) and the director have done an amazing job with everything i've rated this movie with an 8 "},{"Title":"shark swarm- lame title but okayish","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" overall the movie was pretty good but it was SO INCREDIBLY LONG and so REPTITIVE that. even though i think the scriptwriters wrote an ingenious script, the simple length and repetition bored me to tears. the movie, which starts off with sinister criminals dumping sinister-looking chemicals into the ocean, was a never-ending saga of death by swarming sharks. person after person after person was killed and eaten at sea. it practically never stopped! ever ten minutes in the film another few humans would get eaten.whats more is the people are so stupid! i mean, they're STILL swimming in the ocean after what, at least twenty people go missing in it? and NONE of them think it could be a shark? and that little girl that sees the lifeguard get eaten alive. she doesn't think to maybe, oh i don't know, say something?! the worst aspect though was definitely the number of deaths. people falling, boaters being knocked overboard, sharks biting fishing lines, divers, bathers, lifeguards. there was no end to the people dying!!! and NO ONE even freaks out a little at the huuuuge number of deaths. they just go on swimming. as if about thirty people haven't disappeared.but asides from those aspects, i quite enjoyed this film. not a patch on JAWS but then again, nothing is =) a good film for people that like a thrill but don't want to be majorly scared. and a GREAT cast! put your hands together for shark swarm ) "},{"Title":"You don't think it's over, Sidney, do you?","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven brings us the third and final Scream with previous cast members Neve Campbell (Scream, Wild Things, Adina), Courteney Cox (Friends, Alpha Dog), and David Arquette (Eight Legged Freaks, Riding The Bullet), with new member Parker Posey (Blade Trinity, The Sweetest Thing). Of course, Courtney Cox could be considered a new member as she is now Courtney Cox Arquette, a wedding having been performed between Scream 2 and this one.There is not as much blood and gore, as it is mostly just trying to figure our who the killer is. Courtney Cox performs as well or better than she did in Scream 2, and is still my favorite cast member. David Arquette seems to have a meatier role in this episode, while Neve Campbell comes in pretty much at the end.It wraps things up nicely. if there is a Scream 4, I would suggest bringing in Denise Richards to help things also. She and Campbelle do magical things together. "},{"Title":"A well-done conclusion to a clever trilogy","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was amazed to hear that after three years they were going to make a Scream 3. I only knew that if they were going to do that they would need the masterminds behind the first two, Wes Craven and Kevin Williamson. When I heard Craven returned I was relieved, but sad to hear that Williamson didn't who was replaced by new writer Ehren Krugar. I didn't know what to expect from this film, but I thought it was well-done. The movie offers a good plot now that Sidney Prescott has someone targeting her again who knows about her mother's secret past. In the end, I was amazed at the storyline and was happy with the overall result. The movie is good, and I just hope they don't decide to make a Scream 4. At least they are claiming its the last and ending the films now on a happy note. Scream 3 is a worthy horror film. "},{"Title":"Finally-some sense of this madness!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Director Wes Craven decided to wait a good three years before making this final installment to the overdone Kevin Williamson screen shocker Scream. This film was actually much BETTER for me. To start, the concept was a little different from it predecessors. The plot is more personal, and I DO mean personal. When dealing with such tactics as the last two, a third one would have only worked if a NEW writer stepped in, to both restore the feel, and create a new kind of formula for which the characters will be defined. I am pleased to say that, after original creator Williamsons departure from the writing booth, we were given a new, fresh camp feel by scriptwriter Ehren Kruger. He makes the continuation chilling, funny, and interesting. He puts the seriousness at certain, and appropriate moments, unlike the original writer. What is put together, is a real finale, or climax to what started four years earlier.First off, we know all could be well after the college murders in 2, I mean, who else has the nerve to take on Sidney Prescott and her henchmen? Well, there really IS someone who is willing to take the odds, and as such, does a good enough job, but not without giving the characters a real juicy bygone to work against. Gotton Weary, convicted killer of Sidney Prescotts' mother, is now as famous as he dreamed in 2, until he realizes that someone is messing with his phone. Basically, another madman is here to break the silence. There is one specific detail, along with wanting to kill Sidney, he causes confusion, by needing her personal information. Now, that said, he slashes his way through the set of a third Stab installment while he is at his bloody best. Who is he, and why, after three years of solace, would he lash out now? Dewey, Gail, and a determined police chief pursue this monster, and why he is ruining the lives of celebrities in attempt to find Sidney.David Arquette is, as always, a good blend of comic, neediness which proves to be cute, and yet brave in an hour of need. He gives a deeper feel for the geeky cop, as life has gone on with out Gail Weathers, who also returns. Courtney Cox has also kept true to her character, by putting Gail on a new level of bitchiness. Gail is now a real standard-setter, but without Dewey, she has no depth other than 60 Minutes 2. Neve Cambpell is, for the third time, a silent, passive formation for her famous Sidney. The tough stuff from her inner strength is needed in this final caper, and it's there, hiding, just like her physical being, who is afraid to actually live. Finally, after numerous deaths, Sidney is out to confront the new psycho. Other cast members include Parker Posey as a stereo-typical actress, looking for better work than a scary movie. Portraying Gail Weathers in the new STAB film, she attach's herself to Coxs' Gail for research and security. Posey is funny as usual, very entertaining. Also included, is Lance Henrickson, a vet of the genre as a sleazy B-Movie director, a brief appearance by Jamie Kennedy, as his usual movie-master Randy Meeks, from an old tape. This time, Kennedys' dialog is more tolerable. Last, but NEVER least, is a funny cameo by Carrie Fisher, as a caracatcher, making fun of herself.The script was well thought out, and the dialog, much better, and even creepy at times. A great bow is to be given to the makers of this film, as it was most likely, not too easy to go back to the same characters and storyline again. Still, a good film ends up as the result of a better produced script, and a better direction for the series in general. The film does have its flaws, but they don't seem to shadow over the enjoyment, as this high camp, creepy climax plays to the final act...literally.Wes Craven, doing his usual number, makes this one as enjoyable as he can, and rightly so. Thank heavens we will not be seeing anymore Scream movies.Patrick Dempsey, Heather Matarezzo, Jenny McCarthy, Kelly Rutherford, Emily Mortimer, and Scott Foley also star. "},{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I personally liked this movie. I know it isn't the BEST horror movie in the world, but I like it. The ending wasn't that big of a surprise. It was basically like the ending in Sleepy Hollow. Wes Craven could have made the movie a little bit better, but I like this movie. I love the whole trilogy. Scream, Scream 2, and Scream 3 are my most favorite horror movies, next to Freddy vs. Jason. The goofs in Scream 3 are a little too noticeable, but the movie in all was still pretty good. My favorite character in these movies is Randy Meeks. He is hilarious, and knows a lot about horror movies, just like me. Scream 3 isn't really the best Scream movie in the trilogy, though. If I said it was, I was mistaken. Scream 1 is the best in my opinion. All the stuff in that movie is new to us when we first watched it. We didn't know who was who, or who was a main character. What I mean by a main character is someone who we KNOW isn't going to die. The only person who really was a main character that died was Randy. That sucked! He should have lived! So far, my favorite Scream movie is the first. "}{"Title":"Scream 3 was an awful way to end a brilliant trilogy!","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When i bought Scream 3 i was exited because i loved the first two movies, but to my shock, this must have been the worst ending to a movie ever! maybe I'm being a bit to over the top but they cast people with no talent, and nobodies! the only person that i had recognised what Jenny McCarthy but her acting was dreadful, i hate to admit it but Courtney Coxs and David Arquettes acting wasn't all that either, the only person that i think made this movie work was bringing back Neve Campbell because shes the only decent actress/actor in the entire movie. also i didn't like it how they ruined the original plot that we loved, i.e a 3rd person killed Maureen Prescott? WTF? i just didn't like it because they toyed with the originals deaths and said that Billy Loomis didn't kill these people but Maureens son did, thats why i dislike this movie and thinking it should have ended a different way. Why did Wes Craven ruin this other films story lines and motives by making out that Sidneys Mom had a secret life and why didn't Sidney or her dad know about this???? anyway... basically they are making a film called Stab 3 based on the Woodsbro and Windsor college murders and the cast members are being killed off in order they die in the movie but there are 3 version of the script and no one knows who will drop next, i don't find that is very original! plus the deaths are so random, why kill some whinny bitch's body guard? why? also i haven't seen acting this terrible since Power Rangers and other silly horror films such as Freddy Vs Jason. i would have enjoyed this movie a) if they hadn't ruined the other memory's of Scream 1 B) cast more talented actors C)killed off David Arquettes character and finally D) never introduced Maureen Prescotts secret life. i think that it could have been about either a group of new teens or a good story evolving around Sidney and her trying to get on with her life but someone from Woodsbro is out to get revenge or something and not murder helpless actors on a set and find out its your brother, BAD IDEA! to summarise they better not do a Scream 4 and if they do put new teens in it because Neve Campbell doesn't want to be involved (good for you) to finish here are some pointers Acting was terrible apart from SEXY Neve Campbell who saved the film don't cast people with no careers ahead or porn stars i.e Jenny McCarthy,6/10 thats all, i only watch it for Neve because shes very HOT! "},{"Title":"Round Up the Usual Suspects","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The whole Scream gang returns - even Jamie Kennedy as Randy Meeks via a videocassette. This time around a resolution is found for the problems of Neve Campbell. Although certainly the lesser installment in th Scream cycle, Scream 3 is hard not to like or enjoy. If you liked the characters and the tone of the first two movies, you will probably enjoy this one as well. It has a script which defies logic and credibility. But let's face it, you know that coming into this film. You are here to see Courtney Cox, lovely as ever, Campbell, Arquette(his funniest turn I think), and the rest plus some new comers needed to increase the body count. The most noteworthy being Jenny McCarthy in a brief but highly enjoyable role, Patrick Warburton as a bodyguard, and Lance Henrikson as a Roger Corman-like director. Oh, and by the way, Roger Corman has a cameo as a Hollywood player. Director Wes Craven doesn't seem to have as much scary juice as in the first two. I also blame the plot for that limitation. This time around the third installment of the Woodsboro murders on film called Stab 3 is the setting for much of the film. Craven is poking fun at the whole horror sequel thing - but much of that ground was tread in Scream 2. We get some pretty lame rules to the horror trilogy. How many horror trilogies have there been? I could not think of any true ones(as Evil Dead and Evil Dead 2 are essentially the same film). Anyway, not a bad film not a great film but I found it to be an entertaining albeit derivative film. "},{"Title":"Great end to the trilogy.","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am a fan of the two previous Scream films and thought the third was great. If you are looking for the same gore and horror that appeared in the first two, then this movie isn't for you. Instead, it is more of a thriller that includes some light humour. This movie succeeds in a way that it's a good round up and end to the trilogy, as the whole story behind the Woodsboro murders is concluded and put to rest. I especially like how you are able to watch the relationship between the characters Gale Weathers and 'Dewey' Riley develop through the films, which is taken even further in this film. Again, Neve Campbell is brilliant to watch as Wes Craven has now created a character who we have all come to love. I think the cast interact well with each other in this film, giving it the laughs that it depends on to be good. The character Jennifer, played by Parker Posey is particularly funny and is able to create humour well with Courtney Cox's character, Gale Weathers. If you like the first two scream films then this is a MUST SEE and a great end to the trilogy.  "},{"Title":"Wasn't terrible","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 was alright. If you're looking for the type of violece/gore that was in the other two, don't bother renting this film. If you're looking for more of a thriller movie as appose to a horror, than this is definitely that kind of movie. I would say the movie overall was okay. There isn't anything in the movie that you haven't probably seen in any thriller movie. The violece was MUCH for mellowed out than in the other two. The only violence that would have been remotely scary or tense would have been the opening scene where Christine is brutally stabbed through the back, but all ther other sequences of action throughout this movie is very moderate. The plot was, again, no different than a plot in any other thriller. Nonetheless, the ending was um, interesting. Absolutely no support leading up to the twist at the end, but nevertheless, you'll be surprised. The humour was decent. The usual Sideny Prescott one-line outbursts. Outbursts such as her Fuck You! For once in the history of horror movies, there wasn't a single sex scene or scene of drug use. The MPAA rating R for strong horror violence and language was a little bit too much. It should have been for some violence/gore and brief language. The movie at many points seems to drag on, and like all other horror movies, the horror and action picks up within the last 20 minutes of the film. Rating 3/5.  "},{"Title":"You'll scream in enjoyment","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is one of the best horror films I have seen since The Dead Zone. Wes Craven has worked his magic in this top-notch thriller, which stars a top-rate cast. Though the plot is not original, it is the way that Craven crafts it, which makes it so good.The best thing about Scream 3 is that I liked the fact that there were no clues given to the identity of the killer. I am one of those people and I hate when the director reveals the villain early. It takes the fun out of the movie when this happens.When it came time to unmask the villain, it was a complete and pleasant shock because Craven completely fooled me as to who the killer was.Another thing I liked about this film was that it introduced new horror sequences with better action and special effects. The dialogue in Scream 3 seemed unrehearsed and natural. and unlike other films it also seemed like the cast had a blast with one another while in production of making Scream 3. From beginning to end, Scream 3 was a brilliant work of art by the horror master, Craven. Craven really knew what he was doing when he was directing this film.I give this film two thumbs way up and my recommendation to anyone who is a horror or movie fan; it is that great.  "},{"Title":"Satisfying enough.","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The third and final (?) chapter in horror-master Wes Craven's (A Nightmare On Elm Street) notorious and extremely successful Scream trilogy ends the series in an appropriate and poetic way. There's a bit of mystery, a bit of horror, and some humor thrown into the mix. I was a fan of the original Scream when it came out, but felt that the follow-up, Scream 2 was nothing but a stylish re-tread and didn't bring anything new to the table. With Scream 3, Wes Craven and the core cast are back to the fold and the story is a bit darker, riskier and more serious. Another movie about the Woodsboro/Windsor College murders is being made (Stab 3), and faster than you can say worker's comp, cast-members are being offed one-by-one in a seemingly scripted manner. This, of course, re-unites Dewey and Gail (the husband and wife team of David Arquette and Courtney Cox Arquette, who fell in love on the set of the first film) and eventually pulls Sidney (Neve Campbell) out of hiding. Throughout the movie, revelations about Sidney's infamous mother are made, and we are let into the back-story a little bit more. The ending will leave you shocked, and I feel, was very fitting. There is hardly any gore this time around, but that doesn't matter, because Scream 3 is more of a mystery/suspense, than an all-out slasher like the first two films. Unfortunately, it's not as popular with fans as the first two, but I think it succeeds because it takes risks and dares to be a bit different than the other movies. Plus, Parker Posey is absolutely hilarious and there's even a role that makes Scott Foley seem a bit cooler. Not to mention the obligatory Jay & Silent Bob cameo.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Out Of The Series!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *MAJOR SPOILERS* *MAJOR SPOILERS*David Arquette, Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox Arquette, Patrick Dempsey, Scott Foley, Lance Henriksen, Matt Keeslar, Jenny McCarthy, Emily Mortimer, Parker Posey, Deon Richmond, Kelly Rutherford, Liev Schreiber, Patrick Warburton, and Jamie Kennedy star in Scream 3, the final chapter in the Scream trilogy. To me, this is the best out of the series. I can't see why a lot of people have been saying that this movie sucked. It was so awesome! There were more scares, there were more laughs, there were more twists, and there was a bigger body count! What more can you ask for?Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) and his girlfriend, Christine Hamilton (Kelly Rutherford), start the movie out with us. You should know the drill by know. Anyway, we find out that Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is hiding out in the middle of nowhere with a new name and literally, a new life. Meanwhile, we meet Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette) who has her own talk show. Yeah, yeah, talk, talk. Then, we meet Dewey Riley (David Arquette) who works on the set of Stab 3 Return To Woodsboro, another movie based on the events in Scream and Scream 2. We also meet the cast and crew of Stab 3 Return To Woodsboro. The cast are Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey), who plays Gale, Tom Prinze (Matt Keeslar), who plays Dewey, Angelina Tyler (Emily Mortimer), who plays Sidney, Tyson Fox (Deon Richmond), who plays Ricky Meeks, and Sarah Darling (Jenny McCarthy), who plays Candy Becker. The crew are John Milton (Lance Henriksen), the producer, and Roman Bridger (Scott Foley), the director. Yeah, yeah, talk, talk. The cast begins to get offed one by one which forces the studio to shut down the movie and forces Sidney to come out of her shell. By now, you should know the drill. Sidney, Dewey, and Gale save the day, but this time, it's final. That means, you don't know who's gonna live and who's gonna die. This is the last spoiler, the ending is very awesome and I totally didn't see it comin'.All in all, this is worth a rental. I give it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"quick reviews!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!aaah Neve... while it's probably the least satisfying, well, worst of the series, I think it is the fastest paced, and realises that it is the final part of the trilogy. It is meant to over the top, answering any remaining questions from the previous films, and you can tell Craven was having fun making it. As always, for me at least, Neve gives a fine performance, doing that thing she does with her eyes and lips at every chance, and although she does seem a bit tired of the whole role, she will go out fighting. The survivors, and Randy, from the other movies, all perform well again, while most of the new additions are simply there to be slaughtered. The guesswork is still there, but it is not a primary part of the film, and there are plenty of gory, funny deaths to keep us amused. I saw an advance screening of this when it first came out, and had a row of girls behind me, screaming and booting me in the back at the slightest opportunity. No, it wasn't as scary as they made it out to be, but it has its moments Mother coming up the path, was one I found quite disturbing first time round, and the opening scene is pretty good too.  For me, the highlights are not the in-jokes, (Carrie Fisher's appearance etc), which are good, but the scenes which go for pity and sadness. Randy's video tape always brings a tear, as does Neve's discovery at the end. Strange for a horror movie, even more strange for one which is 35% spoof, to have that kind of emotion, but it's what always set the Scream series apart from the countless other teen slashers of the time. We, or at least I, felt for the characters, especially Sydney, and in the end, I suppose it is a fitting end to the most important horror trilogy since the original Hellraisers.  8out of 10  "},{"Title":"Not exactly a charm third time around, but still pretty good...","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (*** out of *****)Well, they kept getting worse, but this sequel's still okay on its own (and anything with Parker Posey in it is worth checking out in my book.) By this point, the franchise had started parodying itself more than any other slashers from the &#145;80s (I love the phony studio duplication of Sydney's house from the first movie.) The guest stars in this one are overwhelming (Patrick Dempsey, Jenny McCarthy, Roger Corman, Lance Henriksen, Patrick `Putty' Warburton, Heather Matarazzo, Carrie Fisher, Jay & Silent Bob -- whew! Is that all of them?) And, of course, Neve Campbell, Courtney Cox and David Arquette (who were married by this time) are back (as well as Jamie Kennedy in a funny video cameo). Kevin Williamson wasn't on board this time around, but I think his tongue-in-cheek spirit is still apparent. Forget the plot -- just enjoy the damn thing.HIGHLIGHT Every scene with Parker Posey (damn, she's hot!) "},{"Title":"Decent epilogue to the trilogy","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really cannot understand all these negative comments . Not only Scream 3 is quite good but it is the most decent finale that could ever be made for the Scream history . Why is it that you must always rush in to agree with the official critics and lambast the movies they want to bury ? What is so wrong with Battlefield Earth (IMDb rating 2.3) ? It is a decent enjoyable sci-fi movie . Yeah it is campy . So was the 5th Element (rating 7.0) . I like them both equally . What was so wrong about Batman and Robin despite the dumb one-liners ? Nothing not only the cast was wisely chosen but the action scenes were wonderfully chosen , sets , costume and make up were magnificent and save the Batgirl character , the origin of the others was kept intact . And don't even get me started about the butchering of the wonderful Speed II (rating 3.3 !!!!) . For God 's sake it is a big budget action rollercoaster with good SFX . OK OK , Dafoe and Patrick are more lackluster than their predecessors and the finale was over the top . Well so were all the action scenes in True Lies or even the Matrix !!!! Why must you always follow the dictates of the official critics . Why the praise should go to awful overrated films like Mission Impossible or Sixth Sense (rating 8.3 ?!?!?! COME OOOOON !) . Enough with the manifest . If you agree with me even partially then read this review . Scream 3 is an underrated film . It has some flaws but some of the critics were right . It is better than Scream 2 although not better than the original . This was to be anticipated . They had 3 years to plan it while Scream 2 was rushed into production shortly after the release of the original and was released less than one year later. The result was a carbon copy of Scream (albeit enjoyable one) . Did you know that in the original script of Williamson , the killer was Derek ? This time they had more time for process . I believe it was for the benefit of the film that the script was written by someone else , based on a format by Williamson . This gave the chance for our characters to evolve . Keep in mind that when I watched Scream 3 I already knew  1) The identity of the killer 2) The motives of the killer 3) What happens in the opening sequence 4) The special trick the killer uses this time (I don 't want to give it away) 5) Jamie Kennedy 's post mortem appearance 6) The visions with Maureen Prescott 7) Who lives and who dies by the end . Still the movie surprised me , kept me hooked and satisfied me . That alone says enough .OK PLOT SYNOPSIS TIME   It has been several years after the events of Scream 2 . Do not be fooled by the quote `I met Maureen Prescott 4 years ago' . If this was accurate then the time lapse between Scream 2 and 3 would be only 1 year . Sidney wouldn 't even have the time to graduate from college . `Stab 2' has already been released but the acceptance was mediocre. The basic cast was reluctant to return for yet another sequel but the producers went on to make a `Stab 3' , a semi-fictional movie based on the real living characters set in Woodsboro , in order to answer some questions about what eventually happened in the tragic bloodbath of 1996 . Meanwhile lets see what happened to the survivors . Sidney (Neve Campbell) has graduated from Windsor . She and her father live somewhere in the boonies . Sidney is convinced that she is still in jeopardy , so she has disappeared from the face of the earth . She works as `Laura' , a social advisor of a radio station , taking phone lines in her home and answers to people with various problems (abusing boyfriends etc) . She is tortured by visions of her deceased mother and believes the nightmare will never be over . There may be someone who still wants to kill her . Much like Laurie Strode in H20 her phobias will proven soon to be true . Gail Weathers (Courteney Cox) has changed the name of her show and still struggles to take the Pulitzer Prize. Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) has now his own talk show dealing again with social issues . His fame gave him success , celebrity , star power and he has a beautiful girlfriend Christine (Kelly Rutherford) . Dewey Riley (David Arquette) now works at the set of Stab 3 , as a technical advisor since he lived the experience himself . He has an affair with Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey) , the actress who has played Gail Weathers in all 3 films . During the shooting of Stab 3 a new chain of murders occurs . The Ghostface killer strikes again and he kills the actors of Stab 3 , in precisely the same order their characters die in the script . Gail for once more arrives at the crime scene and teams up with Dewey in order to find the killer . The investigator of the case detectice Kinkaid , played by Patrick Dempsey is convinced that Sidney is the key to the solution and wants her to get out of her hide . The killer leaves pictures of Maureen after every killing and has obviously an unspecified link with the first carnage in Woodsboro . It is difficult however to find who will be the next to die , since the producers have come up with 3 different versions of the script in order to keep the plot from leaking to the Internet (something which happened in real life with Scream 2 and Scream 3  another self referential irony by the writers). After the murders the producer John Milton (Lance Henricksen) has no other option but to cancel the filming , at least temporarily , while the police has sealed the set as a crime scene . The young and ambitious director Roman (Scott Foley) is losing his mind since this is the final strike in his newborn career . Predictably more murders will take place and the leads will try to save their lives as well as trying to shed some light in Maureen 's secret past .Well the secondary characters serve no other purpose but to be killed . The only one which stands up from the crew is Parker Posey . Her disputes with Cox about who is the better Gail Weathers are hilarious and deliver some super bitchiness to the screen . Posey gives a great appearance. Unfortunately the rest are underdeveloped or even annoying (like the actress who plays `Sidney' in Stab 3) . This is a great minus . Fortunately , the writer Ehren Krueger makes up for some of the predictability of the script (especially in the final scenes) with some ironic lines 'Don't worry , we 're going to stick together' `Don't split up in this huge mansion' `Black characters never survive horror movies' . These people , as well as we the viewers , truly believe that these things happen only in horror films and we are not in danger . A classic example is the fax scene where a panicked character does the stupidest thing he could , due to his fear . Secondly there are a few plot holes  Most of the leads had cellular phones , why didn't they call the police ? Moreover , since the set is sealed and when a deranged killer is on the loose why do the actors of Stab 3 keep hanging around there , since they know they are in great jeopardy as the next targeted victims ? Did they want to `pick up their stuff' ? Sad excuse !!! I would also like to point out a factual error  the killer is shot REPEATEDLY and survives due to a bullet-proof vest he wears (don't consider this a spoiler  it will make you understand better what happened) . The truth is that this kind of collar can take just a few bullets but it is NOT A PANACEA and it is possible you will be injured and even with serious marks. Most probably if you take a bullet even with a vest you lose your conscience let alone six or seven bullets . I guess this is an ultra enforced and enhanced model hah ? It doesn't matter anyway . I can always accept a couple of plot holes . An important error by the writer is the déjà vu experience Sidney has in her `house' . I understand the point was a reliving of the fear but did we really have to endure a carbon copy of the original ? You should have at least shortened it Mr Craven . The visions with Maureen should be directed better with more haunting atmosphere.These were the only faults I can give the film . All the other points are positive . Krueger did a wonderful job with our familiar characters . They have aged , but they have aged well and are not at all tired . Their chemistry is better than ever . I never liked Dewey but I rooted for him here . Arquette fortunately abandoned his `Doofus' mannerisms and retarded way of speaking . He is reliable and works as a serious protector . He and Cox give wonderful performances and their interaction is great . Campbell is now a grown woman and not a frightened student . She decides to come in terms with her fate and finally becomes an active character (again a similarity with H20  no more pathetic screaming victims who run) . The screen time between the 3 leads is equal and this helps the movie not to be boring . All of them search for clues and keep the suspense. Parker Posey is also very good as Jennifer and Patrick Dempsey does fine in a non-geeky role . I am a great fan of Lance Henricksen and Liev Schreiber and they do not disappoint here as well . They shine in their small but effective roles . Kelly Rutherford is also welcomed here . Jamie Kennedy returns shortly as Randy and is cute but the best cameo is by Carrie Fischer in a surprise appearance . Despite the predictable victims the murder sequences are still effective and offer some surprises . The only problem is that Ghost-face is as not as scary as he was . Even Roger Jackson 's sinister telephone Voice isn't  as menacing as it used to be . This was to be expected  after 2 movies Craven realized that the audience cannot be scared anymore . Therefore he did his best to make up . The psychological horror backsteps here but the interest is kept through the action scenes . This is the most action-packed of the Scream movies (and a horror movie generally speaking) . There are not only the routine chase scenes . The victims fight valiantly and there is a lot of bang-bang as well . From the opening sequence to the final hero-versus-villain showdown there are enough physical fights to keep you hooked . Craven is in top form and I don't give a damn about idiot libels .I once said that Scream didn't need continuation chapters (read my comments on the first two movies if you 'd like) . I have changed my mind now . The revelations about Maureen and the re-attachment to the events of the first Scream make the movie worthwhile . The characters have matured and the film gives them and the story a perfect sense of closure . Ironically Arquette and Cox followed their characters' storylines ever since they met on the set of Scream . Life imitating art ? If you are a Scream completist do not hesitate for a second . Rent the final act and see the saga conclude (like the Star Wars trilogy) . Scream 3 is an enjoyable action / horror film which FINALLY does justice to its origins and will satisfy even the ones who were disappointed with the second part . I would also like to see some day a `Director 's Cut' with the rumoured 2 alternative endings. As it is , which is the final grade of the film ?8 / 10 "}{"Title":"DAMN!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That is a good 'DAMN.' This was the best, scariest, kickest-@ssest movie. As good if not better that the first, but it's hard to make a comparison. I was on the edge of my seat the whole time. It's an enjoyable film so I say, ignore the naysayers...rent this movie and sleep with the light on!!! "},{"Title":"Not good, not original, but I can sit through it.","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Does anyone remember the small-town feel of the original. How the murders seemed so close to home and the town was like any other. Remember how SCREAM 2 was SO different that SCREAM? Well, SCREAM 3 is not a good sequel. It takes place in Hollywood, and that just wrecks any potential. SCREAM had this certain feel of small town murders taking place in a community of civilians. SCREAM 2 took place at a college which was sort of a bad thing. SCREAM 3 takes place in a city, with thousands of people. This lousy, bloodless sequel puts the others to shame. Although this movie is bad, it has its good one-liners, cool scares, and solid acting. I find it very weird and repeatitive that the killer(s) always go after Neve Campbelle. Either forget about her and the rest of the ever-surviving cast, or kill them off with in the same room. DIMENSION FILMS better not make a SCREAM 4! My Take 5.5/10 My MPAA rating R for violence and language. "},{"Title":"GOOD","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3 is the final chapter of this horror series and doesn't let us down! It puts the Scream trilogy to rest and includes thrills and screams along the way! It is no way near as good as the first two but I put this down to the fact a new writer was on board. Saying that Scream 3 still has the edge to it other horror films don't. This time we see Sidney secluded in the Hollywood hills so terror will never find her but when a new killer is on the loose; Sidney is forced out of hiding in order to help put a stop to these gruesome killings. I give Scream 3 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Horrible and Phony","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Insults the audience, bores the audience, cheats the audience.  If you rent it, you will regret it.  Wow, how did they screw this up so bad?  It is so bad it will taint the legacy of the first two (both excellent and scary), and that is a shame. "},{"Title":"pretty bad.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'SCREAM' is yet another dumb slasher movie. It tries to be scary, but all you will find yourself doing is laughing at the bad acting, shoddy direction, or the laughable attack scenes. The story has been used to death. Standard teen-horror non-sense. "},{"Title":"Decent end to a trilogy","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Neve Campbell, Courtney Cox, David Arquette, and Patrick Dempsey.Your favorite knife-wielding, ghostfaced killer is back stalking Cindy and looking to kill her (can't these guys ever give her a break?).  Of course, Gail and Dewey are back.  The movie is frightening at times, but it ends up failing to have some good fun while scaring us. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm shocked to see so many bad reviews to such a classic. Scream 3 has gotten great reviews from new pape, and definely held up their hand of the bargian. Scream 3 is a shocker if u haven't seen this movie yet. The plot is genious. Its a horror movie in horror movie. I give it 4 out of stars. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie at a blockbuster store, and while I was watching it. It made sense to me about her mother, and that was the whole story and that is the best to do it, and because Wes Craven was going to end it and he did a great job and I really did like how it ended and I am going to give this movie a thumb up and talk to you soon everyone!!! "},{"Title":"The same as the other two.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not going to lie, I'm not a fan of any of the Scream movies, or the genre as a whole.  These kind of movies are just boring and really quite uninteresting to me.  There is occasionally some neat things to look at, but overall, these movies are all the same and not very brain stimulating.With that said, I thought Scream 3 was ok, a bit redundant, but it was ok I guess.  I have a number of friends that say they like this one better than Scream 2, I can't really say I agree...I think they were about the same.The only think I thought this film really had going for it was that they had a special appearance by Jamie Kennedy, Patrick Warburton (such a cool actor), Jenny McCarthy (looking better than ever, but don't get attached, she gets killed rather quickly) and some cool cameos Carrie Fisher, Kevin Smith, and Jason Mewes.Well, if you do end up seeing this film, I hope you enjoy it more than I did.  Although, you should probably see the preceding films first before watching this one.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"the final hoot","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh no! It's all over. Whatever will we do now? No more Neve to push around and no more crazy psychos running amok in daily Halloween masks, but I tell ya  that Patrick Dempsey has never looked more handsome than he does here. He may just be too goodlooking to be alive. And uh huh, the snide reporter and the dorky sheriff return but by now, we've all grown accustomed to the sad reality that Courtney Cox is now David Arquette's wife (sigh), which is scarier than any 3 of the Scream films combined. "}{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I knew when I rented this movie not to expect too much, so I didn't. It was a good thing too.This is not a great movie by far, but it should be fairly entertaining. Atleast worth 2 bucks at a video store.One of the biggest problems to me is the plot. It's just getting silly now. I can't fault Craven too much though, because he's really running short on potential killers at this point.They've taken Dewey's village idiot character to new highs (or should I say lows?) in this one, and it is getting very old.Overall, the cast is not bad. I agree with what another person here said that it might have been better had Jenny McCarthy played a larger role. If nothing else, she sure is nice to look at.This movie is worth two dollars but at the same time, I'm glad the series is over. "},{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I knew when I rented this movie not to expect too much, so I didn't. It was a good thing too.This is not a great movie by far, but it should be fairly entertaining. Atleast worth 2 bucks at a video store.One of the biggest problems to me is the plot. It's just getting silly now. I can't fault Craven too much though, because he's really running short on potential killers at this point.They've taken Dewey's village idiot character to new highs (or should I say lows?) in this one, and it is getting very old.Overall, the cast is not bad. I agree with what another person here said that it might have been better had Jenny McCarthy played a larger role. If nothing else, she sure is nice to look at.This movie is worth two dollars but at the same time, I'm glad the series is over. "},{"Title":"The utimate scream!!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best movie ever. Stars Neve Campell, David Arquette, and Courteney Cox-Arquette in the scream trilogy. its a slasher & horror movie. Takes place at the making of Stab3 based on the woodsboro killings! Action Packed! "},{"Title":"Sequels","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A good final chapter, to a bad sequel, to a great movie.Let me comment on the situation. Read the above text. Sorry, honey, but it's the truth. I think we all agree Scream is a cool horror film. Now, lets take Scream 2. Wow... let's see, how many times has it been the boyfriend? Oh let's see, 1..2..3 billion five thousand?! Hello? And another thing, how can we suspect someone we don't know had anything even remotely to do with the movie? Come on! If the directors guys can think of Scream, why were they slacking? Let's recap Cool final chapter, bad sequel, good original. Do I make my point?! To make a long story short, (too late!) watch all three, but catch my drift on the 2nd one. Check it,  "},{"Title":"Something happened that made this a bad idea of a sequel!!!!!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved SCREAM and thought SCREAM 2 had its flaws but could still make it, now we come face to face with The last chapter and im sorry to say that in some ways it just didn´t deliver as some people would have liked. New characters are presented, cool cameos, old school characters come back and Sidney comes back to say Hey..lets get it over with and move on and thats what she did,Wes Craven totally lost its touch to scaryness and creepyness of the first film, I really expected it to be special and something else,but it kept short, dark and short, it felt like a little butter spread over a lot of bread. This could have been a great movie is Wes could have taken his show a little seriously and started caring about what fans wanted to see, we want them to kill someone we love in the film so we can hate the writters and love the movie,but they just didn´t have what it took to make a classic out of this piece of film making, making this film a lost of time,spooky father death time and repetitive. Ethan Kruger could have done something cool with the script just like he did in Arlington Road but he just followed the Kevin Williamson style and that made the movie look dark but senseless, I think i just liked it because its called SCREAM and like that´s my duty, to love everything that has a cool name, but this is a major train wreck, I´ll give it a 7 out of 10..it was o.k but for christ sakes do something.  "},{"Title":"best scream yet","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this was the best scream movie yet! It scared me so bad because i watched it at night on haloween so it was very scary. I liked it a lot, it was really good, and fairly directed. I reccomend it to everyone who likes a great horror movie .  "},{"Title":"A GREAT FILM","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This one was great my favorite is scream but this one is my 2 favorite. Really all of them rock there all scary and great to see but i was glade this is the last one. The story and the plot were both great and the cast and crew did awesome on a scale of 1 out of 10 i would give this film a 9 "},{"Title":"good finale to a Triolgy","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film is good ending for the Scream series. With Neve campbell as Sid. Sid has shut herself away in safety or so she thinks of the events of Scream 2. Of couse ghostface finds her. I thought the 3rd part would be crap but is was great. Randys cameo is the best part. All in all good way to say goodbye to Scream. "},{"Title":"Head For The Hills......","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ....Not because the most feared killer is back, because this film is quite simply awful!He's much mre clumbsey too, which is hard to believe, but old ghostface falls over all the time the stupid s-o-b!Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes and Carrie Fisher's cameos are the only real highlight! "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this one but it wasn't as good as the original. The storyline was pretty weak in this movie, i really liked the Cameo by JAMIE KENNEDY in this movie expalining the rules. Well its good that this is the end of it i dont think they will make a scream 4 i think its finnaly over, overall its a pretty good movie i give it a 7/10!  "}{"Title":"The first sign of this series being a bad b movie series","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Why! The humanity! I could only  punch myself after seeing this film.  Sometimes, a single sequel is all  one needs to keep healthy and  secure. You don't need an unnecessary  third film to bog down all of the  storylines and leave the most  improbable story lines open to  debate. Hopefully, Scream has  been put to rest. "},{"Title":"The best and last in the SCREAM trilogy.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't to keen on the idea of a SCREAM 3 when I first heard about it, but one night I came across it on Showtime when I was looking for something watch one night. The first thing I noticed about the movie was the excellent cast which includes Courteney Cox, Neve Campbell, Parker Posey, David Arquette, Patrick Dempsey, Emily Mortimer, Scott Foley, Deon Richmond, Jenny McCarthy, Patrick Warburton, Liev Schreiber, Jamie Kennedy, Carrie Fisher, Roger Corman, Kevin Smith, and Jason Mewes. At first, I thought that this would be yet another movie about people being killed with non-stop blood and gore. Well, it wasn't. There was plenty of people and killed and there was some blood and gore, but there was also lots of humor, suspense, thrills, surprises, good performances, tense music, rich plot, and movie references (which I love). Sure, it isn't Wes Craven's best, but it sure isn't his worst. It's actually one of the better horror movies of 2000 (and there sure were a lot of horror movies in 2000). "},{"Title":"Time to lay this old dog down to rest","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream 3, like most horror prequels sucks, the plot is the same as the first 2 and its so tiring. It starts off good and goes downhill very quicklyIt starts off at Sidneys hideaway and she gets phonecall from her 'dead' mother and then she and most of the characters from scream 1 and 2 get killed off eventually. It still surprizes me that Gail survived all 3.6/10If youl Like this tryScream 1,2 Scary MovieI Still Know What You Did Last Summer "},{"Title":"Way better than 2 and parkey posey is wonderful","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok so there is a mixed reaction to this one. some say that it's way better than crappy 2. some say that it's crappy and that 2 is way cooler. Everyone agrees that it's not as good as Scream. Here's the truth. It's better than 2 which was ok. The script is not kevin williamson but's its still funny. the directon is good as ever. blood/ violence somewhere between 2 and 3. The movie however is worth watching for Parkey Posey's hilarious performance. Trust me you'll love her quirky gale copying antics. I have to say that personally i loved this one and i think everyone will get some enjoyment out of it. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"It's nothing great","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'd made it my intention to get this film. Generally regarded as good, and only £5.95 at the video shop, so if I hated it, then it hadn't broken my wallet too badly. The only thing that worried me about it is that it got a good review on IMDB from someone who said 'The Haunting' (which is one of the world's worst films) was one of the greatest films ever.I haven't seen the original or second Scream films (maybe I will, when they're on special offer too). But this was certainly a good film in that you would know what was going on without actually watching its prequels. And it's directed by genius Wes Craven. Sure sounded good. (And don't forget, it was only £5.95).And the evaluation is that Scream 3 is thoroughly average. It made me laugh three times, and was on the whole, fairly suspenseful. Some parts were relentlessly nasty, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. It was okay, but nothing special. I wouldn't actually go out of my way to watch the video again, but it's a good cure for boredom (if you really HAVEN'T got anything better to do).So, one throughly average film. Not too bad, but it's nothing great. The only other teen slasher I have seen is Cherry Falls, and I wouldn't rate either film above the other. They're both staggeringly average.5/10 - I think I'll be giving up on teen slashers for the time being, and go back to good old ultra-violence and other, better horror films. "},{"Title":"great ending","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i was skeptical on the quality of this film, as i despised the first one and loved the second one. i was immediately happy with it though. it was funny as well as suspenseful.   SPOILER ALERT!!!   my absolute, without a doubt favorite part was when Jay andSilent Bob were standing there, Gail walked by and they thoughtshe was connie chung,or whatever. i was rolling!!  "},{"Title":"The Absolute Worst","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  **SPOILERS** This movie is even worse than the first. The death scenes suck, the directing is bad, the acting is bad, and the plot is even worse. And now all of a sudden Sydney has some long lost brother??? How retarded is that???? Oh and once again, the death scenes, oh my god. They're terrible, like the black guy's death. It looks like a manican falling out of a window. And they try to make this movie funny, but with Kevin Williamson writing, the chances of that are one in a million, not to be mean but its the truth. I think this movie should not have even been made. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Awsome, Awsome, Awsome","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well i first rented Scream 3 on DVD at Price Copper and the DVD was messed-ed, and all i watched was the 1st half of the movie, and i wanted to finish it, so i rented it again from Showtime.  I was luck and the DVd wasn't messed-up.I watched the whole movie, and was on the edge of my seat, cause by the Trailor when it says all rules can be broken i didn't know if Neve Campbell or David Arquette or Country Cox Arquette where gonna die, and i ain't gonna tell you.  But this is one great movie trilogy.for the longest time i never wanted to watch Scream cause i never liked horror movies, then one night i was thinking, what the hell, why not? so i put it into my VCR and watched, and when i say the begining of Scream with the girl (ain't gonna tell you who, incase you haven't watched it) was hanging from the tree, I stop the movie.  I though that the move was gonna get a lot more bloody!Well 2 years later, after people talk about all 3 of the Screams, i dicide to watch it, but i started watching it at noon, in the light, not the dark.  And I was surprised, it wasn't as bloody as i thought, and before having watched Scary Movie, I knew kinda what was gonna happen!  Well i liked the first Scream, and so i kept the tape playing cause we recored Scream 2 after it.  After i watched both, I really wanted to watch the third, because Scream is not anything like A Nightmare On Elm Street, It, or Needful Things whihc had a crazy blood scenes to what i saw.  The Scream movies are like Mysteries, with Swearing, and Blood.  They also have Comedy, special in the third one, which they did i little too much.  But if you are not into Scary movies to much, just like me, and think Scream is really scary, well you are wrong, go watch it, the first part is really scary but that's really the most blood you will see! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing Scream, and finding it brilliant, I was disappointed after seeing Scream 2. I thought it was an ok film, it just wasnt the same as the first. So I was bit wary when I bought Scream 3 - if Scream 2 wasnt as good as I hoped it would be, then what would the third be like? However, I took the chance, bought it and watched it. When it was finished, I kept on going on how good it was. Its nearly as good as Scream, and a lot better than Scream 2. I dont know why people havent taken to it that well, because its funny, contains good acting and a good plot, a surprising motive - and best of all - it was actually scary! Scream was fairly scary, Scream 2 wasnt really scary at all, but still had a decent plot. In my opinion, Scream 3 is the scariest. Also, look out for Parker Posey in this film - she is brilliant! I highly recommend that you watch this film, and I give it 10/10 =0) "},{"Title":"Dead Ringers?","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched this movie last night and while watching it, I had the nagging feeling that Courtney Cox Arquette strongly reminded me of another actress in her appearance and mannerisms but I couldn't figure out who until the scene where Lance Hendrikson sarcastically calls her Gail Weathers character, 'Lois Lane'.I don't know if she did it on purpose or if its just a weird coincidence, but Courtney is a dead ringer for Margot Kidder as she appeared in the Superman movies.  I even dug out the original Superman movie and took a look at some of Kidder's scenes and sure enough, I was again amazed at how much Courtney resembles Margot Kidder back then.Anybody else notice this or is it just the effect of too much movie watching warping my brain? "}{"Title":"A fun, slasher romp that is the final chapter","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw the first of the 3 'Scream's', I fell in love with itbecauseit was such a fresh new kind of movie and had a talented youngcast. From the hilarious and subtle jokes to the thrilling and violentsequences, this movie had it all. When 'Scream 2' came out, I wasanxious in seeing how it compared to the first. I was not disappointed;the same amazing mix of comedy and terror were still there-- but thecharacters were wearing a bit thin. Now with 'Scream 3' (the first notto be directed by Wes Craven, but by the guy who did 'Arlington Road'which I loved) there is even more parody and blood that ensues. I stilllike characters like Gale Weather and Sidney Prescott, but have to saythat I am kinda glad this is the final chapter. Leave this trilogy on ahigh (yet gory) note. This movie didn't skimp on blood, but it's heartwas in the same place as the first two and I can say that I really likedthis movie.  My rating 8.5 out of 10   sst "},{"Title":"Love the Trilogy, but blame this one on the script","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me start of by saying, I love this trilogy.  I don't care what anyone says; how cheesy these films were, how lacking the plot was, to me they're just good plain fun.  This film, however, was the worst of the 3, although the story that unfolds in the end is interesting.  The way this film brought itself back to the events of the first was very clever.  Courtney, David, and Neve of course pull rank as everyone else falls in line behind their shadows, but this trilogy was always about them to begin with.  This movie would have been so much better had Kevin Williamson written the script. That's the only beef I have with this film.  Kevin, WHAT WERE YOU THINKING? You took the time to write the first and second one, yet you were somehow too busy to do this one?  I would think you would consider this trilogy as your baby, that you would want to do it justice... but I am obviously proven wrong.  The concluding chapter of a trilogy is typically the most important, where everything comes to an end, good or bad.  The way the storyline climaxes was pure genius, but it just falls short somewhere... the writing was just choppy and it was very evident this was not written by Williamson. This could've been the best horror trilogy made.All in all, this is a fun movie and brings the entire storyline to what I thought, was a great end.  See it despite my pessimism - "},{"Title":"Hopefully the Last of an Overrated Trilogy","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The horror film that's responsible for the decreativity of the genre is Scream and its two sequels.  This third film is the last of a trilogy that got worse with each sequel.  The violence is toned down compare to the first two films.  The violence in the first two weren't very graphic to begin with.  Ironic that the plot used in Scream 3(2000) is the same type of plot Scream(1996) made fun of.One of the ten worst films to come out in early 2000.  The characters are underdeveloped and the story is the same as in Scream(1996) and Scream 2(1997).  Another movie made that year with the same film within a film format was Urban LegendsFinal Cut.  Of the two, Urban LegendsFinal Cut(2000) is the best, barely.  Parker Posey gives the best performance out of the entire cast.One thing that makes Scream 3 different from Scream and Scream 2 are there is one killer instead of two.  Formatic and by the numbers horror picture like many other horror films made in Hollywood from 1996 to today.  For someone who is supposed to be the main character, Neve Capmbell is barely in the movie until the final thirty minutes.  Lance Henriksen is underused and wasted in a movie that could have used more scenes with him.  A far cry for Wes Craven from his top films of Last House on the Left(1972), The Hills Have Eyes(1977), and A Nightmare on Elm Street(1984).Lazily directed by Wes Craven.  There is a cameo appearence by famed b movie producer/director Roger Corman who has directed better movies than this.  Story was written by Ehren Kruger who also wrote the screenplay the the horrible Reeindeer Games.  A rip off of movies like The Killer Reserved Nine Seats(1977), StageFright(1986), and Opera(1987).  The suspense and tension are thin for a movie that needed more of both. "},{"Title":"the trilogy is finished...","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Even if the second and third movies aren´t as good as the first one, the trilogy is a masterpiece.Wes Craven is a genious director making these movies.One minute you can laugh like hell, the next you´re scared to death. That is the best with the Scream- trilogy.Also Neve Campell is exellent in the role as Sidney Prescottin all three movies.Scream is a sort of blessing to the horror-movie genre, I say Scream is one of the best horror-movies ever made... "},{"Title":"SCREAM...because this film was made. Another terrible teen horror flick.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the tagline's for Wes Craven's third and final installment of the infamous Scream series is Someone has taken their love of trilogies one step too far.  This tagline, alone, emphasizes how recycled this movie was going to be. We all remember the tagline from the original, don't we?I do have to say that Scream 3 didn't let me down one bit because, going into the film, I had expectations of another terrible and tacky slasher flick. It certainly delivered that with, basically, every line said.Onto the part in the review where I talk about the plot.  Wait a minute, WHAT PLOT?!  Let's see if I can explain this paper thin subject for you, hopefully, educated readers.  Sidney (Neve Campbell) is in hiding because she was almost killed twice, miraculously surviving the odds, in the first two films.  Now Stab 3 is being filmed, the movie being made in Scream 3 about Scream 3. Sounds confusing, well it's not and that is obvious because a lot of teenagers liked it and screenwriters try not to confuse them.  Why would you? It's your target audience. Anyway the murderer, still dressed in that ridiculous costume, is bumping the actors off one by one trying to reel Sidney in for the kill. Anyway that is basically the plot, besides the laughable motive the killer gives for all of this madness.The acting gets to you real quick because the characters are so annoying. Does anybody really like Dewey? For that matter, does anybody really like David Arquette? The rest of the characters are one dimensional and poorly portrayed.  Kevin Williamson didn't return to write this Scream, the series which he created and wrote the first two, but I am glad he wasn't.  He loves to throw in terrible jokes at poor times (ex. Killer What's your favorite scary movie? Randy Showgirls...absolutely frightening). Williamson had to decline to write and direct the cinematic masterpiece Teaching Mrs. Tingle. Scream 3 was practically The Exorcist compared to Tingle.  Ehren Kruger was hired to replace Willamson and kept the same low-brow plot and thin motives, for the killer.One redeeming quality was the beginning.  I have to admit that Scream 3 had a fast paced surprising opening sequence but went downhill faster than Corey Feldman's career. Sorry Corey but you had that one coming for a long time for saying you should have received an Oscar instead of Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, who together made a great film.  Sorry I forgot about The Goonies and Stand by Me, I mean that was only 14 years ago.All in all, if you have seen a Scream movie, it doesn't matter which one, then you have seen them all.5/10    "},{"Title":"Talk-heavy and juvenile...","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't a big admirer of the 1996 hit Scream from original writer Kevin Williamson...and yet, without Williamson, this chapter in the franchise seems to missing not only its heart but its impetus for being. There's no driving force, even with Wes Craven still locked in as director. While a Hollywood film-crew attempts to make a scary movie out of the story behind the original murders, reporter Courteney Cox Arquette investigates new killings plaguing the proceedings. Lots of in-jokes, false scares, several good-humored digs, though it begins to repeat itself and drag after the first hour, and features too much of sullen Neve Campbell in her third go-'round as unlucky Sidney. It isn't a bad picture, just a totally unnecessary one. ** from **** "},{"Title":"scream 3","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i thought it was good,but i thought the first 2 were better i liked the bit when randy was in the video it was quite moving for Dewey gale and Sidney especially seeing as he was killed in the 2nd.i liked the bit when the house blew up that was good special effects,and when cotton got killed,it was a good film but there was too many murders and at times got a bit out of story but it was good,i liked the second more because it had a good story and the acting was good,but some of the acting in this one was wooden i think it needed more famous people in it and less murders and a catcher story,but i liked it i think they need to make a 4th to carry on Sidney and gale and Dewey's story "},{"Title":"not scary","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Typical plot for a horror film. A group of teenagers are being murdered by someone who dresses in funny costume/masks. The deaths are pretty horrific, with plenty of heart-racing chase scenes and gory, creative deaths. This film seems to have gathered a cult following, probably because most people did find this film to be horrific. However, when I saw the film, I just laughed at the antics and the character dramas unfolding. It is suspenseful, and it is gory, and most people did consider this frightening. However, if you do not like this type of film or are looking for something a little more than a cliché, then do not bother with this one. This goes for the original 'Scream' and 'Scream 3'; I have not seen the second one. "},{"Title":"A lame ending to a popular franchise.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven came out with Scream 3 to abuse of it's young cult and put an end to the popular franchise. Face it, Craven only created this sequel to make more money because the story doesn't offers anything new, in fact, it's somewhat a spoof of the original and the weak part 2.The best about Scream 3 are it's performances. Courteney Cox took the lead after Neve Campbell got tired of her clichéd role and to be honest, she did it great. Her husband, David Arquette did a decent job as the co-star. Parker Posey gave the funniest and best performance in the movie as the hyperactive Jennifer Jolie who plays Gale Weathers in Stab 3, the fictional Slasher flick in the movie. The situations aren't tense, suspenseful, and not even entertaining. The death scenes are boring! at least the famous but boring Ghostface had some interesting killing techniques in part 1 (by the way, copied from popular Slasher flicks from the 80's). Anyways, Scream 3 is a movie to skip at all costs because it's the same thing that you saw in the original and the sequel.The final chase scene is as mediocre as you can get! and the ending will get on your nerves. I can see why Neve Campbell didn't want a starring role in this mess.Think about Scary Movie with a little gore and you get Scream 3!. Don't even waste your time on this. "},{"Title":"Time to cringe, scream and wale again.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The third time is not the charm. Wes Craven can't be expected to hit a home run every time. Maybe he tried to hard or maybe there was just nothing left to work with. After SCREAM and SCREAM 2 we end up with the scum on the bottom of the barrel. A movie is being made of the unfortunate Prescott story and the cast members are being killed off in the same order as in real life. Jeepers!Neve Campbell is about the only redeeming thing this flick has to offer. Courteney Cox looks terrific and actually turns in a fine performance. On the other hand, David Arquette is pretty pathetic this time out. Also in the cast are Patrick Dempsey, Kelly Rutherford and Jenny McCarthy. This flick might have improved if McCarthy had a larger role. Making brief appearances are Carrie Fisher, Roger Corman and even Wes Craven. "}{"Title":"What ever happened to horror?","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me sum up my thought of scream 3 very briefly Just like the first 2, it sucked horribly. Not as bad as the second one, but worse than the first one.As I left the theater, I was in much discontent. I kept wondering what happened to the great horror movie? I went to the last showing, it ended at 100am. (A great time of night to be scared.) My girlfriend and I were up till 4am discussing the demise of the true scary movie.The original Scream movie knew the facts That horror movies had become nothing more than hack'em slash'em gore fests. Designed and written to make the audience jump in it's seats more times than the last movie did. The original Scream set out to mock this, and create a new type of horror flick. But it quickly turned into the same type. As did the sequel, and now, the third (god i hope) final 'chapter'.Does anyone remember what makes a horror movie scary? Maybe it's just me, but jumping in my seat (which by the way never happens in Scream 3, it's too predictable) doesn't mean a movie is scary.  Some of the scariest movies I've ever seen never claimed to be scary at all. Such as Aliens. Aliens was a sci-fi/action movie, with a few scary elements. But James Cameron managed to weave a story that haunted me for weeks, i didn't want to sleep the first night that i had seen it.My girlfriend had nightmares from Independence Day. By no means a horror movie. But it managed to make an impression on her as a very scary movie.The greats of horror, Mary Shelley and Alfred Hitchcock for example, knew how to scare people. And they did it very well. Horror doesn't mean jumping in your seat a few times, then going home remembering that it's just a silly movie. Horror is when you go home from the movie, or close the book, and you don't want to lay down and close your eyes. You just can't shake the thoughts, you know it's not real, but something just lingers in the back of your mind, not letting you rest.I find it a grave injustice that movies like Scream, Scream 2, Scream 3, Halloween, Friday 13th, Nightmare on Elm Street, etc. get called horror movies. When in fact, they are nothing more than a cheap slasher, shocker, or gore flick.Scream 3 is probably the finest insult to date, to the horror movie category (even worse than the final Critters movies). "},{"Title":"Has a few memorable moments, but is clearly the weakest link in the Scream trilogy","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" At one point in this film, Detective Mark Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey) makes the following remark All I know about movie trilogies is in the third one, all bets are off. This is evident in Scream 3, which seems to have completely slipped out of the hands of Wes Craven and Ehren Kruger (original screenwriter Kevin Williamson was left out), becoming an increasingly contrived, nonsensical mess.This time around, the masked killer starts causing mayhem on the set of Stab 3 (yes, Stab 3, unfortunately), before focusing, you've guessed it, on Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell), who's getting tired of being chased by lunatics all the time. And after this flick, the audience should be tired of watching the chase, too things happen completely at random, there's no logical connection between events and characters and even the climax, which was also the main problem of Scream 2, is absolutely implausible, clear proof of the fact that this movie was made for the money rather than for the filmmakers'wish to go on with the franchise (hence Campbell's wise decision to appear less than in the previous Screams).A few scenes, however, save the film from being total rubbish Jamie Kennedy reprising his role as film-buff Randy is still very funny, as is a brief appearance by Kevin Smith's famous Jay and Silent Bob characters (for more laughs, check out the Scream spoof in their own movie). But the real treat for hard-core movie lovers is Carrie Fisher's self-parodying cameo, probably one of the sharpest, funniest satires on the film-making business (and it's only five minutes long).Most of the time, though, Scream 3 is uninspired and dumb. Those wondering why people joke about certain producers not being concerned with the quality of scripts will wonder no more after seeing this. "},{"Title":"Films Within","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.We've had four slasher films in a year which use the plot device of a film within a film. Three are ordinary `Cut,' `Scream 3,' and `Urban Legend Final Cut.' One, the recent `Hamlet,' is different. This comment covers the three traditional slashers.Each of the three slashers uses the inside film as a device for a relatively sophisticated distance for humor they try to scare using established formulae, but at the same time poking fun at the genre, the watchers and the scares themselves.Cut, Urban and Hamlet are by first-time directors and incidentally the characters are film students. The lead in Urban is made up to look like Julia Stiles, the Ophelia in Hamlet. The lead in Cut is made up to look like Courtney Cox of Scream. Scream has the highest production values, Urban the lowest.Cut is the deepest self-referentially the monster is brought into the real world by the film -- the magic is in the viewing, which makes the audience cocreators of horror. The monster is destroyed when the film is. Plus, Cut has Molly Ringwald playing Bette Midler. She probably knows she's being made fun of as a bag that once was fun, just like the genre.Urban is the most schoolish in the number of films it references cinematically. Lots of Hitchcock here, some too blatant to be honorable. It makes the most fun of the actors the bogus film within is really bad and the film crew are bozos; but the `real' film is worth killing for, sort of a `D.O.A' plot.  Scream has the dumbest story; Urban and Scream have scooby-doo plot ends the bad guy in the costume really is just a bad guy in a costume and we get the detective-story-like explanation.Scream uses the film within poorly. It is just a place of work the only clever device is that each `real' character has a pretend one. But this isn't used at all except for a brief shadowing of Gale Weathers. Wes Craven knows better. He used this same notion in the last Nightmare movie where he played himself writing the film. Pretty good actually.Urban uses the film within only by reference (along with all of the other films that are referenced). Instead, the use has more to do with the making of the film and the trappings of filmmaking -- except for the end where the film within merges with the `real' action.Cut uses the film within more creatively. By placing the real people in the action of the old film, thus bringing the killer of the old film to them.None of this stuff is scary any more. When you go, you go for fun. If you were only going to see only one of these 3 films, you should make it Cut.  "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 it is a not so good horror-movie. It is the most ultimated horror-movie I have ever seen! There are a lot of disgusting scenes.It is excitement and scary. This horror-movie should banned. The Scream-series have bestial violence.Neve Campbell acts very good in Scream 3. Scream 3 have also too terrible scenes that I fell very bad.Scream 3 have high scores by Neve Campbells acting.I can't understand why they do this sort of horror-movies! It is very sick. "},{"Title":"eh","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  eh it was okay nothing special kinda routine it was fairly watchable and it is getting kinda old if there gonna do a scream 4 there gonna have to do it with new characters for sure so this is a mediocre sequel at best ** out of 5  "},{"Title":"Most Rubbish Wes Craven Film Ever!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film was not a horror it sucked big time. The only good bits was the end with the finale between sydney and brother. And the begging with Cotton which was good aswell. If you compare this to the first this was s**t. Worst ever Wes film done!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The Worst Ever","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was the Worst Attempt to Make a Horror Movie that I Know of Yet. They Made One too Many Mistakes. The First One was Leaving the Door Right Open for Another Sequel. The Second One was Making The Horror turn to Action. Too Big of a Body Count. The Killer seems to be Rambo instead of Ghostface. The Third was It's ever so Popular Success. When Movies Begin to Make there Way to the Box Office, Up Goes the Expectations, and Down Goes the Quality. The Final One was Ruining a, Besides This One, Pretty Neat Series. I Give It 0 out of 10. You Want Something Scary? Rent Bloody Murder, Sleepaway Camp, or Final Stab. But..If you Want to Waste your Time, I'm Sure Scream 3 will Always be There For You. "},{"Title":"Oddly enough","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oddly enough, this film is now released on video and DVD, in the same time It's parody version-Scary Movie (which was 20 times better than this) is in theaters.  But this film is just not that great.  So repetitive it is unwatchable for the average movie goer, but there are some incentives for the movie.  One is that the final cut is directed once again by Master Wes Craven (though I am not sure what he could've brought to this film that someone else could've).  Also, if you watch this film for the first time it is kinda funny and chilling, but that goes the same for the first Scream, which was better.  This fim had no good plot and another cheesy horror film ending that didn't make any sense.  So this is not exactly the best horror film of the year.  So why did I see this?Because Jay & Silent Bob from Kevin Smith's movies make a hilarious cameo.  B "},{"Title":"The weakest of the series, but not bad as such","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 has some major problems but I didn't think it was that bad. The production values are great, the score and sound are still effective and the direction and performances are credible. Not to mention GhostFace returns and is still as iconic and creepy as ever. However, the story is unoriginal and rather pedestrian, and the script is weak with too many unfunny and clichéd lines. When it comes to the scares, there were moments but too many weren't as strong or as genuine. The ending is also silly and predictable, and apart from GhostFace the characters are not as interesting. All in all, not bad but disappointing. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Only in Hollywood.","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A killer donning a ghost outfit once again targets Sidney Prescott and the other survivors of the previous films. Only in a Hollywood movie would this ever be remotely plausible. Once again, the audience is subjected to another guessing game as to who is under that costume. I guess in the reality of this film, being targeted by a serial killer every couple of years is normal. The FBI believes there are at least 20 and as much as 50 active serial killers in the country today. How unfortunate for Ms. Prescott that she would defy the odds to be the focus of them three times. The girl should seriously be playing the lottery a lot more with luck like that.Don't bother with this. "}{"Title":"It's definitely NOT a scream, baby!","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When the cast of Stab 3, a Hollywood slasher based on the Woodsboro murders, begin to be murdered by a mask wearing maniac, seasoned victim Sidney Prescott comes out of hiding to help try and catch the killer.In part three of Wes Craven's Scream series, a video cassette recorded before his death shows movie nerd Randy Meeks (Jamie Kennedy) warning possible future victims about the rules of the horror trilogy the killer will be super human; anyone, including the main character, can die; and the past will come back to haunt the survivors of the previous chapters. What Randy conveniently neglects to mention is that the third film in most trilogies is usually the worst, and Scream 3 is no exception.Scriptwriter Ehren Kruger desperately attempts to emulate the post-modern, humorous style of Kevin Williamson, who wrote the first two films, but misses the target by a mile his script is desperately unfunny, not in the least bit scary, and even manages to cram in a couple of incongruous guest appearances that are just plain embarrassing (what the hell are Jay & Silent Bob and Carrie Fisher doing in this film? What is the relevance of the George Lucas 'joke'?).Director Wes Craven seems content to sleepwalk through his directing chores, bringing fans very little in the way of atmosphere or gore, whilst his cast put in some truly ill-conceived performances which border on self-parody (worst offender Parker Posey as actress Jennifer Jolie). Oh, and to make matters even worse, the film is just shy of two hours long, making the whole experience even more difficult to endure. "},{"Title":"scream trilogy","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have read a few comment on scream 1,2 or 3 and I just can't understand why people use terms like excellent, amazing or best movie ever. Scream trilogy is one of the dumbest thing I ever saw. Even scary movie trilogy, who cannot be considered as very great,is much better to see. OK, I know that perhaps many people won't agree but here is my opinion. For me those movies are even not scary, it's just a bunch of teenagers playing to kill each other, what's the point of this ? The third one achieves to be one of the worst movies of all times, and I can easily understand why not even one of the trilogy appears in the top 250. "},{"Title":"Fitting final chapter in the franchise","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" SCREAM 3 (2000) *** Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courteney Cox Arquette, Parker Posey, Scott Foley, Patrick Dempsey, Deon Richmond, Lance Henriksen, Matt Keeslar, Jenny McCarthy, Emily Mortimer, Patrick Warburton, Leiv Schreiber, (cameos Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes, Roger Corman, Jamie Kennedy, Carrie Fisher, Heather Matarazzo). Final chapter in the blockbuster horror comedy trilogy with Sidney Prescott (Campbell) trying to off her demons once in for all when the latest film based on her trials and tribulations is plagued by another cloaked slasher who wants to finish her off even if it means a high body count including her friends and the actors who play them. Quicker paced action sequences enliven this somewhat listless, red herrings aplenty script by Ehren Kruger (original scripter Kevin Williamson produced despite his not being able to do the actual screenplay) and some smart direction by genre meister Wes Craven keeping things lively in spite of the familiarity and atypical false scares pre-empting the actual bloodletting. "},{"Title":"Such bad writing.","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's amazing what a big difference a writer can make. I mean, here we have a movie that basically features the same cast and crew from two previous movies but yet the movie feels totally different and is way worse. Thank goodness that for part 4 they brought writer Kevin Williamson back once again.It's not necessarily the story in itself that is bad but it's more the treatment of its characters and also its horrible dialog. For one, there are some absolutely pointless characters in this movie, that also suddenly completely disappear out of the story after a while. Another thing is how the familiar characters out of the first two movies have suddenly completely changed in this one. For the first part the movie is all about the Courteney Cox and David Arquette character and it wasn't until very well half way through into the movie that they suddenly seemed to realize they had to put in Neve Campbell more, since she is actually supposed to be the protagonist of the entire series and all of the movies and their story revolve around her character. But it just feels very forced all and of course the multiple rewrites that got done while shooting this movie certainly didn't helped with its end result. With also feels very forced is all of its comedy. In a way the first two movies were also already spoofing the genre but this one does it completely wrong and often in a way too goofy way. The movie also has far too many cameos in it, which becomes an huge distracting and makes it obvious that this movie was taking itself not nearly serious enough.It also really isn't much good as an horror, since the movie is lacking with its build up. Again, this is also mostly due to its writing but you can also probably blame director Wes Craven for this. It's as if this movie got done on the automatic pilot by him and he didn't had real interest in doing this third movie in the first place. Same goes for basically the entire returning cast members, who just don't impress all that much.Actually I think this movie would had been a lot better without all of the returning characters from the first movies and make this a movie on its own within the series, featuring all new characters. I say this because the idea of having the killer wander around the set of Stab 3, the movie within this movie, based on the Woodsboro killings from the previous movies, could had actually worked out quite well and interesting. It would had been a new, fresh take for the series but instead it now is something that is happening in the background all, most of the time.But calling this movie horrible also wouldn't be right. It's just that this movie disappoints on about every level, when compared to the first two movies out of the series. But as a standalone movie simple fact remains that this is a quite bad and lacking genre movie as well. Thank goodness that the series didn't ended with this movie, since the series definitely deserves a far better faith than that.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Easily the Worst of the Original Trilogy","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 (2000) * 1/2 (out of 4) Lame, boring and at times idiotic third entry in the series is without question the worst of the group and thankfully the producers decided to end the series right here (although another sequel would follow in eleven years). This time out Stab 3 is in production and another ghost face killer is knocking off the cast members, which makes Sidney (Neve Campbell) come out of hiding and face the killer one last time. Dewey (David Arquette) and Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) are back as well as countless other suspects. The first film was a masterpiece of the genre while the second was a very good follow-up but this third film is so depressingly bad that you can't help but wish it had either never gotten made or that some sort of major rewrites were done. The production history is pretty much well known with the first two films writer pretty much leaving the project, Craven only agreed to do it if the studio would let him make another film and Campbell only agreed to work a limited amount of days. You can tell that no one wanted to make this movie as the entire thing just comes off very flat as if those involved just wanted to get the film in the can so that they could get on with their lives. I'm still not exactly sure why everyone involved were so angry at this film and the series but it's a shame that they let their feelings really kill this movie. I guess the first place you have to start is the god-awful screenplay that doesn't come close to capturing the mood and spirit of a Kevin Williamson story. The attempts at humor are really lame but even worse are the attempts to try and talk about pop culture, which was a major winning point in the first two films. The cameo by the likes of Jay and Silent Bob just aren't funny and come off extremely forced. The story isn't any better and the mystery around the events this time are just downright embarrassing. I won't ruin the ending but when the killer and the motives are revealed you can't help but just roll your eyes and wonder what they were thinking. Campbell's character isn't in the film too much but the actress seems to be wishing she was anywhere else as there's no passion or emotion in her performance. Arquette and Cox do their best but their characters are missing that chemistry. Liev Schreiber, Roger Corman, Jamie Kennedy, Patrick Dempsey, Lance Henriksen, Jenny McCarthy, Emily Mortimer, Carrie Fisher and Heather Matarazzo all appear in brief parts. Parker Posey plays the actress playing Gale Weathers and brings just about the only energy to the film. Director Craven has to take a big portion of the blame as well as each and every suspense sequence is poorly shot and the direction can't be seen because there's not an ounce of tension or drama. SCREAM 3 is just a complete mess from start to finish and it's a real shame that everyone involved were only involved for money. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first two, the formula feels a little stale here.","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Scream 3 is set in Hollywood where talk show host Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) & Woodsboro murders suspect is brutally murdered, the cops think it may have something to do with the film 'Stab III' which is currently in production at Sunshine Studios & is a sequel to the films based on the real-life Woodsboro murders & as various cast & crew from the film are killed off by the killer they become sure of it. LAPD homicide detective Mark Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey) ask's news-reporter Gail Weathers (Courtney Cox) to help the investigation & she quickly teams up with her old ex Dewey Riley (David Arquette), the murders all point back to Maureen Prescott & her daughter Sidney (Neve Campbell) comes out of hiding to find out why & finally put her murder filled past to rest once & for all...Directed by Wes Craven this is the second sequel to his smash-hit horror teen slasher that practically reinvented the genre & was maybe arguably the horror film that gave the genre the kick up the backside it needed & dragged it back into the mainstream, while not as good as either the original Scream (1996) or it's immediate sequel Scream 2 (1997) this isn't a bad effort & is watchable enough in it's own right & fans of the first two films should like it although they might also start to feel they have seen it all before. The first two Scream films were written by Kevin Williamson & he did a terrific job of poking fun at the genre, using the clichés to his advantage, filling the dialogue with self referential gags & jokes & getting mileage out of the basic limited teen slasher sub genre while here writing duties went to Ehren Kruger who was apparently doing extensive rewrites even as the cameras started to roll & Scream 3 felt like Kruger was trying to copy Williamson's style a little bit too much (maybe the money men didn't want a successful money making formula changed too much?) & as such feels like a forced rehash with very deliberate jokes, narrative & plot points. The script also spends far to much time on the mystery elements & trying to fit all the regular character's in rather than the suspense & horror side of things. The one clever aspect of Scream 3 is the film within a film scenario which while not totally original works well here & I liked the idea of the actress playing Gail Weathers & Sidney Prescott actually meeting their real-life counterparts & shadowing them. The actual plot twist is rather absurd although it does sort of work in a strange random sort of way. Scream 3 just feels alright to me, there are some amusing gags & jokes, some reasonable killings, OK red herrings & plot twists & all the familiar faces are shoehorned back in here to decent effect but out of the three Scream films to date it feels the most lacklustre & by the numbers as the set-up & formula is just starting to feel a little worn out, familiar & overused.There are plenty of fun film related gags to watch out for a spot including a funny Carrie Fisher cameo, there's a Jay and Silent Bob cameo as well as legendary horror film producer Roger Corman turning up as a anti screen violence Sunrise Studios executive. Apparently Scream 3 only used 10 gallons of fake blood while the original Scream used 50 gallons while Scream 2 used 30 gallons & it shows with very little on screen gore or violence, there's a few blood soaked bodies & a brief slit throat but very little else & very little on screen gore. The murders themselves feel unoriginal & are just more of the same like the previous two Scream films with a Ghostface masked killer running around with a knife stabbing people, I could have done with a little more variety.With a supposed budget of about $40,000,000 this did very well at the box office & looks very polished with nice production values. Most of the surviving cast from the previous film return with Neve Campbell shooting Drowning Mona (2000) & her Party of Five (1994 - 2000) TV show at the same time she doesn't feature as heavily here as the previous films with most of her screen time confined to the climax, David Arquette & Courtney Cox had gotten married between Scream 2 & filming this, Patrick Dempsey was apparently hired just one day before shooting began while it's always nice to see genre favourite Lance Henriksen turn up in a film.Scream 3 is a good polished slasher murder mystery with plenty of amusing & clever little touches that aren't quite as neat as it's predecessors but are still fun. I gave the original Scream eight stars out of ten, Scream 2 seven stars out of ten & I am going to give Scream 3 six stars out of ten, a good effort but the lesser of the three. The IMDb lists Scream 4 (2010) as in production with Williamson returning to scripting duties. "},{"Title":"What the... ?","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, you wanna know about the trilogy?Scream one Great, original, funny, scary, and creative.Scream two Good, fun, a sequel that was worthy of a classic, and entertaining.Scream three ok, unoriginal, questioning, and same characters.Scream 3 was ok. I'm not going to say it was a bad movie. But not nessesary. And they used the same characters! It wasn't too creative. And through the movie all you're thinking is Huh? What did I miss? I know Randy says forget the past and rules, but that's pretty stupid. Because we look at movies almost like another person's life. Or we want it to be real. This just said, this is the trilogy. This is a movie. They're actors. It kind of ruins it for you. So over all, I really hope they will never make another scream. Because this just pretty much ended the fun.5/10 "},{"Title":"Scream 3 is, thank God, the final cut.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, let me do something different. Let me give you my frame of mind when I went in to Scream 3, the new film by Wes Craven and Ehren Kruger in the post-Williamson millennium. Soon after I saw Scream 2, I could not wait for Scream 3. At least once a week I would go to websites for the Scream trilogy looking for rumors for the third film. Yes, I know this is making my credibility fade away, but I'll keep going. For a while, there were many a rumor for the third installment of the extremely successful trilogy. Will Neve do it or not? Will Williamson write it or not? Will Christopher Walken be the killer? Come on, he HAS a cellphone. Will Sidney be an actress in Hollywood? Is Randy the killer? They never SHOWED him being stabbed. Yes, you know you heard some of these too. Okay MAYBE you haven't. Anyway. I could not wait. To me, THIS was my Star Wars prequel. People stood in lines for that, I couldn't wait for this. So when I walked out of Scream 3, the feeling I was left with wasn't so great. I couldn't tell what I thought of the movie. I had mixed feelings. How could I be objective? I thought. The following is the best I could do. Dimension Films had this movie so under-wraps that the only person in the film who got the whole script, was Courteney Cox Arquette (Gale Weathers) who had to sign a contract promising not even to reveal the ending to her husband, David (Dewey Riley). The script was printed on red lined paper making it IMPOSSIBLE to photocopy. The movie was being rewritten before it was even finished being written. There's buzz that Jenny McCarthy was mad because she had to learn three different sets of lines, and she didn't know which one was going to make the final cut. There were three different endings. With all the secrecy, don't you think Dimension would have had something GREAT, SPECIAL, SPECTACULAR, WONDERFUL, GROOVY, EXCELLENT, SUPERB, LIFE CHANGING, MIND BLOWING and all those other adjectives worth to hide? I did. What I got...wasn't what I wanted. It was like a bad Christmas gift. Now, enough background info. Onto my analysis. It's been two years since we've last seen the Woodsborro gang. (Really.) Gale Weathers has her own talk show entitled Total Entertainment. As does Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber), who's show's title is so pun-ish that it hurts 100% Cotton. Cute. Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) has secluded herself away somewhere in California (away from LA where the movie takes place) and she's changed her name to Laura, while giving help to crisis victims (ironic). Dewey Riley is now working as a technical adviser on the set of Stab 3 Return To Woodsborro.  The actors working in Stab 3 are being killed off one by one by a psychotic killer (are there any other kind?) as they die in the script to Stab 3. We also learn a somewhat intriguing backstory to Maureen Prescott and her past before meeting Sidney's father. There's more to the plot, shockingly enough (shocking!), but here is where I'll stop, to keep the secrets from those who haven't seen it yet.I can't say that the acting is top notch, because come on! this is a horror movie. And besides, if I did, you'd probably commit me to a mental hospital. (Or refer me to Laura and her crisis center.) But, as usual, Schreiber was superb as Cotton. I loved his performance in Scream 2 and still here. He's one of Hollywood's best actors lately. I hope to see more from him (and no, I don't mean in movies like Sphere). There were cameos up the whatzoo. Matt Keeslar plays an actor playing Deputy Dewey Riley in Stab 3. (You with me here?) Parker Posey plays an actress playing Gale Weathers in Stab 3. (Confusing, right?) Emily Mortimer plays an actress playing Sidney. Patrick Dempsey plays a cop who is a little too into his job. Kevin Smith (Silent Bob from Clerks, Chasing Amy, Dogma and Mallrats) and Jason Mewes (Jay from the aforementioned four films) were taking a tour on Sunrise Studios' backlot. Carrie Fischer had a tongue in cheek cameo, that was almost hilarious. Kelly Rutherford and director Roger Corman have cameos as well. Scott Foley is brilliant as director Roman Bridger, who just wants to make a nice romantic comedy. Lance Henriksen plays a B horror movie director. Seinfeld's Patrick Warburton plays a professional bodyguard whose resume includes Julia Roberts. Even Jamie Kennedy had a cameo. (Which was my favorite scene in the movie. Where he explains the rules of a trilogy.) But there was a problem even with all this star power. The characters were one dimensional. And this leads to... ...Ehren Kruger. I don't think it was his fault, either. He put nothing into this movie because it wasn't his. He wrote it for the money (and what good money it was!). He was using Kevin Williamson's characters. I felt he never really got the chance to get a feel for them (he didn't have the time. Williamson procrastinated so long that Kruger had to write the screenplay extremely quick.) He structured a good thriller, but wasn't able to work out character development. Deon Richmond's character....what was his name? My point exactly. What was the point of the character? My point exactly.Wes Craven did what Wes Craven does best (or worst.) That's all I have to say about that. Dimension and everyone involved said that Scream 3 did NOT tone down it's violence due to the school shootings. I agree. It wasn't toned down. It was NONEXISTENT. There was not ONE truly scary scene in the movie. Not one death was gory. We saw no blood. We saw no elaboration. We saw a knife go into someone's back. Case closed. In fact, every time we saw the killer(s), it felt like watching a cartoon. The killer(s) didn't seem like a real person, an aspect that the Scream films have to pride themselves on. The killer(s) seemed like a figment of someone's imagination. (And I don't mean the writer's.) Speaking of the killer, I wouldn't dare tell who he/she/it/they are, nor would I tell their motive. But in my opinion, like Scream 2's killers' motive, it wasn't fair. The killer(s) was(were) someone who's motive you never would have guessed because it wasn't brought up, hence, not being able to guess the person. As the trailer says, some secrets can never be revealed until the end. The end of this movie will leave you thinking He/she/they're the killer? So what? So what indeed. They promised us that Scr3am will be the last in the trilogy. No more after that. No way will there be a family worth of sequels like the Friday The 13th films or Nightmare On Elm Streets. They promised that the killer's motive in Scr3am will wrap up all questions about the first one. Yeah, it did. But what about the motives in Scre2m? There were plot holes everywhere in this movie. For instance, there's a very clever scene half way through the movie where the killer traps 5 characters in a house and sends a script they wrote via- a fax machine. The sent script tells you who the killer will grant mercy to and who the killer will kill. Now, like I said, this is a very clever scene. The killer cut the power to the house. With no power, how is the fax machine working? That's just one example of the miscrepancies in this movie. But oddly, I still liked it. Like I said, they promised us that there won't be any more Screams after this, but Scream 3 left the door right open for a sequel. Literally. ***1/2 "},{"Title":"Scream 3","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" From director Wes Craven (The Hills Have Eyes, A Nightmare on Elm Street), the first film was outstanding, the second film was okay, and this third entry, which most thought would be the last, is a let down. Basically the film begins with the death of Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) and his girlfriend Christine Hamilton (Kelly Rutherford) by a new Ghostface killer (voiced by Roger Jackson), he is looking for Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell), who is living secluded under a new name hidden from everyone. Dwight 'Dewey' Riley (David Arquette) meanwhile is working on the production set of Stab 3, and Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) shows up hoping to investigate the new case as the killer seems to be killing the victims in the order of the new film script. Eventually Sidney comes out of hiding after being called by the killer, and now the three of them, the cops, including Detective Mark Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey), and the cast members under threat, including Angelina Tyler (Emily Mortimer) and Jennifer Jolie (Parker Posey), are waiting for the next move. After numerous and often repetitive chases and killings the killer, and finding out that Sidney's mother Maureen Roberts (Lynn McRee) used to be an actress, explaining her sleeping around. In the end we find out that the one behind it all is Roman Bridger (Scott Foley), who reveals himself as Sidney's outcast brother, and who encouraged Billy Loomis to go mad, slightly ridiculous. Also starring Lance Henriksen as John Milton, Matt Keeslar as Tom Prinze, Jenny McCarthy as Sarah Darling, Deon Richmond as Tyson Fox, Family Guy's Patrick Warburton as Steven Stone, Jamie Kennedy as Randy Meeks (from beyond the grave on video), Jason Mewes as Jay, Kevin Smith as Silent Bob, Carrie Fisher as Bianca, Roger Corman as Studio Executive, Heather Matarazzo as Martha Meeks, Lawrence Hecht as Neil Prescott and Richmond Arquette, David's brother as Student. One or two of the deaths are alright, but it feels just like a repeat of the previous stuff, the acting and scripting could have been much better, and it just isn't as witty and original as the first one was creating a new way to make scary movies. To be honest, I only knew of and wanted to see it because I saw the brief spoof in Scary Movie before it, and it turned out to be a bit of a terrible horror comedy. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Rather Dire","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Screenwriter Kevin Williamson had nothing to do with writing this sequel but even if he had I doubt if he would have been able to improve it much . The fundamental problem with SCREAM 3 is that we've seen it all before . There's a pre title credit sequence telephone conversation that climaxes in death and then we're on a set of a movie which eventually ends with cast members getting killed one by one . We know where everything is heading but the attempts to hold our attention are rather lame . For example one of the characters sees the masked killer coming towards and guess what ? It's a dream which is something that rings of pathetic story telling . We also get a cameo from Jay and Bob from the Kevin Smith movies which leaves a feeling of doubt that the producers we're getting a bit desperate in the gimmick department . The climax is somewhat watchable but is let down by the fact that Sidney probably didn't need saving after all and the finale was written just so the murderer could explain his motives . For a film franchise that shouts how clever and post modernist it tries to be the producers should know about the law of diminishing returns . Haven't they seen THE GODFATHER 3 ? "}{"Title":"Thank God that's over now&#x85;.","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I wisely decided not ever to spend money to the Scream-franchise again. So, I patiently waited for this third and final installment to come on TV. Perhaps I may be one of the last persons on this world to see it, but it's not like I missed out on a great masterpiece or anything. I never really understood the popularity of this whole series anyway&#x85;The first Scream had its moments and it looked overall fresh, but the sequel already was repetitive and uninspired. Scream 3 is even worse and, in fact, it's nothing more than an obnoxious and lame Wes Craven mess. All the characters are terribly annoying, they stumble and fall every two seconds (yes, even the pull-the-carpet trick still works in Scream) and the constant spoofing and Hollywood-sarcasm only works in minuscule doses. Scream 3 is set in Hollywood where a film-crew is shooting 'Stab 3', based on the original Woodsboro killings. Cast members and former Scream survivors start to die again, while the new Ghostface is leaving pictures of Sidney's mom behind. Sidney joins Dewey and Gale Weathers in their search for the new killer and they discover that her mom once was a B-Hollywood star herself&#x85;bla bla bla! Everybody's running around like a bunch of headless chickens and, if you think the 'actors' of Stab 3 look stupid&#x85;.wait until you see the Hollywood 'authority figures'! Actually, the only GOOD sequence in Scream 3 is more or less a copy/paste of the only good Scream 2 moments and involves an already dead Randy explaining (on videotape) the do's and don'ts of cinema trilogies, while using appropriate and amusing examples. Other (slightly) positive comments go out to Neve Campbell who clearly grows as an actress and &#x85; Parker Posey! She seems to be the only cast-member who doesn't take this whole joke too serious and portrays a terrific stereotypical Hollywood actress. In many ways, the whole Scream trilogy (and part 3 in particular) reminds me about Craven's New Nightmare. They're all vain and egocentric films in which Craven regards himself as some sort of horror-deity. Somebody really ought to tell him that his only REAL good movies already date from the seventies! "}]