[{"Title":"I'm different now...  I sing--","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  	Director Bruce Paltrow assembled an impressive ensemble cast to deliver this story about a diverse group of people with many things in common-- more than they would probably ever realize or admit to, in fact.  On the surface, the tie that binds is music; specifically that cultural phenomenon known as Karaoke, a world in which for three minutes or so, no matter who or what they are, the individual at stage center is a star.  Underneath that particular aspect, however, the common thread runs much deeper.  Because these are people who, in their own way, are all seeking to connect with something, even though they don't know what it is or even consciously know they're pursuing it.  They're looking for their personal metaphor-- that one special thing, or someone, that will give meaning and purpose to their life.  It's a road we all go down at one time or another, in one way or another, and it's that road that is explored by Paltrow in `Duets,' an affecting film that illustrates how universally elusive the answers we're all seeking in life are, and for the most part because we simply don't know the questions in the first place.	Ricky Dean (Huey Lewis) is a singer/hustler on the Karaoke circuit; In Tulsa, on his way to a big competition in Omaha, he gets a call and detours through Las Vegas for the funeral of an old friend.  While he's there, he meets up with someone with whom he has a special relationship, Liv (Gwyneth Paltrow), who decides she wants to join him on the road.  Meanwhile, a salesman named Todd Woods (Paul Giamatti) suddenly realizes he's so burned out from being on the road that he doesn't even know what city he's in, making a pitch to a hotel conference room full of corporate types in Houston, thinking all the while he's actually in Orlando, Florida.  When he finally gets home, his wife, Candy (Kiersten Warren), and his two kids are too self-absorbed to even say hello to him, so he goes out for a pack of cigarettes (even though he doesn't smoke), discovers Karaoke and makes a new friend, Reggie Kane (Andre Braugher).  Then there's Billy (Scott Speedman), a young man who drives a cab (of which he is half owner), who due to a particular set of circumstances finds himself involved with one Suzi Loomis (Maria Bello), who is on her way to California, by way of the karaoke competition in Omaha.  And, ultimately, Karaoke becomes the vehicle through which this eclectic bunch of individuals begin to discover just what it is they're looking for; and who among them ever would've thought it would be in Omaha, Nebraska?	Working from an intricate and insightful screenplay by John Byrum, Paltrow has crafted an engrossing comedy/drama that is entertaining and poignant.  There's a lot going on in this film, but Paltrow sets a pace that keeps it moving right along, and uses transitions that effectively eliminate any confusion that could easily have resulted from having so many storylines unfolding at once.  The characters are well drawn, and Paltrow establishes exactly who they are and where they fit in almost as soon as they are introduced, which enables the viewer to concentrate on the story without having to figure out who fits where and why.  After all, this is not a mystery; and Paltrow uses the screen time of his characters wisely to develop the drama that is being played out in their respective lives, rather than by throwing in unnecessary twists and turns just to maintain interest.  It works, because the story is interesting enough, without the aid of any superficial enhancements, and Paltrow does an excellent job of blending it all together to deliver a satisfying and emotionally involving film.	There are a number of outstanding and noteworthy performances in this film, but the most memorable is turned in by Paul Giamatti, who so successfully conveys the emptiness of this middle-aged man who has always played by the rules, and who now finds himself at a very real crossroads in his life.  The fact that Todd has accrued 800,000 frequent flyer miles that he can't use, effectively puts his whole life into perspective; and Giamatti sells it with a portrayal that is affecting and incisive.  And, as Reggie, the guy Todd takes up with on the road, Braugher hits just the right note, as well, and their scenes together provide some of the highlights of the film, as when they perform their duet of `Try A Little Tenderness'-- this is Karaoke at it's best.	Gwyneth Paltrow provides a few highlights here, as well; besides creating a very real, believable character in Liv, it's worth watching the film just to see her sing `Bette Davis Eyes.'  But there's also an exquisite gentleness in her nature she so ably expresses that makes her decidedly easy to watch, and there's an engaging duet she delivers with Huey Lewis on `Cruisin' that's a real showstopper.  It's quite interesting, in fact, to note just how well the actors in this film deliver their songs (and, yes, they all did their own singing).  Other musical highlights include Braugher's `Free Bird' and Bello's rendition of `Sweet Dreams.'  This entire film, in fact, just may be the best thing that ever happened to Karaoke; it definitely raises the bar and gives it some mainstream credibility.	The supporting cast includes Angie Dickinson (Blair), Lochlyn Munro (Ronny), Amanda Kravat (Redhead), Erika von Tagen (Julie) and Marian Seldes (Harriet).  Early in the film, a truck driver asks a hitchhiker-- a guy just out of prison-- `What were you in for?'  The guy replies, `An error in judgment.'  And, in the final analysis, that's what `Duets' is really all about; the flaws, imperfections and `errors in judgment' that make up the music of life.  It's about finding that right note and being able to share it with someone-- being able to perform a duet to the score of life.  9/10.   	     	    		 "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure.","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I often wonder why I watch so many movies, and why I love them so.  It isn't because they often explore new territory or challenge my intellect, but then there's a whole public library and a Barnes and Noble in every strip mall for that.  No, I think it must be the escapist delight of allowing myself to be absorbed for a couple of hours in a well-crafted imaginary world where unbelievable things happen to unrealistic people.  It's a guilty pleasure, but hey, sometimes I eat my dessert first.  I can handle the guilt.With that said, as guilty pleasures go, this dessert is a banana split for two with extra nuts and cherries.  And one spoon.  Huey Lewis and the incomparable Gwyneth Paltrow are a father daughter team trying to get acquainted on the karaoke circuit.  He's a karaoke hustler (who knew) and she's a third generation Las Vegas showgirl who is at once worldly and naive.Paul Giamatti is a shocker.  He's amazing as the frustrated salesman who's out for a pack of cigarette.  Along the way, he encounters Reggie Kane (Andre Braugher) a convict on the lam whose quiet desperation is a stark contrast to Giamatti's wanton abandon.Maria Bello is hilarious as the resourceful bohemeian chasing a dream of big money.  Angie Dickenson graces the scene with a tasty cameo.  And then there's the singing.  OK, Todd Rundgren isn't worried about Giamatti's rendition of the classic Hello it's Me, and Andre used a voiceover, but Gwyneth can really sing, and her duet with Babyface in the closing credits is a chart-topper in anybody's book.Directed by Gwyneth's dad Bruce, in his first feature since graduating from the small screen, the word Duets describes this enjoyable film in more ways than one.  But in the end, the duet that matters is just you and this wonderful little film.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful! Charming, uplifting, and real. The beautiful music is a bonus...","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Excellent! Duets is definitely outside of what I had expected it to be... it is outside of the only-on-it-for-the-money, watch-the-weekend-grosses Hollywood sell-out that everyone complains about. It is a wonderful story, full of surprises and charm. The characters are 3-dimensional, to be sure. Their stories are not always pretty, and certainly not predictable. I was always entertained, engrossed, and ultimately very uplifted. Huey lewis could make it as an actor, and Gwyneth Paltrow could make it as a singer, both without any gimmicky pr work to present them as a stunt. They, and the entire cast of unknown actors were top-notch here. The music is real, and means something to the movie, and it all meant a lot to me. Yaay Duets! Go see it-- it has tons of heart, and soul. You'll love it. I gave it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie is precious.  It grows on you and won't go away.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I admit it -- I'm a total sucker for this movie for all of the right reasons, and some of the wrong ones (like, it's very touching to me that Bruce Paltrow made this movie with his daughter Gwyneth and died a year or so later). Having Huey Lewis in the movie and singing a few of his monster hits is a plus all by itself, and it turns out he can actually act decently. The Paul Giamatti - Andre Braugher duo, both in terms of plot, their excellent acting, and their blow-you-away singing performance, is something I never tire of seeing, and I've watched this movie five times and have it on disk. The plot is superficially pedestrian but actually very engaging and psychologically legitimate despite the displays of craziness by the characters. People do get crazy and do that kind of stuff. As for Gwyneth Paltrow, there seems to be no role she can't get into and occupy with beautiful effect.This was never intended to be a Great Movie. It was a nice little story, made into a very fine, charming, stick-to-your memory movie with talent oozing out the corners. People who rate it mediocre are just not seeing the pearl for the oyster. "},{"Title":"Not great, but entertaining &#150; and well worth it to see Braugher and Giamatti in action","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bruce Paltrow's film Duets basically centers on the relationships of vastly different people who all end up at a karaoke contest in Omaha. Liv (Paltrow) meets her dad Ricky (Lewis) for the first time at her mother's funeral. Ricky is a karaoke hustler, a guy who walks into various competitions and not only wins the cash prize, but manages to get a sucker to bet on which of them is going to win. Ricky reluctantly lets Liv tag along with him on the circuit, and along with singing herself, she also tries to forge a relationship with her father. Todd (Giamatti) is a salesman who travels most of the year and comes home to a house where his children don't talk to him and his wife would rather spend time online than talk to him after one of his business trips. One day he has a moment of clarity and decides to use some of the 800,000 frequent flier miles he has racked up, taking off in his car and driving anywhere but near his home. The first night he gets a room, he walks into a hotel bar and is convinced to get up on stage for their karaoke night, where he finds he loves the freedom it allows and the attention it garners him. Along the way on his trek, he picks up a hitchhiker named Reggie (Braugher) a recent parolee with the voice of an angel, and the two strike up a very close friendship despite (or possibly because of) their many differences. Finally, there is Suzi (Bello), a drifter who travels her way to karaoke contests by eschewing all dignity and selling any part of her she can. At a stopover in Cincinnati, she encounters Billy (Speedman) a former seminary student who is now a gypsy cab driver that just discovered his girlfriend sleeping with his business partner. Bello convinces him to take her to California, but along the way, the lure of the $5,000 purse in Omaha gets the best of her and they make a stop there.Duets features several story lines, but other than karaoke, they all have one thing in common They are all unhappy with either their past, their present or the prospect of a bleak or uncertain future. The film really isn't all that good, but there are a couple of good things about it. First and foremost, the chemistry between Giamatti and Braugher is fantastic. Completely casting aside the fact that they are two of my favorite actors, their connection was practically tangible. Hey, who knew Giamatti could sing, too? The rest of the stories were pretty clichéd or just not very compelling at all. I wasn't sure where they were trying to go with the Suzi/Billy arc but it ended up going nowhere for me personally. Huey Lewis, nothing more than a marginally average actor does an okay job in this film, but it obviously isn't much of a stretch for him.If you are not a fan of any of the actors, Duets is entertaining enough to sit through and not end up hating yourself afterward. Personally, the film deserves a slight edge because of the Giamatti/Braugher thing, but altogether, it gets a 6/10. In this case I'm rounding up from 5.5 for that edge.--Shelly "},{"Title":"A little perfection","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film brings some great things to it, actually 3 things- Paul Giamatti's performance, Huey Lewis's performance and every good singing person who (besides Lewis) surprised me with they're talents.  Overall, the karaoke scenes overshadow the dramatic trio of tales (except for the free bird story with Giamatti and Andre Braugher) which is unfair because the talent on stage is somewhat better than the acting (Maria Bello is pretty damn sexy though).  Overall, it's fair, more of a chick flick to say. B "},{"Title":"Wonderfully mediocre!","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yes I know, its a movie about the world of amateur singers and the disparate personalities that flock from around the country to win the big jackpot. If you are reading this then chances are that you have already seen the movie so there is no need to rehash it now. The one thing that I truly enjoyed, however, was the absolutely believable friendship that develops between the characters of Todd Woods and Reggie Kane. Sure, there are other good aspects of this movie, such as surprisingly good acting from Huey Lewis and a very low key, quirky representation of his daughter, played by Gwenneth Paltrow. This movie didn't enchant the critics upon its release...and judging by its box office performance, not much of the country either...but there is something very sublime about, not only the subject matter, but also the method in which this movies elements were pieced together...much like a dramatic jigsaw puzzle. What really made this movie special for me though was the ending. Reggie Kane's final performance and the aftermath...especially with regards to Todd's wife, almost made me weep. I found it very moving and genuine in its execution, and the low-key nature if the acting simply enhanced those qualities. So, to sum up mediocre movie that has some really great nuances that combine to make a movie that, though slow and draggy at times, makes up for those lapses with the end results. P.S. as usual, Paul Giamatti is perfect! Everything that he gets involved with...with the possible exception of that re-envisioned Planet of the Apes...ALWAYS is made better by his presence! "},{"Title":"More versatality from Gwyneth!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  We loved the movie. It was very funny, poignant, sweet and the cast of characters was perfect. Gwyneth was fantastic and she sings great. I wasn't sure it was her, but today I read that she did it all. It was great see Huey Lewis, missed him for a long time. The other characters were also very funny and the music was super. We are going out to by the soundtrack after the weekend. Hooray for a great night of fun. That is what movies are for.Maria Bello and Andre Braugner were just perfect fits for their parts. "},{"Title":"This IS a Karaoke Movie.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  DUETS takes an interesting and unusual cast of character actors, mixes them up and puts them in a film where groups of characters will all meet up by the end.  Instead of it being a political rally like in the Robert Altman classic NASHVILLE, the gathering is a karaoke contest in Topeka, Kansas. It seems that director Bruce Paltrow in stepping into the shoes of Robert Altman, but his results aren't as satisfying. There are three different stories in DUETS, which switch back and forth between each other, instead of making them into segments.  The first story is about a father-daughter relationship.  Ricky Dean (Huey Lewis) is a con artist who cons suckers into making a bet on who can sing better at karaoke, and Ricky usually wins.  Ricky finds out that his ex-wife, or ex-lover (the story doesn't really explain) has just passed away and he meets Liv (Gwyneth Paltrow) a young woman who happens to be his daughter.  Ricky heads off to Topeka to compete in the karaoke contest, with Liv following him, against his wishes.  It turns out that Liv is quite a singer herself, and impresses Ricky.  The second story deals with a workaholic man name Todd (Paul Giamatti).  Todd goes from city to city and staying in different hotels so often that he forgets what city he is in. When Todd is at home in surban California he decides to go for drive to get some cigarettes, and keeps on drivng, to Santa Fe.  There he is persuaded by a pretty young woman to give karaoke a shot.  He does and he loves it, he loves it so much that he changes his attitude, from stiff-shirted to free minded.  Todd then picks up a hitchhiker, Reggie (Andre Braugher) a criminal on the run who winds up singing karaoke with Todd to hide from the authorities.  The third story deals with a young aspiring cab company owner in Cleveland (Scott Speedman) who after catching his wife sleeping with his best friend, decides to drink his worries away.  At one of the bars, he meets Suzi (Maria Bello) a young and pretty woman who wants to become a professional singer, and she'll do anything without regret (including sexual acts) to become famous.  In fact, Suzi will do sexual acts just to avoid paying for things. By the end of the film all of these people meet in Topeka and the climax isn't that exciting.  I found DUETS to be a film that has great acting.  All of the cast, including Huey Lewis, Gwyneth Paltrow and Paul Giamaiit to be enjoyable.  If I said it once, I'll say it again, Huey Lewis isn't only an underrated singer, but also an underrated actor.  You don't believe me, then see Robert Altman's SHORT CUTS and see for yourself. But what ruins DUETS is it's plot and plot structure.  It's all too familar.  DUETS appears to be a film that Robert Altman would consider to be too commercial so Bruce Paltrow takes over to make a too typical film. And even if the plot structure isn't like Altman, the plots of the multiple characters come out like a movie made for t.v. What's pretty amazing is that all of the actors are pretty darn good singers (except for Andre Braugher, which is reported to have a voice over for his singing).  Gwyneth Paltrow takes her acting to a new level by becoming a singer, and she is a good singer.  I'm thinking that former beau Brad Pitt is intimidated by now that the girl he made famous by dating her didn't only win a Oscar, but is a good singer. And it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out why a distinguished actress like Gwyneth Paltrow decided to star in this film (look at her last name and the director's). Paul Giamatti who is a very enjoyable character actor in HOWARD STERN'S PRIVATE PARTS, THE NEGOTIATOR, and THE TRUMAN SHOW shows off his talent further by being another good singer.  And Maria Bello, who was recently in both PAYBACK and COYOTE UGLY shows that she too can carry a tune.  But when you put these actors up along with Huey Lewis, it's like having amateur dancers dance aside with Fred Astire or Gene Kelly.  In other words Huey Lewis does stand out with his singing, you just want to hear him sing more songs for the rest of the movie.  But of couse, Paltrow wants to carry on with the story which makes it muddle. Overall, DUETS does have good acting, and good singing.  But it's the plot that makes it an unimpressive film.  If Bruce Paltrow changed the plot structure, the character's, and add some unexpected surprises , it would have been more interesting, but it isn't.  The best way to describe DUETS is this DUETS is like karaoke, we all know the words, it's just sung in a different way.  *** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Look for Michael Buble in a cameo...","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" ... before he became a Vegas act.To be honest, this movie is one of those rare films which is remembered better as nostalgia (based on seeing when in came out in 2000) than when re-viewing (pardon the pun) some 14 years later.And if I can explain that oddness to you, I believe I can get to the nub, the heart, of DUETS. So I will try.The first time I saw it, I loved it. I recommended it. I made a mental note that this was a sleeper, a really nice little indie. I wanted to see it again.It took 14 years for me to get a chance to revisit the film but, on a second viewing, I was not that impressed at all. Here are my notes * Paul Giammatti steals this film but that is hardly news, he pretty much steals every film he has ever been in, this script simply gives him more room to move * the part that Bruce Paltrow cast his daughter in is simply ... bizarre. There are many many ways to play a young girl who meets her wayward father late in life but somehow I don't think this is one of them. Gwen has never looked better and her looks actually distract from the role, aided and abetted by the director having her slink here and there whenever the chance presents itself. This is wrong on many levels.* the cameos are all interesting and the stories are all interesting but other than the aforesaid performance by Giamatti, they simply fall apart the longer the viewer has endure them.* on second viewing, I realized that what I liked so much about the film originally was the whole Karioke theme, that this theme has astonishingly been underplayed in movies (boy is that rare!) and it shouldn't be, because it has legs. The first scene in the script with Huey Lewis is the strongest with the most impact, and understand THAT IS NOT A GOOD THING because the story and the film go downhill from there. "}{"Title":"The most sweetest movie sadly - underrated","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The Duets is very charming, relaxing film. You can take your popcorn, sit back and enjoy adventure of middle age man who decided to put some action in his life and for sure many people will laugh hardly recognizing themselves and their funny moments in frustrations )I don't want to spoil anything, you just watch this and enjoy in flow of sweet polite characters here and their story. Well, we all are sick from violence and swearing in movies and they are worst year by year so i hope you see this one and fill brain with joy,honesty and love. You can find that in The Duets. For sure.If IMDb allows me to share beautiful music video from this movie it will be greathttps//vimeo.com/47710464 "},{"Title":"Way off key","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When somebody mixed chocolate and peanut butter, they invented a great candy bar. Trying to mix the karaoke fad with high drama is just difficult to swallow.This movie tries to inject excitement, dramatic conflict and tension into karaoke, which is nothing more than a fun diversion. Karaoke enthusiasts don't take it or themselves seriously, yet this movie tries to make it something deep and melancholy. It just doesn't work in that context. The film concocts subplots, interweaves them, and somehow stirs them all up together with karaoke as some kind of symbolic catalyst. It introduces characters on their way to a big bucks contest, and casts them into chaotic situations (some even gratuitously violent) along the way.The resulting movie is akin to the worst karaoke singer of all time, who doesn't know all the words, screeching a Madonna hit at the top of their lungs.I like Paul Giamatti, but his mid-life crisis character who is borderline wacko is grossly overstated and out of place. The road trip story with him and a convict just gets more and more contrived and senseless as it progresses. The pairing of Huey Lewis and Gwyneth Paltrow as father and daughter provides a wonderful rendition of Cruisin', but not much substance for a story. Huey is a karaoke hustler(!) If there is such a thing, I haven't seen one in years of karaoke singing. Other characters are dull and forgettable.Ill conceived and recklessly executed, this story is totally out of tune, and overwhelms the film's positive elements. The karaoke contests were fun, with some amusing moments. The actors all really put their best effort here, but are drowned out by a script that is just one big cacophony of pointless noise.A girl I met at a karaoke place and I thought this would be fun to see on our first date. I wish I could have taken a picture of the look on her face as we left the theater. It was the most hilarious expression I ever saw; far more entertaining than this movie was. "},{"Title":"Disappointing because of how much better it could've been","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For comedy/dramas or dramedies as one might call this form of film, the blend of humor and human characters is essential to creating believable story lines. The way of going about this has been done multiple ways. A frequently picked method of execution is the separate story threads conjoining at the finale direction. Although not anything new, it is a common way of telling individual stories that share a common theme and then bring them together at the end for one grand congregation. The most recent movie that came to mind when thinking of this type of storytelling goes to John Herzfeld's Reach Me (2014). Although entirely stepped on by official critics, it wasn't entirely a waste of a film. It was quick on the draw for certain parts of its script but it also had a positive overall message about improving oneself as a person using unique characters. In some respects, the way this movie was presented felt somewhat in the same vein. Different groups of people from various areas of the U.S. enter a karaoke contest in the hopes of being awarded $5,000 as the winner. Along their travels, they learn things about themselves and each other. Sounds simplistic enough right? It is in fact, but this is not the problem. The issue lies underneath all that once looked at under a closer lens. The screenplay, written by John Byrum (The Razor's Edge (1984) and Mahogany (1975)) suffers from three factors. One is that the movie cannot find a clear tone in its entirety and its three independent story lines. One story is about a selfish karaoke hustler named Ricky Dean (Huey Lewis) who discovers after his distant wife passed away left him his daughter Liv (Gwyneth Paltrow). Then there's Todd Woods (Paul Giamatti), a rundown salesman who gets tired of the same old same old and leaves his life behind while running into just released convict Reggie Kane (Andre Braugher). Lastly is Billy (Scott Speedman), a guy who just got cheated on and discovers new girl Suzi Loomis (Maria Bello) who has a knack for getting what she wants by sacrificing her dignity.It's difficult to say which story feels the most sympathetic. The father/daughter struggle could've been heartwarming all the way through but instead is kicked around as a nuisance and is only quickly reconciled later on. The adventure salesman/convict thread only seems to get more uncontrollably rash and negatively misunderstood the longer the characters are on screen. As for the lonely guy/new girl parable, the play out often feels like a dark raunchy comedy that was meant for another film entirely. With all the inconsistent tones, the film as a whole doesn't work that well. What exactly are you trying to be movie? Unfortunately with the confusing tone brings up the second issue with the screenplay and that's the story lines not complimenting each other in some way. How does one find a comparison between these three- mismatched story threads? Finally, the last issue (which is probably the biggest and most noticeable) is that the whole concept of karaoke isn't of main focus for a lot of the running time. It's actually more of a backdrop and that's rather sad due to the pros that are about to be listed next.As much as the problems mentioned prior bring down the film a lot, there are positives to bring up and these points at least show it had the potential to be better. For one, the acting is solid. Every main character has a certain personality and the actor portraying that character fits it nicely. Even Huey Lewis, for the small amount of times he's acted plays it cool (although arrogant). Paul Giamatti gets more and more psychotic as time progresses and his dialog gets more and more garbled. Maria Bello with a Southern accent is different and her attitude is quite sharp. This is just a few from the tip of the iceberg. Now if only the characters were actually written better. Also just for fun, there are a couple of cameos viewers may not be aware of. For one, Michael Bublé has an obvious appearance but is still fun to see him doing what he does best (singing that is). There's even a quick shot of Terminator (1984) director James Cameron having some fun. Weird but intriguing.The cinematography was adequate too. Shot by Paul Sarossy (Exotica (1994) and The Sweet Hereafter (1997)), there's a mix of outside and inside shots. However even for inside camera-work Sarossy manages to keep the camera moving substantially without being distracting. This at least gives the audience something to look at and get an idea of where they are and the scale at which the setting is taking place. Finally the music, which is a mix of instrumental score but mostly singing was good. The best part of this film is seeing the actors actually sing. Other than Huey Lewis (for obvious reasons) singing, who knew Gwyneth Paltrow, Paul Giamatti, Andre Braugher and Maria Bello could sing so well? It was very believable and certainly made the performance feel a tad more emotional. Again though, if only those characters were written better. The best sung song from the film would be the popular single Cruisin' (originally by Smokey Robinson) covered by Huey Lewis and Gwyneth Paltrow. A very smooth and enjoyable song. The score produced by familiar composer David Newman was also appropriate. It was anonymous but useful for the scenes required, this time.Sadly even with catchy songs sung legitimately by the actors, good camera-work and solid acting, the entire execution is just a hodgepodge of ideas that don't coalesce as easy as it should have. The individual story lines don't match in tone, which doesn't make the film understandable in its message and the whole concept of karaoke isn't focused on like the premise promotes. It had potential but wasn't utilized properly. "},{"Title":"Watchable?  Yes!  Believable?  I don't think so!!","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Well, I finally watched Duets, almost FIFTEEN YEARS after it came out. I do have an excuse, as it was on STARZ recently, and I was laid up sick. I probably could have been OK by waiting another fifteen years until 2030 to see it, but it was accomplished. And I don't really have too much good to say about it, other than it looked like Paul Giamatti was starting to get into A-One form for his manic upcoming lead role in Sideways a couple years later, and if that was the case, it was worth it (for him, anyway).The whole Competitive Karaoke Circuit plot line was too far-fetched to believe, even if does (or did) exist in the late 90's. People travelling around for winner's prize money that wouldn't even come close to covering expenses&#x85;NO WAY! And don't even get me started on the big finale, where Andre Braugher's character gets blown away in front of an audience. Had it been a real event, it would have been a downright horrific event for someone to witness in a packed bar, yet nobody seems to be even slightly affected by it the next day as they all leave the hotel&#x85;WTF?? Stay away from this, unless you're a fan of Giamatti. "},{"Title":"When they sing,their life start change to better.","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is so underrated movie Five point something.Come on...... What I do like it about this movie is that its gotta soul of its own. Six characters ,trying to do something in lives.What they do its singing. The meaning of their lives.One character particular has a leading role in the film.This is Todd Woods played by Paul Giamatti.His life is being out of control for so many years,always on the run,traveling on the airports,without knowing witch town is visiting , believing in the finesse of the American society.His wife at home is so busy with the computer,no sense at all for his husband.Ever since he takes the microphone and start singing Paul's life suddenly acquiring some meaning.Later on he met Reggy,fugitive from the prison, from whom got love and understanding.Both traveling across America and singing duets in the karaoke they start know each other and a new friendship is borne.Ricky Dean is a karaoke singer.His job is to bets with other people make theme believe that they are better than he is....when he met Liv,who happen to be his daughter,his life changing as well,and Billy who is a owner of half a cab,searching some harmony met a beautiful Suzi Loomis,all of them,trying to be on the final karaoke night. I think this is very enjoyable film to watch it...covered with some of the best pop-soul hits of 80s and 90s. All to all a good drama story 7/10 "},{"Title":"Giamatti/Braugher","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Two of the best actors in the US, and my personal favorites as well. What can go wrong ? Well for one thing have the movie be a vehicle for Gwyneth Paltrow in the movie's most uninteresting storyline. If the script had just dropped that story about the lost Dad and fleshed out the other two stories a bit more then this movie would have been awesome. Its not that she is so bad at the singing or Lewis is an awful actor, but their story is just so boring and kliché... Still at least Giamatti and Maria Bello has since had a lot of good roles, now we just need more of Andre Braugher -) Cant be long before we see a movie like this, just set in the world of competitive computer-gaming. That would be very weird indeed, but lets see if I am right. "},{"Title":"One Word....Huey Lewis","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie was pretty decent. You really have to like singing to enjoy the film more though. The film has nice colorful characters that keep you interested throughout, but that is to make up for the weak story. Basically the film is about people trying to win a karaoke contest. It does touch base on some of the side stories, but not that strong. The main part of the cast all had their own singing styles. Maria Bello was more female alternative. Andre Braugher with Paul Giamatti were a soul/jazz type. Then you got Huey Lewis and Gwyneth Paltrow as an upset fun type. It was nice to see Huey Lewis sing and I was really surprised by Paul Giamatti's voice. But who stole the show was Andre Braugher. He has the most emotional part of the film and it contains a shivering a cappella version of Free Bird. So a decent little film with some fun singing basically sums up this movie. "},{"Title":"Life Is a Duet.","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What a movie ! Actually except for the bloody climax it could've been one of the greatest movies ever made. It's not another road movie or else; it's one sharp reviewing for the real meaning of duet in our contemporary life. When they choose the karaoke it wasn't randomly as long as no one is born with the gift of knowing how to love. The singer on the stage needs an audience to be that bond that could make the both of them happy or lively so the human relationships. You must practice a lot to be that talented in love because it's not about the tune inasmuch as the way of your singing.. The way you feel and want the other to feel. Therefore (Giamatti)'s character said at the end I sing now! as he meant that he loves AND gets used to be loved.You would grasp the smart philosophy of it when you notice how it got all the main connections' kinds  the family (Gwyneth Paltrow & Huey Lewis), the friendship (Andre Braugher & Paul Giamatti), and the love story (Gwyneth Paltrow & Scott Speedman). It can't be life without being in a duet.Despite that it got solid catchy characters, some clever ironic situations (especially at the first act), but I didn't like the whole third act whereas I didn't see (Maria Bello)'s development as a character for the better, or even the logicality of the peacemaking between the father and his daughter, not to mention the melodramatic death of (Andre Braugher) !! I couldn't perceive for a second why he committed suicide like this ! The script wanted to make him that martyr friend, or that solo forever character..Fine ! But in the most unconvincing way ! Besides the confusion at the matter of killing the road store's owner or not; which wasn't for the sake of the movie, totally unlike the confusion of who did win at the end ? As simply and wonderfully put  they all won ! The songs at the end were dramatically expressing to the utmost. The performance was perfect yet as always (Paul Giamatti) is sunnier than the rest as that extinguished exhausted man, partly because he's everyone's impossible dream as the easy rider of the middle class, or the angry insane version of (Albert Brooks) in (Lost in America).It's representing how life is a complicated duet, and if both try their best at it then they may have the biggest trophy of them all  Love. "},{"Title":"Can you make a touching movie about karaoke? They did with Duets","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a movie I had walked past in the movie aisle for years. It always thought it looked intriguing. The cover along had the look of an independent film. However, independent can often mean independent of entertainment -- just watch 200 Cigarettes, abhor. I knew it'd be risk watching this flick but I was up to the challenge.Labeled as a laugh out loud comedy (though I found it in the drama section), Bruce Paltrow crafted a very touching flick. Here you have a full-time karaoke wise guy who is reconnected to his long lost daughter --a corporate slave who goes overboard and meets a stranger in the middle of nowhere -- a sensitive taxi driver (a Patrick Dempsey clone) who meets a bimbo who thinks she's all that.These 3 sets of people are all on different paths. But they're all on a path to nowhere. Whether they have family or not, a strong emptiness exists in each character. This could be an excuse to get overly gloomy as Hollywood is often keen to do. Not quite the case.I don't want to comment on the individual performances -- none of them stood out. They were all real, believable, and you could feel compassion for each of them (even the bimbo). Each person has their own demons that may or may not be obvious to themselves. That's not to say the characters aren't strong -- they all have a distinct personality. But all of them mold perfectly into the comforting feel of the movie.This movie isn't trying to make any grandiose statements. It's really a tale about 6 lost souls that take a liking to karaoke. Despite their separate journeys they all meet one in Ohama for an event nobody will forget.I'm struggling to get in depth about this movie so I'll leave it here. You won't be blown away but you will walk away feeling very satisfied. Despite some sadness the movie ends on a good note. Hollywood told a good story here. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Strangely Charming","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I discovered this movie a couple of years ago and was charmed by its fragile characters and beautiful soundtrack that seems to create character depth that the script doesn't. Huey Lewis (Ricky Dean) was, surprisingly, very strong in his role as a reluctant father to Gwyneth Paltrow's character, Liv. While I found some of the acting to be wooden, and the direction was often predictable, there is something that appealed to me - I feel that the characters spoke through the music rather than the narrative, thus lifting the movie to a higher level. A mention also has to go to Braugher and Giamatti who are a delightful combination right up to the heartbreaking climax. "}{"Title":"beautifully metaphorical","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Just watching the next to last scene when the pink taxi merges onto a freeway in between all black cars is just a great ending to one big metaphor of a movie. Granted, apart from Paul Giamatti and Andre Braugher, the acting was not top shelf, but it wasn't necessary, because the story is more important. And the story tells of how people get disarranged in their lives, sidetracked by all the goals society and media forces onto them. And the 6 main characters all find out with the help of a partner what their path in life should be. More people should see beyond the varnish and see the weathered canvas that is life and appreciate the deeper meanings of art! "},{"Title":"Ditto on Better than your average karaoke road movie","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I would just like to whole-heartedly agree with the excellent comment previously written by JoeytheBrit. The movie certainly deserves a better than average rating and is definitely worth the cost of rental. I thoroughly enjoyed it - twice. Both the multiple story lines and the karaoke songs make this movie a hit. The creative interplay of actors singing and singers acting gives this movie an intriguing twist. Additionally, the acting and singing is uplifting. My personal favorites were the relationships between Huey Lewis and Gwyneth Paltrow, and Paul Giamatti and Andre Braugher. Coincidently, the songs that these two duets sing are also my two favorites in the movie - Cruisin' and Free Bird. "},{"Title":"Absolutely underrated","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Maybe it's just me, I don't know... But I simply don't understand how a movie like 'Duets' gets such a miserable average rating. For example Raiders of the Lost Ark is ranked 17. on the top 250 list with an average of 8,6!! An Indiana Jones movie, for cryin' out loud!!! 'Duets' is a very good/great movie that gives you something life!The play of the actors is high quality they give us a variety of personalities - we might hate or love the characters, but we may only praise the acting. No doubt about that! Combined with the surprisingly good singing it's coming close to a masterpiece. Because so far I didn't watch a movie where actors could sing or singers could (really) act. This is the first one.The only con I could find in the movie is the directing. Gwyneth Paltrow's dad just wasn't a guy for that kind of work.All in all everyone who has a little soul will enjoy the movie very much. It's among the ''great ones'' for me. "},{"Title":"The Road to Self Acceptance.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In my humble opinion, a masterpiece for the late Bruce Paltrow working with John Byrum and a cast that went the distance. The tale is dark, but then again, so is life.The director complained that he did not have the time and money to do this the way he would have really liked. I can only wonder what the film would have been with a larger budget. It is amazing what $15,000,000 can't buy these days. I am grateful that the DVD was able to capture the director's thoughts before his passing. I think the product is excellent. After viewing the DVD, I had to hit IMDB and find out more about this film.The movie is a road story with six paired actors making a journey of self discovery. All the characters are flawed and dealing with those shortcomings in their own ways. There is a deliverance that makes the trip worthwhile.Designed as a vehicle for Gwyneth Paltrow and Brad Pitt, delays changed the casting -- probably for the better except for box office results.  Ms. Paltrow gives a fine performance -- which is what I was looking for while never expecting her vocal talents. Her songs are truly exceptional to my ear -- both her solo of Bette Davis Eyes and her duet of Cruisin' with Huey Lewis. Lewis gives a very credible performance opposite such a talented icon.The top performance of the movie would go to Andre Braugher. His sociopath is as lethal as any I have seen of recent time. The mix of that terror with his vast feelings is a true blessing from this film. His odd pairing with Paul Giamatti is the best duet of the film with the later star also giving an excellent performance -- above what I have come to expect from him.Maria Bello gives the film's second best performance as the self deprecating soul in quest of her dream. Her pairing with Scott Speedman provides perhaps most socially acceptable tandem in a morally corrupt scenario. And they do make a handsome pair. Speedman provides the true heart of the film who helps drive the characters to their fates. Another fine performance.I am stunned that this film does not have an awards display. Nihilism has been around for a long time and this tale does it a fine turn. I suppose too many are seduced by the darkness to see the light at the end of this story. The director got excellent performances from a bunch of actors and deserves recognition for this result. While the music is not new, it is certainly a pleasure as performed. For the most part, by the stars.John Byrum has created a dark tale that I would say makes the dark trilogy with Razor's Edge, The (1984)  and Inserts (1975). I loved those previous efforts and am very satisfied with this addition to the set. I think anyone who enjoyed either of those films should take a hard look at this movie. I would say that Bruce Paltrow's touch has given this film a slightly brighter turn in this dark world.I give the movie a 9 for outstanding performances from a large cast, excellent direction and a hard gritty story. It is not an easy movie to sit with, but the tale and performances win if you stick with it. Let the kids do something else while you watch it.  - Michael "},{"Title":"If You Missed It, Go See It","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you missed Duets when it hit the theaters 4 years ago, this is a movie worth renting.  This ensemble cast was great. They were all paired up and the chemistry was great.  They all came from different backgrounds and my perception was, everyone except Paltrow were running away from something;  Huey Lewis (his past), Andre Braugher (the law), Maria Bello (herself), Scott Speedman (His wife and business partner) and Paul Giamatti (his humdrum life and self-absorbed family), but karaoke will bring them all together.Paul Giamatti and Andre Braugher were the best in this movie.  Giamatti was funny, had that strange grin that tells you he's up to something or he's quickly scheming something.  My favorite scenes with them were the shootout scene in the convenience store, Todd (Giamatti) teaching Reggie (Braugher) how to drive and their version of Try a Little Tenderness was fantastic.Just as good was Huey Lewis and Gwyneth Paltrow's version of Smokey Robinson's Crusin'.  I liked the movie and bought the DVD.Trivia;  The convenience store where Giamatti and Braugher got into a shootout with the clerk is located in Surrey, B.C. Canada.  it's called the  Campbell River Store.  To get there, if you get off of I-5 North and take the Carson Truck Boarder exit, headed into Canada; It's about 1/2 mile or so north of the boarder. "},{"Title":"Sweet and unpretentious, with some good performances - and one great one","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this for the second time last night, and liked it even more than I had first time round.  I *like* the fact that this film isn't particularly ambitious, that it doesn't have big stars, that it's unassuming.  These are all virtues in my book, provided that the film tells its story and brings you its characters effectively.I'd forgotten how many great lines there are in this film, many of them given to Maria Bello, whose brassy performance was a lot of fun - although I wasn't sure about her singing she hits all the notes, but there's virtually no sustain.  Odd, that.  Anyway, Gwyneth P sings very sweetly, and shows her unselfish approach to her craft.  For someone so famous, she is a real team player - In addition to her Oscar winning part, check out her strong performances in ensemble pieces like Sidney (aka Hard Eight) and The Royal Tenenbaums.It's already been said here that the scenes involving Andre Braugher and Paul Giametti are the best in the film; I'd agree, and go further and say that Giametti's performance is verging on great I've seen few actors convey someone on the verge of a nervous breakdown so convincingly, steering the treacherous path between I shout a lot to signify I'm going through a transition and Look at me, I'm a teapot.  He really does seem like a man on the edge, and the scenes with his wife pack a real emotional punch.  And his singing is terrific my personal favourite was his gradually-loosening-up take on Hello It's Me.No quibbling about Andre Braugher's performance, though it *is* great.  I'd never seen him before, not having seen Glory or Homicide.  I found his playing immensely touching shepherding a man cracking up, the escaped convict becomes a wise man, friend and protector, and Braugher conveys all this with gravitas and a wry world-weariness.  In all seriousness, I think this performance was worthy of an Oscar for best supporting actor, at the very least a nomination.  And his voice?  Wow!Duets is not perfect, and doesn't set out (one imagines) to break box-office records in its first weekend.  It is a solid, well-made ensemble piece with a clutch of fine performances and some lively singing.  I'd quite happily buy this on DVD and watch it again. "},{"Title":"Paul Giamatti steals the show","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Two thirds of this film is pretty cheesy and predictable. Huey Lewis & Gwyneth Paltrow canter through some run-of-the-mill father/daughter bonding. Bello and Speedman play two losers who help each other out. And if that was all there was in the movie, it would be pretty humdrum.But the third arc, with Andre Braugher as the convict and Paul Giamatti as the middle-ranking business exec having a nervous breakdown lifts the whole thing to and entirely new level.Braugher is good but Giamatti is superb. His manic grin and increasingly desperate, dishevelled performance is lights up the screen everytime he appears. His rants about the consumer society in which he has been trapped strike a chord and his hopeless niavety is genuinely winning. The relationship between Braugher and Giamatti is touching.Duets isn't a classic film, if it wasn't for Giamatti it would probably have slipped almost immediately from my memory, but you should watch it just for him. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I found this film mildly entertaining.  Braugher was great, and the rest of the cast were enjoyable to watch.  Being unfamiliar with the world of karaoke, I didn't realize that it was so popular.  This is no great film, but it's not bad.  It has fun, quirky characters, and I grew to care about some of them. "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite movies, Paul Giamatti is one of my favorite actors of all time. They had an allstar cast, Paul Giamatti, Gwyneth Paltrow, Maria Bello, Huey Lewis! This is a great film and you should definately check it out. I give it an A+.  "},{"Title":"Good movie worth watching","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you are into karaoke and/or you just enjoy singing, then this movie is probably a good one for you.  Is this an academy award winning type movie with a great plot... the answer is no.  However, it is entertaining.  It has one star singer in it, Huey Lewis.  However, I think it is safe to say that Lewis is not the best singer in the movie.  The cast is great with Paul Giamatti (also in Private Parts), Andre Braugher (Glory), and of course Gwyneth.   I recommend either Private Parts and Glory if you enjoy either of their performances in this movie.   7.5 Stars. "}{"Title":"The road trip of a lifetime","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Six people head out on a road trip to compete in a competion for $50000. Scott Speedman does an excellent job as a laidback cab owner. Maria Bello plays an exotic girl who does just about anything to get what she wants. Very impressive voice and even the acting is on the good side. Gwyneth Paltrow plays a young women who's only dream is to be reuntied with a father who loves her very much. She does an excellent job singing and even protrays the role wonderfully. Huey Lewis plays her father, who is anything but loving to her. He, I must say, was the best of the six. He has a wonderful voice and acts just as well. I give this movie 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Duets is not what you think it is!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a great movie. Most people think it is just some cheesy karaoki flick before they see it, but trust me; it goes way beyond that!! Duets has a great cast, and no lead character, so if you don't like one of the actors, the parts are evenly distributed. There are several different stories going on at the same time so its as if there is always something new. This is by far one of the best movies i have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Only For Karaoke Fans!","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie wasn't as bad as I expected it to be, but it's not that great either. Nor is it fit for everyone. I recommend first off, that you like or maybe even sing, karaoke. Otherwise you'll doze off because that's what it's all about. I felt like none of the stories were developed well enough, other than Todd and Reggie, who we spent the majority of time watching. Not that I'm complaining, it's just I didn't feel like I knew any of the other characters, or even cared what happened to them honestly. And, the movie didn't really focus on one genre. Like, it starts off kind of quirky and towards the end it gets serious, I didn't know what I was watching! But make a trip to the video store if you're a fan of anyone in the movie, and or, like karaoke yourself. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Peculiar lowbudget superhit","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I chosed it from a point-of-vue to see a B-movie with G. Paltrow but ended up with a movie that I would see over and over. Cut out to be a personal favorite.The beginning isn´t the strongest, new version of an old trick played by Huey Lewis. But after that the tempo kicks up and the hilarious sales manager, stared Paul Giamatti, on the run is the central figure of this drama. G. Paltrow is lowkey funny and not her ordinary typecasting, working well with Mr Lewis who is in constant need of a sparringpartner, together they are funny.André Braugher is sort of typecasted and is really good together with Paul Giamatti, who byhimself makes this movie memorable. Simple, effective acting. never seen him so good. "},{"Title":"Sweet Surprise","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Lot's of good surprises in this movie. For one thing Huey's more than adequate acting.  I'd only seen him in one other film (his now semi-legendary appearance in the  80s classic Back to the Future) and i was impressed with his starring effort here. I also was blown away by one of the many funny lines and even though one in particular might be offensive it was such a surprise that a female character would say this...i can't write it here kids might be reading but Maria Bello's character after Scott Speedman's character gets his taxi painted  we don't have any money, but i'd consider it an honor and a privilege to...... if you've seen it you know. I'm glad i didn't pay high theater rates for it it wasn't THAT good but it's definitely worth a  rental and MORE than worth your time on TV. enjoy! "},{"Title":"Gweyneth Paltrow can sing","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An original (non-formula) American story with quirky and diverse characters. Nothing about the film is outstanding. However, it is amazing how well everyone sings and seems to be liberated by the experience. It made me want to go out to a Karioke bar myself.  In addition to her amazing acting (not so much in this film), Ms. Paltrow can sing as well as Huey Lewis (sorry Huey).  "},{"Title":"Music career for Gwyneth Paltrow?","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you're a karaokee fan - Duets is the movie for you. This movie is all about karaokee.The chain of events is progressing very slowly - you can wait 30 minutes for a turning point. The jokes are as unfunny and dull as can be - how can a story of a father and daughter meeting each other for the first time in decades be a comedy? This movie is more like a no-plot-musical than a comedy. If there is something good about this film is the soundtrack. Gwyneth Paltrow is exposing a great singing talent with the wonderful cover version to Kim Carnes's Bette Davis eyes.If you're looking for a better movie of Gwyneth Paltrow try Perfect Murder or Hush.Rated 5/10. "},{"Title":"good good casual movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Beautiful men and women abound in this movie. Todd (Giamatti) is absolutely lovable. My next choices are Braugher, Bello, Speedman, and every girl in the karaoke bars.On second thought, the duets are pretty much a bunch of homeless bums on the run. I'm not sure I look forward meeting each type in real life (con with a gun!) However the chaotic and sometimes flat plot (thanks to Paltrow and Lewis' roles) disguises the acting strength and underlying star power of individual characters.I'm not into music, but agrees with everyone that the singing here is fantastic. (my picks in order are Braugher, Giamatti, Paltrow, Lewis, Bello, and every boy in the karaoke bars) This is a movie you will be very much surprised and delighted if you just sit back.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Duets was a great movie that showed you how much fun kareoke can be and that everyone has different talents, even if some of them weren't the best, they had singing that seemed to make everything better for them. but in the end everything was happy except when the guy dies at the end. I cried it was so sad. "},{"Title":"Loved it! Fun, great.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Love to be involved with that kind of fun.  They really did a great project, DUETS! The cast was great!  I though the music choices for the movie were picked with class!  It was naughty, funny, and would like to see it again. Totally entertaining. "}{"Title":"a refreshing and charming movie.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  We found Duets very entertaining with clever lines, fresh ideas and good acting. Ms Paltrow is an amazingly good singer. All the cast was excellent with perhaps the exception of Huey Lewis who was impressive neither as an actor nor singer - even though he is a pro singer/performer.We thought the directing was well done and the writing was way above average. My only complaint is the melodramatic ending - I think it could have been done with less violence. My husband and I do recommend this movie and are lookingforward to hearing more from Ms Paltrow as a singer. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Through some misunderstanding I ended up with this DVD on my coffee table and decided it was worth a look...at least to see what father and daughter could put together.  In several humourous plot lines which all meet at the end of the movie, Paltrow and Byrum create some clever stories and even touching scenes.The real magic in this movie is behind the scenes though.  Bruce Paltrow with his daughter, started this movie in the mid-nineties but it was put on hold when he developed throat cancer.  Still recovering from a massive operation, he directed the movie to a successful completion.  The other great thing is the casting.  Almost all of the main characters sing their own songs and do a great job. The DVD has lots of extra info about Bruce's battle with cancer and more interesting material.  Both the flick and the DVD extras are worth a look. "},{"Title":"It's all in how you market!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I saw the coming attractions for Duets, I thought it was some backwards, hick town, country singing, stuffy, boring movie.  Boy was I surprised when I finally got to see it.  The singing was excellent, the story was excellent and the acting was superb.  What a brilliant idea to mix very good singers with some not-so-great singers to create authenticity of non-professional karaoke singers trying to win the pot.  I was most impressed with Andre Braugher and Paul Giamatti.  This is definitely a feel good movie.  It's safe to say, the wrong scenes were chosen to represent this movie. "},{"Title":"Another chick flick... NO?","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hey! I thought when we saw this film, oh God, another chick flick! But how mistaken was I? This was a delightfully enjoyable and thoroughly watchable film with some big and small names, and tons of talent.Everybody in this film pulled their weight and made this a sleeping hit.In fact, the big name that was the draw was Gwyneth Paltrow (whos daddy was the man behind the making of this film), was the weakest player in my opinion. Her portrayal of an aloof (forgive this word), retard, (not mentally handicapped, just simply goofy!) was enough to make any viewer rolltheir eyes. But, she IS eye candy and DID fill a place in the film that was necessary to the overall story (hey, it could've been real life retard Juliette Lewis for crimminy sake!).I must say though, that character actor Paul Giamatti exploded with his talent in this film. His portrayal of an awakened corporate clutz is memorable. And Maria Bello (from ER fame) is so dangnabbed hot in this film that it is worth it just to watch her!All in all, this ain't no Taxi Driver and it ain't no Kane, but ifyou're into a silly, happy, boy-meets-girl tragically hip fun flick, then this is a sure win.I was again, delightfully surprised!Thanks and peace out!Fizz  "},{"Title":"What happens when an overworked, unappreciated, businessman out for a joy ride meets up with a self defeated convict; a hustler and dead beat dad meets up with his daughter; and an uninhibited young women me","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Duets is a drama with hints of comedy that takes a realistic look at six individuals lives and the relationships that develop.  All of the individuals meet by chance and end up in the same place, a Karaoke Night Club in Omaha, hoping to grab the big jackpot.  Each individual is fascinating within himself.  But it is the couples `duets' that take the movie to interesting heights.  Ricky (Huey Lewis) meets his daughter for the first time at her mother's funeral.  While his daughter Liz (Gwyneth Paltrow) is determined to develop a father daughter relationship, dad is content on remaining a lone traveler with no attachments.  His only contentment in life is to hustle at karaoke bars and feel contrived stardom. Then, there is the overzealous, uninhibited, Suzi (Maria Bello) who uses sex to shape her world.  She lacks self-confidence and self-esteem, which is what she needs to pull off the biggest night of her life.  She meets up with Billy (Scott Speedman) an underachieving taxi driver who forces her to take a look at her self worth.The movie is stolen by the `duet' Todd  (Paul Giamatti) and Reggie (Andre Braugher).  Todd is a burned out salesmen who begins to reassess his life and work when he finds he's totally ignored and unappreciated by his family. He goes out for a pack of cigarettes, which leads to an extended joy ride meeting up with Reggie a convict.  Todd gets his first taste of real freedom and adds comedy to the story by stepping beyond his normal limits, leaving Reggie to redeem himself by taking responsibility for the results of Todd's mayhem.  The two together while likable characters really end up on a crime spree.  Reggie who tends to lack emotional feelings attaches himself to Todd, who gives him his life long dream, the opportunity to sing.The highlight of this movie is really the first time singing performance of the stars (excluding Huey Lewis.)  Huey and Gwyneth Paltrow do a nice soft version of Smoky Robinson's `Cruising Together.'  Gwyneth also does a nice sexy rendition of `Betty Davis Eyes.'  But the hats-off performance goes to Paul Giamatti and Andre Braugher for their rendition of Otis Redding's `Try a Little Tenderness.'  This performance makes this movie well worth seeing and buying.All in all I think this movie does a lot with human character.  It looks at ordinary people, their wants and desires and brings them to a decision point no matter how traumatic.  In today's world is this really so unbelievable.  "},{"Title":"A must for Paul Giamatti fans (wherever you are)","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Director and Star have the same last name; hmmm is this a Paltrow family project or what?  The recurring thought I had after watching this was How old is the little girl Ms. Paltrow is supposed to be playing?  She does well with the on-screen dad and even her on-screen grandma (played by Angie Dickinson) but much about this movie stymies my comprehension of the fantasy of a plot.  If you like guys doing duets after sharing road-movie buddying up, then you'll love Paul Giamatti singing with Andre Braugher (however Mr. Braugher lip-synches for both of his on-screen karaoke performances).  Mr. Giamatti has to carry the story-line's major dramatic development;  the running gag of the Frequent Flyer Miles for redemption seems to be an inside joke of the Writer/Director/Dialogue editor.  The movie does have a direction (give it some credit) but the title seems to have been junked at some point as only one of the final performances is a duet (and that one seemed almost to have been impromptu).  I expected some sort of re-arrangement of the singing partners but it would never have occurred to me that one of the six major characters would never even have a microphone thrust in his direction.  Didn't these film makers and writers see the hilarious section in MY BEST FRIEND's WEDDING where Cameron Diaz' character does such a bad job at Karaoke that it's memorable???  I wondered several times -- Did Brad Pitt have the non-singer role when he was first slated to join in this family project? Where was the Duet between the female leads?  Where was the live concert possibility version? In its favor, Mr. Giamatti does convey well the manic aspects of the karaoke adulation but cutting away with music still playing is a sign that the director was non-committal. As far as advice to Director Paltrow might be apropos -- much about this film reminded me of a TV perspective and some glib observances about unhappy Americans a couple of drifters, a suburban salesman who can't connect with family, a philosophical, non-threatening ex-prisoner, also an underachiever. If you have a sequel in mind, go with lots of undiscovered singers whose connection to a song leads to even more electrifying performances.  You did get some great song-singer connections but try to let those come to a fuller bloom!             Any IMDB readers seeking an unqualified recommendation for this rental must be diehard Paul Giamatti fans to reach fullest satisfaction // I've never heard of equally watchable Maria Bello before this film and her energy is another attraction for a cult-film following. Many of the songs are great covers / re-treads !!!  (Notice I said many, not ALL).   I give it a 7 / 10 *s for its soundtrack appeal and its under-achieved possibility. "},{"Title":"Still in Awe!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie this past weekend on video and I still cannot believe it. It is the type of movie that makes you think for days. I have thought for days and I still cannot wrap my mind around the fact that this movie was actually made. I cannot and will not believe, as long as I live, that there is not a more deserving project sitting in a drawer somewhere that could have been made in the place of this trainwreck.Still more puzzling is the fact that the film is so completely out of touch with the karaoke subculture it uses as its touchstone. It is as if the writer came up with this idea in the shower and never bothered to do any research or, (forgive me, I have no proof of this, but I will say it anyway,) even venture out to a karaoke bar.Paul Giamatti is the sole standout as we watch his character become liberated from his prison of upper middle class corporate slavery, only to find that he has entered another prison of self indulgence.  It has been said before that karaoke is not about the audience, it is about the singer. Giamatti, and his cohort Andre Braugher, are the only ones to effectively realize this with Giamatti getting so into his role that you honestly do not know what he is going to do next.  However, because of the general failure of just about every other conversation and plotline in the film, it is tough to determine if this fascinating role is the result of the writer or the actor. And the strength of Braugher and Giamatti's story only serves to emphasize the tremendous mediocrity going on around it.(Huey Lewis received some praise when the film was released, but I think that is due to the fact that he is completely relaxed on camera. This suits him well when he is boasting about his singing prowess, he is a man who walks into a karaoke bar and just simply knows that he is going to have the best voice.  However, he is completely unconnected in almost every other scene in the movie.)Warning even though I am praising Giamatti's performance, I am not recommending this film. Rent at your own risk.  Remember, you only have so much time on this earth. "},{"Title":"A road picture for the new millenium","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  More than just kareokee this is several stories of people trying to find their way in life who just happen to have escape by doing kareokee and get that brass ring of happiness. Paul Giamatti is excellent as the burnt out salesman who happens about a kareokee bar and then goes on a road trip of escape with Andre Braureau a former convict. That story is much more interesting than Huey Lewis as Gwyneth Paltrow's long gone dad and her tagging along on the kareokee circuit. Sure it's not entirely believable but you do root for players and empathize for Giamatti. As for the singing it's hard to beat Huey Lewis the professional (real life that is), Giamatti does however.  "},{"Title":"Do we understand the word research?","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Have these People ever been to a Karaoke show??  I'm sorry, but I go to karaoke shows all the time and none of them are like this.  You write your name and song on a slip, give it to the host, and on a busy night wait an hour or more to sing.  Once in a while song lists are a page or two but more often than not, they are a big book of songs.  However in this movie, you get to sing the second you walk in the door, and in a nation wide contest, you don't even tell the host what you are going to sing till you get up there??  They have a song list no bigger than a Menu?  And who came up with that nickname anyway??  Don't get me wrong, it was an interesting movie, but try researching a little next time. "},{"Title":"One of the quirkiest movies I have ever seen","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time.  I have never been a huge fan of Gwyneth Paltrow, but my mind is changed.  I think her portrayal of Liv is excellent and the girl can sing, who knew?If you haven't seen this movie, rent it.  You will not be disappointed and you will probably buy the soundtrack! "}{"Title":"Off key & flat","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Outstanding comedic premise and a cast of outstanding players....too bad they did not have a better plot, better writing, better dialogue.  The ending, to what could have been a nice, little, satisfactory 'B' movie dropped it into the definitively poor category.   though I would rewatch the karaoke, 'Fast Eddie' hustling scene and the initial duet between the Braugher/Giamatti characters "},{"Title":"It was hoakey and I loved it!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A movie about karaoke, hoakey in the same way that karaoke is hoakey, but it drew me and my husband into it. The awkwardness of the three not smoothly interwoven stories - three pairs of karaoke singers who end up in Omaha for the $5000 big prize - worked because they were awkward in the same way that karaoke is awkward - not quite professional, but with mega soul to make up for the lapses. All the performances were wondrous, making both the lovely and the horrid bits of dialogue work -Paltrow and Huey Lewis, and Giammetti and Andre Braugher particularly, and the singing was gorgeous.  "},{"Title":"surprisingly well-done","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i wasnt too sure if i wanted to see this movie, as the thought of hearing gwenyth paltrow sing was enough to make me gag.  it was my newfound interest in scott speedman that made me rent it, and i was so shocked!  i was so impressed with the story, the acting, the singing (i regret my former opinion of gwenyth-what an amazing voice!!), everything!  andre braugher and paul giamatti  (in my opinion) definitely had the best on-screen chemistry ive seen in a long, long, long time.  i cant even express how moving it was to hear the two of them singing otis redding's try a little tenderness, and then andre braugher singing his final song...perfection!!  the only disappointment was huey lewis and gwenyth paltrow's story line, which was completely inadequate, considering they were meant to be the main story line.  maria bello was neurotic at its best (which she is great at doing), andscott speedman was adorably and beautifully naive and innocent, pulling it off without a hitch.  i have to say i was so surprised that i enjoyed this movie, and even if you watch it and dont like it, i know that you'll at least fall for the music...who doesnt love a little redding?  "},{"Title":"A scrumptious nugget movie","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Duets launches itself in too many directions to be a feel good movie at its end.  The feel good comes from moments and performances between the beginning and end, nuggets that makes paying the freight on this one worthwhile.  There are real flaws; the father/daughter reunion could have benefited from a little insight of someone who's been there, cliches abound and the plot simply spreads itself too thin to ever wrap up nice and tidy.  But the surprises (Ms. Paltrow sings the pants off Bette Davis Eyes and the camera loves Huey Lewis) are simply splendid.  Paul Giamatti is amazing as the stereotypical high power salesman who has lost touch with the juice of life and literally walks off from his wife, kids and home.  From there it is no longer stereotypical because of Giamatti's hyperkenetic performance (his discovery of his karaoke self is a treasure).  Along the way he meets Andre Braugher, who plays an ex-con who can't drive and they're on a road trip so ...) and their first karaoke duet is a bring down the house nugget.  This film is abundant with little moments, nuggets, some lasting no longer than a few seconds but are tattooed on your brain forever.  I wasn't a fan of Copacobana until the end of this movie. The notion of a karaoke hustler, itself, is a hoot Huey makes us believe.  And the Maria Bellow character has come up with something that beats American Express, hands down.  This is a fun, laugh, oh-no movie of vignettes and moments that is like a roller coaster where the ride isn't as satisfying as the corners, dips and turns during the ride.  It leaves us with a few questions, just like life and someone should write a song about that. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought that this was a wonderful little movie about a diverse group of people.  I did think, however, that they should have added the scenes that were deleted.  They are shown on the DVD.  Who knew that Gwyneth Paltrow and Maria Bello could sing so good!!  I bought the soundtrack as well!  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought...","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There were quite a lot of negative reviews of this movie, but I watched it anyway because I was kind of bored... and I have to admit that I quite liked it.Of course, one could argue that everything in this movie seems a bit phony or pretended, but at least the story of Todd and Reggie is as touching as anything you can see at the movies. Admittedly, the other two storylines are a bit shallow compared to the first one.Anyway, this is IMHO a kind of so-so movies, one of those that some people like and some don't. But I think compared to the other stuff that is playing right now (over here in Germany, that includes Pearl Harbor and Tomb Raider -  ), you might as well give this one a try, if only to see Paul Giamatti's and Andre Braugher's great performances. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly enjoyable film, I had heard nothing about","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although having never heard of the film before renting it, I have subsequently read reviews calling it shallow and crass.  I cannot understand these comments as I found the film to be genuinely engaging, in a light way, with a slightly black subplot.  Obviously the film relies heavily on the musical interludes, all of which were exceedingly well carried out, and have prompted me to buy the soundtrack.  If you dont like films with a heavy musical base (although more Committments than Evita!) avoid, but for anyone who finds themselves singing along in the car and wants an engaging treat it is a must see. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie To Watch For All Karaoke Lovers","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   When I walked into the video store to rent a movie I found this one. I had no idea what this movie was about. I figured since the movie was a new release I would rent it. I have a love for music. I love karaoke and do my own singing quite often. The actors were great and made this movie a hit. Wow, I never knew Gweneth Paltrow could sing. She has a beautiful voice.. I highly recommend people who have any type of interest in karaoke to rent or buy this movie. I laughed, I cried, and I felt such warmth when I was done watching it. I, myself, give the producer two thumbs up for this masterpiece.. I am also glad there are others out there who see that karaoke does mean something to alot of us out here.. "},{"Title":"A richly woven film, singing Karaoke among three duets is used as a metaphor for the leaps of faith each is about to make, good movie.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I can understand why the casual movie-goer might rate Duets a bit low, because while it appears, on the surface, to be about Karaoke, and singing duets is where it appears to get its name, it is really about three different duets of people, each meeting up in a rather unlikely way, and each duet traveling along a path of re-discovery. The Karoke singing is used as the metaphor for taking a risk, breaking out of the routine, and really experiencing life rather than letting it confine you. For many of us, stepping out in front of an audience to perform is the most fearful thing we can do. Conquer that fear, and most anything else is easy.CAUTION -- SPOILERS MAY FOLLOW --The central duet is made up of Paul Giamatti who is a traveling salesman who doesn't always know what city he is in, and in his opening scene begins to give a presentation in Houston, believing he is in Orlando. When he gets home his wife and kids ignore him. He goes out for a pack of cigarettes (doesn't even smoke) and just keeps on going. That duet is completed when he meets up with Andre Braugher who is a just-released prisoner who is jumping parole, hitches a ride, and they end up in Tulsa. In a bar which happens to be into Karoke, a cute young girl pops him a pill then convinces Giamatti to sing, and Braugher sings harmony, they are good, and they have this experience for the first time.Meanwhile, at another Karaoke bar, Huey Lewis is there as a Karaoke hustler, and that's how he makes his money, going from city to city. He gets a call, goes to Vegas, we find out, for the funeral of his old girlfriend who had borne his child 30-odd years earlier. He meets Gwyneth Paltrow who he finds out is his daughter, a kind and simple person, who just wants to get to know her dad. So she travels with him to Omaha for the $5000 national Karoke sing-off, and the second duet is formed.Meanwhile, after he drops off a just released prisoner, an old teacher of his, cabbie Scott Speedman gets conned by Maria Bello into the third duet, to drive him somewhere, eventually wanting to get to California. They stop for the night and happen to get into a Karaoke bar, she sings beautifully, wins, and they are off to Omaha.All three duets end up in Omaha, the father and daughter get to know each other, sing a Karaoke duet together (song became a real hit on its own among the radio waves). Giamatti's wife ends up in Omaha via a phone call from convict Braugher, realizes her poor treatment of her husband. In a both touching and humorous scene, he tells her, I'm a different person now, and I sing. Braugher raises his gun and gets shot by the police, that is his way out onstage after the a' capella song. He can't go back to prison, but he was responsible for saving Giamatti.The three stories are each well- told, and all come together in a very interesting way. Each duet is changed forever. It helps, also, to have seen the DVD with the extras, especially the interview with the director, Bruce Paltrow, and his commentary track over key scenes. Everyone did his or her own singing, but in the final cut Braugher's is over-voiced by a different singer. The filming was mostly done in Canada, and Gweneth and Huey would go to Karaoke bars in the evening to do some additional singing, as would maria Bello. Bello trained for three months before filming, and she turned into quite a good singer, and has also become a Karaoke singer for fun. We really enjoyed this film, definitely worth a viewing for any mature person who likes well-made films.Update Watched it again October 2015, really good movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent Soundtrack - drab movie","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The only scene in this movie worth seeing is at the Karaoke bar, when Gwyneth and Huey Lewis sing Cruisin'.  An excellent song, and I'm sure an excellent soundtrack!  But the movie was awful, almost insulting. "}{"Title":"A surprising movie!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Andre Braugher and Paul Giamatti stole the show. Their segments were very refreshing in an otherwise so-so movie. The cast all sang very well; I was pleasantly surprised. The plot is very worn but the acting made it go. Hats off to Gwyneth for participating in an ensemble type production.My recommendation; see this movie, it's a lot of fun. But don't tell your friends that you enjoyed it 'cause they'll never let you live it down. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm Retarded, but...","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was great.  I saw it at a screening with a packed audience before the reviews were written.  Everyone was so in love with this movie!  No lie.  As thin as the subject matter seems, I honestly have had few experiences like this with an audience.  Paul Giamati was terrific. And, Gwyneth Paltrow did something leading ladies of her peer group never do.  She was a character and she wasn't necessarily the person you were supposed to respect or be attracted to and I thought that was pretty brave. "},{"Title":"Critics","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The critics must have seen a different version of the movie than the one I saw today. The movie I saw was engrossing and well acted. I found myself enjoying and caring about all of the characters.The so called gratuitous sex and nudity were missing from my versionthere is more on prime time tv.The musical numbers were all amazingly good. Gwyneth sings better than she can act.I always look forward to seeing the talented Maria Bello,as well as Andre Braugher and Paul Giamatti.They infused their characters with warmth and humanity.I was also impressed with Huey Lewis and Scott Speedman.My suggestion for the critics is take a double dose of Midol and go see the version of the movie I saw.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, whimsical tale with great music","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie confirmed for me, once again, that movie critics see a totally different reality than moviegoers. It's a mystery to me why critics would rate a dud movie such as Woman on Top over Duets, which has distinctly better acting, character development, and plot -- as well as great music. Duets isn't a perfect movie. But I repeatedly dozed off in WOT, and I was delightfully entertained throughout Duets.  "},{"Title":"Thanks","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  By accident I saw this.  I was all set for something artsy fartsy but got the start time all wrong.  They told me Duets just started, so I said what the heck.I liked this movie so much, it's almost beyond words.  I went and looked at some of the media reviews.  All bad.  I wondered, what's my problem, I have good taste.  Then I looked at the Internal Users to see what you guys thought.  I think like 20 out of 23 reviews were favorable.This movie had so many moments of brilliance, that I find it difficult to even remember the flaws.  I do remember that there were quite a few.  Yeah, some of it was cliche, yeah, some of it was sentimental stuff, whatever. The ending was really bad, due to focus groups or something.But Andre Braugher is incredible.  His acting is so understated yet so profound.  Yes even the script, in spots, was lacking, yet Braugher, found something in every word, no matter how silly.Giametti was spellbinding.  It was the best performance I have ever seen. He goes from comedy to drama to over the top farce between heartbeats.Paltrow.  Lovely.  Excellent actress.  Can even sing.I was very surprised at the performance of Huey Lewis, and simply love to hear that guy sing.It goes to show you, critics sometimes don't know what they are talking about.  If you're like me, you just want a little entertainment, not some mind altering experience.  It's not so much that the script was bad, or the karoake scenes messed up the rythm, you could go on and on.  As a whole, this movie was brilliant, except for the end.  Some focus group or studio executive probably screwed that up.Take care, and thanks again, fellow Internal Users for showing me I wasn't crazy. "},{"Title":"This is a very sweet and emotional movie","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I like Duets very much because I think the screenplay is fairly original. After all, karaoke is a new phenomenon on it's own. It is about people who are travelling across the country to sing songs in karaoke bars in the hopes of making it to Omaha where the grand prize is.     Characters are kind of people who has not found the peace in themselves yet. They are looking for that peace and finding it where they step on the stage and sing their hearts out. I loved it because that is the way I feel about music; it can completely change my mood from sad to glad or vice versa. Music is such a powerful tool that touches us all very deeply. I think that idea was depicted in the movie very effectively. Songs were very good (I simply fell in love with Maria Bello when she sang Sweet Dreams... and I can't make you love me.) They all sing incredibly well; I was surprised by Gwyneth Paltrow's voice....man she really can sing! I listened to the soundtrack cd and I think it is amazing, probably one of the best soundtracks after The Bodyguard.  The only thing that I dislike about the movie was to see Huey Lewis looking quite old. His band used to be one of my most favourite music groups.I say this is a very good movie and one of the 5 must see movies of the year so far (after The Gladiator, The Mission Impossible II, High Fidelity and Almost Famous).   "},{"Title":"Almost, but not quite","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Gwyneth Paltrow has a thrumming, lyrical singing voice that can bowl you over. As a Vegas white-trash dimwit singing a duet of Smokey Robinson's Cruising Together with her karaoke-hustler dad (Huey Lewis), she brings a touch of Freudian hives to an innocuous scene. Encrusted in a Flintstone-like pink-and-purple strapless dress, she has every reason to look like a dope, yet is more smashingly sexy than she ever has been onscreen. The only thing holding her back is the formulaicness of her getting-dad-to-stay scenes; he's a ramblin' man, see, and he likes the open road, and he isn't into all this parenting stuff. The screenwriter, John Byrum, makes a lot of smart, perceptive twists and turns, but you keep waiting for the element that will make this trite story different, and it never comes.Byrum, who has written stuff as weirdly diverse as INSERTS and the Bill Murray RAZOR'S EDGE, is a seventies guy through and through, which means there are nice, human moments Paul Giamatti, as a beleaguered middle-class frequent flier, launches a whole power-point presentation in Houston, till he aborts when he realizes he's in Orlando. DUETS has a better feel for what it's like to drive across America than any other movie I've seen; Byrum and the director, Bruce Paltrow, get the desolate convenience stores and identically Martha Stewart-ish chain hotels just right. And the early scenes between a flipped-out, freedom-seeking Giamatti, and an elegant, man-of-few-words ex-convict (Andre Braughter), give you hope that the movie is going to soar.It almost works--mostly because of those four actors. It certainly doesn't get any help from a plot involving a serial enabler (Scott Speedman) and his hardcase karaoke-queen ride-hitcher (Maria Bello). Speedman was a late replacement for Brad Pitt; I never realized how much I could miss Brad Pitt's acting. And Bello, who was the chief bartender in COYOTE UGLY, is like a cold, slutty Annette Bening; she evokes decades of daytime-drama acting. Also you couldn't exactly let it be said that Bruce Paltrow brings style, or much of a point of view, to the proceedings.In the very end, Giamatti's FIGHT CLUB-ish rants against the strip-malling of America get turned around; perhaps at Chairman Eisner's request, the movie ends with an I-love-the-USA grin (even after a NASHVILLE-like act of tragic violence). The last ten minutes are so gobbledygook you wonder if the filmmakers lost their minds, or were marched off the set at gunpoint by a Disney Swat team. But Giamatti and Braugher duetting have a fluid easy grace. And Gwyneth Paltrow, singing alone, simmers and shimmers. "},{"Title":"A great bad movie, in the vein of Ed Wood","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OK, some of the acting was awful (Scott Speedman, Huey Lewis), but some of it was terrific (Paul Giamatti, Andre Braugher).  The stories were riveting. I found myself caring about most of the characters. If you ignore the bad make-up it was a thoroughly professional movie.  The editing, I thought was top rate, especially considering Braugher did not do his own singing.  "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Let's cut to the chase here folks, the review of this movie in Entertainment Weekly was wayyyy out there.  The reviewer doesn't have too much class if they didn't like this movie.  Duets was a good movie.  Giving it a C-, I don't think so.  It has good acting and all the separate stories that come together at the end has a real meaning of life to them.  I'm not going to embark on the script or whatever else those picky picky critics do, all I'm saying is that this movie was an all around good movie.  Not Oscar winning, but good. )  It makes you think about life a bit "},{"Title":"All is good with Duets","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Duets was a movie that touched me dearly. I went into the theater not really understanding what it was going to be about. Yet when I left my eyes were open. It starts off with Huey Louis, right there, my eyes lit up. It was great to see him performing so well. Gwyneth, Andre, and Paul Giamatti, did fantastic jobs. This movie is well worth seeing. The direction was off a bit, yet the script was magnificent. One of Byrum's  best I think. This movie was fantastic.  "}{"Title":"A road trip to harmony..","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  How does one write a review about a charming, and nicely made movie in which the most mentally stable character is an escaped convict ? Well, that in a nutshell that is what we have here. This is a funny, yet sometimes sad story of three groups of people dealing with inter-personal relationships on their journey to a Karaoke championship in Omaha, Nebraska. I found the movie touching in many ways, yet when the story needed a good laugh it was there at the perfect time. The three individual vignettes cascaded perfectly, and were tied together nicely as the movie progressed. This film reminded me fondly of a modern day Crosby-Hope road movie. All of the actors played solid and thoroughly authentic roles. This is a movie I would enjoy seeing many more times. "},{"Title":"I Now Know What Karaoke Prison Is Like","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Here is my prediction. This week, Duets makes 2 million. Next week, 200,000. The week after, 20,000. The final week of its national run, it will make 2 dollars. That's a duet of dollars.I read the reviews and thought, I want to see a film that doesn't work. I'm a student of cinema. Why doesn't the film work? To that degree, the movie was worth seeing, just to count the ways a well-intentioned film fails to deliver. In some ways, though, the movie just missed being something better.Reason one it spends an hour to develop the characters. For the most part, they don't hold my interest. It's all formula. Did the producer/director think a star or two would raise our interest? Reason two The movie mixes social satire with comedy with drama with sentimentality, and that's too many spices in the soup.Reason three plot holes or disappointments. There's a murder in a 7-11 kind of store. The only reason I know that isn't from the film. Guns are fired, we never see anybody hit, and the next scene is miles away in a hotel. Two of the characters are now on the run from the law, and we have no direct knowledge of that. Another plot hole is at the end of the film. The big Karaoke championship is in Omaha, with the winner getting $5,000. Best I can tell, no winner is ever announced. I know for a fact we never see anybody with a trophy. It's implied that the police action during the championship halted it, but there's not even somebody getting up to make an announcement. Somebody dies in the movie, but we never see it. Somebody wins the karaoke tournament (or doesn't) but we don't know. Duh.Reason four We're stuck in the same karaoke bar, no matter what city or what bar we're in. There are several good karaoke numbers by the characters. I give them points for doing them well and using them to support the character development, and even the plot. BUT they all seem like the same bar. The eyes want a little variety, and I felt mine were getting tired from straining to see in the darkness of the bars. Reason five The action leads to Omaha, and I did not see a single indication the characters had arrived. This has to be a major rules violation of directing. It's a small point, but indicative of the sloppiness of the movie. It's like doing a movie about San Francisco, and leaving out everything unique about SF. They could have sent a second or third unit there to at least get some establishing shots, but they were up in Vancouver, instead. They should have said the Karaoke championship was in Vancouver. This isn't a bad film. You see how much they cared about the work they were doing on the set. It's just a disappointing one.  Oh, Gwyneth Paltrow can sing, and she plays a dimwit with a heart of gold very well.  "},{"Title":"Ode To The Working Class","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I expected a fluff piece from Bruce Paltrow to showcase his beloved Gwyneth. Once you get beyond the Huey Lewis/Gwyneth Paltrow story line, you'll find an amazing performance by Paul Giamatti. It's a breathtaking portrayal of a road weary salesman who fighting to get his identity back.  It blew me away!   "},{"Title":"Made me smile...","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  All technical and artistic limitations aside, this movie made me smile. And while Gweneth P. is taking headlining status, the most compelling of the stories told is about the two men.Ending a little vague but all in all, a sweet story about a quirkier side of people. "},{"Title":"What an idiotic plot.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I didn't find any of the main characters in this movie to be worthy of my interest.  All of them have serious problems, but instead of dealing with them, they just get on stage and sing a beautiful song, and then we feel wonderful and we're supposed to think that everything's better now.  Sentimental nonsense.  I rate the story 2 out of 10, but the music is good enough to bring it up to 4. "},{"Title":"Flawed but very enjoyable","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There were a number of problems with this film, a look at a random group of characters who are somehow involved in karaoke singing. There is an interesting cast, featuring Huey Lewis, Gwynneth Paltrow, Maria Bello, Paul Giamatti, Andre Braugher, and Felicity's Scott Speedman. First, let me air my complaints belowThe characterization tends to be too vague, which is disappointing because I found every character to be very intriguing and would have liked to gain more insight. Huey Lewis, as a Karaoke hustler, was especially transparent and predictable, but I can't tell if that's due to the writing or if they had to work around Huey's lack of acting skills. Most of the karaoke numbers, while all enjoyable and much better than the pitiful displays in My Best Friend's Wedding, were pretty under the top. Why did Gwynneth Paltrow seem to have a thing for Scott Speedman, despite the appearance that he was with Maria Bello?  They certainly could have done a better job of getting all the characters' lives to intersect at the Karaoke showdown than they did..Now, for the good news. Despite all I've said above, I enjoyed the film immensely. I couldn't help but pick it apart, because I found it so flawed, but the characters and the singing were so enjoyable to watch and get involved with, that it made for a very nice film watching experience.  The fact that the director couldn't decide whether this film was light-hearted or more of a heavier drama dragged it down a bit, but in terms of overall watchability, it fit the bill. Seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"The stars are not who you think!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For a while this movie seemed to drag.  It was like being in a car on a cross country trip it didn't feel like you were getting anywhere.  Thanks to the true stars, Andre Braugher (Reggie) and Paul Giamatti (Todd), this movie took off with some outrageously funny scenes along with meaningful dialogue.  Certainly not the best movie out there but it was enjoyable.  One unnecessary and gratuitous sex-type scene that passed quickly.  Suzy's character was also needlessly vulgar but it wasn't present throughout the movie.  Those parts could have been handled differently thereby avoiding the audience's utterances of disgust.  All in all, a good movie that is entertaining and certainly funny.  "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is great! It is one of those films you leave the theater and even weeks later I can still remember every scene. I just picked up the soundtrack yesterday and it all came rushing back to me. Definately check this one out. The great thing about this film is that all the actors sing their own songs and it gives a sense of realism to the film. I never knew Gwyneth could sing.  "},{"Title":"Gwenyth may be miscast (for age), but the movie is groovy.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Huey Lewis and Gwenyth are father and daughter in a movie directed by Gwenyth's real father.  So it feels a bit odd when there is boarderline sexual tension in the story, but the movie gets over it.  Had the more famous of the family played the role when she was fifteen, it might have worked better and her cuteness and abandonment issues might have been more compelling instead of feeling like a Saturday Night Live sketch.  (Not that  her SNL skits were bad when she hosted.  She was quite good.) But I think the movie is unfairly slagged.  I like the fact that these Karaoke singers are small time and going after a mundane amount of money.  What better way to mock the need for fame?!  I like the fact that it is an ensemble piece, especially since an adventure about ONE PERSON'S DRIVE would not be engaging in this premise anyway.  It is good that Mr. Paltrow pulls back from this.  I love the running gag about Air Miles and the meaning imposed on them, which ends up having a nice arc to it.  The bottom line is that although Duets is not a masterpiece, and you are not going into it expecting that, its quirks and rough edges compliment the theme.  I don't know.  It may not be hip to like this movie, but you will find it has a distinct charm.  One of our under-achievers meeting his wonderfully evil, depraved kindergarten teacher is my favorite scene.  But you know what to expect when a movie casts Huey Lewis as the great hustling singer to defeat all singers.  We know there is a bit of irony at his expense, but we still respect the Sports album.  Having Pavarotti in the role wouldn't make it any better.  "},{"Title":"The new smash from Gwyneth Paltrow's Dad!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Andre Braugher is in this movie. That alone should convince you to see it. Andre Braugher! The guy who was in Homicide!Aside from that, Paul Giamatti (Big Mamma's House... maybe that's not the best thing he could be credited with), Gwyneth Paltrow (Shakespeare in Love *Best Actress 1998*), Maria Bello (Coyote Ugly), and Huey Lewis (The helicopter pilot in the beginning of Sphere) star in this. The whole movie revolves around the characters wanting to compete in a national karaoke competition (of course, in Omaha), showing how each arrives, why each does it and blah blah blah. Sometimes you have to wonder if there could be any other way to follow characters into a competition.The direction is ok  and the acting is better than fair. It's a date movie, and it is worth seeing. Were not exactly breaking new ground here, but somethings, no matter how many times they are re-made, re-written, or re-wrapped into a new movie, they still remain enjoyable. Hopefully they won't release a CD with all the actors singing on it. Don't get me wrong, they are not bad, but it's just that whenever TV stars and movie stars release there own CD's... they tend to... suck.Anyhow, good movie, worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw Duets at the Toronto Film Fest.  My girlfriend picked it out and I have to admit at first I was skeptical.  The previews make it seem fairly simple.  But they don't do the movie justice.  It is a very good relationship/road trip movie worthy of anyone's attention. "},{"Title":"Giving karaoke a black eye is the least of this film's problems","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" DUETS (2000) *1/2 Gwyneth Paltrow, Huey Lewis, Paul Giamatti, Andre Braugher, Maria Bello, Scott Speedman, Angie Dickinson.(Dir Bruce Paltrow) Egregiously awful comedy/drama about the wonderful world of karaoke that fixates on six people (or 2 pairs) estranged daughter and free-styling hustler father (Paltrow &#150; who here comes across as an oversized 12 year old borderline simpleton and Lewis, who actually is the only one here who acquits himself here nicely); fed up traveling salesman and recently released prisoner (Giamatti over-the-top and looking like he'd been through the proverbial wringer and Braugher, who wisely is staying back on tv); and slutty Bello and nice-guy/loser philosophical cabbie Speedman &#150; all coming to a contest to display their 'talents'. Badly conceived pell-mell of 'comic moments' and unexpected melodrama (i.e. Giamatti's criminal tendencies) do not mix well at all and the editing to say the least is terrible. Noteworthy in only the fact that Gwyneth wanted this &#150; her pet project if you will &#150; to team up with her father, Bruce, who directed this mess "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A group of people find themselves while traveling to a karaoke championship with a top prize of $5000. Gwyneth Paltrow's dad directed this film, but there really is not much in the way in insight or characterization. In it's place is some really fine singing and interesting casting choices. Gwyneth Paltrow shines as usual (in a poorly written role) and has an impressive singing voice. Rated R. "},{"Title":"Very sweet and satisfying","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Quite frankly, I don't understand why this movie isn't rated higher on the IMDB.  Could it be that the majority of the viewers responding are children of the 90's who cannot appreciate any music that pre-dates hip-hop and rap?This movie does a great job of weaving together the lives of many different people who are on the road to discovering themselves. It does this in a very sweet and satisfying way by developing characters that almost anyone should be able to identify with.First-rate acting by all, especially non-actor Huey Lewis, who does a great job here.  I found Gwyneth Paltrow's character particularly unique and quite different from anything I've seen her do before -- an adorable combination of innocent / timid little girl, self-sufficient woman of Vegas, and budding song-temptress.The best treat of all -- that most of the actors do their own singing and they're so good!!Maria Bello just sizzles and smolders.  Paul Giamatti is astounding in his rendition of Try a Little Tenderness.  And Gwyneth, what a pleasant surprise, has the voice of an angel.  You're left thinking, These people could be cutting records if they wanted.  It's no wonder the producers wisely decided to release this sound track on CD.Sci-fi and action-junkies should skip this one.  However, if you have even the slightest capacity to feel emotion, to relate to real people experiencing real-life pain and pleasure, you will like, maybe even love, this movie.Don't wait, you'll be rewarded, I promise.  "},{"Title":"Duets, like karaoke, is a pale imitation of the real thing.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The duets in Duets are the three couples who come together in this quasi-musical, quasi-comedy, quasi-drama and quasi-decent movie; a con artist (Huey Lewis) and his long-lost daughter (Gwyneth Paltrow), a two-timed cab driver (Scott Speedman) and an ambitious singer (Maria Bello), and a disillusioned salesman (Paul Giamatti) and the ex-convict he picks up on his journey (Andre Braugher).The latter duo make by far the best music for anyone watching the movie; individually and together Giamatti and Braugher are so compelling that Duets loses focus and steam whenever it switches the attention to any other plotlines on the journey to Omaha, the closest this movie comes to Mecca - singing is in one way or another a key part of the couples' lives (Braugher admits the only thing he knows how to do is sing, and Lewis uses karaoke contests in his hustling), and they're all converging on a big karaoke contest with a prize of $5000. The trouble is that while writer John Byrum and director Bruce Paltrow never try to mythologize karaoke, the movie never really seems to have a point (not unlike karaoke, really), and although Bello's free-living tart with a heart and a dream has her moments of sparkiness - It would be an honour and a privilege for me to suck your d--- - it's hard to get really worked up about any of them, excepting the Giamatti/Braugher team again.Overall, it's decently acted - although the usually fine Gwyneth seems too aware of her miscasting (perhaps because her real-life father's directing her for the first time onscreen) - but Duets only really comes to life in the karaoke scenes. It helps that the principal cast (barring Scott Speedman, the only one of the six who never sings a note) isn't unlistenable; though Bello's take on Sweet Dreams Are Made Of This won't cause Annie Lennox to look to her laurels, the Giamatti/Braugher duet on Try A Little Tenderness is a standout, and Gorgeous Gwynnie displays quite a nice touch on her three numbers (Bette Davis Eyes, a duet with her screen dad on Cruising, and another one with Babyface over the closing credits). She's no Will Young or Gareth Gates*... thank heaven. My favourite number, though, is Maya Rudolph's rendition of Hit Me With Your Best Shot.In accordance with the man who created The White Shadow and worked on St. Elsewhere, Duets is too competently done to be unwatchable, but it hits too many bum notes to be in perfect harmony for most audiences. Worth a look for fans of the cast, however - and Lewis fulfils all the promise he displayed in Back to the Future (and yes, I know he was in Short Cuts, but I haven't seen it).*The winner and runner-up respectively of the original UK Pop Idol. They are appalling, and also have worse legs than Gwyneth. "},{"Title":"Dear oh dear oh dear","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Not only does Gwen have a flat voice, but she's acting like a terminally stupid teenager who WANTS Huey Lewis as her Dad!!!  About as engaging as a boil on the bum-you sit there watching it until it goes; and when it does your life is so much better.  Spend this two hours on something worthwhile, don't waste it here! "},{"Title":"this movie blew","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Boring, terrible music, obnoxious characters with a who cares? plotline. I saw this on a plane (twice) and could have lived without it.   Paul Giamatti is an appealing actor, but his character was so unappealing that I was hoping it would get bumped off.  Why his counterpart cared about him so much is beyond me.  Avoid! "},{"Title":"**  Avoid!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Looking for a good musical? Bypass this one quickly! The most boring film of the year is this ensemble piece about a bunch of shallow idiots who are working their way towards a national karaoke contest. Scott Speedman plays the sleepy-eyed trademark cutie pie (a role once marked for Brad Pitt years ago before he and Gwyneth Paltrow broke up) who escorts Maria Pitillo, whose character is probably the worst embarrassment of a loose woman ever shown on screen. Another plot line that follows Paul Giamatti's liberation from his conservative world while freewheeling across the country with an ex-con (Andre Braugher) is so boring I was actually shifting continually in my seat. Paltrow is quite apt in her part as a simpleminded young woman trying to reconnect with the father she never had (Huey Lewis, the worst performance in the film). The songs are all beautifully performed (Paltrow can really sing!), but there's nothing you wouldn't get from just listening to them on the film's soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst I've seen in a long time","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It was just bad all around. It started promising. Huey Lewis is fine in this. It's hard to watch Gwyneth playing such an airhead. We weren't sure if she was supposed to be a dumb blonde or mentally slow. Most of the acting was good, but some of the lines were horrible, and delivered with such bad acting that it was hard not laugh. It seemed to be trying to be sentimental and funny but it DID not succeed in either of these areas. Suspension of disbelief is one thing, but suspension of expectations for an enjoyable movie are something else. Brad should be grateful that he passed this one up! "},{"Title":"terrible, horrible","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You would think that with this cast, you couldn't go wrong.  Think again.  This movie is AWFUL and I cannot recommend it.  It is a muddled mess that never becomes clear.  The singing is not worth it.  The acting is definitely not worth it.  It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and I have seen a good number of them.  If you want to see Gwyneth Paltrow in a good film, check out Emma.  To see Andre Braugher in top form, watch Homicide Life on the Street.  Watching this film just isn't worth your time, I promise. "}{"Title":"Flat, overshot, pointless.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I had received Duets from a friend to watch on DVD.  She said it was cute.  I can see where she gets cute from.  I personally don't like movies like this.  The movies hit song Cruisin by Huey Lewis and Gwenyth Paltrow is enjoyable.  A person in the film that really saves the movie is Coyote Ugly star - Maria Bello, who's kinky, fun, way of life helps add a few laughs to the movie.  The emotions between Gwenyth and Huey are flat and uninteresting.  I think Gwenyth is a great actress.  She was excellent and well-deserving of the Oscar for Shakespeare in Love, she was wonderful in The Talented Mr. Ripley, as was Emma, among many of her other films.  I found this part -- unsuiting for her.  Don't get me wrong she could sing the role!! -- but here is a movie with lesser-known actors and there is Gwenyth Paltrow -- a star.  I think she got talked into it by her father (director, Bruce Paltrow). Another thing I DIDN'T like was how Scott Speedman (TV's Felicity)never sang, i was waiting for some love theme duet between him and Maria Bello -- but he has a purpose in the beginning of the film -- but then his character is good for nothing.  He is a good actor and has alot of unseen talent, but the role was all wrong for him.  All-in-all the characters are unmemorable and I'm sorry I just don't enjoy comedy that gets laughs by killing someone and being on the run from the police and people dying in the end.  Some movies are comic that way -- but this movie was flat all the way through and you were left unmoved at the end. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've seen in years","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Utter garbage. I had to attempt to watch this twice. Didn't want to waste the $6.00 I had to shell out for the rental. Gwyneth Paltrow should never ever work with her father again. Her talent was an absolute waste...and who for a moment believed her act as a hair twirling, nervous feet swirling, naive 19 year old girl with Huey Lewis as the father. Mama Mia this was bad cinema! The only good acting was between Reggie and Todd and their acting was so good that it was like watching a good movie and a really awful one at the same time. Do yourself a favour and stub your toe instead. Much more enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"A rare movie that is not only bad but offensively so.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, this movie was a drag in terms of plot, pacing, performances, etc. Of course, boring movies with sub par acting are a dime a dozen. Duets however tries its darndest to make the audience sympathetic toward characters that do not deserve it in the least. Examples?... oh let's see... cheating hustler, assaulter/murderer, WHINY corporate salesman with no coping skills or real morals... Mind you, this is not a black comedy and there is nothing sly, wickedly deviant or intelligent about this screenplay. Instead the viewer is continually exposed to the plights of these good people who made errors in judgment and find their purpose in life through the artistic expression of karaoke!?!? Granted, different movies are meant to work on a variety of levels. This one clearly attempts to be touching and in that capacity accomplishes to insult the moviegoer's intelligence and achieve the status of offensively bad. Get out the hefty bags fellas, this one's pure dreck! "},{"Title":"Made me want to chuck the microphone at the TV","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As soon as I finished watching this film, I felt provoked to come onto IMDb and write my very first review because I was so compelled that nobody should ever have to endure such garbage in their short lives. I never ever want to sing Karaoke ever. Why? 1. Gwyneth Paltrow must have taken on the role just because Bruce Paltrow was directing...no other way would an A-lister sacrifice themselves to burn so badly. Or participate in a karaoke film without being able to sing. 2. The plot...couldn't find it! Just telling the story of random people with no significance or emotion. You know it's bad when they need to pull the 'guns and sex' action to get the viewers interested again. Only, you just don't get why they need to show sex or shoot in the first place. It just detracts from the easy style of the film. So wrong. 3. The singing. Enough said. 4. That overworked people with unloving families need to go away and get high...pierce their ears and enter karaoke competitions. Nu-uh. I really could go on forever...the only good thing about the film was that FINALLY after waiting and waiting for some sort of climax, the film ended. Without climax i might add. Watch this at your own risk to see how bad it is. Even popcorn, toffee apples, ice cream, cola and lollies won't distract you from the banality you face in Duets. "},{"Title":"Kara-yucky","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SPOILERS The thing that made Duets really stink is the fact that it centered around karaoke. I've been to karaoke clubs. It hasn't been cool since about 1989 and nobody there is that excited about it, especially the people who run the contests.  Maria Bello's character was the biggest skank ever. We never really knew why she needed to get to California, but were supposed to accept the fact that she planned to blow her way across America. Her escort was just along for the ride, and since I suppose they realized that the audience would never fathom these two together, they had to tack on a flirtation with Gwyneth Paltrow at the end. Who won the big karaoke tournament? We never found out because Andre Braugher had to blow his brains out onstage. He didn't seem that depressed. My guess is the morbidly obese guy. He had more style in his left stretch mark than any other character in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Do any happy people sing Karaoke?","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Not according to this poorly paced, melodramatic movie that just never goes anywhere. I had it recorded, so I thought I'd give it a try, and no matter how long I watched, it just didn't get any better. It tries so hard to be meaningful, but I didn't care about any character in this film. People giving it 10s? I think they must find soap operas profound, too. For the rest of us, the 5.7 average this movie has is probably too high. It's at most a 5 (but I can't give it that), and that's because the cast is decent and the production value is high B movie. If only the writing or directing were any good. But they aren't... ( "},{"Title":"fun under-rated comedy","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" duets - surprisingly dark comedy about the Karoake circuit-sure there are plot holes and some saccharine moments- but the Paul Giamati/Andre Braugher duo provide plenty of chuckles and even some touching moments- they had good chemistry - Giamati is going thru a major mid-life crisis and randomly picks up parole violator Andre Braugher - I am not doing their story justice- but I try to avoid spoilers.Maria Bello does an excellent job as a singer who bargains her way across the country using her body as collateral.A fun ensemble comedy- inconsistent but worth renting for the Giamatti/Braugher team.The DVD has a dry commentary by the director. B- "},{"Title":"Best start of a movie ever!","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" My friend turned me on to this movie. He played it and didn't say a word. Which is why I was knocked out by the beginning. And it keeps on moving contextually (thank you) - the subplots progress and intertwine with the expertise of an Elmore Leonard novel - as a matter of fact this movie gets as guttural as an Elmore Leonard novel (no complaints). It's got message, music, acting, and editing. So why have we not heard about it? This movie should have been titled Karaoke. I don't care how much that would have cost - the title alone would have brought in thousands of fans and they would not have been disappointed. Monday morning quarterback? Maybe, but this movie deserved a hell of a lot more promotion than it got.Again, the beginning of this movie is the best beginning I've seen. I'm not sure if this is a spoiler but Gwyneth Paltrow kills - we all know about her acting - I didn't know she could sing. I even accused her of being dubbed by Rickie Lee Jones. "},{"Title":"Not just about the singing","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm gonna be the only major thing that has happened to you in your life, and you're gonna be jerking off to my memory on your god damned death bed! Yes, Maria, I will! What a performance from one of my favorites in a movie that has so many layers.A frustrated salesman (Paul Giamatti) joins up with an escaped convict (Andre Braugher). A girl (Gwyneth Paltrow) finds her father (Huey Lewis), who is a Karaoke hustler. A Karaoke hustler? That is a new one on me.Then there is Maria, who just wants to make it to the big time. They are all headed to Omaha and the big sing-off.It appears to be another version of American Idol with lounge songs predominating. great music, great acting, and a sweet ending, well, except for one person.Now, pardon me while I do as Maria says. "},{"Title":"Karaoke changes lives, for the better.","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this the other night/morning. It was on after that 16 years' celebration of The Royal Variety Performance and I fully intended to go to bed, but watched the first scenes anyway. Then the next, and so on. By halfway through I had DEFINITELY got into it big time. Gwyneth Paltrow is the only actor in it I'm familiar with, but the characters that made me keep watching were so obviously Todd and Reggie. Todd more than Reggie because he became less stuffy and businessey and almost a noncomformist, and being a Goth, that was great to see. His views on America can easily be said to mean Everywhere and he was so chilled, and the music really gave him meaning. Reggie was just lovable. The music, encompassing so many different decades and styles, was a beauty to hear and, though I can't carry a note myself, if there's anyone out there willing to try to teach me, gimme a ring, heheh. "}{"Title":"Top notch movie.","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Top cast. Who knew Gwyneth Paltrow could sing like that!!!? One of the duets between her and Huey is actually a chart topping single. And the duet between Andre Braugher and Paul Giamatti is outstanding! Fresh dialog. If you like American Idol then just add a really good plot and you've got Duets. And Huey Lewis is good. You will even find yourself hoping the bad guy gets away. I have never really agreed with the movie critics. It seems the more melodramatic the movie, the better the review. This movie is worthy of a great review, not the lukewarm welcome it received. This movie has everything. Great songs, great plot and a fantastic cast. Great, great movie. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Love this movie!!!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" My husband and I love this movie and have watched it several times. I think it got a bad rap with the previews and posters that were released when it was a coming attraction because they made it look like Huey Lewis and Gwnyth Paltrow were an item rather than father and daughter.The movie is funny, droll, sad, encouraging and just flat out wonderful and we have repeatedly recommended to anyone who willing to listen to our opinion. The singing is amazing ... we bought the CD and play it all the time. If you like Huey Lewis or Baby Face or anything MOTown ... listen to the music featured in this movie. Definitely a MUST SEE!! If you are still not sure ... rent a copy. "},{"Title":"On my Top 5 All Time list","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Duets is a beautiful and poignant movie about a group of people all going through difficult and unusual times in their lives -- and all brought together by a common love of singing.Admittedly, I am a karaoke nut. I love to sing too. I can totally relate to the connection these people feel to the singing. And, from that perspective, the writer and director have really captured the crux of the feeling that Karaoke nuts share. The problems the characters are all going through are what makes them human. They aren't perfect or even close. In some ways, this movie reminds me of Fast Times at Ridgemont High -- how real the characters are, how they each struggle with their own issues, etc. Fast Times is more of a head-on comedy, but both are great movies.In the end, if you love Karaoke then you'll love this movie. If you don't sing or can take or leave it, then some of the connection with the characters may not be as strong for you.If you can relate to Paul Giametti's character when he says, I can't go back to who I was. I'm different now. I sing., then - like me - this may become one of your all time favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining Film by the Talented Bruce Paltrow","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This last film by director Bruce Paltrow entertains throughout. It is intelligent, laugh-out-loud-funny, touching, and the viewer is nudged into recognizing his/her humanity while the story unfolds. Three stories weave together until they meld at a Karaoke championship in Omaha. Huey Lewis and Gwyneth Paltrow make a strong showing as a reunited father-daughter -- their duet of Smokey Robinson's Cruisin' is a delight. Paul Giamatti gives even a better performance than he did in Sideways (and that's saying a lot). Director Paltrow worked 5 years putting this small masterpiece together -- it tackles our society's short-comings with an irreverent and sharp humor -- it's exactly what we need to hear. Bravo to a talented man. His passing was a great loss to the film community. "},{"Title":"Can you imagine","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" An attempt at KingPin with Karaoke instead of bowling. A bit of Road movie, a bit of subculture, and a lot of comedians. While not original, it surely is entertaining.The only interesting viewpoint the movie has is a what if.What if Gwyneth Palthrow really had that voice to sing Bette Davis Eyes that way? It would be pure perfection .... (but GP doesn't really shine in this movie IMHO)O, and Paul Giamatti is great as the middle-class guy that goes wild on a seeming all movie long high. Andre Braugher is really frustrated with it. "},{"Title":"A fun little movie...","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was what you would call a fun movie. It involves different stories of different people all leading up to a final showdown in Omaha, Nebraska, for a karaoke contest. My favorite song was the two guys from their roadtrip performing together. That was great. Catch this movie, if you want a fun, quirky, feel good comedy, with music in it. 2 3/4 *'s out of 4 *'s. "},{"Title":"The Americans dont get Karaoke do they.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  While duets is an entertaining film it is filled with both good and bad acting and a story that while good forgets to do the little things that make a film complete. What really lets this down is not the poor acting and singing from Huey lewis but the fact that the director does not understand what Karaoke is. Ive never seen anybody go up to the microphone and not bother to look at words on the screen especially when they are surprised into going on stage and are not prepared for the song the are singing.only once did we see somebody watch the screen as they were singing.  Having said all that the film is entertaining and if you dont what a film that will tax your brain then this could be for you. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Huge disappointment for me","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There was a quality to this movie that made me very anxious to see it.  I can't put my finger on exactly what that was, but I think it was because I like road movies like 'Scarecrow' and 'Rafferty and the Gold Dust Twins' from the 1970s so I thought this would be an updated entry, with some singing as a chaser.  Boy was I wrong. Movie is by-the-numbers, obvious-as-the-sky melodrama that has one or two cute moments but mostly has a lot of overacting thesps and a screenplay that had to have been whipped up by 100 monkeys at 100 typewriters..Characters are cardboard cutouts and the plot, such as it is, is thinner than that cardboard.  You can see it all coming from a mile away.  I thought I would be inspired by Giamatti's chuck-it-all 'new' man but he was as annoying as everyone and everything else.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the movie, and had a few laughs!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I picked this movie to watch because of several factors including Brad Pitt was supposed to be in it, then Bruce Paltrow apparently got sick during that year, Gwyneth Paltrow broke up with her teen idol boy fiancee,  Bruce Paltrow was supposed to have had a hard time finding a distributor.I enjoyed the movie because it gave the audience a chance to see people singing where we otherwise would never hear their voices.   Gwyneth has a sweet voice. Andre Braugher (Homicide, City of Angels) who played a cop for such a long time sings beautifully and feels the music. It seems that going to those  karaoke competitions could be a fun thing to do. The other actors who sang I don't know much about them, but I enjoyed hear those old tunes. Just good rental! I enjoyed the movie, and had a few laughs!    "},{"Title":"Weak Father, Strong Daughter","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I love films that are about themselves. Here is a father who is in show business, with a daughter who is entering show business. They have been apart, and now come together emotionally and professionally. And what do they do? Make a film with the same story.The story is about performers by performers, It straddles the point between when they are `on' and when they have their regular lives. No surprise that the `on' times are good and the `off' times less so. What I like about this film is the unintended effect that it is pretty poorly crafted when dealing with all the `off' scenes. But that's just so perfectly self-referential.I am not a fan of Gwyneth's. (I was surprised to learn in my research that there is actually a `hate Gwyneth' crowd, hung on some foolish semiotics.) But I thought she did well in `Emma,' where she added an underlying performance to the sanctifed words of Austen. Here her part is so poorly defined, underwritten, and dare I say so poorly directed by Dad, that it gives her room to add her own depth. That also is wondrously self-referential. "}{"Title":"Too-slick valentine to karaoke...with no vitality off the stage","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Writer John Byrum and director Bruce Paltrow ostensibly had a good idea--to catch the fever of semi-professional karaoke singers in action--but maybe this subject might have been better served by a documentary. Byrum's hackneyed plots involving the troubled performers never take off, and Paltrow's staging of the musical numbers is far too slick. How much excitement can you work up when your karaoke singers are lip-synching? Gwyneth Paltrow, playing a child-like woman who is reunited with her estranged father, is a lovely presence, yet hiding her intrinsically smart and savvy personality here does her no favors. The most surprising thing about the picture is that Paul Giamatti can carry a tune, although he's distinctly studio-enhanced, as if the producers were hoping to get a hit soundtrack out of this thing. Small wonder the movie flounders; it's calculated and colorless. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Could have been interesting but instead is poorly written, poorly delivered and lacking any real or emotionally involving characters","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Even though the majority of us see it as something limited to the most drunken dives in the town centre, karaoke does have a culture to it, with a £5000 prize for the winning singer in a competition in Omaha. With minor contests all over the country providing a way into this main contest, we see a dumped taxi driver and a carefree and sexual girl heading to it; a karaoke hustler bonding with his estranged adult daughter; a jaded and tired businessman hooking up with a conman drifter to both get sucked into the highs of barroom singing.Maybe it is the strange background of karaoke singing, or the average acting, or the lack of real good writing but this film just didn't really work for me even if it wasn't really ever poor enough for me to turn off. The plot tries to be a sort of fragmented character story but it doesn't have the writing for it and the result is that none of the characters are that easy to get into or really care about. The stories all come together towards the end but with so little meat on the characters, I had long since stopped caring. To some viewers the musical numbers may provide some fun but for me I didn't &#150; I'm not a fan of all these 'Pop Idol' TV shows and that is what most of the songs here feel like. Without engaging stories or characters, the film is left to be carried by its charm and, in some regards it just about does enough to get by but only really works in one or two places.The cast are mixed and mainly struggle to work with the weak material they are given. Giamatti tries hard and deserved a more convincing character. He has good chemistry with Braugher, but Braugher doesn't show his skills like he has with better material &#150; to make things worse his singing voice is either enhanced or very badly dubbed &#150; making him look silly during what is otherwise a crowd-pleasing song. Paltrow simmers but never convinces and Huey Lewis is just plain poor. Bello offers potential but the script never gets beyond her mercenary exterior to find the real person and she can't do it either. The rest of the cast are so-so but again, without the material to work with, nobody really does that well and the overall feeling is that a dark character piece was sacrificed in an attempt to sell the film as a lighter comic affair that it never really is.Overall this is mostly a flawed film whose one or two strengths are not good enough to cover for the many weaknesses. Some of the performances offer interest but most are let down by the material and left in unsure territory.The musical numbers mostly lack spark and fun and certainly are not karaoke in the way most of us see it. However the lack of well written and developed characters is the main failing as the very basic outlines we are given fail to get the audience interesting in them or caring enough to overlook the weak plot. "},{"Title":"Why do people make films we all have already seen a hundred times better?","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I did not want to see this movie, but it happened to me because I went into a sneak preview for the first time (and probably the last time, too). So I curiously looked forward to a fresh, unseen movie, but unfortunately my expectations were deeply disappointed. Watching this movie is a waste of time, and the reason is if you have seen any comedies in your life, than you certainly have seen all this before but in a much better way. I can not remember one and only scene which is original in this movie. All in this film is (at most) average and so artificial that it´s not credible the immature story, the one-dimensional characters, the uninspired dialogues (plus a few jokes!), the playing etc. I could not detect any highlights, maybe except the starring of well known singer/songwriter Huey Lewis and Hollywood´s darling Gwyneth Paltrow (she´s so sweet -- note I mean that ironic!). By the way, what lucky coincidence that the director is Bruce Paltrow. Perhaps the best performance (relative to the others specifically in this film) comes from Andre Braugher alias Reggie Kane. The movie has remote similarities to episodic films (e. g. short cuts, magnolia, pulp fiction etc.) and road movies, but really on a very low level. I can only warn everyone who likes good films don´t waste your time and money on this one.  "},{"Title":"A strange movie that I really wanted to like!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  All that made it on the screen in this movie seemed to be a bit off. I was quite sure of this once the ending was reached. There was a dark feel that was completely denied in the end. It would have benn a better film if it had stayed true to its darker theme. As it stands the ending left me confused and betrayed. Something went wrong in the final cut of this production. In spite of Paul Giamatti entertaining performance and Huey Lewis doing well... Bad flick. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing in many ways, but a few nice songs.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I wanted to enjoy this movie. I admit that I was sucked in by the sweet and fun looking commercials. When will I learn better?? This movie was far from sweet, and apart from the occasional chuckle, it wasn't fun either. I don't think it's a good date movie, mainly because of totally gratuitous sex and nudity scenes, and that one female character is a total slut and another male character isn't much better. There is no romance in this movie at all, just empty, self serving sex, and broken hearts. This movie was mostly stupid and meaningless. I felt empty at the end of it. It certainly doesn't have any redeeming value, let alone any entertainment value. I didn't even feel like I learned anything about the world of karaoke. I never once felt like I was watching real people going through the challenges of life. Worse, I could feel the moments of my own life wasting away. Speaking of wasting away, this movie seemed like a waste of acting talent. The poor actors had nothing to work with. I'm giving it three stars out of ten for a few laughs and some nice songs. Now if I could just get my $15.50 and two hours back, and all memories of this experience erased, I'd be happy! "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This deserves to win every one of the razzie categories this year. There was zero plot line. There was zero character development. The story was non-existent and the acting was poor. There were cheesey, bad lines. The attempts at serious heart-wrenching feelings were just that - poor attempts. Do not waste the money or your time to see this. "},{"Title":"On my top ten list... of the worst movies of the year.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For the whole first half of the movie, I was just thoroughly confused.  At the end, I just got more confused.  It was sweet, and had a nice point to make, but it was just like Mr. Paltrow made three different plots and threw them into the same movie hoping they would blend together.  They didn't. Personally, I think this movie was a waste of a Saturday night.  If you're going to see it, wait until it's out on cable on say, a Tuesday night, when there's nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Duets is one of those Magnolia type films which are All the Rage and involve a bunch of criss-crossing lives which have something in common. In this comedy/light-drama, the comedy-denominator is karaoke. An unfortunate dog of a flick, Duets is a herky-jerky conglomeration of stories with no focus which can't make up its mind what is wants to be. The result is a luke warm, boring watch punctuated by some funny and poignant moments. Save this one for broadcast. "},{"Title":"Beyond Lousy Movie","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is so retarded that it would be hard to find anything really good to say about it if you are looking for a film that has even the slightest pretense of being realistic. None of the characters are drawn from real life. I mean people just do not act the way they do in real life. If this were a comedy that might be acceptable for the sake of getting a laugh, but this pretentious, disjointed work isn't even a black comedy so there's no real reason to accept what you see on screen. None of the people in the movie are very likable. If the lead male character was focused on as someone having a dreadful midlife crisis, I might have overlooked some of the plot silliness but he's not. If you want a by-the-formula movie, full of improbable action and absurd coincidences, vile profanity and needless brief nudity, then spend your time watching this piece of junk. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the year","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hey--I've always wanted to see a movie starring Huey Lewis and Gwyneth Paltrow playing a karaoke hustler and his long-lost daughter. Haven't you? As you might guess from that description, Duets is a seriously creepy film; that quality comes less from the seediness of the bars depicted in the film's karaoke underground or the squalid circumstances of characters who (I kid you not) redeem themselves by singing badly over canned rhythm tracks than in the sheer desperation reflected in every scene. But there's not enough space here to catalogue it all, so let's focus on the movie's creepiest moment, in which Lewis and Paltrow get on a bar stage at a national karaoke sing-off in Omaha, Nebraska, and perform...Smokey Robinson's `Cruisin'.' You know, the 1979 hit in which Smokey pledges--as nicely and romantically as possible but still clearly enough for anyone past the age of 11 to understand what he meant--to have sex all night long? Yep. That's the song father Huey (whose voice--what little of it was there to begin with--is now completely gone) sings with daughter Gwyneth (who sings surprisingly well but *come on*), all under the direction of Gwyneth's real-life dad Bruce Paltrow. Huey even gives Gwyneth a little peck on the cheek. 2000 will not see a worse movie unless Ed Wood rises from the grave, camera in hand.  "}{"Title":"Disappointingly Hollow","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Given Karaoke's worldwide popularity over the last ten years it is more than a little surprising that it has taken Hollywood Executives so long to cash in on the phenomena. It is perhaps doubly disappointing then that after more than five years in pre-production all they have managed to come up with is this relatively mediocre road-trip movie which exalts Karaoke's power to change people's lives for the better. Directed by Gwyneth Paltrow's father Duets tells the story of six desperately unhappy individuals who decide to cast off the shackles of their pre-determined lives and look for something better. The metaphor for all this we are assured is Karaoke the courage to stand up, sing up and be heard.Taking a big leaf out of the Robert Altman book of filmmaking Bruce Paltrow has chosen to split Duets into three separate storylines There's the story of Liz (Gwyneth Paltrow) an unbelievably naive Vegas showgirl who has to learn to build a relationship with her long-lost hustler father Ricky (Huey Lewis) after meeting him for the first time at her mother's funeral. Then there's the tale of Suzi (Maria Bello), a streetwise hussy who will do anything to make it big and Billy (Scott Speedman) a down-on-his-luck taxi driver she convinces to drive her halfway across the country in search of stardom at any cost. And last, but by no means least, there's the hilarious story of Todd (Paul Giamatti) a burned out travelling salesman on the edge of a nervous breakdown and his unlikely friendship with Reggie (Andre Braugher) an escaped convict with the voice of an angel and a chip on his shoulder the size of Texas. Inevitably all involved wind up crossing paths in Omaha, where a big Karaoke Contest is offering a Grand Prize. The question is who will win and unlike many films of this elk one is never really sure.All six principle actors turn in better than average performances and all except Braugher, who couldn't reach some of the higher notes, sing unaided. The chemistry between Paltrow and 80s pop star Lewis works well with Paltrow more than holding her own on the musical front.  Relative newcomers Bello and Speedman also do well, both showing signs that suggest we'll be seeing a lot more of them in the future. But the film's spotlight is taken by the fantastic pairing of Giamatti and Braugher. At first their characters appear to be too at odds to ever really hit it off, but as the movie progresses it soon becomes clear that they share a deep affinity, they both know what it is like to have lived in a cage, Braugher in prison and Giamatti in middle-class suburbia. Places neither of them ever want to return.Considering this is Bruce Paltrow's first major film Duets has turned out surprisingly well. The direction is relatively unobtrusive and the stories that unfold are often amusing, sometimes compelling and always entertaining. Indeed, the one scene in which Giamatti and Braugher offer their rendition of Ottis Reading's Try a Little Tenderness is truly spell bounding and well worth the price of admission alone.However, Paltrow's clear favouritism for certain characters over others and the fact that the performances of Giamatti and Braugher are light years ahead of the rest means that the film often seems unbalanced and a little disjointed, kind of like a duet between Jane MacDonald and Madonna. And like so much American cinema today Duets suffers badly from an overly sentimental ending. One leaves Duets feeling more than a little betrayed and thankful that this kind of world exists far outside the realms of possibility, at least in England. "}]