[{"Title":"A tale of two films","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a little disappointed when I left this film, but not because of the  overall result. I was disappointed because of the wonderful way in which  the story was laid out and unfolded itself in the beginning, then seemed to  fall away during its 2nd act. The reverse theme of bad kids turning good  was fascinating, and the paranoid performance by Nick Stahl was worth  watching and intrigued me. But then, as soon as Stahl was converted, the  film started to fall apart. For one Stahl was the only character I found to  be truly worth watching. Marsden and Holmes were just two pretty faces  noticeably void of much talent; I never believed the two as a couple, and I  never found any reason to invest myself in hoping for their well-being  other the fact they were the lesser of two evils. But most noticeably, I  grew disinterested because of the change in aim by the makers. The first  half of the film, which by itself I would have given an 8 or 9 out of 10,  was more of a grown-up horror movie, where the situation and plot rather  than actions dictated the fear of the audience. But after Stahl disappears  to the dark side, the film changed into a teen slasher film almost, where  blood, violence and screaming is used in a vain attempt to induce fright.  This 2nd half was worth a 4 or 5 out of 10. The length did not bother me as  much as others (I've seen plenty of effective movies that were under 90  minutes). What bothered me more was the lack of development in some key  plot points. I think the entire conspiracy plot behind the conversion of  the teens needed to be fleshed out much more, characters needed to be drawn  more distinctly, and so on. So I balance out the two halves and come up  with a 6 out of 10. Worth renting, but could have been something special.   "},{"Title":"Easy to Dismiss, but Worth a Look","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"41 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior is a difficult film for a serious movie critic to defend, primarily because of a long-standing prejudice to both the teen and horror genres. Granted, few teen movies are designed to treat their subjects with any degree of seriousness. And of all the film genres, horror is kept alive with only the slightest bit of effort, accompanied by even slighter expectations. But director David Nutter tackles both these obstacles in a rare attempt to sophisticate Hollywood's offerings to teen audiences and bring dignity to the maligned horror genre. Despite a screenplay written contrary to his vision, Nutter succeeds in creating a dramatic, moody, and entertaining sci-fi/horror yarn far more difficult to dismiss than its contemporary equivalents. That is, until MGM destroyed it.It's important to note that the version of Disturbing Behavior being analyzed here is the director's cut, which is not the version released in theaters. Nutter's cut isn't available commercially, but if you watch the DVD's considerable amount of deleted footage and the original ending, you can see just how devastating the studio's changes were. After suffering the loss of his older brother, Steve and his family relocate to Cradle Bay, where some of the kids at school aren't quite themselves these days. With the help of friends Rachel (Katie Holmes) and Gavin (Nick Stahl), Steve discovers that a local doctor, Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood), is conspiring with parents to lobotomize their teens in order to create good boys and girls, all of whom become members of the school's Blue Ribbon elitist clique. Caldicott's experiments prevent the Blue Ribbons from sexual impulses and mold them into academic achievers that spend a great deal of their time trying to recruit others to the program. Unfortunately, the experiments don't always work and trouble is at hand, especially when Steve's parents sign him up.Scott Rosenberg, the screenwriter of the film, later expressed great disappointment with Nutter's handling of the material. Rosenberg, the screenwriter of Con-Air and Beautiful Girls, never intended his script to be treated as dramatically or realistically as Nutter executed it. Instead, it was supposed to be more hip and cool, allegedly without being mired down by characterization or atmosphere. This seems to indicate that the screenwriter, like the studio executives, had low ambitions with the material, planning to do nothing more than churn out another cheap horror film that insults the intelligence of its target audience. David Nutter, a veteran director of The X-Files, saw the potential in Rosenberg's script and acted on it. He started by casting three of the most talented young actors in Hollywood. James Marsden breaks the stereotype that models can't be good actors by delivering a subtle, restrained performance as Steve. Katie Holmes has a few opportunities to demonstrate her abilities as well. As the socially outcast Rachel, Holmes combines a defensive posture with an underlying desire to connect. Nick Stahl has the meatiest part, playing the cynical Gavin, a critic of all the other cliques at school. Gavin's quiet omnipotence is colored by a dry sense of humor much needed in the film. Other notable performances include William Sadler as Newberry, the school's janitor. Newberry is a little off kilter, squinting, grumbling, and hell-bent on ridding the world of all rats. Another interesting character who almost steals the show is U.V. (Chad E. Donella), Gavin's reticent albino friend who spends most of the film sitting at Gavin's side and uttering only a few syllables. Nutter's style is very much the signature X-Files style, dark, steamy, creepy, and purposeful. To achieve this, Nutter enlisted an X-Files photographer (John S. Bartley), the X-Files composer (Mark Snow), several X-Files actors (including Steve Railsback, aka Duane Barry), and key production personnel. The result is a movie that feels like an X-Files spin-off, with a subdued ambiance that washes over you and gets under your skin. Nutter commissioned one of the more remarkable opening title sequences in recent film history, one that serves as a cinematic prelude to the lobotomy procedure later in the film - a rapidly-edited montage of happy images and words designed to hypnotize and brainwash Caldicott's victims. If Disturbing Behavior should be criticized, it certainly loses points in its third act, one that falls dangerously close to cliché, with Steve becoming more the archetypal hero figure in a predictable and unimaginative showdown with Caldicott and the Blue Ribbons. Since the third act of any story is largely plot (character development is usually pretty well wrapped-up by then), I imagine Nutter had little to work with from Rosenberg's original screenplay. That the first two acts were so emotionally engaging is the result of Nutter's persistence and better judgment. It's too bad that MGM freaked out after a test screening in Texas and thought they could improve their numbers by shortening the film and forcing it into the cookie-cutter shape of the average, low-achieving horror flick. I champion this film because of its thematic content and its ideology. Like many of my favorite films (RoboCop, Dances with Wolves, Rebel Without a Cause), it deals with characters in crises of identity, trying to become or remain whole, and connect with each other. Equally interesting to me are the notions of sexual repression as a sign of perfection, man playing God, parents' willingness to medically alter their children, and human unwillingness to face loss. Nutter's bold vision for this material, his ability to cull it from a screenplay where it was not just dormant, but banished, makes his director's cut a remarkable achievement. Add in the exemplary performances of Marsden, Stahl, and Holmes, and that special X-Files flare, and I've got something I can really sink my teeth into. - Scott Schirmer  "},{"Title":"Reasonable, but Could Be Great","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the suicide of the teenager Allen Clark (Ethan Embry), his family decides to move from Chicago to the quiet Cradle Bay Island seeking a peaceful life for the siblings Steve (James Marsden) and Lindsay Clark (Katharine Isabelle). When Steve joins the local high-school, the outcast Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl) befriends Steve and introduces his also rejected friend Rachel Wagner (Katie Holmes) to the newcomer. Gavin exposes to Steve in the refectory the punks, the nerds and the different tribes of the school and he defends the weird theory that a sinister force changes the behavior of the annoyingly perfect Blue Ribbons, a group of good students that wear identical jackets and gather in the Yogurt Shoppe. Further he tells that he had witnessed the blue ribbon Andy Efkin (Tobias Mehler) killing their schoolmate Mary Jo (Natassia Malthe) that is missing and the local Officer Cox (Steve Railsback) covering the murder. Steve does not believe on Gavin words, but when his friend is submitted to the treatment of Dr. Edgar Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood) and immediately changes his behavior, joining the Blue Ribbons, Steve and Rachel decides to investigate the mystery discovering the dark secret of the perfect behavior.Disturbing Behavior has an intriguing beginning, with a murder and a group of former troublemakers and potheads transformed in perfect students, like in the classic Invasion of Body Snatchers. However, when the paranoid Gavin changes his behavior, the plot becomes silly and flawed, and the conclusion is awful. I saw this movie for the first time on 25 March 2000 and I keep my original opinion that this movie is reasonable, but could be great with improvements in the second-half of the story. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Comportamento Suspeito (Suspicious Behavior) "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Contemporary horror flick with a standard premise. This flick is about a teen stumbling across an evil conspiracy that is turning the teenagers of a small town into well dressed, well groomed, intelligent students that resort to homicide when angry. Katie Holmes is totally wasted in a supporting role. Excessive pre-release cutting damaged what could have been one of the best teen horror films of the 90's. This could have been a very emotional, haunting and even touching film with a disturbing ending. What is left now is a teen driven, cold, and chainsaw edited flick with a poor gimmicky ending. Still some signs of intelligent intentions shine through, the performances for the most part are unusually good, and the director does a fine job of building up a paranoid, crazed sense of atmosphere. Rated R; Violence, Sexual Situations, Nudity, Drug Use, Drinking, and Profanity all involving teenagers.The original cut would merit a * * *1/2 rating. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but entertaining","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steve and his family move from Chicago to Cradle Bay (which based on a road sign is outside Seattle). We later learn his brother Allen died, and that has something to do with the move. At his new high school, he meets Gavin and U. V., who take drugs and listen to depressing heavy metal music. Gavin has the hots for Lorna, but she's a Blue Ribbon, a member of a group of students that help out in the community and help each other study. Gavin wants nothing to do with these people.It turns out the Blue Ribbons aren't as goody-goody as they first appear. To call them snobs is an understatement. Anyone who isn't a member is treated like dirt, but of course new members are accepted all the time. The organization had its beginning with a deadly car wreck, and Dr. Edgar Caldicott played a large role in getting it started.This film reminds me of an episode of 'Smallville', except only the villains (who appear to be the good kids) have the super powers. Or maybe they're not actually super powers. This film had its own version of Belle Reve, where all the Smallville freaks seemed to end up eventually. Also, there was the loud alternative rock music in some scenes and the pleasant classical-style background music in others. I really liked the music in Roscoe's Yogurt Shoppe and in the asylum (I'm referring to Barry Manilow).I actually found the bad kids appealing in this movie--Gavin, Rachel, and Dickie in particular. The real standout character, though, is the demented janitor Mr. Newberry, who comes across as if Gilbert Gottfried had played the Bill Murray role in 'Caddyshack'. Another good though brief performance came from Julie Patzwald as Betty Caldicott.This was a little on the violent side, but I guess for the type of movie it wasn't too bad. A lot of bad language seemed to have been cleaned up for TV. And I'm not sure whether this is something that was edited out, but in one scene, the position of a girl's head relative to her date suggests something that happened in Bill Clinton's White House.It wasn't a classic by any means, but it wasn't too bad. "},{"Title":"Decent late night fun","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I caught this film on a late night TV slot (around 100). Since it was an evening of surprisingly watchable movies up until then (Michael Chrictons 'Runaway' & Clint Eastwoods 'White hunter, black heart') this mix of teeny horror and x-files type paranoia sci-fi was just the kind of icing on the cake I needed before finally calling it a night.Even though it obviously suffers from some plot holes and studio interference, I must say that I still found it much better than other late 90's 'Scream' influenced (and included) teen horror revival stuff. Sci-fi element was, even though lacking in any deeper explanation, believable enough, especially the part with problems arising due to puberty related hormone/neurotransmitter surges (i.e. Lorna's sexual turn violent outburst at Steve's house) etc.All in all, not really a shining example of cinematic art but still bearable enough for a late night entertainment. "},{"Title":"stepford children on acid","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is basically a modern take on the Sepford children but with added sexual content and more graphic detail. The premise is this.After the death of his brother ,young teen Steven Clark, played by James Marsden, X Men,moves to the seemingly innocent town of Cradle Bay with his family.At first everything seems normal.The children are typical teens but when they get a red light in their eyes they become totally different. Steven makes friends with a weird group of outsiders including Katie Holmes who warn him that something is going on.He remains sceptical till he gets beaten up by a group of the teens and realises that something is terribly wrong. In this film you are never quite sure who is what and look out for the seemingly retarded janitor whose role is pivotal in the outcome of the movie. This film reminded me of the film The Faculty in many respects but wasn't as good. I saw this at 9.00 on channel 5 so it was probably cut but it still an enjoyable romp into the world of mind control and the scene in the hospital sticks in the memory. The cast did well but William sadler, as the janitor, did especially well and James Marsden and Katie Holmes show good chemistry. This film is not in my top ten fave movies but good for an hour and a half of escapism. Good film but the twist can be seen a mile away. My score 8/10 "},{"Title":"Cute looking teen-idols are hardly disturbing...","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The makers of Disturbing Behavior proudly call this a horror film, but anyone who has the slightest bit of experience with this (usually) wonderful genre will only label it as childish, pitiful nonsense. The plot is obviously stolen from Invasion of the Body Snatchers, only it's severely simplified so that fans of dud high-school shows like Beverly Hills 90210 can get some thrills out of it. The evil school psychiatrist (!) of Cradle Bay island plants computer chips into the brains of mediocre students and, overnight, they mutate into grade-A model adolescents. New arrival Steve Clark teams up with pothead Gavin and hottie Rachel to prevent this from happening to them. Not a single storyline in the script is adequately explained (the reason behind Steve's brother's suicide, the flaws of the 'good behavior'-program, the connection with rodents, etc...) and whenever the film threatens to become too incoherent, the camera quickly zooms in on Katie Holmes sexy belly in order to distract your attention. The attempts to create suspense and mystery are laughable, the use of clichés and stereotypes is dreadful and many lines are vaguely offensive. The climax is hilarious, though. Good actors, like William Sadler and Steve Railsback, make fools out of themselves in the supportive cast. High-school horror was inexplicably popular near the end of the 1990, but this film is the absolute low point of them all. Better watch The Faculty...or even I Know What You Did Last Summer. "},{"Title":"Dead on Target","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie on TV and missed the first 15 minutes. I thought the movie was great so I bought the DVD and haven't stopped watching it yet. Every actor is perfect for their roles (although William Sadler's accent is ridiculous), every location looks like it was created to be in this movie (several locations are in The 6th Day) and the story was great.Although basically just a rehash of the Stepford Wives, this movie is set for for teen audiences and director David Nutter makes the story seem completely original.The story is this A boy and his family move to Cradle Bay to try and escape the memories of his brother, who committed suicide. When the boy, Steve (played by X-Men star James Marsden) starts school he quickly makes friends with outcast Gavin (Nick Stahl of T3), who explains to Steve that something fishy is going on as his friends have traded in their sex, drugs and rock and roll lifestyles to join the Blue Ribbons, the straight-A good boy jocks and cheerleaders. Gavin then introduces Steve to his friend Rachael (the talented Katie Holmes) who he falls in love with. Inevitably, Gavin becomes a Blue Ribbon. Steve and Rachael then try to find out what is going on and how to stop it while trying to stop themselves becoming part of the group.This is a great story of love and paranoia. The lunch room Freak Roll Call is a scene not to be missed.The only problem is the way the film has been edited. On the DVD are 10 additional scenes which expand on such stories such as Steve's parents fearing he will commit suicide like his brother (which is irrelevent in the theatrical cut) and expansions on the paranoia. There is also an alternate ending that shows us an exciting final confrontation between Steve and Gavin. This movie was rushed into cinemas and not properly done so it becomes a standard teen flick.My advice, rent or watch this movie on TV and if you enjoy it slightly, go purchase the DVD to broaden and expand you're enjoyment of this film. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Disturbing Behavior by an Overzealous Editor","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A sci-fi/horror flick aimed at the Scream crowd, Disturbing Behavior concerns at idyllic coastal town where everything seems just a bit too peachy. The local high school is populated by picture perfect teens who, despite their wholesome love of yogurt, tend to get a little trigger happy when the hormones start flying. When the new kid in town (Jason Marsden) stumbles upon a dark secret, it's up to him and a few other mistfits (Nick Stahl, Katie Holmes) to shut down the powers that be.There's loads of potential in this film that is, unfortunately, never capitalized upon. You can thank the editing department for that one. If the deleted scenes are any evidence, this movie was trimmed and dumbed down to the point of no recognition. While the uninterrupted flow makes for an easy, breezy viewing, the overall story lacks substance and coherence. Its 84 minute running time, in turn, is a redeeming feature.The director, David Nutter, spends much of the film building up ample amounts of atmosphere and is aided wonderfully by a brilliant score by fellow X-Files alumnus Mark Snow as well as some striking scenery thanks to it's Vancouver location. So, the film isn't a complete waste. You'll get some kicks out of the dialog and while Katie Holmes in particular isn't given much to do, she at least looks good in skimpy outfits while doing so. Also, it's hard to hate on a movie that is of a more intelligent cut than the other teen-geared fare being produced in its time. The movie at least aims high, and even when it doesn't quite reach, it never bores.A passable sci-fi teen romp, Disturbing Behavior is entertaining late-night fodder that, surprisingly, will inspire repeat viewings. It's a shame, though, to think of how much better the whole could have been. "}{"Title":"Mr. Newberry here got the full on Boo Radley, village idiot, Quasimodo thing going. Not too bad actually.","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing Behavior is set in the small idyllic American town of Cradle Bay. Late one night two of it's teenage residents Andy Effkin (Tobias Mehler) & Mary Jo Copeland (Natassia Malthe) are having sexual relations in a car in some woods. Local social misfit & outcast Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl) happens upon them while walking his dog. Suddenly Andy breaks Mary's neck while she's giving him a blow-job, at the same time two cops arrive, Officer's Cox (Steve Railsback) & Kramer (Chris Owens) pull up. Kramer discovers Mary's body but Andy grabs Cox's gun & shoots him, Cox appears to let Andy go & proceeds to cover up what's just occurred, Gavin witnesses all of this. Nathan (Terry David Mulligan) & Cynthia Clark (Susan Hogan) are moving from Chicago to Cradle Bay with their two teenage children, Steve (James Marsden) & Lindsay (Katharine Isabelle). At school Steve becomes friends with Gavin & U.V. (Chad Donella) who also introduce him to Rachel Wagner (Katie Holmes) whom Steve takes an instant liking to, Gavin seems paranoid as he suggests that the members of the 'Blue Ribbon' club are brainwashed somehow & he thinks he might be next to suffer the same fate after overhearing a conversation between the mysterious Dr. Edgar Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood) & his parents. Steve tries to reassure him & sends him home only for Gavin to turn up at school the next day with a totally changed personality. Steve & Rachel realise something sinister has happened to Gavin & decide to discover the truth before they too end up mindless obedient well behaved zombies...Directed by David Nutter I thought Disturbing Behavior was a lot better than I had originally anticipated it to be. Disturbing Behavior obviously rode on the then recent success of teen horror films like Scream (1996) & I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997) amongst others. The script by co-producer Scott Rosenberg plays like an episode of The X-Files (1993 - 2002) which isn't a surprise as Nutter directed 15 episodes of the show. It tries to keep everything under wraps until the revealing climax & it does a good job of doing so while at the same time keeping the viewer interested in where the story & characters are going. Disturbing Behavior isn't an action heavy film, it relies more on dialogue, mystery & suspense to engage the viewer. I found all the characters surprisingly likable which is very unusual for a teen horror, the clichés are almost used to Disturbing Behavior's advantage with a great speech by Gavin as he explains the school's social structure using stereotypes. It's well written with some witty dialogue with Gavin in particular seeming to have a smart answer to everything. The only aspect I found disappointing was the end, it felt rushed & was the only part of the film which seemed routine & unoriginal. Everything is resolved far too quickly, easily & neatly which is a shame because with a better ending Disturbing Behavior would be getting an 8 star review instead of a 7, neither do I think that the film has great repeat appeal. There is a nice foreboding atmosphere throughout it's duration until the aforementioned let down of an ending. There is no blood or gore whatsoever that I could remember apart from a few cuts & scratches but this is a horror film which relies on good storytelling instead of flashy CGI & make-up effect's to maintain interest & entertain it's viewers. A word about the cast now, the acting is fine & Stahl especially puts in a good performance. Director Nutter has an eye for a good looking lady with two in particular that stand out, first Holmes as Rachel is a babe & second Crystal Cass as Lorna Longley who is a stunner as well, these two are real easy on the eyes & provide a very good reason for any red blooded male to give this a go! The familiar face of Steve Railsback makes an appearance in a brief role as does William Saddler. Disturbing Behavior is well made but the IMDb's suggested $15,000,000 budget does seem a little high when you look at what actually ended up on screen, where did all the money go? I didn't think I would but I found Disturbing Behavior really enjoyable & better than a lot of the teen horror that probably swamped it's initial release. I recommend anyone thinking of giving it a go to do so, especially if you can find it cheap or watch it on TV for free as I don't think it is a film that would be watched repeatedly as once you know where the story is going that's it, virtually all of it's effectiveness is gone. Definitely worth watching at least once. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Marsden and Katie Holmes star in this teen thriller involving teenage kids getting brainwashed! I expected a fairly bad movie but I didn't mind this flick! It was an enjoyable yarn that didn't try and go overboard at the end!Although I can't say I'd rush out to see it again, I think it's worth a look! Because I wasn't expecting much and I was entertained for 90 minutes. Plus I liked the whole concept! *** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Stepford Kids in Parallax Land","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This tight little horror film tells a very simple story in 84 minutes, with remarkable narrative economy, relying on information that the viewer already knows (from many genres horror movies, science-fiction, thrillers, teen flicks) to fill the gaps. It reminded me of the old Hammer films effective and to the point, while at the same time The Stepford Wives, The Parallax View and even The Pied Piper of Hamelin came to mind. With all those references and its clever satire on patriotism, it is plausible that the movie does not take itself too serious and does not have the ridiculous grave tone of bad films like The Craft. Fortunately, the writers don't even try to elaborate on characters that are the classic elements of the horror genre mad scientist, monster(s), good boy, bad girl turned good, good boy turned bad, good girl in danger, a hunchback (who reads Vonnegut); and director Nutter, with an extensive experience in television, delivers fast and efficiently. A very good modern genre film that deserves a better rating. "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews Disturbing Behavior (1998)","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steve and his sister are moved with to this sleepy little coastal island community after the suicide of his older parents. Soon it becomes apparent that the 'popular' click involving bake-sale throwing straight A'ers are actually programmed zombies and Steve is next in line. But when several 'incidents' threaten to destroy the program can Steve and his sister (with a few ragtag friends) get out of there with their own minds. 'Disturbing Behavior' is a solid 'Stepford Wives' like thriller directed by David Nutter who cut his teeth on episodes of 'The X-Files' and 'Millennium' does a good job with the material. The acting by the core (James Marsden, Katie Holmes and Nick Stahl) cast is very good, also keep and eye out for Bill Sadler and Steve Railsback in scene-chewing supporting rolls. Better than your average teen thriller / horror 'Disturbing Behavior' is also a solid retelling of 'The Stepford Wives'. "},{"Title":"Utterly incompetent thriller empty of scares or suspense","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1990s, when the teen horror genre was on the brink of obscurity with fans growing tired of same horror clichés repeated over and over; Wes Craven shocked audience with his highly original horror flick 'Scream' and later came a new original horror film 'I Know What You Did Last Summer', both of which reignited the teen horror genre to fandom. However, this thriller directed by David Nutter who is responsible for the hit science-fiction television series 'X-Files' attempts to imitate a teenage version of 'The Stepford Wives', but suffers from a dull execution and absurdly ineffective thrills. This movie follows young teenager Steve Clark (played by James Marsden) who moves with his family to a coastal town in Ohio after the suicide of his younger brother Allen. Upon arriving at his new school, he meets a few social misfits including Gavin (played by Nick Stahl), U.V, (played by Chad E. Donella), and Rachel (played by Katie Holmes) who warn him against a sinister group called The Blue Ribbons, an organization run by Dr. Edgar Calicott (played by Bruce Greenwood), of academically perfect and socially flawless students. Little does he know, this heinous group has a plan to overrun their town with a sinister plot of brainwashing individuals, and his only hope is the help of Rachel and the eccentric school maintenance man Dorian (played by William Sadler)The basis of the plot is that the students of this mysterious organization have power over pretty much ever social figure including the law enforcement. In one scene, a student from the Blue Ribbon group murder a man at a supermarket and the cops watch and do nothing to intervene. As the title suggests, the movie deals with teenagers who are brainwashed into committing violent and disturbing behavior, but the only thing really disturbing about this movie is how dull and incompetent it is. The film falls in a shallow ground of flaccid thrills and a complete lack of substance, pulling the audience into an atmosphere that is supposed to create a sense of eeriness, but fails to formulate even one effective scare. The scenes of the Blue Ribbon students hunting down the characters try make us believe that that teenagers running around in strange, zombie-like manners or erotically threatening the characters is supposed to be scary, but the results are just weak. And without any suspense or even jump scares to support its tone, what viewers are left with is a total scare-free environment. The biggest redeeming quality may come from the fine performances and a few mildly developed characters. Overall, these are buried under the a painfully executed plot, ineffective scares, and Bruce Greenwood playing a villain that feels all too one-dimensional. Disturbing Behavior is a pretty forgettable film, and an utter disappointment, a movie that had so much potential with David Nutter, the mastermind behind X-Files directing it, but wasted it on such a thrill-free fare. If you are looking a decent teen horror film from the 90s, you may better off looking elsewhere, unless you are more than willing to give this one a try. "},{"Title":"More Teen Horror, but with Teen Hotness Katie Holmes","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released in 1998 and following the lead of The Faculty comes another high school horror film called Disturbing Behavior. Mostly known as Katie Holmes first major film role. She had a bit part a year earlier in Ang Lee's The Ice Storm. Disturbing Behavior is directed by David Nutter who mainly directs in television and most notably from episodes of The X files. So you would think this would be the perfect fit right? Wrong.The story centers on Steve one of the newest students to Cradle Bay High School. He is played by James Marsden who looks likes he's about 28 or so. His younger sister Lindsey is played by Katherine Isabelle, who later stars in the 2000 cult favorite movie Ginger Snaps. They have moved to Cradle Bay from Chicago for a new start after their brother had died. Steve gets acquainted with a few of the Cradle Bay outcasts/stoners in Gavin and UV an albino kid. At lunchtime Gavin points out all of the typical high school cliques. The geeks, the motor heads, the skaters and then there are the blue ribbons. The blue ribbons are like the cool kids in a 1950s movie. They are the ultra preppy, letter sweater wearing creeps that really lay on the phony charm just a little too heavy. We are then finally introduced to Rachel or Rae the dark haired, truck driving wanna be bad girl played by Katie Holmes. She is wasted in this role and is pretty much limited to eye candy which is not a bad thing ( just watch The Gift) but she is barely in half the movie, what the hell? After a number of violent outbursts from members of the blue ribbons, who are mostly football players and cheerleaders, Gavin has this theory that some sinister force has taken over the Cradle Bay meatheads as Rachel puts it. This is true and Gavin and Steve are out to stop it, although we are not really sure what it is. While in the boiler room for some reason Steve runs into the apparently crazy and unhinged janitor who is waging war on the schools rat problem. A gigantic WTF. He has cobbled together a sort of high frequency radio box to drive the rats out but wouldn't you know it come up big just as the third act rolls around. This movie is also about the absent parents and their inability to controlled their kids. When an easy but ominous solution comes along the parents all blindly follow it, thinking its for the best.Disturbing Behavior tries to be a lot of things and utterly fails on all fronts. It tries to be an extended episode of The Twilight Zone as well as a 50s style conspiracy movie, but with a hip 90s attitude. Its poorly cast and only exists to profit off the teen movie craze of the moment. Even though I rip on it now I did see this in theaters and thought is was alright at the time. It has steadily gotten worse. However if you are so inclined to check it out, even if it only to see Holmes, it's available on DVD and on demand from Amazon. "},{"Title":"Don't let those smiles fool you","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the most frightening prospects known to man is mind control. It's happened in many books and films, chilling people to the bone for generations. To some degree, it's happened in real life as well. Charles Manson brainwashed many a poor soul and it ended in tragedy. But what if this control came from a more powerful source? Say a group wants to try and create a perfect human being. That means stripping them of everything they were before. That's what happens in 'Disturbing Behavior,' an above average Thriller about trying to make the perfect teenager.Pros Great performances across the board. Cool, edgy score and soundtrack. Eerie atmosphere. Pretty well written, including some smart dialogue. Provides a few laughs. Quick paced.Cons Borrows quite a bit from 'The Stepford Wives.' Some things could have used some fleshing out. Lacking suspense.Final thoughts Hard to believe more than a decade has passed since this film's release. Watching it now certainly brings back memories of that period. It's not a masterpiece, but is also far from being forgettable. With some of the deleted scenes and original ending intact, it could have been even better. That being said, this is a thoroughly entertaining and chilling little Thriller.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"An Interesting 1990s Flashback","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The new kid in town (James Marsden) stumbles across something sinister about the town's method of transforming its unruly teens into upstanding citizens.This film has an impressive cast for a movie without a notable writer, producer or director (although David Nutter was a director and producer of The X-Files, which gave him some credibility at the time). Katharine Isabelle, William Sadler (as the deranged school janitor), Katie Holmes (in perhaps her best role) and Ethan Embry (to name a few).Although the movie apparently did very poorly, allegedly lasting only a week in some markets, the film launched the very brief music career of The Flys (who appeared on a few soundtracks and disappeared in 2002). This is clearly a soundtrack-centered film (as many were in the 1990s and before), with plenty of bands who were hoping to get noticed. One did. "},{"Title":"A scoop of this a pinch of that...","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" First things first... I know that any given Newer Pop-Horror film can be broken down into a recipe of other Older Classic Horror films. Yes, I also know that there is still some originality out there, I just wish I'd find it more often. Maybe I've seen too many movies...?I just HAVE to know I was the FIRST person to realize that The Island was a complete rip off of Parts The Clonus Horror. I realized it three minutes into the film while sitting in a theater having bought a ticket that now lines Michael Bay's pocket. Like he needs it. To add salt to my own wounds, I now own The Island on DVD. Relax, I only paid $4.00 for it. Anywho, I was outraged that not one shred of credit was given to the writer of Parts ... Being that Mr. Bay just made a perfect copy of Parts ... with better funding, he falls into a category I call Same Movie- More Money (or, S. M. M. M.). I wouldn't have a problem with this if credit was given where credit is due. After I knew there was a problem I guess a few more people figured it out and eventually the director of Parts ... sued Michael bay and won siting something like 146 similarities. Bully for him!Now that I've gotten that off of my chest, let's continue on to Disturbing Behavior. A fairly complete rip-off of Strange Behavior. They barely changed the title, for Pete's sake. The original title of Strange behavior is Dead Kids, but we couldn't have a movie released in America under THAT title, so we changed it from its original Australian title. So, I'm going to give you, in only MY opinion, what I think the recipe for Disturbing Behavior is. And keep in mind that stuff from above. I wouldn't have a problem if after stealing ideas from other writers that they were tossed a few crumbs of recognition from the recipe.A Whole Heepin' Bushell of Strange Behavior (AKA Dead Kids)1981A Cup of Stepford Wives 1975Half a Cup of Death Warmed Up 1985And just a pinch of A Clockwork Orange 1971Mix together thoroughly and bake (EDIT- call it what you will) until your 16 year-old audience of 1998 accepts it as a glossy S. M. M. M. and... Enjoy!We could call this a spoiler... if one knows how to follow a recipe. If it makes you feel any better; I do own the films Parts The Clonus Horror, and Disturbing Behavior. I'm sure that one would never gather from this review that I actually like this film. It's colorful, attractive, and moves quickly without a lot of explosions. Like cotton candy... it's easy, and fun, to swallow. "},{"Title":"Good movie but can be better!","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never saw Disturbing Behavior at the theater, I rented it back in 1999, liked it and bought the DVD. The DVD that I have has deleted scenes and the original ending. The movie is 1hr 24min long and the deleted scenes are great. If the company were to put the deleted scenes in the movie adding about 15 minutes, the movie would be a lot better and the rating would probably be higher than they are now on IMDb. Just my opinion. The deleted scenes tell more about the doctor and his daughter. Also explains more about Steve's brother.A lot of movies are ruined by the removal of scenes and the decision as to which ending the movie should have. The alternate ending is a lot better and explains more about the character UV. "}{"Title":"Underrated, One of My Favorites","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing Behavior is one of those movies I come back to time and time again. It might be a week between viewings or a couple of years may pass, but I always enjoy it. This film isn't great in the sense of a masterpiece, or a seminal moment in the genre, or in originality, or in how the story is told. What it does have is a certain restraint that keeps a fairly dull sounding plot surprisingly interesting. The X-Files influence on the mood and atmosphere is clearly evident, and it's easy to imagine Cradle Bay as some secluded town that Mulder and Scully stumble upon only to discover this mind control plot.One of the highlights of the film is the acting. There's nothing there to blow anyone away, but this is easily one of the best portrayals of teenagers in almost any movie I've seen. There's enough subtlety as to not simply show them as stupid teenagers and insult their intelligence, but there's enough naiveté and impulsiveness to make the characters believable as teenagers as opposed to the overly introspective or self sufficient characters with hardly a mention of or need for any parents so prevalent in many movies.There is a certain coldness and sterility to the ambiance of Disturbing Behavior, punctuated perfectly by the warmth of the humor and irreverence of our 4 friends as well as the spontaneity of the crazy old janitor. While maybe a little smart for his age, Stahl as Gavin is a pleasure to watch on screen, especially with U.V. as his quiet and quirky sidekick. Marsden as Steve plays the new kid in school down to a tee, keeping a low profile and genuinely trying to find his place in this new world. Holmes is beautiful as Rachel and while her character doesn't serve much purpose other than Steve's love interest and later the damsel in distress, she does a fine job of being just another misfit.The plot can wear thin at times, and Caldecott goes a little too far with his mad scientist persona late in the film, but the film rarely loses it's eerie foothold. The robotic and sometimes psychotic teenagers are fun to watch as well. It's a mundane and tired concept, but it's brought forth in a believable way without becoming hokey. In many respects they are the typical jock; looks great to adults but totally evil to those outside their clique. In Disturbing Behavior we actually have a reason why this kids act in this manner.I don't know that I have much more to say. There isn't a lot about this film to dissect or read into, but it's a pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"Tolerable enough.","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not bad teen targeted post-Scream conspiracy thriller with good looking cast, and as has been mentioned, brings 'X-Files' type atmosphere to its presentation; no surprise, with director David Nutter being a veteran of that series. James Marsden plays Steve Clark, a new kid in a small town who befriends local outcast Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl). One of the high school cliques Gavin points out to Steve is a bunch dubbed The Blue Ribbons model citizens who've been made that way by the nefarious Dr. Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood). Naturally, Caldicott's scheme has ugly side effects the kids turn homicidal whenever they get turned on, for one thing. Steve teams up with another outcast, Rachel Wagner (Katie Holmes) to foil the mad doctor's scheme. The very brief running time, and fast moving, straightforward story amounts to both a good and bad thing. It ensures that the movie never gets boring, but the lack of a lot of detail, and more meat to the story, will leave some viewers less than satisfied. There's tension in Steve's family because of the suicide of his brother (Ethan Embry, wasted in a nothing part), yet we never find out what drove the brother to do it. The seemingly slow witted janitor Dorian Newberry (William Sadler) is a lot more savvy than he lets on, yet there's no explanation of how he figured everything out. A local policeman, Officer Cox (Steve Railsback) is clearly in on everything, but this role could have been beefed up a little more. (Railsback and Sadler, two solid veterans, also end up somewhat wasted, although Sadler is a bit of a hoot.) It's a good point made that once Gavin, the most engaging of the characters, is given a makeover, the movie definitely loses something. Stahl gives what is the most enjoyable performance in the whole thing. Besides that, the story becomes just a little too conventional in its second half, with a less than truly thrilling conclusion. Despite being meant to be shocking, it comes off as too laughable sometimes. The opening scene does work, though, as does the freak out scene with Lorna (Crystal Cass). The supposedly hip and clever dialogue is just annoying a lot of the time. Viewers will recognize a fair amount of the faces; among them is Katharine Isabelle of the Ginger Snaps franchise as Steve's younger sister. This could have been better, overall, but it's not without some entertainment value; location work is good and the music by 'X-Files' composer Mark Snow is reasonably effective. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Watch it only with the deleted scenes.","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" DISCLAIMER If you're going to watch this movie, then PLEASE do so only with the deleted scenes included. The theatrical edit got utterly butchered in the editing room, where what must have been nearly twenty minutes of scenes were removed from it, leaving it much worse for wear. The DVD includes all of the deleted scenes on the disc (though, sadly, they're not woven into the film itself), as well as the original ending, complete with director's commentary. From what I've heard, the version of the movie that airs on SyFy includes these scenes woven into the film.Now, with that out of the way...Disturbing Behavior is your typical late '90s/early '00s teen horror picture made to capitalize on the success of Scream. Like others of its ilk, it has its share of cringe-worthy totally radical dialogue (Nick Stahl's character is the worst culprit on that front), though fortunately, it doesn't try to copy Scream's hip self-awareness like so many others attempted (and failed) to do. It's pretty well-written and directed for what it's worth, with an X-Files vet helming it and a good, if not terribly original, script (it's pretty much The Stepford Wives in high school). The theatrical cut removed a terrible amount of character development, leaving the cast largely a collection of caricatures (the goth chick, the controlling parents, the stoners, the evil scientist, the crazy guy who knows the truth), but with those scenes included the cast becomes much more fleshed out, becoming much more like actual human beings with thoughts and motivations rather than robots like the film's villains, going through the motions. And I dug the Pink Floyd shout-out during the climax.It's B-movie teen schlock, yeah, but it's the good kind. The original theatrical cut gets a 5 from me due to how thinly written it is, but with the deleted scenes included, I'd bump it up to a strong 7, leaning towards an 8. One thing I didn't understand was how the Blue Ribbon program is supposed to turn troubled teens into moral, upstanding, diligent students, yet they're shown acting like even bigger jerks after their brainwashing, with one of them murdering two people, including a cop, in the opening scene. Kind of bugs me. "},{"Title":"Locations","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Crystal Bay on Cedar Island. Good names and commendable. Yet what is the true name of the high school, if there is any, in Port Coquitlam? I enjoy watching a good movie on high school students and lower classmates of a special university or college and I try to find the actual names of the locations these types of films were made at. So we have Disturbing Behavior filmed in Port Coquitlam, British Columbia. Now as to what school it was made at, the waterfall scene in the beginning, etc. All of this is what makes a movie even better after being viewed. So if any have already achieved any findings of this I would look forward to a comment or two. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Discipline at any cost.","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" To me the movie was more than just another teen horror flick, with beautiful young Americans running around fearing what ever. In my mind the movie truly sets up a atmosphere that freaks me out. Because i didn't think that this was so unrealistic, in fact i could see many parents being tricked into accepting their children into a fascist mind control program. It's just what the world loves, easy solutions. And maybe i'm putting more into this than you're suppose to, but i believe the original thought for the movie was simply the necessity of freedom. But you can see by looking at the trailer that it was marketed simply as a teen horror flick and that kinda bugged me.But anyway, i loved this move, definitely one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Disturbing behavior-to say the least","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing behavior is the tale of a small coastal town where once unruly teens are transformed into academic geniuses.even stranger is that they all dress the same,join the same clubs,act the same.like soulless automatons.when Steve Clark(James Marsden)moves into town,he makes friends with the three misfitsRachel Wagner(Katie Holmes),Gavin Strick(Nick Stahl) and U.V(Chad Donela).once the three realize the reason for the abrupt behavior changes,they must find a way to stop it,before they are next.Bruce Greenwood,(Thirteen Days,Deja Vu)William Sadler,(The Green Mile,Hard to Kill,Ethan Embry(Harold and Kumar go to White Castle,Sweet Home Alabama)and Katherine Isabelle(Earthsea,Insomnia)also have roles in the film.i thought this was a pretty good film.the premise is not original,but so what.the movie is very dark and will be thought provoking for some,while others will simply enjoy it for it's entertainment value.either way,it's worth watching. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It's a lot better on the DVD.  Here's why.","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie just because I think Katie Holmes is hot, and I like mind control.  I had heard that this movie was pretty bad, so I wasn't expecting much.  I enjoyed it, not as a good movie, but just as fun, throwaway entertainment.That being said, when I watched the 'Deleted Scenes' portion of the DVD, every single clip should have been included.  If you watch those scenes, you actually get to see the best acting and best storytelling of the entire movie.  I kept saying to myself, If these scenes had been included, this could have actually been a good movie!  What was the editor thinking!? In particular, watch the original ending-a thousand times better than the one they picked.I hope the directors learned their lesson and they reign in their editor a little better next time. "},{"Title":"The Book Is Better!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally checked this movie out after checking out and reading the book that went exactly along with the movie. The book seemed pretty graphic in some parts, but it was a real page turner to me. I'm glad Katie Holmes was in the movie cause she was good as the rebelious girl. James Marsden was good too. He defended himself during the movie and was really trying to get down with what the Cedar school was doing. Although I'm glad it seems that they edited some of the graphic parts out The movie was pretty good, but the book was better! "},{"Title":"6/10","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  definitively is not a good movie, but the only thing that maybe saves it is the actors I mean, who didn't fall in love with Nick Stahl, even more at the end well, I didbut speaking sincerely , this movie is to see and forgetbut check out the end , I found it , I really don't know,cool I supposewell you can  see The Faculty, is ten thousand times better than this one is the best of the genre....  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not enough.","Date":"27 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a paranoia thriller, this mostly works as far as it goes, but it really needed more depth to the plot to sustain a feature.  Everyone involved milked what was there for all it was worth, but there wasn't enough there. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as I heard","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I avoided this movie in the theatres back in 1998. Nobody liked it--all the critics tore this movie to ribbons and there were a lot of complaints about how 20 minutes (!) was cut from the movie to make it shorter. The studio (MGM) figured teenagers didn't like to see adults in movies, so all the sequences with adults alone were cut out. It also rendered the movie incomprehensible. Seeing it on cable, I was surprised at how OK it was. The acting was pretty good (especially James Marsden), the story moved REAL quick and it had an interesting (albeit unbelievable) idea. The thing is you have to turn off your brain totally and not think about the movie afterwords because there are HUGE plot holes (too numerous to mention here) and glaring inconsistencies. And it got tiresome to see Marsden's character getting beaten up again and again and again...I think I counted a total of SEVEN times! The movie was way too short (82 minutes)...I guess I have to see the DVD for the full version. So, this is a pretty good horror flick--it might have been great but we'll never know. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time. Isn't scary, suspenseful...or disturbing. * (out of four_","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DISTURBING BEHAVIOR / (1998) * (out of four)(Minor Spoilers)Prozac and Ritalyn fill the medicine cabinets of today's youth, yet Disturbing Behavior takes this generation to the next level, giving teenagers even more of an excuse to consume such drugs. Just what we need, another reason for young people to be paranoid about what their parents are planning for them.In theme, Disturbing Behavior can be compared to one of my all time favorite movies, Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange. It manifest engaging ideas about society and freewill. A Clockwork Orange lunged into the subject with shocking perversity and artistic expression, but Disturbing Behavior lacks exactly what is counterpart explores.Falling captive to conformity and peer pressure from the recent string of popular teen slasher movies, Disturbing Behavior, misses almost every opportunity to provide audiences with satisfying material. It takes the point-of-view of a typical teenager named Steve Clark (James Marsden from X-Men), who doesn't have much time to react to the suicide of his older brother (Ethan Embry) when his family packs their bags and moves to a nice little town called Cradle Bay.Local stoners Galvin (Nick Stahl) and U.V. (Chad E. Donella) greet Steve during his first day at the new high school. A an attractive loner, Rachel (Katie Holmes), predictably snatches Steve's attention. The school's mentally challenged janitor, Dorian Newberry (William Sadler), obsesses about the town's rat population in the basement. All in all, though, Cradle Bay is a pleasant village.But then Galvin rants about the school's elite club, the Blue Ribbons. He think's they're brainwashing all the town's teens. Steve initially thinks nothing of his new friend's paranoia, until he himself discovers the technologically diabolical plans of the school's principal (Bruce Greenwood) the villainous faculty plans to turn all of the local teens into being of sole perfection.This man's idea sure would end half the problems of society, wouldn't it? But just for kicks, lets say that this is a bad thing. And besides, what would the world be like if teens couldn't get themselves into trouble. Think about it all you Mom's and Dad's, a world without trouble making teenagers. Perfect kids. No wonder why so many parents in to movie want their kids to join the Blue Ribbon Club.At the very most, Disturbing Behavior could have been a guilty pleasure. But the film, directed by David Nutter, doesn't even manager to elicit that much gratification. Actually, there's hardly anything remotely pleasing in the entire movie. No thrills. No excitement. No surprises. With the exception of a few moments, this movie is a complete waste of time.Screenwriter Scott Rosenberg conceived a decent concept, but movies are about ideas, not a single good concept. He stretches the individual concept across 84 minutes of movie, and that leads to many problems. There isn't enough conflict to keep audiences interested, and it wastes most of its time filling the scenes with characters roaming the neighborhood.The film does show signs of good ideas hidden deep within, but it doesn't deliver create images out of those ideas. The little juicy material present is but a temptation. When a movie makes us want more, that's great. But when it makes us want more and doesn't deliver, that's not so great. Instead of deliciously initiative situations and sexy surprises, we get scene after scene of bland dialogue. ExampleRachel What now? Steve We go home. Rachel Where's home? Steve Wherever.The film also suffers from casting miscalculations. Although James Marsden, Nick Stahl, and William Sadler support their flat, one-dimensional characters with adequate performances, Katie Holmes and Bruce Greenwood do not fit their characters in the least. Holmes is a fine young actress, but she's not a gothic town rebel, and Greenwood is also a good actor, but he's definitely not a sinister villain.Disturbing Behavior even lowers itself to a level of inconceivable incompetence. It delivers long-awaited love scenes under increasing plausible circumstances. A girl tries to seduce Steve, but instead bashes her own head against a mirror and leaves, before anything takes place. And how about the love scene near the end, where Steve and Rachel make love in the truck. Their town is being ransacked by evil minions, time is of the essence, and they take a time out to make love in a truck. I shouldn't complain, though, because it's the most indulgent scene in the movie.I can't help but to question this film's title. What do they mean by disturbing behavior? There's nothing disturbing about this movie. It's tired, silly, boring hokum. Disturbing behavior? Well, perhaps they are referring the audience's response. I can't say this movie lost money, because with a $17 million gross, and a budget of $15 million, it made enough money to earn a profit. But considering most teen slasher film make title waves at the box office, $17 million isn't all that impressive. "},{"Title":"Manages to provide some great thrills and chills","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Katie Holmes takes on the role of rebellious Goth teen Rachel Wagner in Disturbing Behavior. She was doing her best at the time to break free of her good-girl typecast in Dawson's Creek where she played near-perfect Joey. What that means is she grimaces a lot and dresses up in half-shirts and rocker boots.Disturbing Behavior has all the tropes you could ever want in a genre film from the late 1990s. You get over-the-top performances and bad acting mixed with hints of tell-tale talent. A melodramatic electronic soundtrack is mixed well with an alternative rock soundtrack and clothing styles that defined the decade. The lesson to be found in Disturbing Behavior is that you must fight for your identity and individuality. Don't run with the crowd just to be accepted. There's a lot more social commentary here than what you would expect from a Hollywood teen flick.The visual effect used to show the brainwashing really ages the movie as well. They're a sort of fractal imagery that would have looked advanced in a Pre-CGI world, but comes across as hokey today.The movie is rated R for strong violence, sexuality, language, and drug content. There's nudity in a couple of parts and one definite scene suggesting something is going on out of frame. As usual, it's really all needless and might have been the reason the movie wasn't as successful as it could've been were it accessible to a PG-13 crowd. Disturbing Behavior manages to provide some great thrills and chills. The best way to describe it is as a sort of teen slasher mixed with The Stepford Wives and A Clockwork Orange. The ending seems rushed and comes with some cheesy one-line and a tacked - on finale that would lead you to believe they're might be a sequel in the works. Unfortunately, the movie didn't make enough money at the box office to merit such a thing. "},{"Title":"reasonable set up but bad ending","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Cradle Bay on Crescent Island, football jock Andy is parked with a girl. His demeanor turns and kills her. Then he kills a cop and Officer Cox (Steve Railsback) lets him go. Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl) watches from afar. The Clarks from Chicago arrive in town after losing the oldest son. Gavin befriends Steve Clark (James Marsden) who explains the school is ruled by a clique called Blue Ribbon. Steve is taken with edgy girl Rachel Wagner (Katie Holmes). Dorian Newberry (William Sadler) is the school janitor and rat catcher. Steve and Gavin discovers the parents working with Dr. Edgar Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood). Gavin is picked to be the next candidate by his parents.I like the Bodysnatcher feel to the story setup. There are probably too many kills too early and it probably effected the ending. The actors are all good in their roles. However the movie ends badly. I think the writer couldn't figure out a clever way to end the movie. It's too bad because the movie seems to be set up for a tense thriller. Instead, it's done without any finesse and it's unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"Jocks vs. Stoners","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A teenager named Steve Clark (Jamie Marsden of X-Men fame), moves with his family to a small town called Cradle Bay in Washington State after leaving Chicago due to his older brother committing suicide. He encounters outcast stoners named Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl) and U.V. (Chad Donella). They're at the bottom of the social ladder at Cradle Bay HS. Steve also meets the Blue Ribbons, a type of Phi Beta Kappa-esque group of seemingly civic-minded student athletes. They seem like typical high achievers at first, but they're violent elitists, given to random acts of bullying, intimidation, assault and seen in the opening scene, murder. Having participated in the mysterious Program run by the resident school psychologist, some of the Blue Ribbons' leaders were once good friends of Gavin and U.V. It seems that Gavin, Steve and Rachel Wagner (Katie Holmes), Gavin's only other friend and Steve's love interest, are the only ones that truly take notice of the Blue Ribbons destructive nature while parents and community leaders look the other way. On the plus side, they did have an interesting idea of an almost cult-like group of student high achievers along with some creepy scenes seen with the 'recruiting' they do. The negatives, they give in to stereotyping, with jocks, stoners and social outcasts. The most disturbing thing about this movie may be the idea of some misguided educator deciding that the 'bad students' need to be improved through aggressive Pavlovian conditioning. "},{"Title":"Doesn't flow well but definitely a fun ride.(I have bad grammar so please be warned)","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in late April of this year I was searching threw the Netflix vault of titles and came across this film it looked good to me having that late 90's Scream vibe to the cover,a solid looking cast, & I was in the desire to watch a film I haven't seen before so that's what lead to me watching it and watching it more than four times.Disturbing Behavior(1998) is a film about a family who moves to a city where they intend to start fresh lives after the death of their son & brother and one of the family members the other son goes to a High School where he runs into group of peers Gavin(a rebellious cocky likable guy),UV(a major pot-head) & Rachel(the love interest of the film).One of the new found Friends Gavin portrayed by Terminator 3Rise of the Machine's Nick Stahl suspects something off with the other kids of the school of whom he used to be good friends with and the new friend Steve(X-Men's James Marsden) thinks he's just nuts.The film goes on to show you a deep routed family conflict dealing with the passing of the deceased family member and also features Katherine Isabelle(of Freddy Vs. Jason & Ginger Snaps fame) as Steve's sister.The film then reveals the mystery of the film by having Gavin become a member of the Blue Ribbons and to show you very subtly the Janitor knows something is up too.The film then goes to explain that their's this corporation who takes children with odd ,unfavorable & etc, behavior and controls them to doing their biding then it's up for Steve and Rachel to stop it.Now this film is actually very good in my eyes it could've been a masterpiece if everything was left alone in the film tough because of my knowledge on this film a whole bunch of scenes had to be cut for the DVD Home Video release of the film and you could tell because some of the film feels lacking and some of the characters just needed more time to develop.The film's main strength is in how it slowly reveals the intriguing mystery beyond the story it's nice tone and setting and not to mention score.This film also features many similarities to another film of the same year or year before called The Faculty(now I also enjoyed that film) and that begs the question which is the better film we'll that's a hard question because I love both films very much but their must be decided victor between the two so let's dissect the strengths and weaknesses of both films of which they both have The Faculty's strength is more in the characters of which is understandable because that film didn't have to sacrifice so much so for bulls!t reasoning behind the studios and getting to understand their traits and to have some witty Kevin Willamson dialogue in the film.Disturbing Behavior's strength is in it's mythology of the corporation and setting and atmosphere.It is truly sad Disturbing Behavior had to trim down it's character elements because I have a deeper interest in their back-story and the events their going through whereas The Faculty just offered me character development to characters of which I'm not to interested in their story.Disturbing Behavior is a good film regardless just if it was a lot less messed around with it would be a lot better in my eyes.My Next Review will be ofHalloween(2007) coming within a few days of this reviews postage I hope I brought some interesting insight to the film and didn't come off dumb in this review as this is my first review for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Disturbing Behaviour is an eerie thriller with a talented cast and memorable scenes.","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing Behaviour is a thriller that was overlooked upon its release in July, 1998. The movie has a popular cast and an intriguing storyline. This movie is similar to thrillers like The Faculty and Urban Legend. All three of these movies were released in 1998. I personally like The Faculty and Urban Legend better than Disturbing Behaviour. The movie is 1 hour and 24 minutes but the movie should have been more detailed about the plot. Most thrillers are 90 to 120 minutes. If this movie was longer the impact of the movie and box office success of the movie would have been massively increased. I think that The Faculty is more stylish than this movie and Urban Legend is more intense. Urban Legend has more clever plot twists and is similar to Scream in regards to its plot. I liked how the filmmakers took this movie and put their own spin on it. There isn't one moment of the movie I dislike. I feel the movie could have had added depth. Numerous scenes were deleted from the movie that flesh out the characters and they clarify any unanswered questions you may have after watching the theatrical version. Those scenes also add vital information to the plot that isn't in the version that was released. Overall Disturbing Behaviour is an entertaining addition to the eerie teen thrillers that were widely released in cinemas during the 1990's. The movie has an original style and some twists can't be foreseen in the movie. Not all the characters are predictable and every actor has fun with their role. I believe they chose the best actors in the business at the time to act in this movie. Every actor seems like their character, they don't seem like they're acting. I couldn't imagine any other actor playing their roles, if other actors did this movie wouldn't have turned out as well as it did. "},{"Title":"Interesting film to watch - quite creepy, in some ways.","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Caught it on the TV at around 1100, one night. I was actually quite surprised, roughly 20-30 minutes in. It turned out i was enjoying it - and i honestly mean that. The acting wasn't bad, dialogue was decent, the plot was creepy and interesting, etc. Films like these that turn out to be right shockers are awesome. It has a very low undeserved rating of 5.5 on this, when it deserves at least a 7.0 rating or higher. The directing was pretty good too - and the actors were good; James Marsden and Nick Stahl. It's all good. Disturbing Behaviour is a well-enjoyable Science-Fiction thriller with some top-notch, unexpected moments and some very creepy scenes. 7.6/10. "},{"Title":"Who put acid in my Spam?","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Steve moves with his family to Cradle Bay and enrols in the local high school, he's not sure where he fits in with the local crowds. He doesn't really fit in with the diverse groups you would expect to find in a typical American high school. Steve looks like one of the jocks, but they don't seem quite right. The jocks seem perfect with their matching jackets, hair cuts, charity work, and perfect behaviour that would make any parent proud. When Steve befriends two social misfits of the school, Gavin and Rachel, he soon discovers why the jocks are so perfect.....It's virtually a remake of The Stepford Wives, with troublesome teens being replaced, or 'upgraded' to be the perfect child. Unfortunately, Rodriguez beat the makers to it with the wonderful The Faculty, which had the good will to be very tongue in cheek, and exploit its B-movie heritage.This film takes itself way too seriously, and spends too much time explaining the maguffin if the film, rather than just going all bonkers like its premise and having fun with it.The cast are okay, but come the end of it, it's just like all the other high school movies that were released in 1999, and when you think about it, there were a stupid amount, and this was one of the poorest.At least Katie Holmes is easy on the eye.Boring stuff, otherwise.... "},{"Title":"captivating","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing behavior is a really good movie that takes awhile to get into but once you do you get hooked into wanting to know what is going to happen next in the captivating plot of this movie and even though I may sound like it no I am not a member of the blue band club! This movie has it all mystery, drama, action ,suspense and romance. It also provides an excellent villain in the evil brainwashing Dr Caldicott. I mean how evil do you have to be to brain wash your own daughter and fail and then lock her up in a mental institute. This movie has you waiting to see the demise of the evil Dr caldicott and the blue band club and it finally happens at the end of the movie or does it? You'll have to watch and find out I guarantee you will be surprised by the ending. I give this movie 9/10 and I highly recommend if you have the opportunity to do so to check it out you wont regret it. "}{"Title":"''Hey Teachers!, Leave the Kids Alone!''...","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... word of the classic song of Pink Floyd ''Another Brick in the Wall'', used on the las scene of this movie that i rate to a very cool cliché. I have to said that i seen this movie yesterday when i saw the TV here on Cauncun cause in the nigth when you have my age you get nothing to make, anyway here's my comment of this movie The direcion are very convinced the photography are very good make it and also the escenography and until you didn't know to the characters for media of the screenplay the direction as tell you like are they, the performances... are regular, because isn't bad but they get nothing on special, i have to said that the screenplay are very bad written, because until you get good informed of all the things that happen on the movie (thing that movies like this if get very good make it until the rest are bad), the characters are so stereotyped in special the character of Katie Holmes the classic bad girl smoking, dancing, whit a lot of perforations on all of her body, and if you put attention all the characters was of that way before they were f*ck it of they mind, also like i say if the direction isn't so good like is, you can't know nothing of the major part of the characers you just know good some of they but the rest are practice invisible, and also isn't have so coherence because of many of the scenes the things that as put on as follow the stereotype and there is when the coherence get losing, and on other way in many of the scenes there music that isn't get nothing in of seen whit the scene, and sometimes as gone too fast but no so to you didn't know how happen, apart the film are so mainstream whit that of when he mesmerize characters when get horny they get aggressive Definly the movie are regular "},{"Title":"a mind boggling thriller...","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A family moves to a new town after enduring a death in the family, and try to put the past behind them. Too bad they have chosen the wrong town to come and begin again. This town actually has a secret of it own that may be even worse from the dark secret that the Clarks are running from. James Mardsen plays Steve Clark, the middle-born who is at the helm of trying to make his family feel alive again while trying to get to the bottom of what the town may or may not be hiding. Katie Holmes, plays an outcast named Rachel with whom he falls in love with and Nick Stahl is their not too lucky friend. What is making the town's kids sick, yet turning them into super wizards at school? The answer remains in disturbing behaviour, a not so bad thriller. "},{"Title":"Starts off well but loses coherence towards the silly ending","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Scott Rosenberg has written some great stuff (adapting High Fidelity and Beautiful Girls) but you get the sense that Disturbing Behavior was something he wrote whilst bored in High School.The story starts off well, if not subtle or original, by introducing the characters, but they fall by the wayside and get lost amongst the conspiracy theories that aren't even explained properly at the climax.  The director puts unintentionally funny things where there should be chills, or intrusive rock music that completely jarrs with the mood of the film.  Mark Snow's score is good (it reminded me of Moby) but a chunk of gold in a pile of crap is still mostly crap.Holmes is her usual sassy self, put in tight clothes to keep at least the male audience watching when the plot deteriorates (hey, it worked on me). Stahl is amusing, but vanishes halfway through, leaving it to James Marsden to carry things.  Marsden is a nice guy but he barely registers.This isn't the worst teen-horror you'll ever see, but it could have been better and considering Robert Rodriguez's superior teen-horror 'The Faculty' came out the same year (with suspicious similarities), this merely comes off as its weaker cousin. "},{"Title":"Better editing would have improved this not too bad film","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Taking the overall story there were elements that were too unrealistic.  However, I enjoyed much of the acting.  Especially by the three main characters.  If you see the deleted scenes on the DVD you'll see some of the best acting in the movie.  Some have put down Marsden's acting.  But watch the deleted scene where he describes what happened with his brother.The editing made many holes in the story.  Someone commented that directors should learn to reign in their editors.  If you listen to the director's commentary you *know* he really wanted the original (and far superior) ending.  He said that directors sometimes do not have control.  I assume that he is referring to the powers of the studio that want to make the movie into a cookie cutter image of the standard fare.Even with the deleted scenes restored, the presentation of the means of transformation from regular kid to blue ribbon kid was quite thin and hard to believe.  I agree with another's comment that the psychiatric hospital was really bad.  It looks like a 19th century bedlam.  I might be wrong but I believe they don't let patients get this way anymore.I've seen DVD's that provide more than one version of a film by doing something with the linking of scenes together.  It is too bad they didn't make this one so that we could see the original cut. I try not to take these kind of flics too seriously.  I enjoy many more films that way.  I give the movie 7* out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Very sadly underrated","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very sadly underrated film. This is a film that I believe was intended to wake kids up. It's no artistic venture, I know. It's all laid out in a very simple fashion, and was made for the MTV kids to be able to understand it. Still, the point is a great one, and was carried out well. After reading someone's review of this, I have to say I was enraged. The good guys sometimes smoke pot in this. Would it be worse if they were on crack? Yes, it would. The good guys look a little freaky most of the time. Would it make them better people if they wore nice clothes? No, it wouldn't. They cuss a lot and talk their weird, poetic jive. Would they be more interesting if they didn't? No, they would be LESS interesting. The good guys like rock music. Does that make them bad, scary kids? Absolutely not, because you can't judge a person solely on their tastes. And as for the brainwashed psycho kids that even a lot of kids nowadays would root for, they break people's necks because they're ashamed to be sexually aroused. Is that less scary than a kid who just wants to get laid and can't because he's viewed as a monster by society? If your answer is yes, you are obviously very disturbed yourself. This movie is about the underdogs, those people who are good people but have no choice other than to fight when so many would rather oppress them for being who they really are. This hardens and depresses them considerably, and why shouldn't it? The world is not a Mister Rogers' Neighborhood, and, though that is a nice fantasy, this movie, despite any fantastic contexts it might have, is full of harsh realities. If there's a world full of Blue Ribbons, things wouldn't be exciting to you unless you're totally brainwashed. If you're not, that makes it scary. That's why this movie sends chills up my spine, no matter how simple and MTV-styled it might be. This is one of the best horror films of the 1990s. At least it's not junk like I Know What You Did Last Summer. This film has something to say, something only severely distorted people would see as completely negative and wrong. NOT FOR BLUE RIBBONS!   "},{"Title":"Good idea; bad execution","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DISTURBING BEHAVIOR (1998) *1/2 (D David Nutter) - Good idea, bad execution. Scientist tries to turn 1990's teens into model kids from the good ol' 1950's. Would be great if they could succeed one day. The premise fails here because the 90s kids are supposed to be the good guys we root for, yet the truth is they're scarier than their transformed 50s friends! "},{"Title":"didn't disturb me","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love a good horror, horror/scifi movie, especially on a Friday night when I'm half asleep and really paranoid. Even in such a state, this movie did nothing for me. It was a great idea that kinda fell flat. The only naturally disturbed character was Allan Parker (Ethan Embry), the lead's suicide-victim brother. Now, was this storyline supposed to be related to the whole brainwashing thing, or was it one of those plots you only wished would be related to the actual movie? A whole movie could have been made out of that character, and it would have been a lot better if there was a connection. Instead it just explained why the family moved. Maybe I'm just jealous because James Mardsen is prettier than I am, but I thought this movie was corny. The idea of murderous yuppies is pretty funny though.  "},{"Title":"I'm only paranoid cuz people are following me!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first watched this movie, I was sure there was something missing. The story made sense, but it seemed that there was more that they just didn't want to show us. So I investigated, and there indeed were many scenes that were left out of the film. Some include Gavin breaking into the morgue to find the dead girl's body, Steve's parents finding the gun he stole from Gavin, a scene which includes Katie Holmes and James Marsden hooking up, and more. These scenes have great importance in the story line. Why were they taken out? To save time? Lots of movies run over two hours. They could've taken out some other less important scenes other than the ones they left on the cutting room floor. The original also had a different ending, (which you can see on the DVD.)*Warning spoliler* Gavin originally shows up on the boat just as Steve thinks he's safe, and UV ends up having to shoot his best friend in order to save everyone. (As opposed to Gavin becoming a student teacher at another school and starting the perfect kids all over again.)The tension begins when Steve (James Marsden, X-Men) and his family, after the tragic suicide of his brother (Ethan Embry, Empire Records), move to the small town of Cradle Bay. Steve tries to find a place in his new school and ends up making friends with two pot heads, one of which is a paranoid named Gavin (Nick Stahl, In the Bedroom) that's certain the perfect jocks and cheerleaders are lobotomized, and the other is an albino nicknamed UV. Steve soon meets Gavin's punk friend, Rachel (Katie Holmes, Teaching Mrs. Tingle,) and falls hard. Gavin tries to convince him that the perfect kids, called the Blue Ribbons, are out to get everybody that they consider bad, (smoking, drinking, and sex are big no-no's.) Not believing any of Gavin's paranoia stories, Steve is offered the chance to become a Blue Ribbon, but after Gavin suddenly disappears and returns to school as a totally different person, Steve starts to believe what Gavin was scared of is actually real. Aided only by Rachel, UV, and the school janitor, Mr. Newberry, (a former friend of Gavin's that knows more than what he admits,) Steve must try to stop the Blue Ribbons before they take over. This is a great thriller. The acting was done fairly well. Thumbs up to Nick Stahl and William Sadler, (Mr. Newberry,) for their great performances. Some of the other characters needed more development, but I think the scenes that were cut out would've helped in that department. All-in-all, this was a fun movie. I gave it *******/10.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed, but on the whole a good film.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having just watched this film, I was disappointed. It is called a horror/thriller yet it was only mild. Not at all what I would class a horror or a thriller. I think the acting, on the whole, was very good. The storyline left a little to be desired. It didn't always flow very well & I lost parts of the story.If it hadn't said that it was a horror, I would have viewed it differently. Overall, I liked the film. It was entertaining, but needed too much concentration. "},{"Title":"Sounds familiar...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Someone watched The Stepford Wives and Footloose in the same night, and woke up the next morning with major hangover and a brand new never-before-seen story plot.Well, almost... "}{"Title":"X files meets Outer limits meets The Faculty","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A teen thriller horror from the director of X files episodes &#150; and you can tell. It reminded me of cross between an intriguing x files mystery an episode of the outer limits, with a little bit of the faculty thrown in for good measure. Marsden is the new kid in town who arrives at his new school to find that more and more pupils are acting a little too strange. Are they rebelling?, smashing stuff up?, having wild sex parties and going on drinking binges? No, &#150; therefore something must be horribly wrong! Lots of fun, just don't take it too seriously. Katie Holmes is sexy and Nick Stahl is a stand out on the acting front.  "},{"Title":"Good but frustrating little horror flick","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is rare for me to disagree utterly with Maltin's Movie and Video guide but I do not share his BOMB rating of this tense little movie,which so nearly makes it to the top echelon of low budget horror works It is a story that in horror movie clothing looks at issues of class and acceptability  Using a high school setting it explores the lengths that some will go to in order to secure acceptabilty within society.The elite high school group here are good scholastically,and on the sports field,but there is one teensy-weensy problem.They have been transformed using medico-technical advances and there is a by product--a tendency to extreme violence and intolerance towards outsiders.The opposition is lead  by new boy James Marsden ,and stoners Katie Holmes and Nick Stahl(his performance is exemplary by the way)Will they evade the lobotomising tentacles of the evil Dr played by Bruce Greenwood or succumb to glacial perfection?You should watch it and find out /Sharp script ,some decent acting.The frustration comes from what appears to be studio interference and I get a distinct impression that some less than sensitive editing has gone on.Even so ,a neat little movie with something to say.Note for instance the active connivance of the police in covering up the depradations of the transformed group .Law and order before justice  is the motto where they are concerned.On a side note Andrew Neidemann's novel Perfect Little Angels deals with similar themes and would repay reading if you like horror novels. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't one of the best movies that i've ever seen, but at the same time i don't think that i can say it is one of the worst as well, it was good and did have some good things going for it.I liked this movie and the whole idea of parents wanting the best for their children and instead of sending them off to bootcamp or something like that, they're brainwashing them!? Well, that's interesting. I liked the basic premise behind this movie, it was something that with a bit of effort coulda been fantastic, but it just kinda went after the second part of the movie.The acting in this movie was surprising good, i was rather impressed in what i saw and the albino stoner kid was REALLY good, but the storyline just went from good to mundane after a while. I liked this movie, but to be honest with you, i wish that it had just got abit more darker and less teen horror flick, i was hoping that it woulda gone from paraniod state to paraniod state but instead after the first high (or low?) this movie dissapointed me (I liked this movie, and the idea behind it, but it just wasn't borne thorugh and i hope that if someone ever decides to redo this movie, then they realise that some blood, some screams and tits hanging out of a blonde school girl don't make a good movie ( Atmosphere on the other hand counts for alot! "},{"Title":"Disturbing is right!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's like a Stephen King novel on acid.  This movie gives new meaning to the phrase 'Extra-Curricular Activities'! Fans of The Faculty will like this one.  It draws you in and keeps you there until the end.  The twists and turns will never stop surprising you.  The DVD is great with it's different ending and deleted scenes.  "},{"Title":"Studio Hack Job","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The theactrical release of Disturbing Behavior is an utter mess of a movie. It has plot holes that the biggest human being in the world could jump through. It moves along at an uneasy pace and at 83 minutes it isn't much of a movie. However, this isn't the filmmakers fault. Blame the studio that released the film. They basically ordered him to cut everything that made the movie make sense and what we got to see was a studio hack job.The Dvd on the other hand is another story. It provides at least 20 minutes of deleted scenes and when you watch them along with the rest of the movie everything begins to make sense and it makes me grow a new-found appreciation for the film. It isn't cinematic gold but when you look at what the film was like before it may just look like a masterpiece.The premise is pretty unique. In Cradle Bay failure and misbehaving is a no no. You wil be perfect....or else. When newcommer steve moves to cradle bay he meets gavin who thinks a sinister force is taking over the kids of cradle bay turning them into a group of kids known as the the Blue ribbons. The blue ribbons appear to be perfect with their good grades and bake sales but beneath the surface lies a mal-function that makes them act violently.What I LikedThe character of Gavin in both versions of this film remains intact. I completely loved this character and he's played really well y Nick Stahl. I was quite impressedAll the Blue Ribbons are creepy as hell. It's like they came out of an acid-induced version of leave it to beaver or the Brady Bunch.i like the general idea of the film. Someone trying to make teenagers perfect because we know not we do was pretty interesting to me.I liked th entire Dvd version of the film. It honestly explains so much and it raises the films level from crap to about average.What I Didn't LikeThe theatrical release is filled with mistakes. It's too short, the pacing is off, and it ends on a pretty sour note. There are no redemming aspects of this version except for the character of Gavin.The scene in the insane asylum was pretty dumb. I don't expect much realism out of these films but this was above and beyond being real.The characters with the exception of Gavin don't really fit their roles. I didn't by James Marsden as a hero. He was quite bland as well. Katie Holmes, who is actually good on Dawson's Creek and in The Gift, and Wonder Boys, doesn't really fit as the rebel gothic girl.i suggest that everyone that bashed this movie, like me when i firt saw it, go see the DVD version. I promise you that you'll have a better understanding on what is going on and it may make the film a little better for you.Theatrical Version 2/10DVD Version 6/10 "},{"Title":"nothing new","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the movie should be called 'annoying behavior' because it's really dead boring. the topic with this kids-controlled-by-chips-in-their-head (or whatever) is really not very creative. the whole story and acting is just very weak. my suggestion  don't waste your time on this movie. "},{"Title":"unjustly butchered decent little film...","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me start out by saying that although I enjoyed Disturbing Behavior, it is by nothing more than passable entertainment, at least in its original form. Unfortunately, this movie was sadly hijacked from its director and had most of its life whittled out, as about 20 minutes of essential explication and character development were expunged by a studio that no doubt was trying to sell this one as a typical teen movie to the lowest common denominator. The truth of the matter is that Disturbing Behavior was unfairly lumped into the post-scream self-aware horror mold, and was bunched together with drivel like the I know what you did last summer and Teaching Ms. Tingle sorts of junk. The fact that David Nutter's background has been primarily in X-File's episodes should give you some idea of where this movie's really coming from a paranoid sci-fi suspenser, somewhat of an update on The Stepford Wives.From this perspective the film is interesting. It's approach is fairly original and fresh, and the acting in general is decent, with a few strong performances, mostly from the adult actors like William Sadler and Bruce Greenwood, but Nick Stahl is also excellent in the most sympathetic role in the movie. The truth of the matter is that in it's theatrical form however, this film is deeply flawed. It is superficial, lacking character development, and if glossed into a horror mold, not scary. Adding the missing footage to the movie (which is on the DVD. USA has also been playing the full version surprisingly) changes things substantially. Character's like William Sadler's janitor, who is a confusing enigma in the original version, is seen in greater depth, and Bruce Greenwood's villain is given an excellent scene where he essentially lies to himself about the fate of his daughter. This scene adds a great deal of depth and humanity to his character, instead of making him seem like simply some deranged doctor. Anyways, the point is, Disturbing Behavior is only an OK film in its original form, but that's through no fault of its own. In it's longer form, the film is interesting, and is an effective small-scale almost noir-ish classic (the much more dour ending adds a great deal of gravity to this film). Leonard Maltin called this film teen-targeted dreck, and it's possible to view the short version of this film in that light if viewed in a cursory fashion. In the way it should have been shown, however, it has the makings of a small-scale cult film. Short version = 5/10 long version = 8/10 "},{"Title":"Disturbing? Sure! But is it also Scary?","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a movie that I for a long time did not want to see because of the fact that there had been so many teen-horror-films in a row. But now that I have, I can't really say that it was all that bad that I thought that it would be. Actually, it's quite good. But there is always a BUT, and with this movie there is no exception. The main problem being that it is way to short. 80 minutes? Then there is the ending. A ending not deserved! Come on! This is so lame! It's been done hundreds of times before and it's so Cliché that you want to puke! The actors are the saviors, as usual in these kind of films and they keep the story flowingly on track. Katie Holmes, charmingly beautiful as always, is the star, and she delivers! The story by the way, is very similar to films like THE FACULTY, so I can't say that it is that original, but it's thrilling and at times even funny. You'll have a great time watching it, I guarantee!  "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad editing!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I liked it, but it seemed choppy. Recently I watched it on TV, and whoa, what a difference. There are far too many scenes that were edited from the screen version. Scenes that explained such things as how Steve knew the doc had a daughter, and why his parents are so freaked out (and enroll him into the Blue Ribbons) at the end of the movie. There were too many scenes to mention them all, but if you liked this movie even a little the first time, watching the uncut version is a must! "},{"Title":"Tries to be something original but ends up been a muddled and mediocre thriller.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DISTURBING BEHAVIOR (1998) Rating 5/10While having the guts to dare to be something completely different in the horror genre, Disturbing Behavior is not a movie I would highly recommend. It ranges from entertaining to average to totally laughable and ends up being somewhere in the middle but not far from the bottom of the barrel. None of the performances stick out really, maybe except Nick Stahl's as the very literate over-paranoid Gavin who gives the audience a surprise at the end. The direction shines only in the scene of the psychiatric hospital, and the script is muddled with what its trying to achieve. Its nice to see Katie Holmes in a different light and in heaps of sexy tops, and the cool soundtrack is refreshing, but neither can save what this movie really misses out on plot build-up, thrilling sequences, a good running time and atmosphere to its moody and interesting premise. Disturbing Behavior is average when it doesn't take itself too seriously, it's good when it tries hard and is downright awful when no effort goes into thinking how the audience will react. "}{"Title":"A waste.  How Typical.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g., genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- Disturbing Behavior = *1/2- Rated R (for violence, language, drug content, and brief nudity)As with most other late '90s horror films, this movie is horribly cliched a group of teenagers, including the new kid Marsden, discover that the faculty and various other assimilated students are trying to hypnotize them into perfection.A good cast is wasted here, and a (limited) few ideas as well.  It's just so boring that it's a wonder that the studio threw so much money at a terrible concept.  Holmes is a joy to watch, though. "},{"Title":"Disturbing!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK OK, I really saw this because I like a few actors.  Without Stahl, Holmes and Marsden this movie would have been a total waste of time.  Someone please pass some coffee.  YAWN!  Movie is boring, plotless, emotionless and a word to the writers  Hey, quit copying from other flicks, write your own stuff.  No wonder the MPAA rated this bomb 1 1/2.  I rate this 1.  Dont bother! "},{"Title":"It was an enjoyable film.....","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm watching this movie on USA right now and I really enjoyed this film. The setting was great and the overall mood of the movie was truly great. The only drawback I had against the movie was the janitor character.  He has his moments and was a key character in the story but sometimes his voice and attitude really p***ed me off.  Other than that, I thoroughly enjoyed the movie.  And another plus, Katie Holmes has gotz a nice rack )  Finally, as much as some people might have dubbed this film as another bomb, I really liked it.  Overall, I will give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An average little film","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave the movie a 6, with four points for Nick Stahl's performance before he was changed by the bad guys, and two bonus points for Katie Holmes' midriff. There's not much else of interest in Behavior. Still, if you're a Nick Stahl fan, it's a decent look at some of his work. The movie is at its strongest when he's on the screen. "},{"Title":"(Don't) give it a chance...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...actually this movie was *meant* to be just another good-looking-teenager-gets-into-some-kind-of-trouble-but-anyway-he's-still- a-good-looking-teenager-nevertheless-film. If you're watching it 'cause you're expecting good acting and/or an interesting plot, put in the cassette, skip the first 10 minutes and watch the movie until Gavin (Nick Stahl) disappears (around minute 40). The rest of the film's just too awful to waste your life with. Actually, Stahl's appearance is the only reason this film's rateable at all. I gave it 3 out of 10; and that's 4 points for the performance of N.Stahl and minus 1 for the plot, the editing, the directing and the co-stars. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, in short, is about a group of blue ribbon kids who are doing as they are told,studying and enjoying school all  because of one man who implants a chip in their brains. The students (James Marsden, Nick Stahl and Katie Holmes) who notice this try to escape from it but find it may be harder than they think. All in all, I do not think the movie is horrible but you must be in the right mood to watch it. Of course the acting isnt superb but it is not horrible! I think it's worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"a teen thriller worth watching","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is your typical teen thriller, through the eyes of a couple of high school students we see an evil slowly spreading amongst them. It's a familiar story, shown in a different way. Maybe it was the mood I was in, or the beautiful Katie Holmes, but I really liked this movie. Despite the fact that I knew almost exactly what was going to happen the movie still managed to captivate me. The character Gavin, was the most compelling as the paranoid boy, who is the first to feel the evil approaching. And let's not forget William Sadler who once again proves he's a great actor. There are a couple of things that where rather disappointing. The plot/climax felt rushed and a bit weak. Legal and social consequences seem to non existent.If you liked this movie you will also like the faculty. Another fun teen thriller. With a far better climax. "},{"Title":"Unneeded scenes and Confusing details","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILER! I saw this for no particular reason, just because it was on TV so I didn't really have any expectations for it. It was a pretty good pyhcological film and what I thought was a good plot. They just added some unneeded scenes. Like the sex scene between Rachel and Steve. It was unneeded and random. The scene before they were seen running frantically after discovery a terrible secret (actually I didn't think it was as bad as they made it up to seem). But they still somehow find time to just pull over to the side of the road and have sex. I mean come on, how stupid can you get. Also I was confused if the parents really knew what was going on with the kids in the Blue Ribbon club. Did they know that their kids got those operations? It seemed like the girl who smashed her head into the mirror had her parents there when getting the operation after the mirror incident. And it seemed like they knew she did smashed her head into the mirror because of the Blue Ribbon club. That's another thing that bothered me, if the Blue Ribbon club hated everyone that wasn't one of them, why did two of them have crushes on people outside the club? It added to the plot and all but it didn't make much sense. All in all, Disturbing Behavior wasn't up to it's potential but it was still pretty good for a thrill. "},{"Title":"Blue Ribbon","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found myself watching this after it appeared on the USA network.  I must say I have been meaning to see this for a while, but never had high expectations of it.  That could be one reason why I did not find it all that bad.  Reminders of another movie rang throughout my head while watching this movie.  That being the Faculty, which happens to be another movie where a high school is having some messed up times and its up to a select few to stop the madness before everyone is changed.  In Disturbing Behavior it was changing the teens into something of like androids ... where The Faculty you have aliens taking over the people.  Even though there is a slight similarity, it is enough to tie them together.  I am glad that I did not see this in the movies.  Although I would not have felt completely ripped off... I would not have felt I got my money's worth either.  All and All I say see it if you have a chance and you notice it on TV take a load of and watch it.  Its a good TV movie.  One warning ... The end of the movie suggests a sequel and it's safe to say after 3 years its not coming out, but just be warned. "},{"Title":"Teenagers are the real aliens !","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowadays, the real aliens are our teenagers', assures David Nutter, director of numerous episodes of `The X-Files'. Parents no longer known how to speak to them. The gap between the generations is enormous.  When, to boot, these acne-ridden extra-terrestrials undergo a sudden transformation from dunce to top of the class, the truth must definitely lie elsewhere. But where ? That is what James Mardsen and Katie Holmes (`Dawson') set out to find in this paranoid thriller which goes to the brink of reality. "}{"Title":"BOO!!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a pathetic excuse to the horror/sci-fi genre.  A total waste of a really cool idea, it's as though they hired one brilliant guy to think up an idea, write a few lines of dialogue, then fired him and hired a monkey to finish the script.  The villain is pathetic, and a good horror, suspense movie is only as strong as the villain.  How can one fail to make this villain at all appealing?  I don't know, but I do know that it is now possible.  After seeing this movie I felt cheated, of both my money and my time.  With the time that I wasted seeing this movie I could have done something productive, such as writing a better script. "},{"Title":"Even worst than a Ed Wood movie","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If really wanna see this movie, even after my one line summary, than wait untill its on tv, invited as much friends as you got, get drunk and laugh your ass off about how bad this movie is. The only pro i could finf about that Katie Holmes looks really great (looks, not acts). 2 points , just for Katie. "},{"Title":"Incredibly great story but poorly unfolded.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This picture has got to be the best of the teen gender ever. It has all the commercial appeals that the business demands (not entirely a bad thing) and a very solid story, with countless supporting-stories that should have been used to improve the plot. The movie starts perfectly, initiating the suspense and it grabs your attention immediately. Amazing performance by Nick Stahl and reasonably good performances by the rest of the cast, especially by the talented Katie Holmes. Once Stahl`s character dies, the movie declines. Instead of working to keep the story going as it was earlier, the writer decided to end it quickly, skipping many details and pretty much dedicating the whole picture to people that go after the basic and mediocre saturday night movie. In my opinion, this picture could and should have been a 2hour+ picture. It`s almost unbelievable that this brilliant concept was so poorly unfolded. I had never witnessed such a waste of a great idea. Deadlines ? "},{"Title":"When bad editing screws up a potentially good film","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS I was glad to say that I wasn't suckered into paying $7.50 into seeing this trite piece of garbage that is a waste of celluloid.  A film, whose idea is truly original, is so bad that you deserve to kick yourself if you went to see it in theaters.  Granted, it looked interesting with some cool trailers and the overkill of that Harvey Danger song, (which, in a form of major hypocrisy, isn't even on the soundtrack!) James Marsden is Steve, a new student to Cradle Bay High, a high school overriddled with extreme stereotypes of high school groups that is on the border of total parody. Marsden ends up meeting with three fellow outcasts named Rachel, Gavin, and U.V. (played by Katie Holmes, Nick Stahl, and Chad Donella respectively), all poster children for the  I-really-hate-high-school deadhead group, a group that is diminishing by the minute because of the sudden shift in image change for a group of exceptional teacher's pets, kids who are officers in the honor society, play football, hold bake sales, and spend a majority of their days at the malt shop basking in the image of the American Dream. Unfortunately, such a thing isn't good when Gavin suspects that this group of kiss asses also has psychotic tendencies that includes murdering people, self inflicted abuse, and recruitment tactics that involve groups of them vs. one. I rented this on DVD and it's really strange how the film, watered down, is surprisingly low on chills, action, and very much story. It's nothing more than an after school special on acid. Directed by former X-Files helmer David Nutter, it does in fact feel like a bad X-Files episode. The DVD has eleven deleted scenes, every one of them are essential to the film's plot, that were cut from the film. Including an alternate ending that would've defeated the cliched sellout of a poor excuse for an ending that results in the bad guy coming back (Oops! Did I ruin that for you? Good, you'll thank me). It's going to remain a mystery but the theory is, that MGM, the studio behind this tepid piece of celluloid waste, wanted to change it to a summer film when they released it at the beginning of the summer by extracting any mention of thought and replacing it with shallow suspense scenes. With books, you've got to delve right into the middle of things, but for movies, you've got to start at the beginning of a plot and move forward. Disturbing Behavior goes into the middle of things. "},{"Title":"Strange, creepy, but interesting.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't really a bad movie, nor is it a great one either.  Let me just say that any movie with Katie Holmes and/or James Marsden is OK in my book. That said, 'Disturbing Behavior,' taken as a teen-horror flick, is pretty standard fare good-looking high schoolers get terrorized.  But, the cool thing is that you can also read the film as a statement of current high-school society, and the environment it creates  for friends and their families.  Don't get me wrong, it's not THAT deep, but you'll find yourself saying, Gee, what if that happened in my town?  As far as technically, movie is very slick and has some great images, some genuinely creepy. Katie Holmes, I just think she's the best, and James Marsden, too!  Other supporting roles are effective and well-acted.  All in all, pretty decent entertainment, but don't think too hard. "},{"Title":"Big talent in a little movie.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One question Why was this film not released in cinemas in the UK? I liked this movie and had to wait till it was on VHS to see it. But it was worth the wait. However, I am not going to praise it that much. It is an enjoyable film but not an excellent one. The storyline has been retold numerous times and was a little dated. I felt the editor of the film had been paid overtime because there was so much more we could of seen but didn't. I'm sure that a lot of scenes were left on the cutting room floor. (US DVD owners will see these scenes but us in the deprived UK will just have to use our imagination!)A lot of the characters were severly underused - again, possibly a result of harsh editing - and, hence, didn't seem fully developed.However, I did like this film. Mainly because of the movie's three main stars - James Marsden, Katie Holmes and Nick Stahl. These three are destined for great things especially Marsden. Well, the hell did this guy come from and why has no-one noticed him before?!? Fortunaltly someone has, hence Gossip and X-Men. He is a very talented actor and will go far.  "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a bad movie this is- bad, I say. The idea is unoriginal. The acting, well it's OK- nothing special. I won't complain about how long the opening credits were because the music was very good. But I'm not commenting on a soundtrack, now am I? I'm a bit disappointed in Katie Holmes, she can do better and choose better movies to work on. She doesn't realize that she's wasting all her talent on idiotic teen movies which won't be remembered in ten years time. Go was definitely her best work yet. All in all I regret ever renting this movie. Disturbing. Period. "},{"Title":"bad!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The idea for this movie was quite interesting. (however not very original). The first 20 minutes were promising at least entertaining movie. But everything is going downhill after that. One of the worst scripts ever made into a movie, unnatural dialogue, bad acting and a laughable ending. Nick Stahl seems to be the only person with a bit of talent. Probably one of the worst post-scream teen thrillers. Yuck! "},{"Title":"Stahl was good, everything & everybody else, was, well","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stahl played the only person you want to watch in this movie. So what do you do if you're a writer? You kill him off. That way the movie can go from okay to a dull piece of trash. It's not scary, so that kind of ruins the horror part. So in other words, this movie sucks. You do get to see Katie Holmes belly button a lot, but that doesn't really add to the movie. Although it does give us teenage guys something to look at for 40 minutes. And I love the part were the mad doctor after getting hit by a car has enough strength left to fight. I love it when directors try to be realistic. I give this a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"May not be a great movie...","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  but it'd make a great episode of the Outer Limits (a show which I think is about aliens FAR too often). The performances were good and while it wasn't really a scary movie at all some scenes were admittedly creepy. The ending was a bit too abrupt for me (one of those what! that's IT?! endings) and one has to wonder where his parents were in all of the shenanigans and goings-on. You see them a few times in the movie but about two-thirds of the way through they basically vanish.Like I said above, it'd be a good episode of something, but it wasn't really a great movie. 6/10 on My Personal Scale. "}{"Title":"Wasted Potential","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing Behavior at first glance looks like just another teen slasher film that one should rightfully avoid. At least you'd think so by the way it was marketed... trailers. Ignoring those, I found a movie with a plot that had an inkling of something to say and unlike most horror films it actually made me think for a moment.I thought about how teenagers as a whole get a bad rap. A misguided mentality that some hold that they are the sole problem with today's world. No matter how blatantly biased that opinion is. That's what Disturbing Behavior touched on for me. Kids who sometimes have to rebel against the system who wants them to be all the same. Cut from cookie cutter molds. Disturbing Behavior tries to tackle this issue while it throws an assortment of scares and heavy doses of paranoia your way. It's not deep, expanded or given time to breath, it's more of a backdrop, soon forgotten, but the workings are there.It's onto something. It's also this 'something' that it seems obvious got a knife taken to it in the editing room. The movie is somewhat uneven and with a running time of 84 minutes I can only assume how much was cut. Still even with the uneven editing and bumpy pacing the underlying concept behind the movie succeeded in winning me over. It's different enough from what I expected it to be (pretentious teen slasher flick) that I couldn't help but enjoy it. The principle cast actually acquit themselves quite well too. I wouldn't mind seeing the director's original vision which MGM thought best to slash 'n hack into a commercial product either. "},{"Title":"Scary and full of suspense","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Can do better, the story of group of teenagers who simply be turn as model citizen by unacceptable way.Mardsen's performance i seen him after The X-Men. Never seen his movie before but he can do better in the future movie. His reflection is not well flow with the movie. The action is quite good although it can be extended longer instead of 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"Just A Chill-Out, Fun Movie.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw Disturbing Behaviour, I thought, what the hell is this crap? But recently I watched it for a second time and I must admit I had a blast watching it. The idea of the film was very silly but original and engaging and the acting skills were average, Nick Stahl really shined as Gavin in particular and Katie Holmes was also impressive as Rachel. But there is a few faults in Disturbing Behaviour, sometimes the scenes that are supposed to be scary made you laugh, especially the end.Overall, Disturbing Behaviour is a stupid, fun, chill-out movie I recommend for people who want to do just that.Rating 7  "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this film. I don't really understand why it bombed other than it was probably before it's time. It's a great film if you watch it and it has a real plot.  It's just not ready for narrow minded, every body should be perfect, society. "},{"Title":"interesting subject..but the movie is quite awful..","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's an interesting subject only because I really think that people who have success and power are not human and they are really weird... But this movie could be better and it's too predictable and sometimes silly for some scenes. "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be quite honest, I thought the story was a good idea but I dont think enough attention was paid to the plot. We needed to understand more about the motives of these experiments tp really get a decent storyline. It was ok but not suitable for slasher fans. "},{"Title":"Nick Stahl shines as Gavin","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this movie had a fabulous premise.  But the real treat was the character of Gavin Strick, which was well played by Nick Stahl.  The story was dull after Gavin was converted to a blue robot and the actor had nothing to work with.  The story kind of went down hill after that.    "},{"Title":"Maybe not the best of plots, but overall quite good.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen better movies than this one, but I still think it's a bit underrated. I don't give them much credit for the plot, which is rather standard and doesn't get you thinking much. Maybe with a little more screentime they could have established it better. But the production is well done, with nice effects and great music. Katie Holmes gives a good performance as usual. The rest of the cast is also ok. The rating is somewhere between 6 and 7, I gave it a 7 to help that average up a bit. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable teen-horror flick","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Surprisingly enjoyable teen-horror flick with good performances by James Marsden, Katie Holmes and Nick Stahl, the lead characters, and well directed by David Nutter who's known for previous X-files episodes. Young teens battle a conspiracy where innocent unsuspecting victims become brainwashed students in a town where the populace appears too good to be true. Nutter injects enough paranoia into a very simple theme we've seen many times before. Not atypical of a teen slasher, but with a MTV storyline that will pack in the school audience. "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was ok. I mean the acting was good. But the story was already done. Does anyone remeber the FacultyThis movie was so predictable. So it was just the same story. Different name "}{"Title":"Save yourself and avoid this movie","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This marks a new low in american film. Horror films are usually quite bad but this is just ridiculous. I spent the entire movie rolling my eyes and thinking about how wonderful it would be to leave the theatre. The only thing that kept me interested was the ground breaking performance by Terry David Mulligan. Okay... he wasn't that good either but he beats the rest of the cast. One other high point was a Limblifter poster on a bedroom wall. Believe it or not, when I think about this movie, I sometimes feel sick to my stomach. On my all time worst movies list, I'd place this at #4. Think about how kind I'd be to the top 3. "},{"Title":"The justification of modern teenage morality to defend individualism.","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"   With the increasing worry that the current young generation in Western society is slipping in responsibility and morality we are forced to question whether or not the generations of the past had a happier and more productive childhood.Rosenburg manages to succeed in proving that although nihilism runs rampant through the school corridors with authority and tradition questioned at every turn, the teenage years of previous generations was not without its own hellish charm - the overwhelming pressure to succeed and conform to the apple pie America. Disturbing Behavior demonstrates how this illusion masked the sexual stirrings and violent emotions that exist within every young person.The film pits the two conflicting stereotypes together, with only one expected to survive the outcome. The victor guaranteed to decide the fate of American schools.There are sub-characters representing various elements to schooling and education. A teacher more concerned with his students than the well-being of his own daughter and a janitor who turned his back on the supposed virtue of intellect. A poor individual with worryingly pale skin, clearly symbolic of being the ultimate outcast, never to be wanted by the perfect Blue Ribbon group.The hero figure, the new-boy, yet to create an identity by fitting into one of the cleverly laid out social groups. His indefinable nature makes him the ultimate in ensuring his freedom and continued individuality.This film seems to be deeply concerned with the workings of the teenage mind and proves to be a thriller shifting in tension and ideals.Far superior than a bigger budget counterpart such as 'The Faculty' if not for the commanding performance of Katie Holmes, clearly chosen for being identified as the wholesome Joey Potter of Dawson Creek, here she is now transformed into the dark and grungy heroine, who's morals and virtues aren't so easily worn on her sleeve.Disturbing Behavior demonstrates how the questionable teenage morality of the new millennium ensures teenagers' individualism. "},{"Title":"Producers demonstrate some disturbing behavior","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite a promising premise, this story doesn't make the grade as a feature - primarily because a good 20 minutes seem to have been excised from Act 2.  Consequently, what begins as an intriguing story with some interesting characters rapidly evaporates into a disjointed mess, ultimately leaving too many characters undeveloped and too many questions unresolved.  Why does Officer Cox seem to be protecting the evil kiddies?  How does the janitor know what's really going on?  Why is he pretending to be crazy?  And what really happened to Stevie-boy's older brother, Allen?  Are we even supposed to care?  It's just all too conveniently, hurriedly, and rather clumsily, concluded.  This is a pity, because if they'd run this film to 100 minutes, more of what I'm guessing was in the original screenplay might have been included.  James Marsden and Katie Holmes acquit themselves well enough as Steve and Rachel, both looking appropriately bewildered at the nonsensical plot developments and their remarkably baseless and oddly asexual romance.  Both deserve better material than this.  I'm sure Scott Rosenberg's original screenplay gave it to them, so I'm guessing the fault here lies with the producers.  What were they thinking?  That you can exhibit an 80 minute film SIX times per day rather than FIVE?  Who knows.  With the obligatory double-ending, though, one thing I'm sure they were thinking about is a sequel.  They were dreaming. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but also could have been alot worse","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is pretty decent when you consider its genre. The story/plot is such an excellent idea, how perfection is not all its cracked up to be. But yes, just about everything else in the movie is a let down, and I have to agree with everyone that Gavin was alot more interesting than Stephen or Rachel. And they shouldn't have brought up all these diffrent plot points if they were never planning on explaining any of it, it could have been good but needed more info.Having said all that, atleast it wasnt The Faculty, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, H20 or just about any movie in the genre. This film definately shines compared to all those others... 7/10 stars. Had alot more potential but decent none the less. "},{"Title":"Skip the VHS or TV version, rent the DVD","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoilers ahead*When I originally saw Disturbing Behavior in the theatre, I thought it was a pretty weak flick with little to no character development. I assumed the script was poorly written(which in many cases it was), and that the director didn't have a clue how to make a decent movie, and only wanted to make a pure slasher movie. I was wrong for the most part, in both cases. According to Nutter, who was obviously upset with the producers/studio, the studio wanted a movie that skipped plot and development and got straight to the scares. Granted even with the additional scenes, the movie would have had problems...there was a lack of major motive for the computer chip enhancement, only a minor reason was given. But we actually got some insight into Marsden and Holmes character, the deleted scenes that made you care about these two. They also deleted the much more entertaining ending, and made them insert the POS that was originally shown. After viewing the deleted scenes, and listening to Nutter's commentary, I can give DB a 7 or so... without it, it would score in the 2 range "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior is one of the best teen horror/thriller movies ever made. It has a great plot and a great cast. I was glad to see William Sadler playing the mentally challenged janitor. If you enjoy teen horror/thriller flicks, but are sick to death of slasher films, you should see this. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING There may be small spoilers included in the following.I have come to expect these types of movies to not be very good, but this film sounded like it had more potential than your average run-of-the-mill horror flick.  Plus, I'd just seen The Faculty, which while not good, wasn't too bad.  But this movie disappointed me, because it had so much potential then through it away.  I agree with many of the other comments that suggested the makers of this film needed to focus more on certain aspects of the story, e.g., why the parents were consenting to this, the whole bit about Steve's brother, etc.  I wanted to know why Steve's parents bought into the whole thing, given that Steve didn't seem too badly adjusted at all; and was the whole point of moving to this town to fix Steve in the first place? Also, if the point of this surgery/brainwashing thing is to make kids good, why does everyone seem to accept that the Blue Ribbons tend to do nasty, even lethal things? That strikes me as wrecking kids, not fixing them.  See other comments for a whole bunch more ridiculous, implausible, or ambiguous thins that are wrong with this film.On the whole, the acting was pretty mediocre, although I'm not sure if that was really a result of the acting or of the horrible dialogue; I suspect it was a bit of both, because the character of Gavin didn't come off as too ridiculous, and yet he had some of the stupidest lines to say. While I do appreciate the fact that the writer has an extensive vocabulary, it did not seem right for some words and phrases to be pouring from the mouths of these teenagers.  I appreciate that every second word was not f@ck or some derivative.  But in a movie about teenagers, the teens should talk like teens, not like English Literature professors.  Aside from the sometimes gratuitous use of ten-point words, the dialogue was also often stilted and forced, which contributed to a sense that this whole movie was just unbelievable and ridiculous.I would be interested in seeing the DVD version of this film to see what was cut out, because there really did seem to be glaring holes in the film; why on earth would anyone cut a film down to only 84 min? What is this, some Saturday Night Live skit brought to the big screen? It had about as many laughs...Anyway, this film was poorly executed.  It should have been better.  And that's about all there is to say.  If you choose to watch this film, try not to let your expectations get too high. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another of the recent teen horror movies. But unlike the rest, this one is totally different to the other slasher films around. This horror flick is more of a mind flick, were your thinking and you see what's happening to the town. That's what makes this stand out among the other horror movies of the 90's it didn't go with the slicing and dicing of other horror movies, but built up the plot and the characters.  The story revolves around a small town were teens are getting operations that make them act really nice, but sometimes they malfunction and lash out in rage. One particular kid is being targeted to join the group but he and his friends know something is going on.  A very good film, and worth the watch. many horror fans may not like it because there isn't the violence and killings like in I know What You Did Last Summer or Scream but this still is a great movie. "},{"Title":"little, different, yellow...","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie with the idea that it was going to be just another crappy teen movie. I was fairly surprised at how wrong i was. while taking place in a highschool with teenagers made it seem like a teen movie, it really was the only way the plot could've come off. The same thing happend in A Clockwork Orange, how Alex was supposedly a troubled teen. Now saying that, I can tell you that the more i watch it the more i like it. Most of the movies aimed at teens today would've shown The Blue Ribbons as the good guys. I was happy to see that it wasn't another pointless love story where either the poor guy gets a rich girl or vice versa. This was actually a movie with a plot, a good representation of kids in school today, and Katie Holmes... oh come on, you knew it was coming. Anyway, this movie is good fun with an eerie sense of A Clockwork Orange directed by John Hughes. And i also like all the hidden punk references like the NOFX sticker on Katie Holmes' truck and a couple of shirts people were wearing. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so this definitely is a genre piece. But I enjoyed nevertheless. The leads were pretty good, and the idea of the story was original as well. There was actually some story development, which is nice for a change in a horror film. "}{"Title":"promising concept poorly executed","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior has an interesting concept wherein you keep unruly kids under control by controlling them completely through science.  I've heard of a similar plot in the form of A Clockwork Orange where a criminal is reformed through application of science.  You get a fear of losing your individuality, that is what makes you who you are.   The story runs like an X-file episode sans Mulder and Scully.  I guess that's because the director has done a few X-files episodes and the music here is made by Mark Snow.  The movie leaves a lot of questions most of which could have helped to make this a better movie.  Why is Caldicott convinced that his method is the right way?  How much do the parents know about the program?  What do other teens think of the Blue Ribbon?  How is the sheriff part of the conspiracy?  Why is the janitor pretending to be dumb?  How did the entire Blue Ribbon team fit into the pickup truck near the end of the movie?There are also times where I have a hard time getting the dialogue.  Especially Nick Stahl's character and that albino.  How come he's albino anyway?  Is it the actor himself?  If so, I have nothing against him but his character is more of an outcast than Steve Marsden's character.  He simply stands out and we still don't know anything about him by movie's end.  The ending makes you wonder though.The verdict 2.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"How many football players can you fit on a pickup truck, anyway?","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everybody else has said it, so I might as well say it too this film could have been brilliant.  The idea has promise, the subtext is relevant (quite often, the 'perfect in-crowd' are the most vicious and reprehensable ones of all, and people who are so perfect just HAVE to go nutty in some way, some time!), the soundtrack was fun, the setting was perfect (little isolated island).  So what went wrong?Well, what bugged me most was the attempt at inventing a Heathers-esque teen language, which kept on intruding in some of the best scenes.  I'd find myself wondering, what the heck did she just say?  'Sounds RIZZO?' ('razor' apparently, but still, it sounds stupid).  Not to mention some really, really terrible dialogue.  In the first five minutes I was subjected to Self-mutilate this, fluid-boy.  Oh jeez, nobody would ever say that, unless they were in a bad teen movie.As well, too many things were left out what's the deal with Steve's brother?  What about the parents of these implanted teens, what do they have to say?  What about Caldicott's background, what's his motivation?  Why does the janitor pretend to be crazy (for self-preservation, of course, but this is never really stated)?   How does somebody--who's perfected his 'Boo Radley' act enough to fool everybody--just slip up and leave a Vonnegut novel sticking out of his pocket?  (And who's to say, of course, that no Boo's read Vonnegut) How did they break into the mental hospital in the first place?  What do the other teens in the school think of all these shenanigans?That said, there were lots of fine moments...Caldicott's daughter, for instance, and any scene featuring the oh-so-charming Chug.  But overall, it was a pretty 'ooky' movie  great premise, terrible execution, though entertaining enough to sit through and enjoy to some extent.  The random violence is effective, the janitor and Gavin are always fun to watch, and there's enough tension to keep you wondering what's going to happen next.The biggest tragedy, of course, is that they didn't do more with what they had.  (And maybe this is a Canadian thing, but I can't see Terry David Mulligan in a scene without thinking of Zig Zag,.So see it, but expect very little, and you'll be entertained enough if you can overlook the gigantic flaws. "},{"Title":"a decent movie","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i liked it, the story would have been a lot better if he would >have kept the parts he cut out in. they explain the characters better and the story too. i give it a 8 out of 10. they should >have explained the dreams better. they also should have kept the original ending i think it's better, >. "},{"Title":"Kate Holmes saved this movie from disgrace","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't expecting very much about this movie. The story didn't attract me and seemed very boring. But I found it worse than my expectations. This movie is horrible.First of all, the screenplay is very bad. All the cast are in their worst performance and the soundtrack is bad too. Everything is bad! They tried to do one movie that should cost at least 40 million dollars spending 15 million! You can see it in the scene where they try to transform Steve (James Marsden) and Rachel (Katie Holmes) in Blue Ribbons. Only Universal Soldier can be as ridiculous as this scene. And they should had explored the story of Steve's family before moving to Cradle Bay, specially the suicide of Adam (played by Ethan Embry. He's nice and could appear a bit more).In fact their idea was a bit interesting. A story about one guy that moved to a small city were a lot of teenagers are 'perfect'. They get good marks, help old people, don't have any vice or bad habit (smoking, drinking)... These people are the Blue Ribbons. But this perfection was suspicious for Gavin and then for Rachel and Steve. So they try to discover what's really happening. Katie Holmes is not in a good performance too but she has charism (and beauty), what made me enjoy a little the movie while she was in the screen. Her great acting in Go and Dawson's Creek compensates this disaster.3 out of 10. It would be 1 without Kate.  "},{"Title":"A great movie that was butchered.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If anyone has bought the DVD of Disturbing Behavior, they probably have seen the deleted scenes that were left out of the final movie, and probably share the same level of shock I do.  The deleted scenes have significant character development and plot enhancements that should never have been left out of the final version.  Had they been left in, Disturbing Behavior would have been a great movie instead of a lackluster film.  In short, if you buy this movie, get the DVD version so you can watch the deleted scenes.  The VHS version simply isn't worth it.  And I feel sorry for everyone who saw the chopped up final version in theaters. "},{"Title":"Simply One of the best and worst examples of Teen Fun","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was quite a fun ride, however the plot and character devlopment was very weak.  I couldn't help but feel like I'd come into the movie too late and that there was way more story needed at the end.  I wasn'r concered for the well-being of any of the characters, because none of the figures on the screen were acutally characters, just talking heads.  With no backstory, why do we care? "},{"Title":"Stepford Teens Rock The Cradle","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yet another teen-scream on the silver screen?  Well, not exactly.  Thanks to smart and atmospheric direction of David Nutter and a DVD release that restores what studio chiefs made him trim, DISTURBING BEHAVIOR lives up to it's name. Fresh from directing TV's X-FILES, Nutter coaxes stellar performances from his three leads Katie Holmes (DAWSON'S CREEK), hunk with heart James Marsden (BELLA MAFIA), and real find Nick Stahl (THE THIN RED LINE) as the misfit in the know. Unlike similar flicks set squarely in hormone-driven senior high, this film is nearly always honest and watchable, even when it's premise of brain-chip improved Stepford teens (Whatever happened to subplot Mr. Producer?) fails to buoy this enticingly shot thriller.  Only in a slightly over the top turn by Bill Sadler as Newberry (as a janitor turned Pied Piper) and an indulgent madhouse scene that feels like it was meant for another movie, does Nutter's well-thought-out film threaten to derail. As was evident on the DVD release of Kevin Smith's sophmore flop MALLRATS, studio mandated cuts (amended to the digital package) may have made the difference between profit and loss on this, Nutter's debut feature. Best work from all three principals as well as a less Hollywood (but somehow less interesting) ending were left on the cutting room floor, so don't skip the Special Features button.  DISTURBING BEHAVIOR is a rare thing - a well-wrought teenage thriller! "},{"Title":"A waste of celluloid","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here comes yet another ill-conceived film from Hollywood that surely tries to cash in on the latest teen-film craze. This film lacks so much that it is a waste of time just trying to list all of the problems, so I will list three that really missed the mark.1. A credible story - Does a film like this really need a credible story? Well lets just say that a retarded character was thrown into the plot just so he could eventually save the day. It is quite lame. The whole film revolves around a doctor/teacher and his ploy to implant computer chips into teens (with full parental agreement, of course), however, why he wants to do this isn't at all clear. These chips supposedly make the teens better all-around students, yet they beat up on those who aren't like them and have steroid-like fits when they are sexually aroused? Yeah, I didn't get it either. Don't look for hidden meanings here because you won't find any.2. The acting - If this film was designed as a Katie Holmes vehicle, it doesn't do anything to make her seem like a real actress. 90% of the time she is brooding around for no particular reason and almost seems to have an instant change at the end of the film. The male leads do well with what unchallenging roles they have and yet it all still seems too fake.3. The ending - Without trying to give too much away, let's just say that all is tied up too quickly and conveniently. There is no sense of fear or loss which means there can be no redemption with the finale. Whoever wrote this film deserves to be slapped for their complete disregard for an ending.Two other quick points I must discuss are the all-of-a-sudden love interest between the Holmes character and Steve. I haven't seen such fakery since Six Days, Seven Nights. I also found the stereotypes presented here to be as fake as the kiss at the end. Nerds are shown full out with glasses and computers. Skaters with long hair and baggy pants and jocks of course in full preppy attire. For once could a teen flick not showcase such an obvious disregard to reality. Who thinks these groups up, Dan Quayle?Don't waste your time with this film like I did.4/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Good Concept Gone Bad","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before watching this movie, I was very much excited to see it as the commercials made it seem like a good suspense/thriller of a flick.  But, after watching it, I was incredibly let down.The premise of the film, kids that are eerily too good and perfect, is a great concept.  But I felt it is dumbed down and that is what I believed made this movie not as good as it could have been.  The acting is boarderline decent to good, with the exception of Nick Stahl who gave a great performance.  He was exceptional when we see his sudden transformation from outsider to Blue Ribbon.  All in all, this movie could have been done a lot better. "},{"Title":"Why Katie? Why?","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing behaviour is one of the worst films I have ever seen. The premise behind the story was the only interesting thing about the film. Katie Holmes would have to be one of my favourite teen actors, although this has certainly lowered my opinion of her. But when I saw her in Go, I forgave her.Disturbing Behaviour lacks what a good film should have -1. Entertainment value 2. Characters to relate to. 3. A plausible script 4. A running time between 90 and 140 mins 5. An objective and clear audience.The film didn't really have these qualities, and hence anyone who spent one dime on this film should be angry. The film does attempt to use humour and large doses of suspense, and almost succeeds - but falls flat, especially after the first half.Stay clear of this film at all costs. "}{"Title":"Good for the most part.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior would've been perfect if it would've fell apart at the end. The Film lost serious momentum in the last 20 minutes, so that kinda was a drawback. But the first hour was great so this is why i like this film. It had a clever premise, good characters, and for the most part good acting The Score is really great and if i could find that soundtrack i would buy it.Katie Holmes is good in the film. She really shed that Dawson's Creek Image. Although she was stale sometime, for the most part she was good. James Marsden was bad in the first half, but proved he had some talent towards the end of the movie. Nick Stahl was the best out of the three. He was funny and very serious when needed to be. I loved his Character. The portrayal of the Blue ribbons was good. I really loved that. So i give the first half a 8 and thr second half a 6. So basically the movie gets a 7. "},{"Title":"Fun, but not scary","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior was a really fun movie. There were funny parts, and I just love Katie Holmes. She's hot. It starts out with a disturbing scene, that leaves you thinking what's going on? and it's intriguing. Only after that, there isn't any slasher violence or anything like that. There are fights, but not kills. This film has a really good premise, but I was utterly disappointed. The film was too short (84 minutes). Now I'll admit, Halloween was around 90 minutes and it was really good. Well guess what? They didn't have enough time to develop the story. I think this film needed at least 95 minutes. Maybe more. That way, they would've had time to develop the characters, and the story. Things keep happening in no time at all. They needed to draw it out some, and create suspense. But no. No suspense to be found. Although, I do give an A+ to the ending. Pretty slick. Despite it's draw backs, it is worth renting. And it's fun. I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just Another Poorly Done Horror Flick","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie because it seemed like a good plot, I'm a horror fan, and I always take time to watch the movies of Dawson's Creek stars. It was a good idea to make a film about teens being brain-washed but I guess the producers assumed that since Katie Holmes was in the movie there was no need to actually put some work into the script.The actors, leaving out Nick Stahl, were lacking. James Marsden could have done better but it could have just been that the dialogue was poorly written. Who knows. Katie Holmes' bad girl act made her just seem like a bratty little tag-along.And of course they had to add some nudity to the flick just to make it perfect. The showing of the girl's chest wasn't at all necessary.All in all, it was just a typical teen horror flick that was sloppily made. All pretty much done was taking a spookie urban legend, throw in some nudity, some running around into nowhere, an extremely popular star, and making a happy ending with a little corny twist at the end... BOOM... you just got yourself a poorly done teen flick. Rent The Faculty instead unless you are partial to Katie Holmes. I give this movie a 3/10 stars. "},{"Title":"I'm Disturbed","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone willing watching this film must exhibit some disturbing behavior.A complete let down from what looked to be an intelligent film,I will never under free will view it again.Between the kooky,top-less girl, the kid's mom telling the PTA he jacked off too much, and the painful removal of a nose ring, it makes you shudder in complete fear of seeing more. It was also very clever of them to leave it open for a sequel,because you know how many people would flock to go see that.This exhaustingly horrible film is burned into my memory. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly bad!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time.  There were so many bad things about it, I don't know where to start.  Katie Holmes' character was SO morose and pouty.  No explanation was given for why she was this way! And it bugged me to death that she kept saying razor.  How cheesy! U.V. was a horrible character, he was more like a caricature.  I was embarrassed for the poor little guy playing him.  Did they really think that voice was believable, with all those little rhymes? There were things that were thrown at the viewer, but it's as if they edited out the reasons for them i.e., why Steve's brother killed himself; and why the janitor acted like he was mentally challenged.  And do they really expect us to believe that Rachel and Steve could just traipse into an asylum, mingle with the patients, and slip out unnoticed? That was ridiculous! Also, no explanation for how Gavin survived that plunge over the cliff, and how he went from being a high school student to being a teacher!  This movie is so implausibly bad, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.  It was also ploddingly slow and boring.  The only redeeming value is that James Marsden and Katie Holmes are attractive! (which is certainly not enough to sit through this tripe!) "},{"Title":"Boy,what a waste.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again we are treated to a mad scientist in a small town with a lone brooding hero new in town with an attractive female and a paranoid new best friend. This was such a waste of time and money.  I mean, it had the worst rushed ending I've ever seen, it's allergic to plot twists and was incredibly predictable.  The performances were mediocre and embarrassing by members of the new brat pack(as I call them).  And an albino?  What the hell?  They must have said Hey,albinos are cool! and wrote one in. This was a waste of time for so many reasons. "},{"Title":"it wasn't good, but it wasn't bad either","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i am a Dawson's Creek FANATIC, and i have a newsletter, so i'm basically required to see everything the cast is in.  It actually wasn't that bad. It wasn't good either.  James Marsden is hot, but that didn't make up for his stiff performance as the new guy Steve.  Nick Stahl did alright as the converted skater.  Katie was arguably, a ghetto Joey Potter, complete with a nose ring and tattoo, but acted well with the mediocre script she was given. i truly believe that Katie will be a star someday and she's already picked some choice material for her next roles. "},{"Title":"Disturbed Viewer","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only thing that I could tolerate in this movie was Gavin. After he was converted I stopped caring. I didn't really care about steve. I will not forget his name since every character said it about 20 times. The worst part was the use of the soundtrack. It would blare out of nowhere and then abruptly stop. By the end I was hoping to see the two get converted. Then they had to go break free and then get saved by the retarded janitor?? Poor science and poor fiction make for hollywood grist in the MST3K mill. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad at all!","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to be just a bad copy of Scream, but NO....this was much better! It´s a horror-movie not a slasher-movie. Good actors, especially William Sadler, his character was a really strange guy.I think it was good that the movie´s playing time was under one and a half hour, that way it didn´t become slow. I can´t see why most people think it´s bad, me and my two friends I saw it with thought it was a great movie. When we went home from the cinema we got the feeling that the people around us were like the brain-washed people in the movie, SCARY...I give this movie 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Amazingly unoriginal","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was so derivative, the only pleasure we got watching it was trying to identify which movie a particular scene was most directly stolen from. The result is a formless mishmash with no character of its own.At every turn, there was something that didn't make sense - such as the two main characters entering and wandering around freely in an insane asylum (which was itself as clichéd as anything in the movie.)  What, no security, no locked doors to keep the inmates in or intruders out?Rating  skip this one. "}{"Title":"A good movie that shoulda worked, but doesn't quite make it through.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was interested in this movie from the start but had low expectations from the numerous bad reviews. The story itself could have been extremely fascinating to cover. The major problem is that the plot is underdeveloped. It doesn't quite explain how things come to happen. Does anyone know why Steve's brother Allen killed himself? Or what's the deal with that guy pretending to be retarded? Or how Gavin becomes a teacher at the end? The family lives of Rachel and Gavin aren't really explained either. You never see them get into a fight with their parents when it's obvious that they have problems. The romantic relationship between Rachel and Steve isn't believable. The attraction was but how does a relationship sprout under those circumstances?! The story had a lot of potential, but skips scenes that should have been there. It was either seriously (or more clumsily) editted, or it just had more of an idea than a secure plot. "},{"Title":"Good concept & actors, poor script and very jumpy.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the idea of the movie.  The action and actors were good, however the movie was not put together well.  They spent too much time on the action and not enough time on the script.  Things were not fully explained and they jumped back and forth between points.  They should've gotten the point across earlier in the movie, to keep the viewers attention. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thank God this movie only lasted 84 minutes, because it was pure torture, the first half was just your average bad teen movie (what I expected) but in the second half it turned into a real nightmare,  It make Police Academy films look good. If you want to try to see the worst movie of the last couple of years see this one. "},{"Title":"A Dumb Horror/Sci-Fi Flick","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably the only reason why I seen this film was because of its co-star Katie Holmes (of the popular Dawson's Creek show). She has a lot of talent, but I still don't understand what drove her to make this movie. Cradle Bay is a wonderful place to live, and everything seems perfect -- maybe a little too perfect, especially the teenagers. I thought the plot seemed OK, which is another reason for seeing the movie, but later on it just got dumb and boring. When Steve Clark (James Marsden) moves into town and tries to fit in with the local kids, he finds something unnatural about the small town's perfection. If the filmmakers wanted to make this film scary, which I know they probably did, they should've made it more on-the-edge-of-your-seat terrifying. I sat through the whole movie awaiting for something such as this to happen, but it didn't. The film does have some good moments, but I still think that they should've made it a whole lot better, which I know they could've. It's probably pretty popular with other teens, but as one, it just didn't cut it for me. That's my opinion and how I came to the conclusion of giving Disturbing Behavior a 4 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"NOT NEARLY AS BAD AS EXPECTED","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's with everyone giving this flick such a bad rap?  I see a lot of movies, art house and mainstream, and I consider myself to be a bit of a film buff.This movie was good mindless fun.  The story is an interesting twist on an old plot and the cast, for the most part, does a good job (especially Nick Stahl).Also, this movie does not deserved to be compared to SCREAM because they are totally different and DISTURBING BEHAVIOR does not poke fun at itself like the superior SCREAM does.Check this one out.*** of **** "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't expecting a lot from this movie because I normally don't like horror/thriller movies but I decided to watch it anyway because I like Katie Holmes.  Surprisingly, I really enjoyed this movie from beginning to end and I was glad to see that there was not a lot of pointless blood and gore.  I don't know why people gave it such a low rating but if you look at the voting graph you will see that most people gave this movie a 7 which is what I gave it, too. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Flick","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hadn't expected to like this movie at all, but as it turns out I did.  I attribute this largely to the performance of Nick Stahl.  This movie won't challenge you in any sense of the word but I found it held my attention from the opening scene. Also, I found this movie fairly non-formulaic which really surprised me because most teen flicks are.  I recommend this movie to any one who wants to give their brains a break while still being thoroughly entertained.I rate this 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Watching your fingernails grow is more interesting","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yet another dull stepford wife riff. This movie moved along at the speed of molasses on a cold day. The acting wasn't too bad, but the story was lame. Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"Gimme a break!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Talk about vindictive! Gees! This one is a real waste  of time folks. Poor screenplay, plus weak dialog delivery from most of the cast makes this film one of the worst in recent memory. The only positive aspect is Katie Holmes, who looks real cute as always. Everyone else...plain and simple...sucks! So if you're a Katie Holmes fanatic, then you can probably put yourself through the misery..otherwise...I'd pass on this one, if I were you. "},{"Title":"Ok somebody please classify this movie for me.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I must tell you I had trouble classifying this movie. I wouldn't exactly call it a horror but it has been clumped together under this broad teen horror category. Anyways it's about a small town in Cradle bay whose residents use mind control on the 'bad' kids to turn them into the 'good' kids or 'blue ribbons'. This mind control is not without its side-effects and it is particularly noted that when a blue ribbon gets horny they are uncontrollable.  Enter new family from out of town, in particular Steven who falls in with a bunch of 'bad' kids. This group including Gavin, U.V (pigmentally challenged) and Rachel (Katie Holmes from Dawsons Creek) suspect that something is up but only Gavin knows for sure. Anyway blah blah blah Gavin gets converted the rest go into action. They win and live happily ever after. Well what more did you expect from a teen/horror movie?  "}{"Title":"If you're bored watching scream","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With the tremendous success of teen horror movies like Scream, the inevitable is bound to happen, that is studios copy, copy copy, hoping they can steal another hit. Disturbing Behavior falls into this category, a disappointing box office and mediocre movie lead us to the probable death of teen horror movies. Actually this movie is not as bad as all those sequels to the great horror flicks of the 80's, but it falls way short of Scream and even I Know What you did last Summer. It definitely has its moments, Nick Stahl pretty much walks off with the movie, while James Marsden comes across as a very bland. If you like Dawson's Creek then you will like Katie Holmes perf, basically because she turns in the same perf as Joey, except with more leather on and a nose ring. It's an ok rental but not much more. "},{"Title":"battle for mind control","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Battle for Mind Control.  This is the theme I see.  Excellent directing by David Nutter!The Clarks are moving from Chicago to Cradle Bay (where there's nothing more frightening than perfection).  Poor subtitle.   (Cozy Community with a secret to Hide is a much better subtitle!) Starring Jimmy Marsden, Katie Holmes, Nick Stahl, Ethan Embry, and Bruce Greenwood. Troubled Teens?  I don't think so.  It's the constant battle between the science misfits (some jerk who sips from the petri dish and thinks up ways to bring himself to the top of the crowd by controlling everyone else.) S(he) usually needs some commando force and a bunch of whiney people with a little cash flow.  The theme is akin to The Stepford Wives (and sequels), and someone in the writing of this film definitely has a negative message to the Blue Ribbon Schools here in California!  If you didn't figure that out until you got to my review and you live in Southern California, shame on you. After experiencing the death of their oldest son, a very needy mother and father pack up their two surviving teen children and ship with them (literally) off to Cradle Bay. Steve (James Marsden) is a high school sophomore (who has taken his older brother's death real hard. First day of school jitters are gone, and the reality of this mind altering school body is introduced through the very astute perception of Gavin (Nick Stahl) and then he meets his new buds,  U.V. (Chad Donella) and Rachel (Katie Holmes). These three travel down the road to survival until one of them inevitably bites the mind control bug.  Best line of the movie Hey Teacher! Leave those kids alone! from the very skillful, conspiracy theory exposer janitor who appears to be the only one breaking all the rules! If you sat through this movie trying to make connections to Scream, Village of The Damned, or you thought Hollywood was once again picking on teens, you lost a lot in the translation.  See it again. "},{"Title":"Starts off nice, just starts..","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to this movie thinking it would be another slasher type flick. But it wasn't. It had a clever start, it had some good lines, and the acting seemed to be going pretty well. Katie Holmes may not be a great actress but who cares?? She's hot . The problem with this film is the second half when it starts to use the old scream-for-the-sake-of-screaming technique and forgets completely about the script. I think this movie was rushed to an ending before it got really interesting. On the other hand, the soundtrack rocks. "},{"Title":"Nose-dive City","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possibly one of the worst 10 movies I've ever had the misfortune to see. Poor premise, poorly acted, real poor ending, and an overall piece of trash. I can't believe anyone would shell out money to see it.  I can't believe I spent the time to watch this thing.  What really bothers me is someone in Hollywood decided this was a good enough movie to inflict on the public. Poor choice.  "},{"Title":"An old plot with a new angle.  Worth a viewing.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a pretty good flick.  A town full of brainwashed kids is not the most unique plot-concept in the world, but there are some novel twists in this version.  The film has a largeish cast, so there will always be some good and some bad, but on the whole, the acting is above average and quite believable.  The pace of the film is reasonable, so you never get bored, and most (but not all) of the plot twists are quite unanticipated.  Worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Nick Stahl","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  O.k. I saw this movie and it wasn't the greatest but it was really scary in the fact that the parents could think that messing with their children's minds would be the best for  them . It's like o.k. freaky. Well I love Nick Stahl as an actor and because he is a major hottie.  "},{"Title":"In the line of Scream, but...","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was in the line of Scream, but not a great line. With a script thick as a tooth-pick, I don't see sense in this very ordinary movie. It's because you try to be Scream that you will find the same success. It's the same horror movie genre with teenagers who are searching love but find horror. Katia Holmes was the only interest for me in this flick.3 out of 10 for Katia. "},{"Title":"Too dark for it's own good...","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into this film with high expectations as I did with Scream, Scream 2, and The Faculty. However, I was extremely disappointed with the end result. For a film that had so much promise, it dwelled too much into the dark side and teenage freakness. Had the demeanor in the film been like somewhere in between The Faculty and Scream, it would have definitely been something worthwhile to watch. However, while a couple of scenes are good, the overall movie makes one feel disturbed that it was ever even made that way. "},{"Title":"Hollywood attempts to cross into alternative territory","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I, like many teenagers, was sucked into seeing Disturbing Behavior by the teasers on TV which despite being backed by Harvey Danger songs seemed to speak volumes the preppies are evil, they get away with murder and they want you for their new recruit.Besides my total waste of $5 just so Hollywood could try to stretch enough to reach my angsty punk teenage soul, Disturbing Behavior is ridiculously condescending.  It's almost like they were looking directly into my eyes and seeing how they could use me to make money.  Ooh the Dawson's Creek girl has NOFX and Alternative Tentacles stickers... on the back of her pickup truck!! What followed the initial amusement was 90 minutes of boring hell as I debated whether or not to go over to the next theater and see what was playing there... Titanic sounded preferable at times.Anyway, I'm calling out to all of you now who want to know if Disturbing Behavior spills the honest truth about high school cliques and preppy crimes the preppies aren't out to get you, my black-clad, boot-wearing, spikey-haired brothers and sisters, it's the big corporate producers of Hollywood teenage movies.  "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior sits uncomfortably in the horror genre, whose cliches it depends on. Despite the slasher elements, it's more of a paranoid thriller. In that it succeeds, though perhaps not as well as it could uncut.The world of Cradle Bay is one where conformity buys the right to impunity in violence, where the high school social hierarchy holds all the deadly force of a grown-up power structure, and the lines of attack are the standard divisions of the American society. Uniting the coercion of a street gang with the ideals of principals and parents, the dominant clique of Cradle Bay is allowed to get away with murder, at least with victims who are seen as unworthy of protection, characterized as sluts and retards.Where Disturbing Behavior falls short is in making its themes clear. The conflicting desire/condemnation that the blue ribbons hold for Katie Holmes' character is inarticulately portrayed, as is the desire/self-repression that leads one character to attack herself. Above all, the movie misses the chance to make its interesting point about acceptable violence explicit. Without anything paranormal, here in the real world, high schoolers are beaten for being gay, for being socially different, and both raped and attacked when they are seen as promiscuous. This movie is so fascinating because it takes those impulses to an absurdly exaggerated level and forces characters to talk about them. The sad thing is that except for Gavin, very few characters manage to do so effectively.Incidentally, for an interesting comparison, see the 1-hour film The Wave, a TV movie loosely based on a social studies teacher's experiment creating a conformist organization within his class; and experiment which got a bit out of control. "}{"Title":"Disturbing Movie","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This would have been a perfect movie if they had left the film alone at its original running time of 110 minutes. Otherwise, this is an above average teen thriller/sci-fi that does seem to give a little message.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know how this movie could have been made! It has to be one of the worst films ever, the only thing that saves the film is the fact that all the characters are HOT, and if they're not HOT, they are for sure more attractive than the average person.The plot has been done a billion times, from anything like Invasion of the Body Snatchers to Village of the Damned!And the ending is only something to take the time to watch if you need to vomit, even the alternate ending is bad.The characters are very dry, the plot is over done, and the acting is very 90210ish.Out of One to Ten, this film gets a two. I would only rent it if you are having a party and hanging out with a bunch of friends, where you won't be playing much attention to the film. "},{"Title":"Pretty Freaky","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was pretty freaky.  I definitely wouldn't want that psycho doctor at my school.  Katie Holmes, James Marsden & Jason Stahl did a great job.  I think they're all really great new actors. "},{"Title":"Quite a pi","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie seems unsure whether it wants to be a parody ofhorror films, or to actually be one itself. A movie thatACTUALLY begins with two teen-agers making out in a car, and oneof them getting killed, CAN'T be serious, can it? It's such acliche -- and yet Disturbing Behavior opens with it. Are theyserious? Apparently so. Because there is very little in the wayof knowing self-parody. The film is lame, sure, but it isunintentionally so. The part about Steve's brother havingcommitted suicide is woefully undeveloped -- it's played up likeit's going to be a major plot device, and then nothing happenswith it. Overall a boilerplate, typical, unimaginative movie.Would work nicely as a single X-Files episode, but as anentire movie on its own? No. "},{"Title":"A fun flick...","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that this was an intriguing movie.  I rented this movie hearing that it wasn't even worth going to the video store.  However, in the first few minutes of the movie, I was already laughing.  I also hit the rewind button a few times to see certain parts over and over again.  Nick Stahl was absolutely amazing with his part.  Marsden was just there as a heart-throb, and Holmes put forth a very un-Joeyesque performance.  She did a good job with a not-so-relatable character.  Her true personality was exposed at certain parts.  I'd rate this movie a 8 out of 10, but it was a great way to spend my Saturday night.  Movies are supposed to be fun and enjoyable; this one certainly was.  I recommend anyone who lives to laugh, learn, and yell at the characters to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Abusing the genre","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was only the short length of this film that kept me watching throughout. I agree with those who say that the first half of this movie was intriguing. The concept that the movie is based on is very interesting and it could have been a lot better.  I thought Marsden and Holmes were okay, not bad for early in their careers, and I'm certain they will have many more opportunities to showcase their talent.  However I think the pairing of their characters made little, if any, sense.  The subplot about Steve's dead brother seemed like there should be more of a tie-in, like the movie was edited one too many times.  I never really understood where the film was trying to go with the flashbacks to his brother.  The scene, though, that really removed me from this film was the one in the psychiatric institution. Not only was the institution horribly stereotyped as a Gothic, rundown dungeon, but the patients were comical in their portrayals.  I understand that the director was trying to show the horror of the mind experiments, but what was meant to be horrifying was so overplayed it ended up making me laugh.  In my opinion this sequence alone turned the movie from a little above average one to no more than a 4 out of 10.The genre of teen slasher flicks that was reincarnated with the brilliant Scream and Scream 2 has gone swiftly downhill.  Each movie is now the same basic thing, except for slightly different, but equally predictable, plots. This genre is getting grossly overused and although capable of conjuring up a few screams, the quality of these movies is decreasing rapidly.  "},{"Title":"AM I THE ONLY ONE?","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought the movie was very entertaining, even with the similarities to several other movies in mind. I thought the acting was very good, and we should expect to see a lot more of the young actors/actresses in this film, especially Katie Holmes. I can't wait to see more work from her. "},{"Title":"Vacant timekiller not worth the effort","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior could have been a reasonably good thriller in the vein of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, but instead plays like an empty-headed high school theater production trying to look and sound and feel all grown-up.  Everyone involved gives a solid effort -- Katie Holmes virtually screams out Look everyone, I can play trashy and jaded!  I'll even wear a fake nose ring and navel ring to show how tough my character is! Additionally, the film looks great thanks to director Nutter's familiarity with atmospheric X-Files locales in Vancouver.  The end result, however, is a mind-numbingly predictable and unsuspenseful mess that should be avoided like the unwanted computer chip implants that brainwash the teenagers in the movie.     "},{"Title":"A New Era of Hollywood Cinema?","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Nutter is cinema.David Nutter is a genius. Never before has a director so gracefully integrated the ambiguity of reality with the subjectivity of psychological reality. The film is uniquely composed of multiple photographic impressions of reality, placed in a predetermined order and referred to as shots. Together, in DISTURBING BEHAVIOR, these images and other signifiers such as sound, music and dialogue tell a story. Interestingly, through multiple psychodynamic and psychosomatic processes the illusion of motion, depth and continuity of existence are all established in DISTURBING BEHAVIOR.David Nutter is cinema. "},{"Title":"Katie Holmes, you sexy thing!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aside from being the latest in a series of softcore porn/dead teenager films, Disturbing Behavior continues a trend that needs to be encouraged.This trend is for nubile young starlets, who have pretty faces and bodies to drive men wild, to continue to prance around the screen scantily clad and to engage in steamy sex scenes.The best scene in the Disturbing Behavior video, thank God it didn't get cut, was of our delectable Katie sitting on the bleachers with the hardest, firmest, most erect pair of nipples this side of a Russ Meyer film poking through that flimsy tank top she was wearing.Her getting raped by Chug was an arousing scene as well.It's too bad that the volcanic sex scene with her and Steve, alluded to in the paperback, is only available on the DVD version.It makes me want to run out and buy one of those players so I can play that scene in slow motion like Katie was meant to be seen in.Katie Holmes can disturb my behavior any day and she frequently does . "}{"Title":"Pretty decent thriller despite the stereotypes","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The protagonist is the one normal character in this whole movie.  I'm defining normal as in does not fall into any of the dysfunctional teenage groups.  All the other teenagers, as Gavin points out, fall into one of the following stereotypesa) the muscle-car freaks b) the skateboard punks c) the geeks d) the jocks & cheerleaders, or e) the drug user misfitsMeanwhile, the adults are all either a) clueless, b) crazy, or c) crooked.What ever happened to none of the above?Once I learned to bear with this movie malady, I found it to have a rather above-average plot as far as contemporary horror/thriller flicks go. A mad scientist is fulfilling his vision of perfect students by planting chips in their heads.  Since most of the adults are clueless, he pulls it off nicely.  The 'roid rage angle briefly mentioned in the movie would have worked just as well though (assuming steroids can make girls crazy too). I'm glad there was no supernatural nonsense or one-dimensional killers with trite modus operandi such as guerrilla stabbings.  Disturbing Behavior actually exhibits an iota of imagination; so maybe--just maybe--there is a ray of hope for the horror/thriller movie genre after all!  "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Movie for Dumb People","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is about as simplistic as a movie can get. It is an incredibly dumbed-down rip-off of works that have made intelligent statements about the human condition (Clockwork Orange, Slaughterhouse 5, etc.). It's great for people that can't understand the cliff notes of these works.I'm guessing that this movie (like the Faculty and other music-video excuses for movies) is geared toward the 12 year olds who feel like losers in their high schools and want to pretend that being a bad athlete or getting bad grades is cool, and *that* is why they run slow (I meant to do that). It's almost as poignant as Titanic's Rich is Baaaaaad, poor is good and cute message. This movie isn't about understanding the difficulties of being a teenager (which could be a cool thing for a movie to do); it's about giving them blanket excuses. In this town, anything a teenager can do with a cool soundtrack behind him (even if illegal or stupid) is cool, but anything that helps get you into college (like studying) is just a tool of Big Brother.Don't get me wrong, this would be a cool music video. Katie Holmes makes it worth watching (ooh, the navel, the navel), if only we could turn the dialogue off. "},{"Title":"Movie that's been cut one time, or should I say 11 times too much","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just finished watching the dvd version of this movie. Thought it was somewhere just above average standard of this type of movie. Then I proceeded to watch the included eleven scenes that didn't make it to the movie. If those missing scenes had been included in the movie, I would have given the movie a higher rating. Those scenes glues together those parts that doesn't quite match when watching the actual movie. I then listened to the directors comments about those deleted scenes. In those comments he states that two of the main stars of the movie makes their best performances in two of the scenes thats been cut.... However I still recommend this movie to people, if you don't set your expectations too high I believe you will enjoy it. At least I did. "},{"Title":"A movie only Freud would enjoy","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The concept is far from novel--mind controlled teens turn violent every time they get horny.  The connection between sex and violence seems to be amplified by some sort of brand on the cornea.  A little weird, but a better cast could have made it more fun to watch.These actors were cast with two goals in mind  1) Keep the budget low, and 2) Help out the players of Seven Degrees of Kevin Bacon by throwing a Dawson's Creek actor into a mix of big screen unknowns (with the possible exception of the cameo by the kid from Dutch--now grown up).Crystal Carr's debut brought the only thing that makes this like a horror movie  the obligatory breast shot eluded to in Scream.  It's no surprise her acting career consists only of her small role in this film, but she may get more offers if 80's horror films come back into fashion.  Her willingness to bare all may make her a great teen-having-sex death candidate or a film-opening death (e.g. Drew Barrymore in Scream).The soundtrack may be worth buying if you're into alternative, though the actual movie isn't.I did, however, like the character of the janitor (recognize him from Shawshank and TV's Roseanne?).  His last line, Teacher, leave those kids alone! was comical though cheesy; but it couldn't save the film. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie at a party with all of my friends,This film is the worst horror movie yet. This film is less bloody. This is SUPPOSED to be a horror movie. Where are all the scary parts? I have seen more blood in a PG-13, or even a PG movie before.Even my little brother didn't get scare, and he is only 5! My girlfriend went to sleep when watching this film, and my friends starting to make fun of this film.GEZZZZ!!! WHAT A AWFUL MOVIE! No wonder this is a bomb. Stay away from this film at all costs.No stars out of ****  "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film totally strayed from the traditional slasher genre.  The very interesting plot (a Stepford Wives update using teenagers instead of wives) was rather impressive.  Katie Holmes did very well as the ample-breasted female lead and was really the only character that showed much talent besides Nick Stahl who was amazing.  Holmes, however, needs to study the screaming techniques of horror queens Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, and Jamie Lee Curtis.  Her screams would lead you to believe that a 12-year-old lies behind all that make-up and cleavage.  This film, unlike Scream and I Know.., was not particularly scary at any one point, but horribly erie throughout.  This movie was not bad at all.  B+  "},{"Title":"Disturbing movie","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to this movie not knowing what to expect and left the movie theater upset.  This movie is badly written and very predictable.  Hello?? Didn't anyone read that crazy doctor's creditals before he came to that school?? His daughter was left in in a mental hospital because of one of his experiments, and on the subject of being unbelievable, what kind of mental institution let's their patients run around like crazy animals in a creepy and unsanitary hospital?? I'm sure that place would have been shut down years ago if they got inspected by the State.  But on a positive note the acting was nicely done, but the overall movie was destined for disaster. Rating wise, I give this movie a 3, but if it were a str8 to video movie, I'd give it a 9.5 (This movie sure is better than Texas Chainsaw Generations)  If you haven't seen this movie don't waste your time on movie, it's better to see it on video.   "},{"Title":"Obvious, dreadful junk, cynically created, badly made","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the worst of the latter-day horror movies following in the wake of SCREAM, but lord help us, I'm sure that even worse wait in the wings. Cynically calculated to appeal to the audience the filmmakers think like horror movies (slightly alienated kids into Goth), this tries to re-do some of the ideas of INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS and THE STEPFORD WIVES as a teen-oriented horror movie. But it makes no sense, and the idea of horror here seems to consist of kids wearing letterman jackets! and liking yogurt! and combing their hair! And they freak out when they get horny. Fortunately, the goofy janitor -- a badly wasted William Sadler -- has an electronic rat-attracting device that, by a really impressive coincidence, works on the zombified teens.  Lucky for us. A shameful movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is disturbing","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People who watch this movie might give people Disturbing Behavior. 'cause it sucks so bad and one of the worst films out there. Teenage movies sucks these days like I know what you did last summer and Can't Hardly Wait. Those movies were bad.I'm a teenage and we need some better movies like Saving Private Ryan and Good Will Hunting. Why can't they make teenage films as good as those films? Does Hollywood hates us? Is it because of our age?  "},{"Title":"What a waste of potential, don't waste your money!","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe I was wrong to get my hopes up and look forward  to seeing this movie.  As a big fan of Millenium I  expected David Nutter and Mark Snow to create a film  that was at least entertaining and interesting, not silly and flat like this was.  I'm a big fan of Nick Stahl and Steve Railsback, thought Jimmy Marsden did a good job and was fairly fascinated during the film by Katie Holmes and  seeing more of her body piercings, but this film just  doesn't go anywhere.  Nick Stahl gives the only  multi-dimensional performance in the film, and that only for  the first half until he's converted.  The rest just seem like on-lookers to the train-wreck of a plot they are caught up in.  By the time the film got to the absurd mental hospital scenes, I was ready to walk out, except for the hope of seeing a little more of Katie Holmes.  But  the end of the film I got over that obsession as well. "}{"Title":"A cool, creepy, fun movie.","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie had an interesting plot and very interesting people. Many people put down the film but I thought it was a fast, entertaining film that kept you wondering what was going to happen. Great to watch if you love Katie Holmes and horror films. "},{"Title":"Hell Yeah! I loved this film!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this film was great. It was very entertaining, funny, and the truth that there probably are people like this walking around our high schools made it great. People had high hopes and THEY were crushed but I LOVED IT. C'mon, it's a horror movie. It's not like it's gonna win an Oscar. Very cool and creepy. "},{"Title":"A wonderful action-packed thriller!","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Disturbing Behavior did a great job of telling a thrilling story without drowning out the story by making the film longer.  James Marsden, Katie Holmes, and Nick Stahl did a wonderful job of acting.  I think the film-makers did a great job by not making this a teen movie.  The film has no limits.  It contains a large amount of foul language and brief nudity that suit the subject matter and the situation.  A very good film.http//members.aol.com/CubsSuck1/main.html "},{"Title":"Teacher, Leave Those Kids Alone","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie, but not as much.  3 stars out of 4.  There are things I  liked in the movie.  The references to Kurt Vonnegut and Pink Floyd are  good things to look for.  I found the film actually to be disturbing to me  since I went through a lot of abuse and name calling by people like the blue  ribbons.  Let's just say I was glad when it was over.  I had to admire the  head bad guy though.  I wish he had done that to some of my high-school  tormenters -) "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I certainly expected more from this movie, especially since the trailer  looked promising, but this movie lacks a lot of the important stuff that  makes a movie worth watching. The initial idea was probably good, but the  movie itself is very vague and too short. The characters had no depth and  are very dead. The script is very monotonous in a way that makes the  movie very boring. I would give it a 4/10....if they are planning to make a  sequel, i certainly hope for a drastic improvement. "},{"Title":"The most vile piece of trash at the movies!","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay to be frank, I was really excited when this movie came out.  The  previews were awesome and frightening to say the least.  I couldn't wait  to get to the movie theater so I could buy a ticket. I was completely  disapointed.  The movie was over before it began!  There was really no  horror for it to be scarry.  The ending completely sucked...I have seen  scarier endings in comedies.  I mean, the build up was nonexistent and the  romp through the mental institution was as pathetic as it was sterotypical.  A word to the wise SAVE YOUR MONEY   "},{"Title":"Yes, and I waste more of my precious money!","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The previews looked promising, Katie Holmes looked promising, in fact  everything about this movie looked promising.  But an hour and twenty  minutes later when I got out of the theater, the only thing promising to me  is that I will never go to another MGM feature film again.  After Species 2  and this, that's enough.  And shouldn't they change their logo by now?  "},{"Title":"Bad, and I mean, SUPER bad!","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a waste of talent!  Katie Holmes is so adept at portraying Joey in  Dawson's Creek.  Why would she stoop to such depths to appear in this film ?  If she is trying to get a feature-film career started, she needs to  reevaluate her choices.  James Marsden was correctly cast as a good-looking,  boy-next-door, new-kid-in-town type.  Bruce Greenwood, who is an excellent  actor in films like The Sweet Hereafter, is so wasted here.  He also  needs to rethink the moustache.  The only positive thing about this film is  the soundtrack.  Buy the soundtrack CD, but don't waste your time or money  on this film.  And if you still want to see it, wait until it comes to the  50-cent movie theatre! "},{"Title":"","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  I think that a lot of the people who didn't like the movie were expecting something other than what the movie promised. Before seeing the movie, I looked at a couple of Disturbing Behavior websites.  They made it clear that the movie was NOT some sort of slasher horror film, but more of a suspense/thriller/sci-fi/horror movie.  Remember that a true horror movie has nothing to do with slashers and gore.  Disturbing Behavior presents a scenario that, if you think about it, is horrifying.  It's a concept that is a bit unrealistic (like a sci-fi movie) , but at the same time doesn't seem so removed from reality.  Basically, I found the movie to be ...disturbing.  That's just what I expected, and I was not disappointed by anything.  If it helps any, the theater I saw it in was filled with 16-26 year olds (mostly 16-19).  They were all so involved and mystified by the movie that they were silent throughout almost the whole movie (except for laughs and gasps) even though they were loud and annoying during all all the previews and the first few minutes of the movie.  I think you should give it a try.  "},{"Title":"Boooo What A Let down","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a crock! I saw this movie thinking it would be soo intersting... I almost fell  asleep! It wasn't the worst movie, the plot was good, BUT THE SCRIPT!! Oh boy, they could of made ths movie soo much better and would of made it a blockbuster. This movie isn't as good as it's made to seem. The ending was a total let down too. "}{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie has an excellent plot, but is too short.  It keeps the viewer in  total suspense and has many twists, but is too short.  Worth watching  though. "},{"Title":"A good thriller with an appropriate cast","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone seems to think that this movie didn't have a good plot or story line but I think that it is irrelevant. The movie did it's job it was a thrilling movie with some funny dialogue. It also had some bonuses which were the fine actors. I especially enjoyed the performance of the actor who played Chug Roman. In my mind it is worth it to see the movie for his performance alone. I recommend this movie to anyone who still goes to the movies for fun and not to analyze movies that were never really intended to be analyzed. I loved it and everyone else did too the are just too silly to admit it.  "},{"Title":"Good idea, just missing something","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I literally just got back from this movie and I thought it was ok but for  $7.25 it better be more than an hour and 20 minutes long. It had a good idea but the whole time I was thinking to myself my god, this reminds me of  Children of the Corn and Village of the Damned The young lady from Dawson's Creek, Katie Holmes, is very beautful but i think she took the role out of an attempt to break on to the big screen much like teen counterpart, Jennifer Love Hewitt did with I know what you did last summer but to no avail. Don't count on seeing a sequel to this movie unlike Hewitt's new attempt at horror in I still know what you did last summer  "},{"Title":"Good idea gone wrong","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The premise of the movie was an intriguing concept, recalling The Stepford Wives and Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Where it suffered was in the execution. Taking a creepy approach to themes of conformity, loss of identity, and the quest for perfection, combined with social satire of behavioral issues of controlling teenagers, the film never really took off. Instead of exploring these ideas, the film degenerates into a generic uncovering a sinister plot and chase scenario. Nowhere are these themes really brought up, much less reflected upon. The film is remarkably short and doesn't even seem interested much in exploring the horror of this situation. There are plenty of character threads and concepts set up early on, but they are neglected in favor of a breezy, quick-cut-to-the-next-scene attitude. This is a disappointment when a potentially interesting story is wasted on a lackluster movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" i expected it to be some great horror film, but it wasn't. it combined a  semi-scary plot with funny scenes and a great cast. It was overall pretty  good, though i wished that Katie had a bigger role. The best actor in there  overall was probably Nick Stahl, he was the only one that the audience  could relate to. I recommend this movie, it's worth the money. )  "},{"Title":"very entertaining","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't understand why no one else seems to be that excited about Disturbing  Behavior. I loved it. It was a trip. Different strokes for different folks. Katie Holmes and Nick Stahl were  great in it. Mark Snow did a fab job on the music. Plus the location is  beautiful. i give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good review","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes I was expecting the movie to be a horror film, but it didn't turn out that way for me! But I think that they made a good choice on putting Katie Holmes in the movie I hope she gets into more movies and more better horror films! The movie was still good for me even if some people say it was dumb! At least it had a point to it!  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This wasn't the greatest movie, but it was just plain fun to watch. If you're  expecting to be scared - don't be. It's not scary so much as ... well,  it's fun because it's ... fun. You'll have to see the movie to understand. I  think the reason it was so short was because there will probably be a  sequel. I think the best part of the movie was definitely Nick Stahl (Gavin  Strick) - he was really the only character you could warm up to, the one  that meant something (unless you want to get Katie in bed) and I think that  he stole the whole movie. Go see it, it's entertaining. "},{"Title":"An edge-of-your-seat thriller","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked the movie unlike other movie-goers.  I thought it had a good plot  and a good choice of cast members.  I don't understand why so many people  are putting it down.  I enjoyed it and suggest you see it if you haven't  already! "},{"Title":"So bad, its just plain terrible","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie really was the epitome of terrible.  The only good thing about it is that it only lasted 1 1/2 hours.  Truly horrible.  I'm ashamed for these actors and actresses, because if this doesn't scar them for life...  "}{"Title":"A good movie, but too short","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A good movie, with some twists, good store line, some suspense, and well made, but too short.  One hour twenty minutes is too short.  Not worth paying a movie ticket price. Wait for it on video, then watch it.  "},{"Title":"What's wrong with everyone?","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't understand why everyone is putting this movie down so much.  I personally liked it.  It was different and it kept me on the edge of my seat.  I give it a 7.  Perhaps it was disappointing for all of you because you ONLY went to see it for Katie Holmes and came out upset that she didn't have a bigger part. "},{"Title":"Bad, Wrong, Wrong, Bad","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well that line from the movie sums it up well. The only thing that made the movie worth watching Katie Holmes. Dont get me wrong, I enjoyed the movie, but I expected a lot more. I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"A horrible thriller","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is one of the worst I have seen in a long time.  The want to be horror movie just is not scary and the incredibly lame dialogue leaves something to be desired.  I can sum this movie up in one word, pitiful.  It just wasn't scary.  The only saving grace was that Katie Holms is very hot, yet her lines are not good.  I give it 3 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing How Bad This Is.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing Behavior (1998) Dir David Nutter / Cast James Marsden, Katie Holmes, Nick Stahl, William Sadler, Bruce Greenwood Follows the trend of hacked up teenagers and loud music and this one ranks amongst the worst of them. One young lady bashes her head into a mirror then says, I have to go home. I have a physics exam tomorrow. Perhaps it was her reaction to reading the script sober and she was looking for an excuse to leave the set. Ripoff of the far superior Invasion of the Body Snatchers only this one involves a scientific experiment to render teenagers perfect. They're kidding, right? I'm afraid society has long given up that quest and just hope that they avoid more meaningless projects such as this. A family moves into town and discover that the local kids are a tad strange. It could be a drug problem since that is generally to blame. This town looks constructed straight from other horror films, only this time they should burn it so not to repeat this mistake again. Director David Nutter shamelessly attempts to make this garbage look original but who is he kidding? Laughable performances by James Marsden, Katie Holmes, Nick Stahl, and William Sadler as a crazed janitor. Their mission is to die in creative methods because the screenwriter cares about as much as we do. Pointless crap showcases someone getting their head bashed in with a pipe. That is exactly what should happen to the film. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A teenager starts his first term at a new school after his brother's suicide, and becomes suspicious of a clique of seemingly perfect students. He soon finds allies in a group of conspiracy theorists, but when one of them undergoes a bizarre personality change, the rest become convinced something has been done to him and go in search of the truth.There are two teenager in car and the a boy who then kill hers for no reason at all, While another teenager in hiding the bush with his dog and see that cop car pull up and then Boy shoot one of cop but other cops lets him off.Then the movie moves onto Steve Clark who family have just moved in and join the school and become friends with guy who saw the cop get killed and soon find half school are having the save effect.There are some great scene movie but pick up in middle when the teenage go bit bonkers, which is very watchable at time but it get little boring really quickly until the disappointed ending.The acting is movie really good but it letdown by the very poor pacing "},{"Title":"A Clockwork Apple Pie","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Muscular, handsome James Marsden (as Steve Clark) moves to the sleepy island town of Cradle Bay, with his parents and younger sister, after older brother Alan shoots himself to death. The family enrolls the children in Cradle Bay High School. Predictably, the high school is full of obviously older actors cast as teenagers. Oddly, Mr. Marsden finds it difficult to fit in with his peers, especially a group of do-gooders called the Blue Ribbons, who swear off sex, drugs, and rock and roll music. Instead, Blue Ribbons save their juices, eat yogurt, and listen to Wayne Newton and Barry Manilow music.Marsden does connect with grungy stoner Nick Stahl (as Gavin Strick). Mr. Stahl thinks some form of mind-control is infecting the town. Stahl has witnessed some mysterious behavior (the film's opening shocker); he tells Marsden; but, Marsden thinks Stahl's just a tweaked, paranoid druggie. Through Stahl, Marsden meets hot, slim-waisted Rachel Wagner (who moved from Dawson's Creek to Cradle Bay). Ms. Wagner and Marsden form the obligatory romantic twosome; they pose, and perform, well together. However, the superior role, and performance, is Stahl's Gavin; he is the most normal acting of the lot, on or off drugs.Filming in Canada, David Nutter and John Bartley make Disturbing Behavior look way better than expected; there are quite a few nice location scenes. And, you have to like the high school janitor, with Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five in his hip pocket. It would have been nice to see more of that part of the story; perhaps, with Stahl and William Sadler setting up a resistance and/or investigation center in the high school basement. And, more close-ups of Steve Railsback's Officer Cox. The film too suddenly becomes A Clockwork Orange, then Terminator; and, the ending just makes you wish Stahl had more participation.****** Disturbing Behavior (1998) David Nutter ~ James Marsden, Rachel Wagner, Nick Stahl "},{"Title":"It's not disturbing","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" After his family moves into town, Steve starts to notice that there are some bizarre kids at school - pretty much always friendly and smiling... unless they are in a blind fit of blood thirsty rage... When one of his stoner friends, who said that the group is evil, joins it seemingly out of the blue, Steve suspects foul play. Soon, a secret that is only mildly disturbing is uncovered.This film would have fared much better if it were a TV episode and seeing that a TV director is responsible for this film we can see it is so mediocre. The decent premise, perfect for an X-Files episode, is stretched out over an hour and twenty minutes (pretty short for a movie) and the good moments are far in between if apparent at all. The highlight of the film would have to be the admittedly intriguing premise, but the way it is presented is just poor. The DVD has 11 deleted scenes and the director could really have cut more off to make a tighter and story, which like mentioned before, could have fared well on the X-Files. Even the atmosphere and cinematography resembles the hit show.Also the film lacks the element of visceral metaphor (thriller director David Croneberg's specialty) and the conclusion to it all is just laughable and contrived. 2/10Rated R for grim and violent content "},{"Title":"Some solid paranoia!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although it was a flop with both critics and audiences upon its release in 1998, in retrospect Disturbing Behavior is actually one of the smarter teen thrillers to follow the massive success of Scream (1996).Newcomer to a small town high school finds himself menaced by a group of 'disturbingly perfect' students who would like nothing better than for him to become part of their way of life.Disturbing Behavior may owe much of its premise to such classic films as Clockwork Orange (1971) and The Stepford Wives (1975), but it still stands as a clever and entertaining thriller. Rather than attempt to be the usual teen scare flick, this film relies far more on its brooding, paranoid atmosphere to be compelling and it works. The subject matter alone is enough to stir chills without having to resort to bloody violence. Still there's a fair amount of action to be had in this unsettling tale. David Nutton's direction is well-handled and the filming locations are beautiful. Mark Snow's music score is also nicely moody, and there's a slick rock soundtrack to boot.The cast is also pretty good. Katie Holmes is fetching as a rebel girl. Nick Stahl is likable as a teen stoner. Best of all though is star James Marsden as our heart-felt hero.It's easy to dismiss Disturbing Behavior as just another teen thriller, but it packs more intelligence than most of its kind. It's a movie that reminds us to be an individual.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Let me be the first to say... what? *contains medium spoilers*","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, maybe I'm not the first to note that this movie makes very little sense, but I won't be the last. As a few others have also noted, this film is pretty much just a rip-off of Body Snatchers, with a psychotic super-intelligent scientist/teacher in place as the villain, instead of aliens. The plot barely makes sense at all... something about some kind of operation that turns normal teenagers into controllable monsters. I think what really bothered me with this film was the fact that they had to be monsters, that there just had to be tagged on that they were rapists and killers. What about making them empty, soulless individuals through the process of removing all human emotions and reactions? Why do they have to be psychotic, as well? Dang, here the director/scriptwriter could have made a great point; is it worth it to be intelligent, smart and in every way perfect, if you're empty? Instead they go for something every teenager can see, by putting some nudity and various references to sex in it, and stuffing it full of violence and tension. Like running down a hallway or being beaten up in the dining hall is tense... come on, how many American teens don't go through that every single day? The acting is decent. The characters are paper-thin, for the most part. The script is tame and predictable. The horror/thriller parts are for the most part ineffective and either over- or underdone. The whole premise is so far-fetched that it's hard to explain. Another thing that really bothered me was how the film was so... teenage-flick-like. Every major character is a teen, it's set at a high school, the villain is an adult... come on. No one over the age of 17-18 could enjoy this movie, and the directors obviously did what they could to make sure of this fact. Why? Why limit the film to one particular audience? Why not throw some social commentary and some interesting characters into it as well, in order to capture older audiences, or even more critical members of the teenage audience(like yours truly, for example). It would have taken such a small ounce of further work. But alas, it was not to be. Instead the film is limited to teenagers with short attention spans. I think the most disappointing thing is that while the film could have offered some very clever social commentary and proved some good points, it's reduced to a typical teen horror flick that's forgotten before the ending credits have rolled past the screen. It's a shame, I tell you. A damn shame. I recommend this only to teenage fans of teenage horror flicks who don't expect too much from it. Anyone else should probably just skip this. A thoroughly weird movie bordering on being nonsensical garbage. Has one or two interesting elements and scenes, apart from that, a waste of time. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Disturbingly Real","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll keep this short no one is ever going to accuse this movie of taking Casa Blanca's seat as the reigning best movie of all time; however, the movie did do a few things incredibly well.First off, the first time I saw this film I entered it in media res - or in the middle of the action. The fact that James Marsden was playing a really good role as a frustrated outsider (a stretch in itself) was refreshingly surprising. As with any movie about High School rejects, there inevitably comes the point where the leading protagonist(s) must confront the parents; in this particular case there was a disturbingly realistic conflict between Marsden's frustrated character and his parents. I truly believe (especially after seeing it again) that this is the emotional core of the film. As with any good low budget attempt to dazzle and scare, the best surprises and shocks are generated through good psychology - not special effects. Here, watching the rawness of Marsden's edging frustrations about striving to be normal and his parents' standard of acceptance really rings true to the 12-26 year-old audience.Secondly, the movie lives up to its title in the enigmatic blue ribbon kids; it's not the behavior per se that shocks, it's the violence and suddenness of their mood swings that create the real suspense within the film. Nothing generates good fear like the unpredictable, and to the film's credit, there were many, many times where I didn't know what was going to happen next. The madness that overtakes some of the tuned-up kids is a little too close sometimes to actual cases of dementia and psychosis. This movie can be a LOT scarier than something like Texas Chainsaw or a Freddy movie because the main protagonists are not necessarily sociopaths who simply disregard the difference between right and wrong; they're borderline psychotics who slowly blur the difference until they can no longer make the distinction. In the heat of the moment, with the general suddenness and extreme nature of the violence, and the blatant humanity of the characters (or lack of supernatural or fantastic elements) the movie gets realistic fast.Thirdly, I think some critics have bullied the film on the grounds of the actors' performances; while I am no expert I will say this I think that the moments of conflict in this film (such as I mentioned above) show as much maturity and promise as any I've seen in older, more established actors.My recommendation if you're reading these comments because you're sitting on the fence, I say go ahead and watch it. But when you do, make sure to try and engage the movie on its own terms with the traditional suspension of disbelief. If you make the initial leap to try and understand all the points of view (parents, students, kids, school administrators, and scientists) and put your moral compass on reserve, you will be both scared, impressed, and maybe even a little moved.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is movie is not very scary, but it's very cool.  It's a very different movie, which I like, because there is so many movies out there that are simliar to each other.  I hate movies like that.  This movie isn't the best movie ever, but it's well worth while watching.  I like the people in it. I am not a big James Marsden fan of much a Katie Holmes fan, but I liked them in his movie.  I loved Nick Stahl in it.  He was funny and cute.  His friend, the Albino guy was really funny too.I give this movie 8 out 10. "},{"Title":"mediocre","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  mediocre film is only so so with so so so acting and a weak premise although katie holmes does fine and she is nice to look at too but this is just too dumb too really work all in all i will give this film a** out of 5 "},{"Title":"The return of the body snatchers.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Replace the extra-terrestrials by a wicked teacher and you've got a rip-off of Don Siegel's 'INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS' (1956),with a good measure of Ira Levin's the Stepford wives thrown in.The scenes which show the blue ribbon students surrounding the reluctant ones are photocopies of the classic sci-fi movie of the fifties.At least,we're spared the scene of the revealing kiss between the two leads.But we're not spared Bruce Greenwood's umpteenth villain part.Shouldn't he renew himself a bit?Outside him,the rest of the cast is either listless,or overacting,like Steve Railsback ,once under Kazan's direction(the visitors,1972),now getting old in mediocrities like this one.And when the whizz kids go off the rails as they are taken over by lust,how laughable it is!  "},{"Title":"This May Not Of Been A Massive Hit But It's Still Good.","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behaviour stars James Marsden who plays the new kid in town, Steve Clark. When he attends his new school he gets pestered by these perfect kids, into joining there crowd. He declines.  Steve than makes friends with school losers, Rachel (Katie Holmes.) and Gavin. (Nick Stahl.)  When they all start hanging out together, they find out the perfect 'jocks' are really zombies and they're next in line to be turned into them.   James Marsden, Katie Holmes and Nick Stahl all lead the cast in this cool movie and they all do a pretty good job, especially, Marsden.Disturbing Behaviour is no masterpiece but it's still a good movie. If you like sci-fi- horror (Like the movie, The Faculty.) then I'm sure you'll enjoy this movie.   "},{"Title":"I guess William Sadler needed the money","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie starts out not so bad, but grows worse.  At least part of the blame falls on the director because many times scenes are thrown in which are completely irrelevant to the script.  For example, the romantic scene between Katie Holmes and James Marsden had absolutely no point.  More blame falls on the script, for being completely silly and implausible.  I knew it would be cheesy but couldn't they have done a little better than this?  The rest of the blame falls on the studio for making stupid movies hoping teens will shell out the cash anyhow and make them rich.  This is not a BOMB as Wacky Mr. Maltin says; it starts out being a 6 and ends being a 4 so I gave it a 5.  Maybe worth watching on TV at 2am but that's it. "},{"Title":"James Marsden did an amazing job","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It is a fun story with some pretty cool people.  James Marsden did an amazing job as Steve.  He is a great actor who was just as good in X-men.  This is one of my favorite movies and it is a great movie for teens "},{"Title":"Look closer.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The kids of a small community are being turned into mindless, so called perfect children. While the premise is nothing new, if you look closer you may find a film filled with irony and a wicked sense of humor. For ex. when the kids are at their usual hangout the yougart shop, that is used to stress how cold they are. Also, the original ending was better and left me with a feeling of wonder. Rating 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A juvenile Clockwork Orange","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm comparing Disturbing Behavior with Clockwork Orange because of the need to transform characters from bad to good.  That is pretty much the plot of this movie.  After losing his big brother in Chicago, a new teen (James Marsden) moves into Cradle Bay with his family to start life anew.  He makes a few friends who are nothing but outsiders.  Most of the students are part of the Blue Ribbon group that seems to be perfect -- but impure -- and are obsessed with converting those who are not worthy.  The supporting performances of Katie Holmes (Go! and TV's Dawson's Creek) and Nick Stahl (The Man Without a Face) keep this movie above ground, but nothing more. My evaluation ** out of ****.   "},{"Title":"Leave it alone.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The lion of famous legends is on critical mass life support! It growls and gasps for air! DISTURBING BEHAVIOR will not revive the legendary M.G.M. studio from the recent doomsday exposure to box-office BOMBs! Showing off the violent teenage life in distasteful 90s form links to nothing satisfying in the fun department. Our entire time to sit through this piece of scrap metal is horribly plagued. A horror / slasher film it is not, and it illustrates how lame a silly, dumb plot can duplicate on the high-tech digital theater screen. Offering practically nothing that entertains, there is justification to what type of strange audience this movie caters. This brand new genre is poised to attract millions of dysfunctional idiots everywhere Generation-X Genocide! Katie Holmes' prescence on the screen gives way to the successful running of DAWSON'S CREEK, the reason to watch this mediocre movie. Lurid trash from start to end! Disturbingly rotten! The lion sleeps tonight until his very death! "}{"Title":"Decent teen horror flick","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hope someday to watch the DVD of this film so I can see the scenes that were cut out.  In its current form, this is decent, though not great.  I think the main problem is James Marsden is colorless in the lead role.  Not having seen him before, I don't know if it's his fault, or just that it's a blandly written role.  I also think there are some plot holes, like that he and Katie Holmes break into that institute too easily.  Still, director David Nutter is able create tension and play up the strengths of writer Scott Rosenberg's script, which are atomosphere and dialogue.  As for the other actors, though I recently gave up DAWSON'S CREEK, I'll watch Katie Holmes in anything, and she didn't disappoint here, Bruce Greenwood made an effective villain, and Nick Stahl and William Sadler were memorable in support.  I was amused to see SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE, once again, used to show signs of intelligence in a character.  Oh yeah, and I love the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Hey Teacher, Leave Them Kids Alone","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I, personally thought that this movie was FANTASTIC!! I am a tremendous Horror fan, and altho, I thought this movie would disappoint me, it did not! I was HIGHLY impressed (and that takes a lot with me!) Especially with the references they made and the ending! Totally a shock! I was really impressed with the way they did the movie! I thought at first it would not be good at all.. but the movie changed my mind! Especially the 'Pied Piper' reference! I HIGHLY suggest anyone who likes horror movies to see this one! All those other idiots who said it was crap were just disappointed that it didn't have more nudety and sex scenes.... This is a highly intelligent movie not slasher not gore but suspense! Which makes it all the better!! I cant wait to see the DVD version with the deleted scenes and alternate ending!! )  Suggested viewing for everyone!! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"There's no straight A's here!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steve Clark and his family have moved to Cradle Bay from Chicago to leave behind a family tragedy. He starts his first day of school the next day and that's when he meets a couple of misfits - the fidgety Gavin and rebel chick Rachael, where he learns that the school is made up of groups and the one called the Blue Ribbons catches his eye as they seem a little to perfect. Soon enough Gavin has become one of these Blue Ribbons. In shock of his transformation, Steve and Rachael dig dip into this mystery of these A-grade students who seem to get violent when they get urges they know that are wrong.I must've been brainwashed into watching this messy rubbish! What we've got here is a hyperactive, flashed up film that's void of imagination in its sloppy story telling and it doesn't evoke much in a way of tension. Being a fan of the X-files, I thought that it wouldn't have felt out-of-place in an episode of the series. Which, the ironic thing is that the director David Nutter has directed many of the episodes on 'The X-files'. You could say it's a movie length version without the FBI agents and his TV origins come to the party with it feeling overall like a made for TV picture. Obviously they know their target audience here, by catering for the needs of the younger generation with it focusing on its flashy details, rollicking rock soundtrack and a cast full familiar young faces like James Marsden, Katie Holmes, Nick Stahl, Katharine Isabelle and a small appearance by Ethan Embry. Other names that appeared from the older generation were Steve Railsback, Bruce Greenwood and William Sadler. Sadly they couldn't help this film from sinking fast as the performances were pitiful (headed by Holmes) and the characters themselves were your usual paper-thin stereotypes. The only redeemable performance that added anything was that of Stahl's spaced out Gavin whose paranoid reactions and quick replies make the viewing easier.The gimmicky plot which mixes everything from 'The Stepford Wives', 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers' and even to a extend 'Village of the Damned' doesn't eventuate up to much, but instead it becomes a really disjointed and cliché-ridden paranoia thriller that ends up being incredibly stupid and unintentionally laughable. So many things are brought up that are never clearly expanded on and these aren't pointless avenues either, but they do become that when they seem to skim on building on those ideas to keep the story moving. At least the running time seems to go by quick enough even if it drags a bit during the mid-section. The choppy editing might've helped the pacing, but it didn't do the flimsy plot any favours. The useless dialog is so bluntly one-note and lethargically bland. The bloated score doesn't sway that far from the same chords with it becoming rather monotonous. Where the film really nose dives is that there isn't anything remotely creepy about it and it's trying to be so. Nothing is hip about all of this posing about with forced murky imagery (oh how spooky!) and the undemanding mystery phase isn't much of one.No matter how much I bag it, I found it hard to look away, like that of a horrible car accident. Although, what we see here is far from disturbing. "},{"Title":"Pathetic scripts create pathetic movies","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even while trying to recover an extremely poor script with above average actors, this movie is a bomb. What started out as enticing, quickly became boring and relatively unbelievable. James Marsden (X-Men, Sugar and Spice) is a high school student who is forced to transfer to a new school in a small town after living the big city life in Chicago. Shortly after arrival, he learns of a community plot to surgically brain wash all the teens into perfection. After deciding to be the hero, he is overshadowed by a moronic janitor played by William Sadler (Project X, Demon Knight, Shawshank Redemption) who saves the day with an El Camino filled with high pitch whistling rat traps. With numerous plot holes and unexplained story lines, this movie is not much above a quick cure for insomnia. "},{"Title":"**","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behaviour breaks down social barriers with such a high level of teenage angst and authenticity that those who find it interesting are the ones who think rebellion is a model of life, not a text book stage from it. It is an older film, from 1998 for the perfectionists of the world, but I visit it because it is of a dying breed that hit its climax and slowly sunk away. This is the type of movie that doesn't have the ethics to show its face anymore after being mocked, ridiculed, and ripped apart by the Scream movies. The genre is teen suspense, more a vehicle to revolt against everything moral than one to thrill. And ironic enough it seems an unsolicited task to rebel in a world where police take no authority after one of the `good' students break into a bloody fist fight at a local convince store. Welcome to Cradle Bay, a place where strange things are going on, and director David Nutter never makes it priority to conceal this fact. I guess in his blunt approach he never realized that a lack of explanation doesn't substitute for mystery. After witnessing a fellow student shoot a police officer, Gavin (Nick Stahl), a teen outcast, appoints himself as narrator and commentates new student Steve (James Marsden) through life at Cradle Bay. Steve has recently moved there with his family to escape past demons that threaten the family dinner table. In a horribly plotted sequence, we see a diner table conversation functioning as nothing more than an excuse not to explore the films plot. At school divisions are ever so present. There are the skaters; the boys in leather who dream about their cars and the Blue Ribbons. The Blue Ribbons are part of a program to help worried parents by turning their troubled teenagers into model students. By planting computer chips in their heads, a school doctor can create an army of lobotomized overachievers who will excel in their work ethics. At least that's what I was able to gather. Nutter spends so much time finding ways to avoid his material that trying to get insight into what is going on is harder than finishing the last night's homework. After being `sold out' by his parents Gavin is forced into the Blue Ribbon program and it is up to Steve and Rachel (teen poster queen Katie Holms who, at her best is one of today's most promising teen actors and at her worse is, well, better than this), to team up and uncover the secret behind the Blue Ribbons. But they never find a secret. They never rise above or break down boundaries. Nor do they even begin to understand the logic behind what is going on here. Neither does the audience because Nutter never makes it an issue to create surprises, making plot revelations no more than a build up of what we have already learned and already come to expect. The conclusion is every bit as sadistic as it is implausible, showing none more than the lack of commitment writer Scott Rosenberg had to his story, a compilation between A Clockwork Orange and the Stepford Wives in a post grunge generation. The idea behind Disturbing Behaviour is that the educational system is so hung up on image and punctuality that teachers are doing nothing more to their students than brainwashing them (ho ho the satire is killing me). Yet irony takes its toll when we realize, after an unwarranted visit to an insane asylum that the school vision has been demised by the dynamic heroics of central character Steve. And even in a world trying to be perfect, the `ideal' students have side effects. They exhibit violent dislike to all that are not of their kind, including parents and peers alike. The scariest thing about this film is in the idea that the ones that you need worry most about sending a fellow student home in a body bag are not the ones who dress in black or listen to rock music. Rather the ones in charge of holding school sponsored bake sales. The script in question is full of plot devices so oblivious to all but their own existence that it is a more fun to pick them out than to watch the film implode under their weight. In this case we have the kid who knows to much, the bounty hunter who poses in  role, hoping that nothing will put his mission in jeopardy (although who I will not say, you'll know before they do), the scene in which the villain convinces the heroes parents that he is there to help. And, my person favourite, the loss of a loved one who serves no more than for superfluous flashback sequences. In this case it's a brother, although personal classification reflects nothing to a story that bears no need for a script implication such as this anyway. But it is this death that prompts the move to Cradle Bay with no deeper explanation than `everything will be better here.' To say that Disturbing Behaviour is a shallow film that was made without thought or insight would be missing the point. It's like telling the kid with the blue hair that he looks strange, the more you tempt the outwardly the stronger they become. So is it possible for a film like this to rebel against social status in the school system? Well, if your idea of rebellion lies in doing everything the exact opposite of what a good movie would do, consider this one a success.  "},{"Title":"Typical teenage joke.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Funny at times, ridiculous most often, DISTURBING BEHAVIOR takes a good premise and flushes it down the toilet with some of the dumbest quotes ever to grace a screen. The Blue Ribbon squad are the dumbest villains seen in some time. Haunting music gets run over by a typical teenage sound track. Forgettable.The Clark family moves from Chicago to Cradle Bay. Steve Clark enters high school learning that one particular group, the Blue Ribbons, are not only too good to be true but have a sinister agenda in mind.Very predictable. Gets ridiculous too, especially toward the end when everything gets far too rushed. Hilarious moments (watch when Lorna gets turned on by Steve) are scattered throughout. Do not expect much when watching this typical teenage joke. THE FACULTY is more entertaining than this. Can this thriller be anymore insulting? "},{"Title":"Twilight Zone meets the Outer limits","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like the Twilight Zone or the Outer Limits, you will love this film.  The film can be described as a Twilight Zone or Outer Limits episode expanded to a full length film.  It was great, and had a 80's feel to it more then a 90's feel.  I guess the makers where trying to recreate some of the 80's horror magic in todays world.  With the good looking hero, and clueless adults. (which I find real life sometime copies film)  It's a film about adolescence, and its a hard time in life, with people who take advantage of this vulnerabiltiy.  This part of the script hit me very hard, you see that message vaguely.  Is the USA networks version longer or shorter the my VHS copy, what scenes where added or omited?  In the end I give it a 7 like adolescence I enjoy a cheap thrill now and then! "},{"Title":"A TV movie.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film feels like a bad TV movie of the week. The film seems all chopped up like it's got to tell this story fast and get it over with. The concept is good and the acting isn't too bad. The weakness of this film lies in the hands of the director David Nutter. Nutter usually directs television shows like ER and X-Files. This film has that kind of feel. It's like the film would be better if they would put commercials in so they could build up some suspense. I believe that Katie Holmes will be a big star some day. Nutter has talent, just not patience enough to set some atmosphere and tell Scott Rosenberg's story correctly.   "},{"Title":"A disturbingly unsmart, illogical but original film. Ummnnn.","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" You gotta admit the concepts great, it's idea original, you'll almost want to believe it's true, but if you did, you'd feel like you'd have the IQ of a wing nut. New family, including Marsden in one of his earlier roles, move to this nice little seaside town with a cute name. But this is no ordinary town, for it's youngsters of lower rank, have been reformed into fine upscale citizens, whereas they were all once of lower rank. They're snatched by this organization, including teachers (sounds a little 'Faculty' doesn't it) and parents, where their brains are operated on, and they return, virtual buttheads, (a little 'Society' too) where they have no time for losers. If I was the result of those jocks, I'd go hell for leather, out of this place. Marsden and his Sis notice the disturbing behavior taking place over the campus, one jock going nuts in the cafeteria. Despite warnings at the start by a dropout, (Nick Stahl) who knows the whole deal here, where Marsden isn't sold, he soon becomes a believer, after Stahl meets a dreaded fate He becomes a new butthead. Stahl's great monologue, involving an insight into the different types of groups of campus, in cool wording was a moment in this film. DB also has a shocking start, an intriguing selling point which will to impel the viewer onwards. This movie, has ongoing suspense, tight flow, but when it all comes down, the unavoidable in your face fact, is that's it's just a stupid idiotic film, many other of it's ilk in the 1999-2000+ better. Checkout William Sadler, wasted in a fine performance a nutty caretaker. You can do better than this one while perusing the thriller/horror shelves of your local video shelves, as this one might not cut it. "},{"Title":"Interesting first half, silly second half","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" DISTURBING BEHAVIOR (1998) has an interesting premise that is well-executed the first half, but falls totally apart in the second. On the surface a teen flick, it has all the standard elements cliques, peer pressure, angst, crushes, etc. Two groups vie for the attention/control of the 'new kid in school' Steve Clark (played by James Marsden). Frankly, I was thrown off by Marsden as I found him to be a bit too mature (age-wise) to be convincing as a green teen! Steve immediately is befriended by school rebellious school outcasts Gavin (the scene-stealing Nick Stahl) and Rachel (a Goth-looking Katie Holmes). Marsden is noticeably older than both Stahl and Holmes, both of whom at this time were actually teenagers, so I was a bit thrown off with him playing a teen.Stahl actually delivers the best performance in the film, and carries it for the first half, then disappears for a significant part of the second half (there is a reason!). Marsden tries and shows signs of good acting, but he wasn't given much to work with and is essentially playing the typical interchangeable hero part. Holmes fares much worse as she is rather unconvincing as a Goth chick! Her character is pretty much lifeless throughout. Other than Stahl, the most interesting characters are teen loser Andy (played gleefully by Tobias Mehler) and the weird school janitor Dorian (an over the top, enjoyable performance by William Sadler). The usually reliable Bruce Greenwood's gets stuck in the cliché role of the town villain, replete with fake mustache to PROVE that he's evil!The first half is very disturbing and combines elements of mystery, horror, and teen drama. The mass teen weirdness is relayed very slyly and creepily to the viewer and it really looks like the film is going somewhere! But once DISTURBING BEHAVIOR strips away subtleties and reveals the plot, it gets dull very fast! It ends up being very predictable and devolves into a typical 'the whole town is evil' flick!I think that the film wanted to be a satire on societal conformity and individuality, but the final act plays like a zombie-horror flick with rather unconvincing 'action' scenes and some very cheesy moments and bad acting! The very end of the flick is exactly what I would expect in a dime-a-dozen horror flick, which this movie ends up being! "}{"Title":"Hey, teacher, leave them kids alone","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like The Faculty, released the same year, Disturbing Behaviour is a shameless amalgamation of The Thing, The Stepford Wives and Invasion of The Body Snatchers.The plot a small town high school is slowly taken over by scientists who brainwash the local students. It's up to our band of heroes, led by James Marsden and Katie Holmes, to stop them.The film may be derivative, but it embraces its trashy nature, revelling in gore and nudity, the camera leering over Holmes' body and the director keeping the pace frenetic. The film contains an interesting score by Mark Snow, a cross between John Carpenter's 70s horror scores and The Terminator soundtrack, whilst the film itself plays like a middle tier John Carpenter movie, with several interesting compositions (a well lit gas station scene) and moody florescent bulb lit night sequences occurring every now and then.7.9/10 &#x96; With Holmes pursued by and sucked into a crazy cult in real life, this film, which involves her being chased by cultists determined to brainwash her, now seems prophetic. "},{"Title":"Decent  entry, if not overly unspectacular","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disturbing Behavior is a decent if altogether unspectacular supernatural affair.**SPOILERS**Arriving in quiet Cradle Bay, Steve Clark, (James Marsden) is amazed that the student body at the High School is incredibly diverse. Meeting up with Gavin Strict, (Nick Stahl) U.V., (Chad Donella) and their friend Rachel Wagner, (Katie Holmes) they inform him that the local jocks in town, Andy Effkin, (Tobias Mehler) Trent Whalen, (Derek Hamilton) and Robbie Stewart, (P.J. Prinsloo) are into something weird that causes them great concern. Realizing it has something to do with the joining a sacred Blue Ribbons fraternity, which has most of the students on campus as members. Believing something else is wrong, they stumble across a secret society that is implanting students with a special device to modify their behavior, and they race to stop them before his family and others fall to the change.The Good News This here wasn't that bad but ad some good parts. The best part is the film is quite creepy at places, mainly due to the fact that it keeps the mystery rightly unknown until the end. By keeping it that way, there's a good build as it throws piece after piece towards something that is a huge unknown works wonderfully in here, making the revelation feel special with all the attention towards it. That is a fantastic advantage, as the different actions which come about, from the different methods used to show how the change has taken place to the little bits of evidence that make it clear something has happened, and it gives a certain amount of atmosphere to the proceedings. This also manages a little more excitement once the film gets to the psychiatric hospital, which is really great. It's creepy, unsettling and really just plain perfect for a horror film, and is one of the best examples around. The film is really good once it gets there, and it remains a highlight. The last plus here is the film's ending. This is a really action-packed using several big brawls, a great car chase that has the great resolution to the big mystery which here also allows for the great conclusion, the visual of the car going off the side of the cliff with the others all along the sides and back of it. It's quite fun to be able to see it played out fully, and it's the best part of the film. Altogether, these are the best parts of the film.The Bad News This here didn't have much wrong with it, but they are big flaws. The biggest one here, which is that the tactics used to indicate the behavioral change aren't that scary. The fact that it's just not in the least bit scary or creepy is a huge factor here, since it's got a lot of these scenes in the beginning which are supposed to show that something is wrong, but all it does is just showcase one lame tactic after another about how lame it is. Nothing that happens, from the bullying beat-downs to the association with different cliques and such isn't all that scary, yet that's all the attempts made to try to build up to something, which here is a deadly dull since nothing really works all that well. The worst factor of all this is that it goes on for so long, since it's pretty much all the first hour of the film that it does this, so there's a lot of time to show off some really nice ideas and scenes to really drive them home, but it's got nothing to showcase at all, and to do it for so much of the film is really bad. The other big flaw here is that there's not a whole lot of blood and gore in this, since there's hardly any deaths at all in the film except for the ending. There really needed to be a few deaths scattered throughout to help the film along, and the ones we have are really uninspiring, making for another big disappointment. These here are the film's problems.The Final Verdict This here is watchable at best, painful at worst so with all the parts available, this here is the definition of hit-or-miss. If it sounds interesting, a fan of the cast or the films that came from that era, then give it a shot but heed caution if it doesn't.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"Thriller about robotized teens--made for robotized teens...","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Youthful variation on The Stepford Wives (and perhaps even The Parallax View) has square-jawed James Marsden--a jock-equivalent of Tom Cruise--playing a high school misfit (!), relocated East from Chicago and finding a clique of sweater-wearing, easy listening-loving teenagers to be more dangerous than they first appear. In a movie about kid-zombies, Marsden is the biggest fake of all; with the built-in apologia that his character has gone off-course because of his brother's suicide, it is still completely unacceptable for model-perfect Marsden to be palmed off as a have-not (he'd be readily accepted at any high school, and the stoners who befriend him here wouldn't stand a chance). It's a disastrous piece of casting, not helped by the slang-heavy dialogue, sounding as if it were written by a high school drop-out armed with a thesaurus. Katie Holmes attempts to smolder as another hellion, complete with nose-ring, but her jaded eye-rolls and expressions don't do much for her or the picture. The heavy whiff of cynicism throughout is daunting; and though the movie is remarkably well-produced, it hasn't an original thought or idea in its head. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Bruce Greenwood's mustache is more disturbing.","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie features a quite ridicules concept and it isn't exactly made believable through its storytelling either. Seriously don't those parents notice how much their children's has changed to the worse? Who cares if they get good grades, why on Earth would any parent consent to this when they see how it affects their children's behavior and takes away their personality. Ugh, yeah well I know its just a movie but they could had done some more and better attempts to try and make the story just a little bit more probable.The movie also has some more serious issues with its storytelling. At times the movie just jumps from the one moment to the other, especially toward the ending, as if they were rushing to finish the movie on time. The movie makes some leaps that make you go whoa! What happened in between? Or, how did they suddenly get there? The movie is of course also not really being helped by its weak editing. It's perhaps being equaled by the dreadful musical score of the movie, by Mark Snow. He has some good music in him, I mean after all he is the man behind the music and theme of The X-Files but he simply did an horrible job for this movie.Also a problem with this movie is that there basically is too little interesting or spectacular happening. For a movie that presents itself as an horror movie, it's simply lacking on all fronts.The most exciting stuff comes from Nick Stahl, who is the best acting within this movie. It makes it a real shame that half way through his character changes and he also for some reason more or less disappears out of the movie, while in the first half he still was being presented and handled as a main character. What the movie is further more lacking is a main villain. Bruce Greenwood's role is way too limited within this movie and his little mustache is way too distracting to regard him as a successful movie villain. It also makes it more or less sort of disturbing that his character- and his 'robots' are all being killed off in the end. It really didn't feel right to me that everyone of them had to die, as if they were already lost and doomed and there was no way they could had been changed back.Not the worst movie you'll ever see but it will still feel like a waste of time.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A blue ribbon for boredom.","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A guy moves to town and almost everyone at school is in this group where they all act like they just walked out of a bad stereotype '50s movie. This movie is suppose to be scary but all the blue ribbon people do is beat each other up. The eyes aren't even scary and I really don't know what is exactly scary about this. Even the janitor was really boring and the rats were disgusting. I did like U.V. because he seemed like the only exciting one in this movie.He wasn't much to look at and he didn't have much of a part. I wish he was more of the storyline and it would have been funny to see him as a blue ribbon. Anyway, this isn't that great of a movie and if it's on sci fi channel and boredom abounds, then I would suggest it. "},{"Title":"Get the DVD, and watch the deleted scenes for the parts they should have left in!","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" In listening to the director commentary of the film itself and of the deleted scenes, he complains that there were many scenes that were important to the development of the story that the editors overrode his objections on and cut out of the film. And you know what? He's right.If you want to watch this story the way it was supposed to be, watch it with the deleted scenes. That's what gets you interested in the story and actually care about the characters. That's what has you actually care about their relationships and their safety towards the end. And the original ending is much more tragic, and ironically much more satisfying, than the fluffy ending that they wound up going with.I won't tell you what those moments are-you'll have to get the DVD and watch them yourself. "},{"Title":"God forbid a teen horror movie should actually make people think.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This clearly had the potential to rise above the Scream knock-offs, not just because of the talent involved, but also because of the issues it raises. Would you submit your children to such a process, even if it was just as dangerous as any drugs they might take? Would it be an actual solution or just an easy fix (as Steve's dad observes in a deleted scene- before consenting to it anyway)? Unlike the self-centered chauvinists of The Stepford Wives, which this movie is often compared to, these parents aren't seeking life-size Barbie dolls to wait on them hand and foot.Rather, they're at the ends of their ropes as to how to deal with their kids, making them prime targets for Caldicot.Unfortunately, the bruises were cut out of the banana, along with much of the movie's depth. Add on a fishing for a franchise ending in place of the (better) original, and the movie flopped. Hopefully, time will be kinder to it with the scenes restored on DVD and on TV airings. And checking out the paperback adaption wouldn't hurt either. "},{"Title":"The Rundown","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are so many ways to look at the worthiness of a movie. Let's consider some.Acting? Bad to mediocre. Plot? Not even one new twist to an old story. Dialogue? It was intersting only when normal Gavin spoke, but even his perceptive ramblings got old quickly...and razor...PLEASE!!!! It was a horror film, so let's consider it scare factor...zero! Gore? None. Was is sneaky? No. Did it make me think? It tried to, but didn't inspire me enough for me to want to waste my brain cells on it. Ultimately....did it entertain? Well....I didn't fall asleep, but fortunately I didn't watch it late at night either. Glad it was a free rental and I was looking for fluff. Fluff, it succeeded at. Other than that, the filmmakers made one very wise decision. They scrapped the sequel. "},{"Title":" I'm not leaving without my sister","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  James Marsden is flawed as Steven in this voluptuous horror movie. The supporting cast is grounded. The costumes are sexy. One of the fair films in the genre, Disturbing Behavior stirs small shocks. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"How stupid can a movie be?","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (beware, spoilers ahead)First off, this is my first comment ever, after having voted for over 600 movies at the IMDB. And this is the first time ever I feel myself pressed to comment how absolutely stupid this movie is.I have to admit that it starts somehow normal and interesting, building a nice tension. Even though I was affected by one of the badest synchros ever (german dubbed) the first school scenes were nice, and going on like any other teen flick.But that's just about it. The first appearance of those blue ribbon guys spoils it all. The whole setting of zombie-like students affected by an evil teacher is so much over the edge and has been used in so many movies, the whole totally predictable. I watched the whole movie with the hope, that this movie makes a distinction to my prediction and that it could somehow differ and make the thing interesting.Instead, there are no climaxes which cannot be foreseen. You know from the introduction of Katie Holmes' character on, that the good guy gets the girl.Besides, this movie is so unrealistic. I could get about this point, if this movie would focus on a sci-fi related story. But the script wants to make everything look so real, as if it could happen. There are thos psychatric experiments, real machines and so on, but it bristles with dissonancies.First off, parents want to let their children be more nicer and responsible. They get converted and stroll about in the forests all night. Nice. No parent will get suspicios if his kid is never at home.And then for this caretaker. The moment he jumps out of the sewer it was obvious that he's gonna kill those Blue ribbon guys with his radio.And the scene in the psychiatry. It topps everything. The persons depicted there are a slap in the face of real people living there, I am almost angry of how the movie deals with those poor people, it's nowhere near truth.Well, to make a long story short This movie is stupid. There's no real tension, no surprising twists, no humor and no good acting. Hopefully I can forget this movie as soon as possible. "}{"Title":"Decent conspiracy movie","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Kids don't drive drunk in Cradle Bay no more; &#145;course they don't laugh or dance neither.'  	-NewberrySome movies like `Leon', `Aliens' and `Blade Runner' are seen as very good films in they're initially release, only to become classics when they're `director's cuts' are released.   While `Disturbing Behavior' is no-where near these great films, seeing director David Nutter's original intent for the movie makes one enjoy it far more. I recently got a hold of another `cut' of the film by having all the deleted scenes available on the DVD recorded (unprofessionally) back into the movie.  You see, MGM decided to cut out a lot of the film (about 20 minutes), probably for fear that too much substance to the story would bore and confuse the MTV-slugs they were planning to distribute it to. They even cut some of the best scenes out. It was never the director's intent to butcher `Disturbing Behavior' in this way and upon theatrical release it quickly flopped. It surprises me what a good film it actually was before the studio screwed with it.The plot centers on a conspiracy in a little town to conform the teenagers there into well-groomed, well-behaved, charitable little robots.  The only problem is that the process of brain-washing kids occasionally sends the `little robots' into violent rages when emotions they are not programed to deal with, like sexual urges, come up.The added scenes make the movie much better.  Characters, like Newberry, are fleshed quite a bit more and we even get a chance to see James Marsden (Steve) and Katie Holmes (Rachel) really act.  Before, these characters felt too cold and underdeveloped.  The conspiracy itself is more believable because a source of funding for it is shown.  The reason why Caldicott and his scientists came to the town of Cradle Bay is also given.  The original ending is in my own cut and it gives a far more emotional finale and a more appropriate end to Gavin (Nick Stahl). Still, I have a few complaints about `Disturbing Behavior'.  First, a few plot holes still exist, like, how did Steve and Rachel break into a mental institute so easily?  The way the `Blue Ribbons' are all killed and the way the conspiracy is crushed are still largely unbelievable.  The very talented actress Katherine Isabelle (`Ginger Snaps', `Turning Paige') is underused and that U.V. guy is annoying. Even though it is flawed, the director's cut of Disturbing Behavior is still a good movie.  Unfortunately, it has yet to be released by any studio.Movie *** out of 4  "},{"Title":"too predictable, too trashy - right from the start","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The way the initial credits roll through in the film would catch anyones interest. Sitting through the movie is, however, a painful experience. Right from the first scene, situations and sub-plots are as predictable as they come, and over-cliched. Just watch the last 20 minutes, and you'll know all that has been going on, so  trashy is this movie. The plot and execution has shades of 'The Faculty' but on the whole this movie is total trash. Avoid at all costs - It might give thrills to your 9 yr old brother. "},{"Title":"embarrassingly bad movie","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have started to first of all read the users comments here on imdb before watching a film (on TV). I think it sometimes helps me to choose - but it isn´t always accurate..This time at least the three newest entries thought it was a surprisingly good (horrormovie).To call it at horrormovie is to have a low opinion on even the worst movie in that category.This is just a very bad movie - no good plot, no good actors, no good direction. Awful. Don´t watch it - value your time better! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that Disturbing Behavior is great . it has a good sense of uniqueness in that something like this has not been done before!I wouldnt recommend it to any specific gender because i think that both genders will enjoy it. It has a great cast and is worth seeing! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the first time on USA last week and I loved it! When I rented it though, several of the scenes were missing and the movie wasn't as good. The deleted scenes described the events that took place and made it more thrilling and suspenseful. If you see this movie with the deleted scenes you will understand it a lot better and will also enjoy it more. "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKED!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen in a theatre. I was inclined to ask for my money back after it was over. This movie might be enjoyable for a little kid or a young teenager but anybody over 15 will be truly disappointed in it. The plot goes absolutely nowhere and the only good scenes in the movie are the ones you see in the trailer. A teenage boy moves to a city where everybody wigs out for no reason. They give you no reason or anything why the people in that town are they way they are-it just goes from one ridiculous stupid predictable scene after another. And the ending was the worst-the only good part about the ending was the fact the movie was actually over. And guys..Katie Holmes isnt all that.  "},{"Title":"Routine teen flick","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was about what I was expecting, so I can't really say that I was disappointed, but there isn't much to recommend here.  Quite simply, this was a typical teen movie, a film that was frequently predictable and mediocre at best.  A somewhat clever idea was wasted here, and even with a meager running time of 84 minutes, I still found myself watching the clock early and often.  Basically, there's not really any good reason to bother watching this film, for it is yet another thriller that isn't thrilling. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly Forgettable","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behaviour slips quickly into its teen slasher/bad teacher genre and then barely becomes memorable. Cheap films following the success of similar better movies are common, sometimes very common. At times C grade films can be wonderful, Casablanca is the prize example, but Disturbing Behaviour is no Casablanca!A troubled teen, played by Jimmy Marsden, who looks far too old for the part, moves to a new school. But there's something wrong. The local dope head malcontent Gavin (Nick Stahl) has seen a murder and for some reason decides to adopt the new boy.And so do The Blue Ribbons - apparently there's a similar grouping in the States of course. They're a bit weird according to Gavin and there's an opportunity for sometimes X files director David Nutter (Great Name!) But he backs off here, and just about everywhere else in Disturbing Behaviour it seems.The ending is abrupt and the film is short at less than 90 minutes. There's hardly a heart flutter for an audience or a head starter for a critic. As for The X Files, well they're also, often enough, pretty confusing aren't they.Katie Holmes (Dawson's Creek) plays Rachael and she's about the only reason I can think of to recommend this film, but that's a sex thing, and that's not enough.Get out a Scream video instead.  "},{"Title":"* out of ****.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behavior was by far the worst horror film I've ever seen. Absolutely no horror involved with this picture.  The film would  have been greatly improved if it had expanded on its plot.  It introduces us to it and then abandons it in place of lame action with dull characters.  There were way too many good/evil kids in here that we couldn't hate them enough because we didn't know all of them.  There's hardly any conflict at the end like Scream and others and therefore not worth watching at all.  I left the film with a sour taste in my mouth.  I overheard some teens who also saw the film also say that the film was great and that they should make a sequel.  Why?  this film goes for the predictable ending where one of the evil brainwashed kids escapes and is now substituting for a class elsewhere. Is that supposed to scare us.  He doesn't have the technology to  do to them what they did to him.  And what about the hero and heroine's parents. They left them in town while escaping on the ferry.  This  movie had so many plot-holes and loose-ends that it wasn't funny.  "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think the script-writer and directors must be absolute morons. There are  so many parts they should have cut out, cause it makes the movie look like  a parity on horror movies. The only thing they were missing to make it a  true spoof was Lesly Nelson.  It is fun to watch, not very scary but damn  funny.  Try not to analyze this movie or you will end up crying For the  Love of God. Shut off the movie and unlock the theatre doors.  Not much of  the movie is Scary, but there are a few good parts in the movie that really  get you going.  The movie is so short those few parts seem to last forever  ) "}{"Title":"Hacked to bits, but probably unsalvagable anyway","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE STEPFORD WIVES meets Dawson's Creek, as a few too good-looking to be true teenagers led by unbelievable pretty boy James Marsden investigate the strange goings-on in a Pacific NW town, where previous stoners, losers, burnouts and the like are being transformed into productive honor roll types...but with the inevitable catch. Hamhanded satire belabors all the obvious points (the bad repressed guys go psycho when they're sexually aroused for instance), has no connection with reality (in real life the stoners and the like are more likely to be the tormentors, not the tormented) and is full of plot holes. (Movie was admittedly cut to pieces.) Blandly acted from all concerned. Rips off a lot of iconography from better movies, most especially A CLOCKWORK ORANGE. Generally just a waste of time for all concerned; avoid. "},{"Title":"Mid-level entertainment","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Disturbing Behaviour kept me in a fair bit of suspense. I think I watched it at a time when I was intrigued by the high school experience. Even the clichéd cliques (with a unique twist) and the improbable plot didn't blunt my interest. The youthful cast was more than competent though the material didn't really require them to expand their horizons too much. James Marsden (X-Men) makes a decent protagonist, Katie Holmes reinvents her image as a tough gothic looking chick and Nick Stahl (Terminator 3) actually gives a very memorable multi-layered performance. All in all good mid-level entertainment, 6/10.   "},{"Title":"ok movie could have been better.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i had never seen the film untill i bought the DVD. reason for this is simple one of my friends told me that Katharine Isabelle was in it he knew i liked her. other wise i probably still would not have seen the film. Katharine should have been in it longer. that was the only thing i did not like about it.still it is another film to my Katharine Isabelle collection. (SPOILER ALERT) i hope there is a sequel and i hope Katharine is in it. "},{"Title":"A warning about conformity","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film is a clever idea about the dangers of conformity. What better place to set such a tale but in a high school?The plot is an odd blend of HARRISON BERGERON and INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS. It is worth watching as a teen sci-fi horror flick with some interesting performances. "},{"Title":"A Really Weird Movie....","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"        Disturbing Behavior is a really weird movie, but isn't that bad. James Marsden and Katie Holmes were pretty good in the movie. When I saw this movie, I didn't know it was going to be weird, but it was. The movie is okay, but still is weird. I give Disturbing Behavior a 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Another worthless trash masquerading as a horror film.","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A small town has a sinister method of conditioning its unruly youth into an eerily complacent band of upstanding citizens.But there are horrific side effects behind this dark secret...Disturbing Behavior by David Nutter is actually more silly than frightening.The film recalls The Stepford Wives and Village of the Damned,but it's ten times worse than those genre classics.Director David Nutter resorts to cheap tricks to scare the audience,so there is absolutely no suspense.The characters are paper-thin and totally uninteresting and the acting is mediocre at its best.I watched this silly piece of garbage only for lovely Katherine Isabelle of Ginger Snaps trilogy fame.Thankfully this one is relatively short(only 83 minutes long),so I didn't waste too much time.So if you like I Know What You Did Last Summer or similar politically correct crap you may even enjoy this,as for me I give up.Watching paint dry is far more interesting than enduring this type of teen-oriented garbage.2 out of 10. "}]