[{"Title":"It's More Than A Hockey Game","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  	It's cold in the small hamlet of Mystery, Alaska, but there's plenty of warmth in `Mystery, Alaska,' the film, directed by Jay Roach, about the town and the sport that is ingrained in the collective consciousness of the community.  Hockey is the game, and when a former resident, now a journalist, writes a story about Mystery's home-town team and their `Saturday Game,' and it ends up as a three page spread complete with pictures in Sports Illustrated, it has far reaching effects on the populace of this small dot on the map.  Soon the town is turned upside down, embroiled in an event, the proportions of which, to them, are huge.  Needless to say, it involves hockey and an encounter with a high-profile professional team.  Yes, there is a lot of hockey in this movie, but be advised, this film is not `about' hockey; this is a movie about people&#150; real people&#150; and what makes them tick.   	Roach has crafted a thoroughly entertaining and emotional story of want and need, dignity and desire, obsession and love, and he's captured it all through the winning performances of a stellar ensemble cast, the most prominent of which is Russell Crowe.  The charismatic Crowe, finally on his way to superstardom thanks to his turn in `Gladiator' plays John Biebe, Mystery's sheriff and captain of the hockey team.  His rugged good looks and persona fit the character perfectly, and he puts all of his myriad personal resources to work to put it across, and that he does.  Also notable is the personable Mary McCormack as John's wife, Donna, who does a great job of fleshing out the character of this woman who made what she deems to be the right choices in her life, without regrets or apologies to herself or anyone else.  It's a refreshing portrayal, and the chemistry between her and Crowe is unmistakable.  Also adding to the overall texture of this film are Hank Azaria, as Charles Danner, the journalist who gets the whole thing rolling; Burt Reynolds, as Judge Walter Burns, a man forced to deal with his own personal issues, which include a son, Birdie (Scott Grimes), a member of the hockey team; Colm Meany, as Scott Pitcher, Mayor of Mystery, and Lolita Davidovich as his wife, Mary Jane; Maury Chaykin, as Bailey Pruitt, the man who seems to personify the very essence of Mystery's spirit; and Ron Eldard as `Skank,' another member of the team who's good for two things&#150;suffice to say that hockey is one of them. 	Mercifully, `Mystery, Alaska' never pursues the beat-the-dead-horse cliched mentality that sports `teaches one to be a team player and builds character.'  Instead, Roach has given us a worthwhile, memorable movie with a human touch, and because of that, in the end these are people you care about, as individuals as well as a community.  The climactic game is exciting and far from predictable, beginning with the celebrity they bring in to sing the National Anthem.  This may not be one of Russell Crowe's biggest or highest profile movies, but this is one he's going to be able to look back upon with pride, because it's right up there with his best.  Remember, you don't have to be a sports fan to enjoy this movie; all that's required is that you have a membership in the club know as Mankind.  I rate this one 9/10.       "},{"Title":"No Mystery - Just Great Movie-making","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery Alaska was one of the best comedies to come along in 1999. In the best ensemble film fashion a truly eclectic cast forms the very core of the story that is Mystery, Alaska. Hank Azaria turns in a spectacular performance as the ugly duckling &#150; a character not too popular who escaped the town for fame and fortune in television sports. He garners the small town some big time noteriety when the announces that the New York Rangers will challenge a game against the locals pond hockey team. Typical small town chaos ensues as all prepare for the big event.Russell Crowe, Burt Reynolds, Lolita Davidovich, Ron Eldard, Colm Meaney, Mary McCormack all turn in fine performances contributing nicely to the oddities inherent in any small town. While the story can seem a bit forced formulaic, David Kelly's script and Jay Roach's directing bring a freshness and satisfaction that made this one of 1999's best sleepers. A most watchable feel good movie.  "},{"Title":"Seldom have I come across a script so good for a premise so slight...","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" ... That a film so seemingly inconsequential pays such care and attention to its characters is to its utmost credit. Before viewing I mistakenly assumed this was a gig Crowe took only because he needed the career-boost. How wrong I was!We've all essentially seen this before in one form or another; underdogs band together to reaffirm pride for their history and heritage, all thanks to the great leveller we've come to know as 'sports'. Sure, all the expected clichés are present, and I did get a little annoyed at just how MUCH hockey was in the last segment, considering I'd previously been enjoying the character details too much to really care about the event that unifies them - but it's the rich characterisation that prompts many a smile, delighted laugh and one or two moments of poignancy. It's 'fuzzy' - and I guess perhaps manipulative - without being sickening, and that must come down to Kelley's background in the world of populist TV. There are enough sharp lines to offset the sentiment, so you don't tend to bristle when it's there!Jay Roach really impressed me with this one, as it proves that he's more than 'adept' enough to handle a little pathos, too; a branch of comedy I somehow don't see the Austin Powers franchise extending toward... ! Although the final game is a bit 'dull' from my perspective, the hockey training scenes are inventively shot; keeping the speed and fluency of a viscerally exciting spectacle. Burt Reynolds again excels after Boogie Nights, with a completely different performance this time - 'quiet dignity' instead of brash smarm.Really it's unfair to single out, though, from such a fantastic ensemble. It's the sense of togetherness and perfect encapsulation of small-town spirit that makes this work, and if you're searching for a movie to lift your gloom then it's no 'Mystery' where you should look Alaska... ! 9/10. "},{"Title":"A pleasant combination of Bad News Bears meets Varsity Blues.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  The preview for this movie does not give the audience enough of an idea of how well this movie actually plays out.  Russell Crowe is not just an ill-mannered detective from Los Angeles, or a Gladiator from ancient Rome; no, in Mystery, Alaska, he showed that he indeed has a nurturing, almost lovable side to him.   Mystery is a small, quiet town located smack dab in the middle of Alaska.  It is a town where hockey is the most important thing in their lives.  There are special Saturday Games where the town's Mayor, and two other board members select a few townsfolk to play against each other for the enjoyment of the other townspeople.   When an article about this town and their hockey playing is published in Sports Illustrated, The NHL decides that the N.Y. Rangers would play an exhibition game in Mystery, Alaska for a little publicity. Throughout this movie, the people of Mystery band together and eventually play their game against the Rangers.... This movie is well worth the $3.79 to rent, if you weren't one of the lucky ones to see it in the theater.  As much as I enjoyed this movie, there was one scene which was a little reminiscent of Varsity Blues.  The acting is wonderful, and I think that everyone that gives this movie a chance will appreciate the great story.  "},{"Title":"Can't get enough hockey!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" There are now over 100 reviews of this movie. And I guess my little blog won't matter much. But I love this movie. Anyone who is into hockey will surely fall in love with this movie.Watch out for some of the language if you're going to have younger kids watching.The first time I saw this I was maybe 13 or 14 and I remember my buddy (our goalie no less) telling me to relax. I guess I had my fists clinched all during the game hoping the Rangers would lose.Sorry if I sound biased. But I AM! Anything smelling of hockey grabs my interest. (Pun intended. As anyone who has been in a locker room knows that hockey players REEK) But, seriously, this movie was a lot better than most hockey movies. I actually like this movie more than Miracle which is another of my favourites.So my thoughts are, if you like hockey even a little bit you better check this one out if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny movie","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I was drawn to this movie because I love hockey and Russell Crowe.  Both are seen to good advantage in this sweet movie. I thought it dragged in parts and some of the drama is forced, but overall it was a enjoyable movie and I had a good time watching it.  It has a terrific cast - any movie with Chaykin, Meaney, Ivey and Davidovitch as your supporting cast has a lot going for it right there. "},{"Title":"a pleasant surprise","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I had no idea at the time that I would enjoy a movie about hockey, and I was right, because this movie had nothing really to do with hockey.It's a great character based movie about a small town that makes it big and the reason the town makes it big is because of it's people. It's a great rocky type movie that makes you root for a small town and it's wonderful characters. Russell Crowe is excellent as well as the entire cast and a great turn by Burt Reynolds as the town judge and coach. This is a very well crafted, witty , warm and realistic and just a charming movie overall. Don't let the hockey fool you, this is a movie about people and a quite enjoyable movie I may add. "},{"Title":"This Story Should Have Been a Book","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I enjoyed this film.  It, as others have said, had great heart. The many important subplots of the film were played out very convincingly by a fine group of actors.  But the issues and how they came to be were only skimmed over leaving you wanting to delve further - know more. The fairly realistic ending would have had a much bigger impact if we could have felt closer to the characters.  This great little story could have really hit the spot with a closer look via a good long book.   "},{"Title":"No mystery here, just a great movie","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  In a place where the sheriff is captain, the grocer is the marquee player, a high school senior who is the rising star of the team, and the town judge is the coach comes a hockey team from a small town on the outskirts of greatness. Russell Crowe leads all-star cast that included Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, Ron Eldard, Colm Meaney, Maury Chaykin and Burt Reynolds in Mystery, Alaska. Full of hope, pride and determination, Mystery, Alaska will capture the hearts of the audience. A 13-year tradition in Mystery where everybody comes together to participate in the Saturday game, a hockey game played every Saturday, draws the interest of the National Hockey League and the New York Rangers.Azaria comes to propose this challenge to the townspeople of Mystery. After some debate at a town meeting, the mayor accepts the challenge to play the New York Rangers; the players must put their personal feelings aside to win the game. This game between the team from Mystery and the Rangers becomes a David and Goliath match-up, which ultimately comes down to which team can outduel the other first. Can the team from Mystery rise to the challenge given by the New York Rangers? Crowe is an actor that has brought integrity to his roles such as Officer Bud White in L.A. Confidential. Crowe, who received critical praise as Bud White, brought the same amount of integrity to Mystery, Alaska, as soft-spoken Sheriff John Biebe. Burt Reynolds, who has starred in Boogie Nights and received an Oscar nomination for his role as Jack Horner, portrayed hard-nosed Judge Walter Burns in Mystery Alaska. Reynolds role as Judge Burns turned out to be very impressive since it seemed that he took his time and enjoyed portraying the small town judge/coach from Mystery.Co-writers David E. Kelley and Sean O'Byrne as well as director Jay Roach work in conjunction to make one of the best films in 1999. Kelley, who has enjoyed success as producer of The Practice, Ally McBeal, Chicago Hope, L.A. Law and Picket Fences, has brought originality to the film. This film allows the audience to sit back, relax and focus on putting themselves in the movie. Mystery, Alaska is a highly recommended film that should be seen by everybody because it was performed by a talented cast, well-put together by the writers and director, has a great plot, and noteworthy performances by the actors.  "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie is easy to bash because of its underdog formula, but this is one of the better spins I've ever seen put on it.Mystery, Alaska is a small, ice-covered town that no one would ever have heard of were it not for former resident Charles Danner's (Hank Azaria) article on the Saturday game of hockey that has become a ritual in the town. Danner sings the town's hockey praises, likening their skating ability to that of any team in the NHL, and the gods of fiction hear the call, arranging for an exhibition game between the New York Rangers and the Mystery players. This sets off storms of conflict and multiple subplots which give this film a depth normally not found in the genre. The hockey game itself is almost an afterthought, because while the players know how to play the game, they don't have the same mastery over their daily lives.John Biebe (Russell Crowe) is the town sheriff and involuntarily-retired player from the Saturday game who is called upon to return to the team as their coach and as a player. His wife, Donna (Mary McCormack), is proud of the life she has built and slightly wistful about what the rest of the world would have held for her, but is content with what she has and does not live with her head in the clouds. Burt Reynolds is excellent as town judge Walter Burns, who must grapple with his teenage children, one of each gender, with the boy lacking the ambition Walter has for him, and the girl being a little too ambitious for his taste with her boyfriend. Colm Meany is the town Mayor who must deal with marital conflicts, and the remaining characters are what you'd expect to find in a closely-knit small town.The game itself is more like something out of The Air Up There than any of the movies mentioned in the other reviews. In that movie, the Africans played basketball for much the same reason as the Mystery boys play hockey, and as in that movie, the talent pool from the area is rich enough for the pros to take more than a passing look at the players (two of the Mystery players wind up signing with the Rangers and playing for their minor-league outfit in Binghamton).The players' main worry is that they'll get blown out by the Rangers, and shatter their illusions about their talent, but since the game is held on their pond, where they believe nobody beats them, they weren't about to back down. The Rangers, at first reluctant opponents who would rather have had some time with their families, get an early wake-up call in the game that causes them to remember why they played hockey in the first place, and take the game as seriously as a Stanley Cup final from then on. It is then that we see that while the Mystery players may lack the polish of the NHL, they are hardly outclassed.As expected, the Zamboni makes a cameo, as does Mike Myers as a former player/announcer. The movie has the usual small-town hostility towards outsiders, including some ribald swipes at a female TV reporter, but throughout the movie, we see what makes this town tick, and how their commitment to hockey is one that every professional player should never lose. Sports may be a business, but in the end, the play is the thing, and this movie makes that point better than many of the better-known films that try to drive home the same point. "}{"Title":"Nice Comedy with Hockey","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I liked this film.  Not loved it, but liked it.  One because of it's cast (Russell Crowe, Hank Azaria, Burt Reynolds, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich and Mike Myers), two because of it's association with hockey (also because it associates with my favorite NHL team The Rangers) and three because of it's few (yet good) scenes.  Jay Roach also comes into his first real film that is not a parody (he directed the 2 Austin Powers flicks).  Plot involves Azaria, who is a Sports Illustration writer who can (and will) bring the New York Rangers to the small (yet powerfull) hockey team in the community of cold Mystery, Alaska.  Great character development provided by writer David E. Kelly (who makes a jump from Lake Placid and Ally McBeal).  Not in the best of the year film category (because of a few flaws) but it isn't terrible either, especially because of Mike Myers cameo as a Canadian sportscaster.  A- "},{"Title":"Miracle meets American Pie","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I must admit, the first time a saw a poster of this movie, I thought it would be silly and dumb. Therefore, I avoided watching it. After a couple of years it was on TV and I didn't have anything better to do at the moment, so I sat down and watched it. After seeing it, I was sold!!!! Wat a great and fun movie to watch. I spent the next 2 years looking for it on DVD. Thank god, movies are much easier to find in the US. During my internship here I finally found it.The movie is about a small Alaskan town where hockey is the way of living. The local team consists out of a bunch of talented but crazy characters. However the team and the rest of the small town get very serious when a publicity stunt takes place and the local team gets the chance to play an exhibition game against NHL team, New York Rangers. To give the movie a more serious impact, there are also some more serious things going around some of the teammates and other residents. A team captain who doesn't feel appreciated but the mayor. A hockey player who realizes that having sex with to many people has consequences, The wife of the mayor has a secret that her husband ultimately finds out and the friendly assistant of the mayor, who stands up to the people who make fun of his 'Lumberjack' town. The humor combined with the dramatic tint makes this movie excellent for the whole family. Fans of hockey and humor will definitely have a good time watching this. I've learned now that a poster doesn't mean anything. I missed out on a great movie for a long time because of thinking like that. Never again!!!9 out of 10 for this one. Fun fun movie!!! "},{"Title":"A good early film with Russell Crowe","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I found this feel-good comedy drama involving a small town hockey team who gets a chance to compete against the professionals. I thought Roach's film was fairly original and a much better hockey movie than mighty ducks, though it isn't saying much, i thought this was actually a pretty good film. it was entertaining, the screenplay and direction were simple but suitable. Crowe played the roll of the washed up player very well and Hank Azaria was also very good here. I thought this was one of the better Hollywood mainstream films, and i am surprised as to why it is rated so low and A scent of a woman is 7.5 on IMDb. both of these films had flaws, but i don't think they are vastly different in quality. Anyhow, i liked Mystery alaska and recommend it to anybody whose looking for a simple yet interesting film to watch. IMDb Rating 6.3, my rating--- 9/10 "},{"Title":"Northern Exposure with hockey","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Like Cicely on TV, Mystery is an isolated town in Alaska. During the long cold winter, the residents look forward to the Saturday games played by the hockey team described by Sports Illustrated as being good enough for the NHL, even though they never play any teams from outside the area.Sheriff Biebe is a veteran player who is not as good as he used to be, and he must step aside to make way for younger men such as Stevie.Charlie left town years ago hoping for a more exciting life. He returns periodically, and this time he has come back with the announcement the Mystery team will play the New York Rangers. Actually, the Rangers are not too happy about coming to this frozen wasteland, especially since they would like to have time off.Not all in Mystery are enthusiastic about the idea, fearing the town will be embarrassed. Judge Burns is one of those opposed, and he refuses to be the coach for this game, giving Sheriff Biebe an opportunity to return to the sport. The dispute goes to court, and attorney Bailey Pruitt is sent to argue the town's case. His passion for his town has unfortunate results, but what happens may ultimately have helped the town win. The Rangers will play in Mystery after all.Meanwhile, the town is fighting efforts by a chain store represented by Mr. Walsh, whose treatment leads him to conclude these are a bunch of crazy Eskimo Rednecks. Those who say Eskimo are reminded the preferred term is Inuit. Actually, most of the people in Mystery are Caucasian.Judge Burns is overprotective of his cute daughter Marla who wants to make sure her boyfriend Stevie doesn't leave her for a girl who will. (Will what? You know what.) The judge's son Birdie can't seem to please his father.Charlie used to date Donna, who married Sheriff Biebe and had 3 kids with him. But there seems to be little threat Donna will go back to Charlie, even though she is not entirely happy in this place.At first, this seemed silly. Only Russell Crowe seemed to be rising above the material, and his ended up being the standout performance. Later I realized this was like Northern Exposure in more ways than one--sure, there were quirky characters, but also good writing and acting.I don't know hockey, but the game seemed exciting enough.This would have been a good family movie if the writers had stayed away from bad language and other inappropriate content. Even cleaned up, it was raunchier than it had to be.******* Even if you want spoilers you may not want this one ********This movie does have a happy ending, but not a Hollywood happy ending. It takes a lot more effort to make the ending enjoyable when the team comes close to, but does not achieve, the final goal the formula would seem to dictate.But the Mystery team does gain the respect of their opponents, and the townspeople really appreciate their effort.******* Okay, you can start reading again *******I enjoyed the second half more than the first. The fact is Northern Exposure did not always please me either. "},{"Title":"I like Hockey, but I thought the film was just plain boring","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Man, after skimming the first 20 or so comments, I get the feeling that I am a minority in my opinion of this film; I found that it was pretty much the most boring movie that I have ever seen.  I like ice hockey and I even played it a little in college, but that alone was not enough to hold my interest in this film.I rented it thinking that it was supposed to be a dramatic comedy, but the jokes were so few and far between (and even then, few of the jokes were funny) that I soon realized that it was no comedy.  I also didn't find it very dramatic - you can't really identify with the characters, there are too many players and too little time.I didn't even make the connection between this film and Rocky until reading another user's review just now.  The difference is that in Rocky, you follow the life of a single man very closely, you really get into the fact that he is poor, lives in the slums of New York, a real underdog who suddenly has a shot, and from the beginning he pours his entire life into his chance to be recognized, to rise up as a true underdog.But in Mystery, Alaska, you don't really get that feeling of the underdog that rises from the top against seemingly impossible odds.  They try to make an entire town into an underdog, and it's just hard to identify with that. After getting a deal dropped in its lap, the town ends up acting like a bunch of bickering stooges, and then at the end they play a hockey game against the New York Rangers.  By the time they got to the game, I didn't even care if they won or lost.Another major difference is that Rocky Balboa was likeable; during the film you really get to know him and realize that he's a good man living a rough life.  In contrast, most of the people in the town of Mystery acted like a bunch of jerks, I really didn't like any of them.  I could feel some empathy when I saw Rocky, but I didn't give a crap about any of these Mystery hockey players.The only positive thing that I can say about the film is that the acting was good.  But that's not enough to make a good movie.  Mystery, Alaska is nothing more than a boring waste of good acting talent. "},{"Title":"Not great, but believable.  A must-see for hockey fans.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery, Alaska is a bit of Northern Exposure and a bit of Slap Shot.  It is the equal of neither, but nonetheless emerges as a somewhat funny and somewhat touching film.  The hook is hockey.  Fans of the frozen sport are more likely to give Mystery, Alaska a chance.  Hockey purists might actually rate this movie ahead of Slap Shot because there is more of a focus on the skills needed to play the game.  The average movie-goer will prefer Slap Shot for its sheer entertainment value and the star power of Paul Newman. Mystery, Alaska tells a better story and also presents a more realistic view of the sport of ice hockey, but Slap Shot wins the overall comparison because of its madcap depiction of life in the minor leagues, including the memorable characters of the violent, bespectacled Hanson brothers.  Along with its subdued treatment of hockey, Mystery, Alaska provides a glimpse of life in a small town where ice and snow are the norm.  It doesn't stack up to Northern Exposure in that regard, but Mystery has its share of oddball characters, in particular Skank Marden (Ron Eldard) the town Romeo, just enough to keep things interesting.  Russell Crowe stars as John Biebe, an over the hill hockey player.  He is showing that he has more dimension than a mere action star, as displayed not only here, but also in L.A. Confidential and Gladiator.  The rest of the cast, led by Mary MacCormack, Hank Azaria, Burt Reynolds, Colm Meany and Lolita Davidovitch makes up a believable ensemble.  The one drawback to this type of film is the predictability of its ending, but it could have done worse by devolving into one of those sickening stand up and cheer films.  To its credit, Mystery, Alaska ends as it began, believably.  This one, particular small town gets to return to normal after its fifteen minutes of fame.  This is not a great film, but most patrons will not find their entertainment dollar too poorly spent, while hockey fans will want to see it again. "},{"Title":"pleasant enough","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  another small town team makes good kind of a film (a la hoosiers) - it's not bad, but it is nothing particularly special.russell crowe is good (he usually is), as is maury chaykin.the film never really seems to get off the ground.  not enough character development, not enough time to ease into the story.its a nice enough film to lie in bed and watch when you are sick or something like that. "},{"Title":"Snow. Skating. Hockey. No Mystery.","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Mystery, Alaska (1999) Dir Jay Roach / Cast Russell Crowe, Burt Reynolds, Colm Meaney, Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack Yet another sports film about the succeeding smaller factor. Russell Crowe plays a Sheriff who also plays ice hockey but he never goals. Burt Reynolds plays a judge who is disappointed with his son's choices. Colm Meaney plays the Mayor whose wife is having an affair. Finally there is Hank Azaria who returns to town. Crowe dislike him because he dated his wife in high school. Directed by Jay Roach but still a recycled and predictable plot. This is a switch in gears for the director who previously gave us Austin Powers. Russell Crowe is inspiring casting as someone whose love for hockey never deteriorated despite never having the talent to pull it off professionally. Now he feels his marriage threatened with the return of an ex. Hank Azaria succeeds as someone whose presence is not welcome until he comes to full revelation as to what is important. Burt Reynolds and Colm Meaney play characters with the background but not the payoff so they merely become props to formula storytelling. Mary McCormack plays the romantic interest caught between Crowe and Azaria. Despite the hockey action the production features little innovation and can pass only on its small town atmosphere. Advertised as a comedy but plays as an ensemble dramatic Mighty Ducks. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"The girl with the Skank poster.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" If you look closer you will see the girl is higher up in the bleachers and is wearing a completely zipped up green coat with a collar, and a tall knit hat. She is to the right and about two rows behind Hank. A few minutes later Skank is hit with the puck. A few seconds later Hank is seen again saying Mommy! at that point you will see her her again with part of the yellow sign in her lap. The camera then shows the woman who hit him with the shovel. She is sitting in a lower section, and is dressed in a light pink coat with a hood, wearing a larger hat, and wearing a white scarf.. She has no sign anywhere near her of a yellow poster. "},{"Title":"A fun hockey classic","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Growing up in a small town in western Michigan, with a long running tradition of hosting a minor league hockey team (Which WAS at the time the Pittsburg Penguins IHL Affiliate) I grew up loving hockey. I am usually pretty skeptical about hockey movies because they usually focus on goons, or make a mockery of the sport like The Mighty Ducks. This movie was great though and I loved it.OK, It was more than a little strange to see Russel Crowe cast as a tough old Alaskan Sheriff and aging town hockey player knowing he is Australian and has probably never played the game in his life. He pulled it off almost flawlessly though.The story is about a town that prides itself on its weekly Saturday Hockey game, made up of the best the town has to offer. A now big shot in New York, former town resident returns and tries to redeem his reputation in the town by telling them that the New York Rangers are coming to play the towns best.It's a pretty charming story with a few intertwined love stories, drama, plenty of comedy, and oh yeah, a little bit of Hockey.It's a great story all around with a little bit for everyone to love and has a great small town feel to it that many can relate to.In The end it is a great movie that is fun to watch and the hockey aspect is decent as well. If you are a guy like me, you can actually con women out of their usual chick flick in favor of this one if you play up the comedy, love, and Russel Crowe aspects, and let's face it guys, anything is much better than having to watch another boring Hugh Grant movie!Like my reviews? Hate em? Comments, questions, recommendations? Want a particular DVD reviewed? Drop me a line at subliminal.lithium@gmail.com I'll even take hate mail ;) "}{"Title":"Good Characters, Solid Story","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Too many people get to far into sub plot, development, etc., and miss a fun movie with a good story. Mystery Alaska is just that, a fun movie with a good story. It's a plausible story, developed on real people with real personalities.The Boys of Winter take on The New York Rangers in a game that will take place on a pond instead of a rink. It's all about speed and passing, which eliminates the prima-donna antics and technicalities that usually accompany pro-sports in general. The plot isn't too fantastic, and stays grounded in reality.Characters of Note Skank Martin - Local 30 something that fornicates and plays hockey because they're the two most fun things in cold weather. He also runs his tongue a little reckless...Tree - Big oaf with bigger heart. He's a bit simple minded, but he checks like a freight train.Judge Burns - Tough guy with some inner demons he's fighting, but there's a heart in there somewhere if he can just find it underneath the ashes....One complaint What with the constant use of the phrase, For God sakes? It was a bit distracting. "},{"Title":"Good ole hockey fun, silly comedy, small-town drama","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" It goes without saying that Mystery, Alaska is all about hockey, but the spin on that is that it's about more than the sport and that's the difference maker between a good and great sports film. Mystery falls somewhere in between those compliments, but transcending hockey is what this movie can hang its skates on. The title says it all. Instead of being called cliche underdog title, or intense sports words it simply refers to the town it takes place in, because that's what's at its heart. Even if the sexual humor is completely awkward and the swearing uncalled for, this movie is about the pride of a small town whose very existence centers around hockey.For one thing, it's worth mentioning that Mystery, Alaska is not based on a true story. Thank goodness. Just because a story is true doesn't make it a great sports movie. Mystery takes all the best elements of an underdog sports story and blends them with this small- town concept by David E. Kelly (Doogie Howser, Allie McBeal and The Practice creator) and Sean O'Byrne.Russell Crowe stars as the veteran anchor of the city hockey team as well as the town sheriff of Mystery, Alaska, where everyone knows everyone and hockey is all that matters. Charlie (Hank Azaria), who grew up in Mystery but flew the nest to be a journalist, writes a piece on the team in Sports Illustrated that captures the interest of the NHL They want the New York Rangers to fly out to Mystery and play the Alaskans. Meanwhile we learn how word spreads in a town like Mystery. One player aptly named Skank is having an affair with the mayor's wife, the youngest player and his girlfriend try becoming sexually active to awkward results and Charlie's presence creates some conflict between John (Crowe) and his wife (Mary McCormack). There's also a lawsuit pending against the sharpshooter of the team because he shot a corporate bigwig in the foot. It's funny but kind of a sad moment when the jury reads the verdict of not guilty with a sly smile and everyone rejoices because without that player, the Mystery team would have surely lost.The small-town politics might be kind of goofy and the random sexual remarks puzzling, but it gives Mystery a soul and keeps it from being dependent on game footage. There's a little bit of game footage early on and then not until the face off with the Rangers. Those scenes become that much more interesting when they don't dominate the film -- a way too common error of most sports movies. Although there is a training montage and a slow clap in this movie, the intention is well and the heart still there.Mystery has some classic moments for a sports film and that's all you can ask for. It might not be the sports epic that Miracle became five years later, but it has that genuinely friendly small-town sensibility making it not only unique, but also less glamorized. It's easy to excuse a film with this much heart of all its quirks and flaws.~Steven CVisit my site http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"For hockey fans only","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" The folks who live in tiny Mystery, Alaska love their Saturday hockey games. Playing on the team is a big deal to most men, and when Sheriff John Biebe (Russell Crowe) gets cut because he's too old and too slow, he feels awful. It's even worse when a former Mysterian returns from the big city with news that the New York Rangers are coming to play the locals on national TV.The subtitle for this movie could well be Northern Exposure on Ice or even Rocky in Skates. It's the tale of quirky small towners with all their domestic ups and downs who naturally pull together for the Big Game against the city slickers. In other words, it's pretty corny and predictable unless you're a hockey fan, in which case you'll probably love this movie. An ensemble piece, we don't see a whole lot of Russell Crowe; it's just as well because he seems woefully out of place. Yes, he can skate, but he's just too intense and intimidating for this lighthearted comedy. Sharing the screen with the likes of Burt Reynolds, Mike Meyers, and Little Richard diminishes his star quality considerably. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" It's a pretty big name cast with Burt Reynolds, Colm Meaney, Russell Crowe, Mike Myers & Hank Azaria.Take a bunch of unknown skaters in a small town in Alaska then throw in the idea their that good they attract the attention of the mighty NHL.Then you have the fight, will the New York Rangers come to the town now they have spent a lot of money? Obviously and eventually they do come to the town and the game is played. With what you might think to be a predictable outcome. But that's totally not the case.The game itself is pretty good even for non-hockey fans, entertaining enough to keep you watching. All the actors play their characters very well, even the normally very annoying Crowe.Worth a look, even if your not a hockey fan, it's a decent feel good sports movie and you can root for the underdogs. "},{"Title":"Mt. Brighton","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Donna Biebe wears the same hat that Dexter Rutecki (Peter Berg) wears in the outstanding ski movie Aspen Extreme.The hat is the Mt. Brighton maintenance employee's hat from a small ski hill outside of Detroit, Michigan. In the movie, Biebe goes out to the pond in the middle of the night when Russell Crowe is skating after he gave her the newspaper with all of the kind words left on the page for her to read. I grew up in Brighton, Michigan and own the maintenance hat which became a collector's item at the resort ski shop in the early 1990's.Check out Mt. Brighton on Wikipedia for more information http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mt._Brighton "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I am NOT a sports fan.I saw this film in the theater.Saw it for Russell of course.LOVE THIS HAIR CUT IN THIS. A BIG SMILE HERE ) A good film.Cast pretty good. Too much on side stories on minor characters. Stevie & the girl. Who cares? Mayors wife following around. Yeah, and?Mike Myers cameo character had the best line in the film, I just love it.They're done like dinner. I always laugh at that one.The Partirdge Family get mentioned. Good.Liked the Sarah character hitting the cheating guy in the head with the shovel. He deserved it!! Not the best film ever made, but enjoyable.Russell, as always, did a great job. "},{"Title":"Crowe in his least remembered film.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" It is weird to think that Russell Crowe was part of this rather low key sports drama since most of his films have been of a higher order. I almost forgot that before he made L.A. Confidential he was relatively unknown in the U.S. and it was only when he was nominated for an Oscar for The Insider that his movies became big events.That aside, this is an immensely entertaining little movie and Crowe has a very sympathetic character here. His character has many things in common with characters in other sports movies like Walter Matthau in Bad News Bears and most of these movies have a strict formula. They usually revolve around underdogs and here we get a local hockey team who gets a chance to play against a NHL team, the New York Rangers. There are not many ways to tamper with this formula and indeed Mystery, Alaska does not stray from it. Instead we get very enjoyable hockey action and the usual rivalry between the better hockey player and the one who thinks he should be the star. In this case the part is filled out nicely by Ron Eldard, who is not a household name, at least not here in Denmark, but he has made a few films that stuck with me, one of them being the revenge drama Sleepers. Here he has a much larger part and he does well as the arrogant rival to Crowe.The other supporting actors like Burt Reynolds and Hank Azaria are mostly decorative but there is no one who can play smarmy better than Azaria and Reynolds does well as a more dignified character than he has ever played before (check out his senator in Striptease to compare). The sole female, Lolita Davidovich, is terribly underwritten but that is typical of this kind of movie.Last there is a cameo by Mike Myers who of course struck gold with the director of this film and this is as it should be. So many directors do the same so why not here. The actual big game is not that extraordinary but there are enough good moments to make this a pleasant viewing experience. "},{"Title":"Certainly the Rocky of Hockey...only better...watch and be touched, motivated, inspired.","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" If you thought you might like to watch hockey, watch this movie...If you feel a need for athletic inspiration watch this movie...Have your team watch this movie! It is a 10!!When the chips are down and the underdog is tired, Mystery Alaska takes over....more than a movie about a small town...it is a rather a movie about a small community that is committed to it's own people...losing is not an option. Despite the odds they do not succumb to their opponent and bring pride to their town and to YOU. Long live the game of hockey...and long live the will to win!M in Seattle "},{"Title":"Where are the Parents?","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" My wife and I immediately wondered after watching this movie where all the parents were? These kids were in high school or barely out, and thus should have has parents there seeing them off at the airport or at least somewhere during the movie. We could only figure that Burt Reynolds must have fathered them all! It s still a decent movie if you do the usual suspension of belief. Also, at the time the Rangers were not very good so unless it was during another time period, even though its the New York Rangers, there were not a good team. But not too many films about hockey or Alaska so you have to give them credit there. Thanks for listening. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I thought it was funny when this part of the movie occurred,when Mr. Walshis shot. John Biebe You okay? Mr. Walsh No, I'm not okay! Do I look okay? I make a business call. I give him my card. And He shoots my foot off!. Another part that I like is when 'Skank' Marden says I play hockey and I fornicate, 'cause those are the two most fun things to do in cold weather. Another favorite line is when Donnie Shulzhoffer said, This is hockey, OK? It's not rocket surgery. Then I also like when this part of this movie occurred, Female reporter It's a Rockwellian Christmas up here. Skating. Bar-b-ques. Snow. We're here with defenseman Matt Marden, and... cut! Charles Danner What? Female reporter I can't feel my fingers. 'Skank' Marden You need to rub 'em on a nice, warm Yuletide log. Female reporter I beg your pardon? 'Skank' Marden Look, Christmas is a lonely day for a guy to be choking' his own chicken. And as women reporters go, I find you supple. Female reporter Oh that was lovely. Shame the camera weren't rolling for that. Charles Danner I'm sure he'd be happy to repeat it. 'Skank' Marden You need to relax! That is all I like about this movie. "}{"Title":"s'pose you could call this a comedy","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" i watched this on TV recently , and i thought it was pretty good. s'pose you could call this film a comedy, even though most of its subplots are not comedic.subplots are what make this film(and the score), because filmaking is an art. the director needs to paint us a picture. some look beautiful but arnt intellectual, some are boring,some scary etc.jay roach has painted this perfectly, because we get a picturesque image of a small country town whose members are plagued by modern problems, yet the whole film isn't very heavy and dull and serious, and jay roach has balanced comedy and drama pretty well. so, all in all, a good, entertaining film, definitely worth watching on TV, maybe not so much on DVD. "},{"Title":"While away a few hours quite happily","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Nice little film. Could happily watch and while away a few hours either alone or with family. Not much happens, but it's heartwarming and nice. I could happily recommend as a bit more than chewing gum for the mind but a bit less than Citizen Kane.The plot revolves around a small town hockey team and the lives and loves thereof. The Alaskan scenery is just superb (filmed in Canada btw.) and the whole atmosphere is just right for anyone who has ever lived in a small community to recognise. I especially liked the set of sly jokes about sex and the way it shapes relationships in small towns but then it is a film that works well on a few levels.Overall it's not a classic but well worth the price of a video hire. "},{"Title":"Good fun with action","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  A second viewing of this fine film confirmed my impressions of the first viewing it is good fun combined with some exciting action, even if the plot is a little contrived. Russell Crowe, as always, is stoic and believable in the lead role and Mary McCormack is delightful as his faithful and supportive wife.  There are some funny moments throughout and a heartwarming finale. Not a classic exactly, but well worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"Weakness=Strength","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  One of the movie's greatest weaknessness, at least commercially, is its' greatest strength.The Underdog DOESN'T win. An upset win for the Mystery boys may have garnered this picture a lot more box office dollars. But the fact that Mystery comes up short, despite a valiant effort, and the reaction of the Rangers, from the tapping of the sticks to the traditional handshake, showed more about the respect that the home team earned. Maybe it didn't strike as close to home for those who haven't been part of the game, but for those that have, it hit the nail on the head! "},{"Title":"Redemption!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Don't I long for redemption, too! Maybe just like everyone else. Although I'm also an aging almost good enough athlete, the part that hit me in the gut was when Donna (Mary McCormack) confronts John (Russell Crowe). Men, when our bodies start to fail, why do we withdraw from our loved ones? DAMN! (I hope that passes the censors). Crowe's character got another chance with a renewed outlook, a vision transformed. It wasn't about the shot that almost tied the game with the Rangers. When the drama of the 2003 Tour de France was unfolding and people were speculating on whether Lance Armstrong would come back for a sixth attempt, all I could think of was his earlier marital problems during spring training. Having been there, I wanted to say Lance, don't forget we only get one life. The Tour will not be that important in the end.  "},{"Title":"Great Hockey Movie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Great movie for people who want to see a good hockey movie, yet were completely disillusioned by the proclaimed grandeur of Slapshot (more people of this new generation). Definitely brings out the cool of Hockey and the funny of small town life. Cool to watch for a different spin on how obsessive hockey fans can be. "},{"Title":"A film you can watch many times","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Its a good sign as to how good this film is in that it makes you envious of a small community living in a desolate Alaskan town. The relationships between the cast are very endearing obviously this film is held together by the strength of the ensemble cast but you have to admit the performance of Russell Crowe is as usual very watchable. Its Rocky on Ice basically and lets face it there is always a place in our hearts for the underdog coming good. Its true this film albeit small in ambition somehow has the lot you laugh and you cry and it gets better with repeat viewing. Sometimes its important for films not to aim high and try to split the atom or solve world hunger sometimes they just need to tell a simple story in a very professional manner and this is what we have here, a nice little film that can be watched and enjoyed over and over again. Well Done. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it more than I expected.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Somehow I had gotten the impression that Mystery Alaska was not a very good movie. To the contrary, it is very enjoyable. Burt Reynolds is perfect as the judge who is down on his son for a low ambition and, when playing in the Saturday hockey games, not passing. Russel Crowe is perfect as the town sheriff who is being snubbed by the Saturday hockey team. Hank Azaria is perfect as the former Mystery boy who goes to New York, writes a story about the Mystery hockey team, and gets a match with the New York Rangers set up in Mystery. some SPOILERS - I have to give much credit to the writers who chose to not have Mystery win the game, that would have been too trite and unrealistic. However, their jumping to a 2-0 lead after the first period, then at the end coming back from 5-2 down to almost tie the game was a much better approach. They learned they could be competitive with the best professional team on the planet, and could hold their heads up high. The whole story is much less about hockey, much more about relationships of the people in this small town. In tone it reminds me of the Australian film, The Dish, except here the townspeople rally around a hockey match, instead of a moon exploration signal relay to the world.Filmed in and around Banff and Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Beautiful scenery. "},{"Title":"Great!!!! Laughs, tears and so much more!!!!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I just saw Mystery, Alaska and I couldnt take my eyes off the screen!!!! Filled with both laughter and tears, I couldnt stop myself. Russell Crowe may be known for Gladiator, but personally, I like him a lot more as John Biebe. Laughter filled me up as Biebe's kids repeat words heard in the locker room, as Skank (Ron Eldard) tells of his sex ordeals, as people torture each other with punishments such as whacks over the head with snow shovels, sliding into a snow bank wearing only a jock strap, and punching each other. I couldnt stop. And the tears came when people died and with Biebe's Dear Abby column for his wife (Mary McCormack). And Birdie's (Scott Grimes) heart felt talks with his dad (Burt Reynolds) is a heart wrencher too.A great hockey movie, and basically for all ages. There are a few sexual encounters in the movie, but not many. Skank has sex with the Mayor's (Colm Meaney) wife (Lolita Davidovich), and he says some subtle remarks to the female newscaster, and Mike Myers making a great cameo says something about a rub and a tug.All in all, this is a great film to watch at night, cuddled up with a mug of hot chocolate. ****4STARS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!**** "},{"Title":"Made for a pleasant afternoon movie.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I'm a big hockey fan in a hockey family and have a few hockey  movies and this one I liked. Get past the fact that the Rangers would play any hockey team out of the NHL and you can enjoy this movie. The acting was good with a nice variety of the characters in the movie and the story, with a few small stories also, was fun to watch unfold. I agree with the ending of the movie (I won't say for those that haven't seen it). It was made right for me. I would not watch Mystery with kids under 15 yrs ' cause the sexual stuff is quite suggestive. Add it to your sport movie library. "}{"Title":"A Snapshot of a Hockey Town","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  The biggest mistake you can make watching Mystery, Alaska, is to think that this is a film about hockey.  It's not, not by a longshot.  What it is, is a snapshot of a small town who's identity is defined by it's love of the game. The film doesn't deal with individuals on a deeply personal basis, but rather inserts them into the mosaic of the town, so that by then end, the feeling you get is that if you were to visit Mystery, you'd feel like you'd been there before, though you really didn't know anyone very well.This is accomplished nicely, and while the emotions of the hockey game are entertaining, finding out how the town interacts and functions as a community is what really drives the film.I highly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys watching people, and how they interact. It's a light, but fun walk through a small Alaska community. "},{"Title":"Nice change of pace for Crowe","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is such a cute movie. It's such a nice chance of pace for Russell Crowe. He is showing off that fantastic smile of his and I like his long hair. I was cheering for the townspeople and even yelling at the TV. However, I was not expecting the ending...which is another change of pace in movies like this.However, I could've done without the incessant F word and the court case had no point in the movie. However, the rest of the cast was good, but Burt Reynolds I could've done without...I thought he wouldn't show any emotion at all.This movie is supposed to be a comedy, and there were some funny moments, but I see it as a light drama.All in all, I recommend it if you like heartwarming, feel good movies. "},{"Title":"A combonation between Hoosiers and Varsity Blues","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a great movie, not because it features the greatest sport in the world, hockey, but it is inspirational to anyone that has a million to one shot at anything. About a town who really loves hockey enough to have a weekly Saturday game, which is refered to as the Saturday Game and get a chance in a lifetime to play the New York Rangers in there own town of Mystery, Alaska.  Russell Crowe is excellent in leading a cast of outstanding actors. If you don't watch this movie at least once, you are making a HUGE mistake. "},{"Title":"Mystery- a hit if you're up for it","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie was a little confusing at times, what with the gleefully constant swearing mixed with the 'here comes a heartwarming moment' music. But hey, people swear a lot, in my country at least. A lot of Americans don't seem to be used to it. But this is about Mystery, Alaska, so I digress.Being a teenager, obviously my eyes were drawn early to the two younger actors, the mayor's daughter and the new hocket talent. And I have to admit it was pretty sad watching this girl so desperate to keep her boyfriend since he was on the worshipped 'Saturday team'. As one of the other ladies in this movie said, it's hard to be a woman in Mystery. And it does seem hard, the whole team built around a sport which only the men seem to be eligible for.This is what hit me personally hardest about this movie. And for the others, Russell Crowe is a good actor, Mary McCormack does a great job, the two who play the young couple are relevent and fairly interesting. To each their own, and to me Mystery, Alaska is always fun and entertaining. It's been called the adult Mighty Ducks. What they don't seem to realize is that the many many kids who watched the Mighty Ducks are older now. "},{"Title":"Definitely a bloke thing...","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Make no mistake, this film is all about ice hockey. With one or two little bits of story mixed in and one or two interesting characters, mainly Ron Eldard who plays the randy school teacher and Mary Mc Cormack who is nice as the sheriff's wife. If you're a Russell Crowe fan like me, you'll want to know that he does wear an  awful lot of clothes - mainly woolly sweaters, hats and gloves - and only takes them off a couple of times so you won't get to see much of the real Russell. He can skate though, as all the blokes can. It's what they do in Mystery you see. Definitely on the list if you're a Crowe fan but not one of his very best. Too damned cold!  "},{"Title":"Wow! It really IS the Rocky of hockey!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery, Alaska is kind of like The Mighty Ducks, except that it's intended for an older, more intelligent audience. The characterization as well as the narrative structure is much more mature, and the players, thankfully, are not little kids but people with a wide range of ages that have played hockey their entire lives as a result of having always lived in such brutally cold weather.There seems to be an underlying theme about the damaging effects of sudden fame, or even the possibility of sudden and even temporary fame, as the town of Mystery goes to great lengths to build onto their town (particularly the pond), so that they will be ready when the New York Rangers arrive. The biggest strength that the Mystery team had was playing on a pond as opposed to in a rink, and building this rink in their town cancelled out that advantage, making their chances of winning against the professional Rangers much smaller. (spoilers) Like in Rocky, the point here is not to win the game, because they lost to the Rangers, but the Mystery team went that distance and played a good game against a professional team. They played against all odds and they held their own, and literally came within inches of winning the game against a team that had tremendous advantages against them. After that last shot bounced off of the goal, barely missing, the audience is left trying to figure out a way that the game will have to continue long enough for the home team to win, but when Burt Reynolds (in an excellent performance as the town judge as well as the father f one of the payers) starts clapping, it is clear that the game is over and that they have lost. However, the applause that follows, especially that that came from the Rangers, bouncing their sticks on the ice as a show of respect, indicates that they succeeded despite having lost the game. Mystery, Alaska is an excellent film that gives the sports genre a much needed boost, showing an untraditional but refreshing and very effective conclusion that seems bittersweet but leaves you cheering. Russell Crowe further proves his amazing versatility as an actor, and all others involved also performed beautifully. The location is perfectly presented, almost making the audience feel cold just because the setting is so realistic, and the team really does look like a team of small town guys who have known each other and played hockey together all of their lives. You might be able to say that Mystery, Alaska pans out a little too similar to the way that Rocky did, but this is still a great film that just makes you feel good. "},{"Title":"Amusing sports comedy but language rules out younger children.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I first had the opportunity to watch this movie last year on an aircraft. It was probably just as well I didn't because half of the soundtrack would have been cut by the airline censor ! I eventually watched it yesterday on video, and found an amusing, entertaining movie with a traditional underdogs vs the big boys story line that was almost believable. Russell Crowe plays the captain of a remote Alaskan ice hockey team who gets the bad news that he has been dropped after 13 years only to find that they need him back the following scene to lead the team against the New York Rangers.There are a lot of little sub stories, some of which work and some of which don't, but the upshot of it is that they get to play their heroes and manage to *****deleted by the censor*****. The ensemble cast perform pretty well, and there are no major stars. However, I could not figure out what Burt Reynold's role really was, he was stuck somewhere between the doubting Thomas proved wrong and the father who reconciles with his son, but never really got to either.On the whole worth watching for 2 hours if you can take the gratuitous swearwords which rule this film out for younger children (who probably would enjoy it), without really adding to the film. Why do they have to do this ? "},{"Title":"What a movie is supposed to be","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I watch many movies and I hit the fast forward button very fast. Very seldom a movie grips me in the first minutes and makes me forget time.Mystery, Alaska is one of those few movies that really touched me. It succeeds to tell the story of a town with real people in it with everyday problems that don't come across as cardboard characters. This is what an outsider would probably see as Small-town USA.A cynic could see this as Mighty Ducks grown up. But hey who needs a cynic anyway?Bottom line if you want to see a nice, feelgood movie with a funny plot, Mystery, Alaska is your kind of movie. It is no Oscar winning material, but just a nice well put together movie with a good cast.If you rather see the kind of movies like Terminator 6 or Texas Chainsaw Massacre part IV, stay away from it.But I'll bet you anything that when you see this movie with your significant other, both will be in a romantic mood when the movie is over. "},{"Title":"Not Bad!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery Alaska was a a movie that could only be described as....okay! I admit the only thing I liked about the movie was it had two of my favorite actors in it ( Russell Crowe and Scott Grimes.) The movie just seemed to be lacking substance. Even with vets like Bert Reynolds it seem incomplete.Poor David E. Kelly! He tried to make this movie a two hour Northern Exposure , but he failed. All the great things of N.E ( the subtle brillance, the unique charecters, great dialouge and the over-the-top charm!)were not present. Over all this movie was a man's fantasy flick with a way over used plot device ( an under dog sports team..oy!)I don't mean to get off of a tangant but I wish that a talented actor like Scott Grimes could find a really great role! The guy just dosen't seem to have any luck finding one. Maybe this up-in-comming HBO miniseries, Blood Brothers will finally give him a juicy role!Mystery Alaska gets a 40 out of a possible 100!   "},{"Title":"Mystery, Alaska- Just a Hockey movie or more...?","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Some of you may have seen previews for the outstanding movie, Mystery, Alaska. Some of you may have seen it. For those of you who have not seen this incredible movie, you are missing a lot. Russell Crowe, *Maximus in Gladiator, and Jeffrey Wigand in The Insider, plays John Biebe, the sheriff of Mystery, Alaska. He is suspecting that his wife still has feelings for her old boyfriend from High School. Yikes! He gets cut from the Mystery team so another skater can play in the Saturday game. He is not happy about that. But things usually have a way of working out in the end. Mystery, Alaska is a small town whose citizens were basically born on skates. These people put their heart and soul into hockey and they are excellent at it. They play every Saturday to better train themselves-it is a town tradition, and everyone attends the games. Hank Azaria *Animal from Godzilla, plays Charlie Danner, a long ago citizen of Mystery, who writes an article for Sports Illustrated on the Mystery Hockey team. After this, he enters Mystery in a helicopter proclaiming to bear the New York Rangers; promising that the Mystery team will play a game of pond hockey against them. This turns into frenzy, causing the town to construct a humungous rink, larger than the one used for the Olympics, tapping them on the construction. The there is a problem, the NY Rangers don't want to play pond hockey in Alaska. Well, Maury Chaykin *he was the prison guard in The Mask of Zorro, plays Bailey Pruitt. Bailey is the lawyer who has to go to NY for a court hearing to see if he can change the Rangers' minds. Well, the NY players end up coming to Alaska to play pond hockey. Burt Reynolds *Boogy, Nights as Jack Horner, is the town Judge, and the old Bear of hockey, he knows most about hockey and taught most of the kids of Mystery how to skate. I won't spoil the end, but I will say that it has a very surprising ending.This movie isn't about who wins, who loses, if they tie or not, it is about playing a game you love to play, and pouring your heart into it trying. It was extremely well done, and it has a few surprising twists. All in all, this movie has an All-Star cast, and some incredible performances. The plot couldn't have been better, and the storyline keeps you on your toes the whole movie.Enjoy this movie as much as I did! If you would like to E-mail me about this, or any Russell Crowe movie, you can do so. Thanks! "}{"Title":"Don't overlook this underrated masterpiece!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a terrific movie, and I don't understand why it never came to my local movie theater.  This picture took me and my significant other and our 5 year old neighbor boy on a mystical journey like no other, with the possible exception of Hannibal.  Mystery, Alaska is spiritually fulfilling and emotionally challenging.  I cannot recommend this movie enough. Director Jay Roach certainly has a future in filmmaking! "},{"Title":"Cute Discount Movie","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I saw this on DVD.  That was worth it.  Mystery, Alaska isn't worth the full price of a movie ticket, but it wasn't bad.  Cute movie with lots of fake Rangers. I assume that the NHLPA won't allow the use of real NHL players to play hockey in a movie.  And true to form, ESPN commentator Barry Melrose is a jerk even in the movie.Typical, predictable story; good for rental on a lazy Sunday.  "},{"Title":"Great Hockey Movie","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I think this was a wonderful movie.  This movie was a wonderful illustration of what hockey's all about.  It's not about the hype, the publicity, the arena, or having the best equipment.  It's about the love of the game. It's getting back to the basics and remembering what is truly important in hockey, just the game.  Mystery, Alaska had a great team and a great game. Then along comes Sports Illustrated, ESPN and the NHL and everyone almost lost track of what it was all about the love of the game.  Great movie, well acted, funny and touching.  And Good hockey to boot.  If you love hockey see this movie. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  In a sea of depressing, sad and bad movies, this is one that makes you feel good while you watch it and after. Excellent cast and story, with beautiful landscape, this movie is one to remember. There is a very smart ending (bit of parody, not a stereotype). Canadians will definitely recognize a character portrayed by Mike Myers. I wish there are more films like this one. "},{"Title":"Not good enough","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  It doesn't have enough laughs to be a comedy and it doesn't have enough character development to be a drama.  So, this halfway comedy-drama centered on hockey does its best to please a general audience, but it really doesn't take off at all.  There are genuinely funny moments and some pretty deep emotional ones, but the movie fails to draw the viewer into its fabricated world.  I could not identify with the characters, I could not laugh with them, or even commiserate them.  Also, for the enormous amount of sex jokes and sexual tension present throughout the movie, the film makers kept away from even a brief nude shot.  That adds to the incongruencies of the movie's governing mood (there is none!) and confuses the heck out of anybody watching.  I give it a 6 out of 10 just because Russell Crowe keeps the movie believable. "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily predictable...but Crowe is extraordinarily watchable!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Exactly what you think it is (though it didn't have to be)...but enjoyable nonetheless.  It would be nice, but evidently inconceivable, that the triumphant underdog theme could actually be done with some depth and insight beyond that afforded by the typical Disney film.Despite that, Russell Crowe's performance as the aging skater touched by marital problems ultimately makes the film marginally worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny and heart-warming... despite the cold","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This icey little film was a pleasant surprise video rental. I'd heard virtually nothing about it and the trailer hadn't impressed me. But,oh, just wait 'til you get into the story. It is singularly touching, moving and inspirational. Russell Crowe's understated intensity shines through leaving one's tear ducts overflowing. As I said, this one was a total surprise, but a happy one. Bring a sweater! Viewing all that snow and ice does leave you quaking! I give this one an 8! For courage in the face of adversity, for luminous acting by a stellar cast and for making me glad I spent the $4.20 to rent it! "},{"Title":"Positive","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"       This is a feel-good, makes you smile movie, and there should be more movies made like this.  Because of language and one sex scene, however, it is not for children, and that's too bad in a way.        I think I heard, when the movie first came out, that it was one of Burt Reynold's best roles, and I agree -- I think it's his best, and maybe it will revitalize his career.             "},{"Title":"It didn't make my favorite movies but...","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This wasn't a bad film.  Not a really good film either but it made for an enjoyable afternoon.  The kind of movie you can watch with a friend and talk all the way through and still know where the movie is going. It seemed to me that no one cast member stepped up and gave it their best shot.  The direction seemed weak and the performances kind of meandered.  Russell Crowe, not my favorite actor, was just OK.  He didn't get my sympathy.  Even Maury Chakin didn't get my sympathy and he is by far the finest actor in the piece.The scenery was nice.  Cold and bright.  Skating was good to a point.  Plot was weak.  Overall rating 4+ out of 10. "},{"Title":"An entertaining diversion","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of sports movies.  I've never seen any of the Rocky movies, but this isn't really a sports movie.  It's about civic pride and personal achievement.  There's no special effects, no beaver shots, just plot and reasonable dialog.  I'm not sure why they selected the NY Rangers as the team they'd play, (nothing wrong with them, just they weren't anything special that year either.)  It even ended with a reasonable solution  If they're good enough to play a professional team, they're good enough to be recruited into professional teams.  The sex scenes would make it onto television without censoring, but they keep it from getting a G rating.  I call it an enjoyable movie. "}{"Title":"Fun movie with great Crowe","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I first saw Russell Crowe in L.A. Confidential and was quite impressed with him. He has not only the looks and talent, but the special charisma to be a big movie star. He plays John Biebe, the sheriff of Mystery and one of the town's hockey stars. The big game every Saturday is a major event, much like college football or basketball in alot of small towns. When a former resident of the town returns to profile the team in Sports Illustrated, the National Hockey League comes up with a marketing idea send the N.Y. Rangers to Mystery to take on the team. This will bring great exposure to the town, but there is alot of tension.The residents of the town are afraid of being embarassed on the ice by the Rangers. John is in danger of losing his spot on the team to much younger and faster Stevie Weeks and losing his wife to Charlie, the SI writer with whom she once had a relationship. He has helped bring the Rangers and supplied the town with its own Zamboni in the hopes of getting people to like him. The local judge, played by Burt Reynolds, is bitter for never getting to play in the Saturday game and never misses an opportunity to criticize his hockey-playing son for not passing the puck or playing defense. This movie is entertaining and has an impressive cast. It was co-written by David E. Kelley, but like his other movie efforts, To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday & Lake Placid, lacks the magic of his excellent TV writing (The Practice, Ally McBeal). However, if you're a fan of Kelley or Crowe or love hockey, you will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"I have a new favorite movie","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  With the recent departure of the Philadelphia Flyers from the Stanley Cup Playoffs, I really needed to see a good hockey movie.  Slap Shot was already rented out, so I chose to pick up Mystery, Alaska.  I could not have been more pleased.  Contrary to the essay I just read, I thought the characters to be very likable and easy to understand.  The characters were not so complex that they needed too much development for the audience to understand their role.  The accents could have been better, Mike Myers' was the most realistic (gee, I wonder why??).  I'll admit, this movie was not for everyone.  My fiancee thought it was 'ok', and if you're not a fan of ice hockey, then you probably should go another route with your choice of rentals "},{"Title":"If you are looking for a feel-good movie, look no further than Mystery, Alaska.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  One of the first things to impress me about this film was its magnificent scenery and all-star cast.  Very early in the movie, however, I lost sight of these things as I quickly became immersed in the characters and their motivations.This movie is not really one about hockey, rather, it is a film about the simple loves of a people with simple lives.Isolated from society in almost every way, the goal of most of the townspeople of Mystery is simple  to make the Saturday game.  This film shows the bright side of sport as well as the unfortunate dark one.  The contrast between the townsfolk and their love for the game of hockey versus the National Hockey League players and their love for money and big time ratings is very distinct.  We didn't even need the game at the end to show us this.It is the way that the characters deal with their own fears and desires that made me love this movie. "},{"Title":"A warm-hearted, funny film.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I've been a fan of Russell Crowe's since I first saw him in LA Confidential, and Mystery, Alaska shows he's as capable of laid-back humor as dramatic intensity.  The interaction between the townspeople was great.  I was especially touched by the scenes between the two married couples -- both of whom are dealing with some heavy emotions without going into overload. Colm Meaney and Ron Eldard had one *great* scene together, and the various troubles Russell Crowe runs into (as the sheriff) are hysterical.  I definitely recommend this film to anyone seeking light-hearted, eccentric fun. "},{"Title":"not just a hockey movie","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I rented this movie simply because of Russell Crowe and completely lost my self in it for the 2 hours. Although it's not an earth shattering message movie, it's well worth the time.  Anyone who is in the doghouse with a loved one should take the Dear Abby approach that John did.  Who could resist!?? "},{"Title":"Likeable but overly long","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a likeable film using the hackneyed `obscure underdog' storyline. David E. Kelley tries his hand at writing another feature film after the bizarre &#145;Lake Placid'.  This is certainly better than that, but the plot presents us with nothing new or fresh and meanders around town doing random character studies on unimportant characters.  Still, it's hard not to like a film where a small town hockey club roughs up the New York Rangers.The story revolves around the small town of Mystery, Alaska where the only thing to do or talk about is hockey.  John Biebe (Russell Crowe) is the sheriff and a veteran of the Saturday hockey game, which is the focal point of Mystery's culture.  As a result of an article written in Sports Illustrated, the NHL and the NY Rangers think it would be a good promotional gimmick for the Rangers to play this scrappy bunch of amateurs.  So now the town is in a tizzy over this defining moment in their history.Kelley's script expands this film to be much longer than it should have been.  He spends far too much time following the gossip of who's sleeping with whom among ancillary characters, and not enough time in character development of the players other than Biebe.  Director Jay Roach does a good job, however of keeping the viewer engaged through the use of excellent hockey action shots that take you right onto the ice.  Also, how can you not love the majestic mountain backdrops in just about every outdoor scene.Once the film at long last gets to the game, it succeeds at accomplishing what the formula intends, that is, it gets us to pull hard for the underdog.For Russell Crowe, this was much less intense than his roles in &#145;The Insider' and &#145;Gladiator'.  He did a nice job of portraying the old warhorse, giving the character steadiness, dignity and determination.  I wonder where a guy from Australia learned to ice skate so well.  Colm Meaney gave a good performance as the mayor but Burt Reynolds was a little stiff as the judge.Though there is a lot to criticize about this film, it is still entertaining and for those who love hockey, it does a good job of providing some up-close action footage of the game.  I rated it a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"They shoot, they score!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I saw the screener for this move last night and I was impressed.  Even my husband who doesn't like hockey liked it.It is a warm and funny movie.  The plot is great, and the ending is a surprise.The whole thing is about a small town where hockey rules.  Sidewalks are skated, and everything is on hold for the Saturday game.  It is a lighthearted look at small town life and what happens when outside forces try to change that small town charm.It sounds predictable, but it isn't for the most part.Overall I was quite pleased with this move, and would recommend******** out of 10 it to anyone. "},{"Title":"It's the Bad News Bears on ice!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is undoubtedly one of the worst movies I've seen in awhile. What do you get when you add a LOT of cliches, completely boring cinematography, cheeseball dialog and characters you TRULY don't care about?I wonder if Mystery, Alaska has a high suicide rate... "},{"Title":"First of all...I liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  First of all...I liked it. Mystery, Alaska is an attempt to be the Hoosiers of ice hockey. It falls short of that, but it does make for an entertaining movie. Russell Crowe, Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, Burt Reynolds, Maury Chaykin, and Colm Meaney are truly entertaining in this film. All the characters seem to come together and play upon each other perfectly. The film flows well and the audience wishes the town of Mystery, Alaska success as they take on the New York Rangers in a ice hockey match. The negative....we have all seen the movies of a small town taking on a bigger opponent in a sports match that will bring glory and true joy to the town and it's inhabitants. What's next? Will we be seeing the small town with a dedicated high school football team take on the Green Bay Packers and win? Probably not, but seeing them beat the Vikings or the Bears...now that's possible. Bottom line...it's a good movie, but the storyline is a bit frozen in time.  "},{"Title":"Cliche","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I gave this film a 3 because everything, except the ending, was horribly cliched.  The teenage American-Pie wannabe sections (I'll never look at snow grooming machines and snowplows the same way again!) did nothing but gross me out, the melodramatic emotional courtroom argument had been done in hundreds of movies but was used here twice, and the story structure was entirely predictable.  The only thing that surprised me was the ending.  Some would call this film The Adult Mighty Ducks; I disagree, in that so long as it stays on the ice, the film pretty much stays where it should be.  Unfortunately, as noted above, when the film strays off the ice (which it does for far too long), moviegoers can't help but laugh at the endless numbers of deja vus found throughout the movie.  Remember for the hockey and the scenery; forget the plot.          "}{"Title":"Cheesy Bonding...but good bonding","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery, Alaska was a great movie!  Although you could guess what was happening most of the time, the idea of a town that revolves around a Saturday Team who play hockey on the main pond, is a neat new approach. I also liked how, with the exception of Mike Meyers at the end, no actor was a big name and took away from others.  Yes, Burt Reynolds was in it, but he was a supporting role.  The ensemble worked well together and it was an overall enjoyable experience.   "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Funny","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie made me laugh so hard- it was irreverant, comical, romantic, dramatic and heartwarming.  The characters jump into your heart and the scenery is incredible.  Having lived the small town alaska life- this caught it incredibly.  The fact that they didn't give the fairy tale ending made it much more believable. A definite must see! But be warned the language and sexual situations are adult oriented.  "},{"Title":"Film's success is no Mystery","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Feel-good movies like Mystery never seem to fail. There is always something about them that will send you home with a broad smile and a subtle motivation to pursue success. All the same, Mystery, Alaska proved to be uplifting, entertaining, and just plain nice. The characters were all admirable, except, of course, the corporate invaders from New York City. Residents of Mystery were wide-eyed and simple, with a passion for hockey, devotion to their community, and an uncanny excitement for the Saturday Game. From the immaturity and lightning speed of young Stevie Weeks, to the experience and leadership of Mystery's Town Sheriff, all of the film's major players had something of substance to entertain the viewer. Even Burt Reynolds played an exceptional supporting role as the town's Judge.Again, I'll admit, I have an overwhelming weakness for American Dramas and never seem to criticize them too deeply. But, films like Mystery, October Sky or Pleasantville all seem to have simple, underlying themes that affect the heart. If you get the chance, go see Mystery.  "},{"Title":"More like Northern Exposure than Slap Shot","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Gee, no wonder the New York Rangers are doing so poorly this season.Even a team of pond hockey players from the far northern burg of Mystery, Alaska can give them a snowstorm full of trouble.It's all there in the stranger-than-non-fiction movie Mystery, Alaska.It's a about a small town full of inhabitants who are completely obsessed with the game. Even the sidewalks are flooded during the wintertime and once each week, the top dozen or so players get together for the `Saturday Game.'Those who cannot play the game write about it, evidently. Charles Danner (Hank Azaria) left Mystery a long time ago to pursue a career in sports-writing, only to return years later to write a story about the Saturday Game for none other than Sports Illustrated.The story so captures the imagination of the executives of the National Hockey League in New York, that they decide it would be a good promotion to send the mighty Rangers up to the frozen north to take on our boys from Mystery in a mid-season exhibition match.But shinny players from Mystery prove to be better than expected, what with the larger rink and the freezing temperatures, and, to quote Mike Myers, who makes a cameo appearance, it's `Game On!'Comparisons to the genre classic `Slap Shot' are inevitable, and it seems that the folks who put together the advertising for this movie are not-so-subtly billing this movie as Son of Slap Shot.But a closer comparison can be made to the long-running television series `Northern Exposure', because as much as this is a movie about hockey, it's even more a movie about a small Alaskan town, where everybody knows everybody and gossip travels faster than a speeding puck.Of particular interest is `Skank' Marden (Ron Eldard) who fools around with as many women as possible when he's not playing hockey, `because sex and hockey are the two funnest things you can do in the winter.'But there are plenty of other personalities, the central one being town sheriff John Biebe (Russell Crowe). After 13 successive years, Biebe is getting slow and the town fathers are threatening to cut him from the Saturday Game to make room for the speedy youngster Steve Weeks (Ryan Northcott).Biebe doesn't take it well, and matters aren't helped when Danner, an old flame of his wife's is back in town and making passes at her while not busy being a conceited big city media schmuck.Indeed, with all the mini-dramas going on, it seems that there is little time left for the big game. But the Rangers do show up, and the puck is dropped for the climactic final scenes.For the most part, Mystery, Alaska comes across as a light-hearted soap opera. And that's no surprise considering the movie was written and produced by David E. Kelley, the creator of Ally McBeal and The Practice.(That it was directed by Jay Roach, who also directed the Austin Powers movies probably explains the cameo appearance by Myers).Mystery, Alaska is no Slap Shot (who could ever forget the infamous Hanson Brothers?) and considering that Kelley has a full two-hours to play with, the character development remains a little light for a feature-length film.But nonetheless, Mystery, Alaska is an enjoyable yarn, augmented by beautiful scenery -- the movie was filmed in and around Camrose, Alberta and full use is made of the Rockies.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant work of art","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  In a small town called Mystery; the sheriff is captain, a high school senior is outskates the rest of the team and the most talented player works for a supermarket.Russell Crowe and Burt Reynolds star in Mystery, Alaska, which I found to have all the elements of an oscar nominated film.With strong performances by the rest of the cast , which included Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, Ron Eldard and Colm Meaney; Mystery, Alaska has a strong shot at the oscar nomination for best picture and best cast ensemble.A 13-year tradition in Mystery has now become known world-wide as the NHL and the New York Rangers have become interested in playing the team from Mystery.Mystery, Alaska slowly emerges into a film about pride, hope, determination and drive. This is an inspirational film that is for almost everyone. I enjoyed it so much I have already put it on my top 5 list of the year. This film will bring tears and smiles to the audience for its powerful storyline and the impact it has on the viewers.I must congratulate co-writer David E. Kelley and director Jay Roach on the way they brought the film together.I highly recommend this film and give a grade of A. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I disagree with the film critics.  It is an overall great movie.  It has drama, suspense, and some comedy.  But the one spectre that that makes this movie peeks above the rest, is its drama.The drama of this movie encompasses every character, making the next moment worth looking forward to.A movie definitely meriting more than one view.  Go see for yourselves. "},{"Title":"WTPOA","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is a movie that is worth the price of admission.  It has a little something for everyone (over 14?) and enough of everything to make it a pretty decent film.  The scenery is great the characters are good the plot is fun if a bit stretched.  Mike Meyers is a small distraction.  I have to wonder when does Mr. Kelley find time to be with Ms. Pfieffer?  "},{"Title":"A perfect sport movie","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Now when you go see a sports movie the ending is always predictable isn't it?  Well for once there will be no predictable ending.  Like in for the love of the game--perfect? This movie had a little of everything, romance, sport, and humor.  The all-star cast is perfect for this film.  Not the best film but a good one. "},{"Title":"An excellent film; the best of 1999","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  In a place where the sheriff is captain, the grocer is the marquee player, a high school senior who is the rising star of the team, and the town judge is the coach comes a hockey team from a small town on the outskirts of greatness. Russell Crowe leads all-star cast that included Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, Ron Eldard, Colm Meaney, Maury Chaykin and Burt Reynolds in Mystery, Alaska.  Full of hope, pride and determination, Mystery, Alaska will capture the hearts of the audience.   A 13 year tradition in Mystery where everybody comes together to participate in the Saturday game, a hockey game played every Saturday, draws the interest of the National Hockey League and the New York Rangers.Charles Danner (Azaria) comes to propose this challenge to the townspeople of Mystery. After some debate at a town meeting, the mayor (Meaney) accepts the challenge to play the Rangers; the players must put their personal feelings aside to win the game.  This game between the team from Mystery and the Rangers becomes a David and Goliath match-up, which ultimately comes down to which team can outduel the other first. Can the team from Mystery rise to the challenge given by the New York Rangers?  Russell Crowe is an actor that has brought integrity to his roles such as Officer Bud White in L.A. Confidential. Crowe, who received critical praise as Bud White, brought the same amount of integrity to Mystery, Alaska, as soft-spoken Sheriff John Biebe.  Burt Reynolds, who has starred in Boogie Nights and received an Oscar nomination for his role as Jack Horner, portrayed hard-nosed Judge Walter Burns in Mystery Alaska. Reynolds role as Judge Burns turned out to be very impressive since it seemed that he took his time and enjoyed portraying the small town judge/coach from Mystery. Co-writers David E. Kelley and Sean O'Byrne as well as director Jay Roach work in conjunction to make one of the best films in 1999. Kelley, who has enjoyed success as producer of The Practice, Ally McBeal, Chicago Hope, L.A. Law and Picket Fences, has brought originality to the film. This film allows the audience to sit back, relax and focus on putting themselves in the movie. Mystery, Alaska is a highly recommended film that should be seen by everybody because it was performed by a talented cast, well-put together by the writers and director, has a great plot, and noteworthy performances by the actors. Rated R for language and a scene of sexuality, Mystery, Alaska has a running length of 120 minutes.  "},{"Title":"It's hockey, not brain surgery!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I suppose in today's society, everyone loves to overanalyze... if you do this, then don't bother to see Mystery, Alaska.  For the rest of you... go see this movie.I felt that this was a well done hockey movie, a cut above the usual mighty ducks genre where the team **spoiler** always wins the game in the last second and (yay) everyone is always happy...Hockey's not like that and I play.  I felt that M,A provided a good insight to how the game is played, how fanatical hockey fans can be, and how the important the game can be.The acting was great as well... I suppose there were parts of the movie that could be improved upon, but why overanalyze it?  Mystery, Alaska is a definate must-see for hockey fans and for anyone that wants to see a decent movie. "}{"Title":"Good, not-so-clean comedy","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I enjoyed the film, though I would have second thoughts about taking my parents to see it with me.  The plot is fairly predictable, as is the ending, but the extra storylines keep the movie from being boring.  This is definitely a renter, but maybe not a first-run movie.(renter meaning see it on video, first-run meaning catch it at the theatres) "},{"Title":"spoiler........great hockey movie","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  i think this movie was well put together. i loved the theme storyline and characters. it had a great intro aswell as outro. it had both serious and funny parts which i think every movie needs. the sheriff's little boy and his love for swearing down to the lawyer who jokes about being fat, and the slut of the team gets his with a shovel from a flame. it was well done. i was very interested while watching, and i am glad i did. it had a terrific cast and crew and was a job well done. "},{"Title":"I was very entertained!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  To keep it simple, I was very entertained, and that is the most important thing to me about seeing a movie.  It was definitely worth the $5 I paid. It was not the best movie I have ever seen, but it did make me laugh several times. "},{"Title":"Gee, it wasn't *that* bad","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I'm fairly picky about movies.  I liked this one, and while I can understand some of the other viewer's comments, I think they were holding it to some overly high standards.  Yes it was a bit formulaic,had some cheesy moments, etc.  However, mostly it was just fun.  And that was all I was expecting when I went to see it anyway.  The acting was pretty decent, there were some absolutely hilarious moments, and I enjoyed the game at the end.  All in all, I had a good time. "},{"Title":"A hocky film","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  While no Slap Shot, this is much better than the Duck movies and even better than Youngblood.  The one fault that this film has is that there was not enough ice scenes for the film.  The director spends too much time on the town and not enough time on the ice "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery, Alaska is one of those movies that puts a smile on your face for the rest of the day after watching it.  From start to finish it is a pleasure to watch; with many humorous, sad and exciting sequences.  The acting and writing is great, and I found myself really caring for the characters.  It's really a shame that this little movie probably won't get the exposure it deserves, mainly due to the lukewarm critical response (which I don't understand).  It truly is a delight. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery, Alaska is not just a movie about hockey. It's about the pride that a small town has in itself. Most of the TV commercials and ads show scenes of the game but the movie actually revolves around the town, it's citizens and the relationships they have with each other. It isn't until the end of the movie that you see the game.Mystery is a small town in Alaska where the residents are infatuated with the game of hockey. So much so that they have their own team that comes out every Saturday to play in front of the entire town. The team is managed by members from their City Hall and making it onto this team is like making it to the NHL for many of the young men of the town. Not too long after the movie starts, as a result of an article about this Alaskan team in Sports Illustrated, the team is scheduled to play the famous NHL franchise, the New York Rangers. The rest of the story builds up to this big game but a surprising thing happens during this journey. Unlike a lot of other movies about sports, this one doesn't focus as much on the sport as it does on the town itself. The story shows the town residents, their daily lives and how the game of hockey is weaved into the cultural fabric of the town. For the residents, it isn't just a game. It's a source of their pride and when the big city team comes to town with their bright lights and big cameras, they're threatened to be swept aside and made a mockery of. Facing this adversity, lead by their mayor, the town comes together to show the world watching that the little town of Mystery, Alaska is proud of their small town ways and the boys that play a game for the love of it.The movie does a wonderful job of showing the town and the ruggedness of the country. It also does a very good job of showing some of the personal issues that some of the players have to deal with. Burt Reynolds plays the town's judge and I found him to be absolutely wonderful. He played his character incredibly well and thoroughly believable. Russell Crowe portrays the town sheriff and, like Reynolds, I found his performance very well done. I have a feeling that Crowe is an actor that you will be seeing a lot more of in the future. Most of the rest of the supporting cast does an admirable job at creating the atmosphere of small town people and it definitely adds to the reality of the movie.For all it's good points, the movie does have elements that I found somewhat unappealing. The humor in it was for the most part, funny. I found myself laughing quite often but there were the occasional bumps that I didn't like. For some reason or other, the movie industry seems to have come to the conclusion that old people swearing is funny. It may have it's place if it's done properly but when it's put into the movie purely for the sake of drawing a laugh without any real substance to it, it comes off cheap. This was the case in which during a town meeting, an old lady gets up and voices her opinion in a rather colorful way. The story also drags a bit and occasionally makes the movie feel long. There are also some inconsistencies here and there that you'll notice. One final thing, this movie is not another Mighty Ducks movie. There is a lot of foul language and suggestive subject matter. This may not be the best movie to take your kids to.Overall, the movie is about heart and you definitely sense it....7/10. "},{"Title":"Alaska shoots and scores !","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I must say I enjoyed this film more than I expected I would. I was a bit apprehensive about seeing it, but I'm rather glad I did. Before I get too far into the movie itself, I have to tell you the scenery in this film is absolutely wonderful. The mountains of Alberta, British Columbia are truly a sight to see and they lend an almost mystical backdrop.As an ex-hockey player myself, I can tell you the acting coaches in this movie hit the target dead on. The players were portrayed excellently, and the hockey sequences were truly authentic. This, combined with a fun storyline made it a rather enjoyable movie. There's even a nice little bit of romance thrown in for good measure. In my opinion Russell Crowe, Burt Reynolds, Mary McCormack and Lolita Davidovich were the real hilights of this film. I also thought the cameos by Phil Esposito and Mike Myers were the perfect added spice. A thoroughly enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I read a lot of comments saying how bad the movie was. But honestly I thoroughly enjoyed. Now that may be because I happen to be Canadian and I am a big fan of the sport. But this film had a lot of heart. I think it was one of the Best Movies I have seen all year. "},{"Title":"Rocky I on Ice!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  The latest reviewer of this movie needs to lighten up!  Mystery is Rocky I on Ice, a feel good movie for folks who enjoy some entertainment once in awhile without having to dissect the movie over dinner.  I think Crowe and Azaria are known actors...plenty known and plenty fun in this film. Go...feel good. "}{"Title":"The purity of the people of Alaska","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  It is very refreshing to see a film, where the people are pure and there is no mentioning of money , corporate profit, and a minimum usage of celular phones. Keep it clean, pure and simple. "},{"Title":"Ultimately forgettable","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  It is a darn good thing that I saw this movie for free, otherwise I would be really ticked off.  Ok, ok, this movie wasn't all THAT bad, but afterwards you want to kick yourself for enjoying something so formulaic, shallow, and totally non-rewarding.  Attempting to be a heart-warming comedy, this movie ultimately left me with a taste for the script writer's blood. Plot  Can you say Mighty Ducks?  This movie is every pulpy feel-good movie ever made.  A small town's pond hockey team is so good that an ex-member looking for acceptance brings back the N.Y. Rangers.  Very tacky idea.  Not even the game has any suspense, although your hopes may be dashed.  I still like how SPOILER SPOILER WATCH OUT SPOILER how even though they only lose by one point, the two players are still sent to the minor leagues.  READ AGAIN READ AGAIN.  They deal lightly with all major issues from heart attacks to adultery to good, old-fashioned morals.  Everybody is sleeping with everybody else.  I have never seen such a happy movie with so much sexual innuendo that seemed so out of place.Cliches  Everybody is swearing, and frankly I am tired of old ladies who swear out of the context of the character and the movie.  The try to make old ladies say something shocking so that is funny.  Betty White in Lake Placid was one thing because that movie was not pretentious and actually knew how bad i was, so they could get away with it.  And her character swore every five seconds.  If it was out of the mouth of a thirty or forty-something, it would have even been funny.  However this movie made the situation purely boring.  Extra-marital affairs bring characters closer together  In real life the affairs break relationships, not bring them closer.  This that and the other everything is a cliche.Acting  Eh.  Review  Although I sort of enjoyed watching this movie, I hated myself afterwards. I thought that it had its good points, but it was a movie that fools you.  I ended up hating it, and thought it was awful, and would never see it again.  Some scenes will strike you as funny, and is funny afterwards, like the jokes around the premature sex scene.  Everything else seemed so, i don't know, ordinary, common-place, etc. The game was even boring.  No tension whatsoever.  The best part of the movie was Little Richard, and his role only lasted 30 seconds.  Keep Richard and destroy everybody else.  Skip this movie, and you will have lost absolutely nothing.  Go see American Beauty rather than a movie which gives about 2-minutes to a heart attack instead of actually giving us time to be sad and reflect.   "},{"Title":"I wanted to love this movie.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  A warm lazy Monday evening in late September.  Just right for a cool,refreshing breeze from Alaska.  Sadly, not.  Mystery,Alaska was not the antidote for the where did our summer go blues.The scenery was spectacular; the setting is simple and pristine. Yet,we really don't get to know the characters in a movie with a very thin plot line.  In this thinly disguised Hoosiers meets the game from up north, we don't get to bond with Gene Hackman or ride the emotional roller coaster that was Dennis Hopper.  Mr. Kelley tries to link us to too many characters...and not closely enough to anyone of them..save Maury Chaikin's lawyer role.Even within the actual game, the drama was not present. With there being so many good past movie models, where was the Roy Hobbs angst...or the magic of Field of Dream's past meeting the present.  I know I am drawing on movies of the past, but there was little new in this movie to set it apart and not make these comparisons.That warm lazy September night was a little cooler, but not as crisp and envigorating as I had hoped. I wasn't looking for a knock em out Rocky movie...and neither should you in viewing Mystery, Alaska.  "},{"Title":"It's been done before too many times but it has a couple of funny moments(all potty humor).","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I got two free passes to see this movie before it's release and I'm happy they were free.  The movie is watchable but it lacked the magic that good sport movies have.  Most of the laughs were because of sex jokes and it didn't really fit with the movie.  I did enjoy the cameo by Myers but the movie fell short for me.  The movie was a bit tacky.  I give it a 3. "},{"Title":"","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Overview From Jay Roach, director of Austin Powers, and David Kelley, writer of Chicago Hope and Ally McBeal, comes the new sports drama/comedy Mystery, Alaska.Plot Local hockey team gets written up in Sports Illustrated.  Article generates a lot of attention and sparks match with pro-hockey team the NY Rangers.  Who will win the big game?Review Mystery has a lot of strong points. The emotion it carries is pure and wonderful. The action is fast paced. The acting is good, including a cameo by Mike Myers (Austin Powers), and the cinematography is excellent. However, it has its shortcomings as well. The writing leaves something to be desired, relying on clichés and low class humor. The film's main problem is that it tries to do too much. Dozens of subplots are introduced, for no apparent reason, and only a few go anywhere.All and all, Mystery is a very good film. Its shortcomings are minimal in comparison to the remarkable emotion it invokes in the viewer. I would recommend this movie for those interested in an emotional drama. I would not recommend it for those looking for a sophisticated comedy. Overall, I would rate Mystery, Alaska, as one the top five films of the year to date.Rating 8/10 (5 is average). "},{"Title":"a very enjoyable movie","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Well, it's not Slap Shot, but it's not The Mighty Ducks either, so this film has a lot going for it.  The cast is very enjoyable including Russell Crowe, Mary McCormack (adorable), Lolita Davidovich and Burt Reynolds.  The sports sequences are well done, and the final match-up between the Mystery team and the New York Rangers is deeply involving, believable and surprisingly less-predictable than one may expect.  The film focuses on many issues surrounding the townspeople, and some of it is unnecessary.  These same problems are tidied up rather conveniently and quickly so as to be unbelievable.  However, the spirit of this movie is engaging.  It's worth a viewing, and certainly has the potential to be loved by many people.  My only real complaint is the cameos (including Mike Myers) who isn't very funny or interesting as a sports analyst.  Unfortunately, Little Richard (also with a cameo) is funnier than the retro comic.  Also, it is too bad that the real NY Rangers weren't used for the film.  It would have been enjoyable to see Wayne Gretzky roughing up with Russell Crowe on the ice.  But that's just me.  Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie was funny, charming, tear-jerking, sweet, and just a good all around movie.  I loved all the stars in it.  I liked the basis of the story and all the unique sub-stories.  People were jumping up and cheering in the audience and laughing like crazy.  It's not an oscar, but its a movie that makes you feel good when you watch it and we need more of those.   "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery, Alaska came as something of a surprise. I had not heard much about the movie before I caught it at a sneak preview here in Austria. The longer I sat in the movie theatre and watched the adventures of this small-town, no-name ice-hockey team, the more I started to enjoy myself. I can't say how well structured the movie is, how cleverly cut and thoroughly produced. I'm not an expert, just a gal who enjoys a good show. But I do know that I had a great two hours watching these average guys take on the big stars - and not make fools of themselves in the process. The cast was impressive, especially Russel Crowe and Hank Azaria (who I loved in Mystery Men), I even liked Burt Reynolds who usually makes me want to bolt from the theatre.  Mystery, Alaska may not be a great movie. But let's be honest - there aren't too many sports movies around that appeal to guys AND girls. And I happened to like this one. I appreciated the fact that most of the characters get a background story, and i thought the movie had some very funny moments - and I'm not just talking about the times Mike Myers was onscreen. Make no mistake - i loved Austin Powers and admire Myers immensely, but he was not the only funny guy in this movie.Last not least I loved the way the little Alaskan town was portrayed. All the weird, but sweet characters that only have a line or two. The snowmobiles. And even the white outfits. Come on - is that really so bad???  "},{"Title":"WILL NOT WIN ANY ACADEMY AWARDS BUT DELIGHTFUL PICTURE","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  No big awards for this one but if you want to forget your troubles for a few hours go see this delightful, funny movie. Go in the afternoon and get the lower price ticket.  It is not a BIG picture but worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Only In America","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Caught this late night on TV and got interested by the presence of several well known actors in something that obviously looked like some made-for-TV soap. Checked the IMDb and it turned out to be actually a big theatrical movie, but this was the last surprise that happened to me that evening.Not sure with whom the NHL teams use to spar, but the movie makes quite a big deal of one friendly between NY Rangers and a team from a small town in Alaska. So big it's what actually the whole movie is about! Being a fan of a 1st division football club that plays multiple test-games against some 5th or 6th division amateurs every season, usually away from home and often televised, I find the whole fuss difficult to understand. But it does provide a mildly amusing atmosphere that I suppose counts for the Comedy tag the movie got, as there's barely anything else funny there. Certainly not the premature-ejaculation type of jokes or the played-out one-liners.Elaborathing further is not worthy of my time. The story is clichéd beyond belief, predictable and boring. The jokes are corny. The music sounds like produced by some one-click-soap-track-generator. The acting is way over the top. The whole movie is a sappy piece of cheese.Interesting only for die-hard Hollywood soap connoisseurs or for ones who might dig Russel Crowe sporting some strange mullet and a fur hat. "}{"Title":"No mystery here; this is a great movie","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  In a place where the sheriff is captain, the grocer is the marquee player, a high school senior who is the rising star of the team, and the town judge is the coach comes a hockey team from a small town on the outskirts of greatness. Russell Crowe leads all-star cast that included Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, Ron Eldard, Colm Meaney, Maury Chaykin and Burt Reynolds in Mystery, Alaska. Full of hope, pride and determination, Mystery, Alaska will capture the hearts of the audience. A 13-year tradition in Mystery where everybody comes together to participate in the Saturday game, a hockey game played every Saturday, draws the interest of the National Hockey League and the New York Rangers.Azaria comes to propose this challenge to the townspeople of Mystery. After some debate at a town meeting, the mayor accepts the challenge to play the New York Rangers; the players must put their personal feelings aside to win the game. This game between the team from Mystery and the Rangers becomes a David and Goliath match-up, which ultimately comes down to which team can outduel the other first. Can the team from Mystery rise to the challenge given by the New York Rangers? Crowe is an actor that has brought integrity to his roles such as Officer Bud White in L.A. Confidential. Crowe, who received critical praise as Bud White, brought the same amount of integrity to Mystery, Alaska, as soft-spoken Sheriff John Biebe. Burt Reynolds, who has starred in Boogie Nights and received an Oscar nomination for his role as Jack Horner, portrayed hard-nosed Judge Walter Burns in Mystery Alaska. Reynolds role as Judge Burns turned out to be very impressive since it seemed that he took his time and enjoyed portraying the small town judge/coach from Mystery.Co-writers David E. Kelley and Sean O'Byrne as well as director Jay Roach work in conjunction to make one of the best films in 1999. Kelley, who has enjoyed success as producer of The Practice, Ally McBeal, Chicago Hope, L.A. Law and Picket Fences, has brought originality to the film. This film allows the audience to sit back, relax and focus on putting themselves in the movie. Mystery, Alaska is a highly recommended film that should be seen by everybody because it was performed by a talented cast, well-put together by the writers and director, has a great plot, and noteworthy performances by the actors. "},{"Title":"Eat Crowe","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Spoilers hereinI suppose every celebrated actor has old projects of which they are ashamed. Crowe in `Gladiator' learned from a master working director what it means to project presence into the forthcoming scene. He is one of the few now who can do it. That ability has since held him in good stead, detracting from his significant limits emotionally.Here he is simply Mel Gibson lite, quite an insult to himself and us. The movie is merely another sports movie, with all the clichés that brings. This time around we also have two marriages threatened and saved, one budding romance and one father and son reconciled.All of these, including the son, are redheads. All of them, especially the quirky Lolita Davidovich outact our poor muscular beginner. Sad.Ted's evaluation 1 of 4 &#150; you can find something better to do with this part of your life.  "},{"Title":"It's no MYSTERY","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Just in time for the start of the hockey season, MYSTERY, ALASKA comes along with it's tale of small town hockey with big city dreams. Directed by AUSTIN POWERS 1&2's Jay Roach and written by TV kingpin David E Kelley, ALASKA is just the type of film you might expect these two to make without any of the people and ideas involved that made their respected earlier works so memorable. While not a terrible film, MYSTERY is often lacking in so many areas and ideas, it's hard to love it.Taking place in the small icy town of Mystery, the story concerns a commonwealth who's main concerns are knit caps and who will play in the community's weekly Saturday hockey game. A former resident(THE SIMPSONS's Hank Azaria), who has moved to New York and become a Sports Illustrated reporter, returns with news that the New York Rangers hockey team is coming to Mystery to play the local boys in a nationally broadcast event. Elated by the prospect of notoriety yet wary of the affect the publicity will have on the small community, the town sheriff (L.A. CONFIDENTIAL's Russell Crowe) - a former player himself, and the town judge (Burt Reynolds) join forces to whip the team into shape for the big game.This being Mr. Kelley's second produced screenplay in three months, MYSTERY, ALASKA suffers from a bizarre comparison to the earlier script LAKE PLACID. While Kelley has a knack for characterization and tone, both scripts fall dangerously close to condescension and plagiarism. Anybody who saw the mildly amusing PLACID will recall Betty White's cringe inducing, profanity-laden dialog. In MYSTERY, we have another scene of an old woman cursing, adding to that a moment where a small child uses the F-word. Obviously, these moments are there to get a laugh. They don't, only coming off as desperate attempts to charm and shock when nothing else works. And as with PLACID, MYSTERY spends an inordinately amount of time on giving each and every character a backstory of somesorts. In PLACID it helped to fill an already skimpy 80 minute running time. In MYSTERY, it pushes the lethargic story to the 120 minute range. If it ain't SLAP SHOT, then I don't need a two hour hockey film. The endless story spiral is tiring and unneeded in both films. MYSTERY even has the gall to end the picture with big things happening to two characters we've barely met. It's hard to get excited when your third cousin gets a promotion, and it's even harder to achieve cinematic goosebumps over characters whom you couldn't even recall names for.With Jay Roach, it's now clear who really makes the AUSTIN POWERS films so enjoyable, Mike Myers. The unpredictable nature of those successful comedies are long gone in MYSTERY. Working with a talented cast of unrecognized stars (Crowe, Azaria, Reynolds, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, and Colm Meaney ) and the setting of Alaska, Roach still manages to create a vastly uninteresting film. Flat and without vitality, it's shocking considering the film uses and abuses the same sports film clichés that have worked on me time and again. Roach doesn't seem to have a clue what to do with this film except keep his head down and stick to the script.I have a deep affection for snow movies (FARGO, the recent JACK FROST, hell even THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK) and Roach blows the cold weather setting with dismal and distancing cinematography. Shooting in a stark white environment and then dressing your actors in white outfits probably wasn't the best aesthetic choice Roach could have made. He also cannot seem to get an idea how to shoot the hockey scenes. With frenetic editing and bad camera angles, MYSTERY earns it's name just for trying to figure out who has the puck. Even last minute cameos by Mike Myers (who easily contributes the film's only funny line) and Little Richard cannot save MYSTERY from failing.It's no secret that the film is formulaic. Released by Disney, MYSTERY often feels like a big bad adult version of THE MIGHTY DUCKS. Boiling it down, these types of films can only end two different ways. Either the team wins the big game or they don't. I was hoping Roach and Kelley could come up with something inventive for a climax, but they don't even bother. It's all one big audience pleasing film that forgot to please the audience.I really wanted to get into the spirit of MYSTERY, ALASKA, but the filmmakers kept me away. Roach can go back to the psychedelic world in the colorful AUSTIN POWERS films, and Kelley can continue writing heady stuff for THE PRACTICE and the other one million shows he has created. Both men obviously have talent, but this film doesn't help that argument. Coming so soon after John Sayles's thought provoking and decidedly more entertaining Alaska odyssey LIMBO, MYSTERY, ALASKA seems like a slapshot across the face.----------------- 3  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I'm not a Hockey fan...But this movie was Excellent!  It dealt with Hockey, Emotions, Love, Betrayal, Suspicion, adultry...tons and tons of human emotions that revolved around this little alaskian town...very hear warming and poignant tale....8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"sentimental cheese (spoiler)","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" A recipe for mediocrity1. Take a script that has been written a couple thousand times before (Mighty Ducks, every Rodney Dangerfield film etc etc).2. Get a name actor (whose working on at least two other films at the same time) to give a will work for food performance.3. Get sports people to act in it.4. Pepper said script with many cliches-shock horror! The cozy teacher with a heart of gold dies!-WOW the big muscle guy is actually just a sweet person inside.-OH NO! The old boyfriend shows up!-Gee wiz, I hope the scruffy underdog team are gonna beat those a**hole rich hockey players. Awww...they salute the local heroes at the end though...=heat up in VCR and feel the smell of cheese ooze into your brain "},{"Title":"Tradition rules and hockey is the name of the game","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Even if you don't love sports or even if you don't like hockey, you will still enjoy Mystery, Alaska. This film which was directed by Jay Roach and starred Russell Crowe, Burt Reynolds, and Hank Azaria is not all about just playing hockey. The movie is about a small town in Alaska where tradition rules and hockey is the name of the game. Russell Crowe plays John Biebe who is not only the town sheriff he is also one of the stars of the Saturday hockey game. The town takes much pride in their Saturday hockey game so much when they want to bring in the young high school player; there is an actual vote on if they should allow him on the team. Burt Reynolds plays Judge Walter Burns who once played in the Saturday game when he was younger. He now has a son who plays in the Saturday game. The entire town revolves around this game and they take pride in their players and their small town. Hank Azaria plays Charles Danner who has moved away from Mystery because he feels the small town is holding him back and he thinks things are much better in the big city. He decides Mystery needs to be put on the map and he arranges a hockey game with a major professional team. Where it all goes from here is very interesting and the outcome is certainly not what you would think. Mystery, Alaska is not just a movie about hockey, it is also a movie about the relationships we have with our family and our friends. "},{"Title":"Don't Insult Alaskans!","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Okay, the premise is that the great New York Rangers hockey team would play against an unknown Alaskan team in a small fictional town known as Mystery where they like to keep things as they are. They don't want Price World because it would mean local businesses would lose money and be forced to close. I love Alaska, it's our largest state. It has more resources than all of our states put together. It is a beautiful place to live and Alaskans have pride in living there despite the cold weather, endless amounts of snow, and difficult weather conditions. They still live in one of the most incredible places on earth. The plot is pointless and it wasn't even filmed in Alaska which makes it worse. "},{"Title":"Happy Birthday Russell","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Sure, this film has a lot of hockey, but that is only the backdrop to a study of small town values and living. Hockey is what binds the town together, especially the Saturday game, which is just about the only thing going in Mystery (Well, there is one other thing!). Just like all small towns, things change when the local boy made good returns with a game with the New York Rangers.Hockey fans, of which I am not one,will enjoy the movie, but the real story is the cast of characters and how they deal with life in Mystery, and life in general. Russell Crowe was fantastic as the sheriff. Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack, Burt Reynolds, Lolita Davidovich, and Colm Meaney all put in outstanding performances in this enjoyable comedy. It is one I come back to over and over to see a great ensemble cast and a great story. "},{"Title":"Stay out of the cold, unless you were a fan of Northern Exposure","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" ** out of **** starsMystery, Alaska has a very large cast of underdeveloped characters who eat, sleep and breathe hockey. The residents of Mystery take the game as serious as the Pope takes communion, and their infamous pond of black ice is their Holiest of Holies. If you've never pushed a Puck on it, you've never played hockey at all. For as long as anyone can remember (probably when hockey was first invented) everyone, and I mean EVERYONE, shows up in sub-zero weather to watch the immortal Saturday Game, which is made up of the most practiced and talented players who are hand picked by the Mayor and his small committee of experts. When a writer form Sports Illustrated and former resident of Mystery (Hank Azaria) writes an article about the talented Boys of Winter, it creates enough publicity for them to score an exhibition game with the New York Rangers. After a long-winded debate, the players decide to go through with it. Gee, ya think? The film tries to make an argument whether the town's dignity will be destroyed if they get their cans kicked in, but we know all along the big game will happen. No game, no movie.Speaking of movie, the story shouldn't have been made into one. Two hours of celluloid is nowhere near enough time to care about this cast because we hardly get to learn anything about them. Director Jay Roach should have chosen to make Mystery, Alaska into a pleasant television series, where we could revisit the town and the people who live there every week for several seasons and for several years. It wouldn't surprise me to find out that Roach told his actors to watch reruns of Northern Exposure before showing up on the set. Every character is formulated with very little history and they're all pretty much the same pleasant, seemingly good-natured, and at times, funny. There are no stand out performances. That's right, not even Russell Crowe. No, not Burt Reynolds either. If anyone juts out a little its Azaria. He's hated by the whole town because he left it to become successful. Hank tries to play an ego maniac, but we see he's good-natured along with everyone else. Now why are we supposed to hate him again?The film focuses on more than just hockey. The judge's teenage daughter tries to lose her virginity. The Mayor's wife commits adultery with Skank, the town Lothario. A foul-mouthed out-of-towner gets shot in the foot by a grocer. All of these sub plots have nothing to do with what gives the movie its momentum. The repercussions of their actions? We care not. If they had any kind of history at all, maybe, just maybe, we'd give a hoot.Much of the film is shot outdoors where everyone seems to be easy to find. Hey, there's the Sheriff! Hey, there goes the Judge! Never mind the fact that it's consistently below freezing and that the heaters are all working inside, because Mystery folk love weather that would make a snowman shiver and a penguin complain. I kept waiting for someone to say Go ahead sweetheart, watch the Saturday Game without me and I'll skip the barbecue too. I'll stay right here with my cocoa and blanket. Have fun watching pond hockey with all the other lunatics!Okay, okay, enough with the sarcasm and on with some good news. The big match-up against the Red, White and Blue is something we look forward to and we want the underdog to win. Why wouldn't we? Everyone is likable, and the Rangers are all faceless, giant robots form a land far, far away. Mike Myers makes a cameo appearance and elicits a few giggles as a Canadian sports announcer, and Little Richard sings the National Anthem for the big event. He looks thoroughly out of place in Mystery which makes for good visual comedy, yet I'm not sure why he'd take his tour bus to Alaska or how it made it through the snow.Mystery, Alaska is convoluted more than it is bad, and every single plot thread ties up too nicely as if to cater to everyone's petty sensibilities. It ends as if to let everyone say goodbye with forgiveness, which left me feeling squeamish. The roles are superficially orchestrated and cliché. I'll continue to wonder if Mystery, Alaska will ever be made into a T.V. series, airing just after Survivor or something. And if that ever happens, I'll be staying out of the cold. "},{"Title":"some great performances","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" After all the frivolous lightweight movies Burt Reynolds has starred in, many people have forgotten that he started out as a dramatic actor(Deliverance, etc.). In this movie, he turns in a dignified, serious, very believable performance as one of the most respected residents of Mystery, Alaska, who feels compelled to speak out against what he believes will harm the town.Russell Crowe also turns in a first-rate performance as one of the town's best hockey players, who has to deal with being told that he is getting too old to play and that he should step down and allow younger players a chance. He also has to painfully deal with his wife's suspected infidelity.This is not a movie to let your children watch. There is quite a bit of bad language, and one character does considerable bragging about his sexual conquests. "}{"Title":"goofy but watchable","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film entertains, but it is run of the mill.  Would I buy the film no, watch it on tv yes.  I do not mind it, but the writing is goofy.  In conclusion, the jury says goofy but watchable  It will be on tv again. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Would a small hockey town really act like this?","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery is a small town that holds a city hockey game every Saturday. Their sidewalks are used for skating. The sheriff is the Captain. The town meetings are determined for who is the next to play and who is to retire. Mystery lives and breathes hockey. But one day, SPORTS ILLUSTRATED writes an article on this small hockey town, and the NHL decides to have the New York Rangers travel to Alaska to play the team of Mystery. The concept is very good. But everything is done so bland that no emotion is really felt. The characters are extremely weak too. The perfect man to question would be the Mayor (played by Colm Meaney). After being cheated on, ask yourself how you would act. Then compare yourself to the Mayor. Hank Azaria also played a pretty petty role as the man who brought the Rangers to Mystery though his other part as high school ex to the the Sheriff's wife should have been played out more. Much more could have been done and stretched out, and it would not have felt long neither. But what's done is done, and a half done job will not get the results you want. "},{"Title":"dull dull dull","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  If  `Mystery, Alaska' were based on a true story, one could, perhaps, overlook the incredibility of its premise and the tediousness of its execution.  As this is, however, an entirely fictional tale, one becomes less willing to forgive the utter lack of originality demonstrated by the film's makers.  For `Mystery, Alaska' rarely strays far from the tried-and-true clichés of the old underdog-up-against-seasoned-champs scenario that seems all but mandatory for sports films these days.   This David vs.Goliath tale offers only the novelty of its small-town Alaska setting to offset the dull romantic subplots &#150; involving adultery, rekindled romance, unconsummated first time sexual encounters &#150; which drone on for much of the film's exhausting two hour running time.  The `David' in this case is an amateur pond hockey team that is the pride and joy of this secluded Alaskan village known as Mystery.  Here, the residents literally think, breathe and live hockey, so much so that the weekly Saturday morning games become the center of public life for the entire town.  One day their lives all change when a former resident who left Mystery to start a career as a successful journalist manages to print an article on the team in `Sports Illustrated.'  Intrigued, the NHL &#150; and herein lies the incredibility &#150; decides to send the New York Rangers to challenge the team to a duel on the latter's own home turf, or, more accurately, their own home ice pond.  Thus, the `Goliath' is all set up to take his nasty fall &#150; though, to the film's one credit, it doesn't entirely succumb to the predictability of that aspect of the allusion. That, however, is the sole area in which the film displays even a modicum of originality.  For the most part, we are stuck with a bevy of drab, two-dimensional, stereotypical characters who look far too glamorous for the setting and behave far too predictably to be either believable or interesting.   The normally gifted, usually dynamic Russell Crowe sleepwalks through his role as an aging player who finds himself suddenly deleted from the team in favor of an up and coming teenager.  Mary McCormack plays his perpetually cheerful, devoted wife who feels sudden stirrings of unrequited love when her former boyfriend, the man who has brought the Rangers to the town, returns for his semi-annual visit.  Burt Reynolds, in the most stereotypical role of all, appears as the grumpy town judge who can't accept the fact that he never made the team himself in his youth and now takes it out on his son through an assortment of disapproving looks and comments.  Do we doubt for a moment that his heart will melt at the appropriate moment late in the film?  In fact, the film is riddled with moments of drippy sentimentality, as lovers and spouses easily mend all breaches brought about by infidelity and jealousy, learning to become `better people' in the process &#150; all, of course, in time for the big game.  As these and many of the other, equally hackneyed characters play out their dreary domestic dramas, all we in the audience can do is while away the time till the inevitable showdown on the ice finally takes place.  Yet, when it comes, we realize that here too we have seen the setup a thousand times before.  Thus, even the hockey game, though well shot from a technical viewpoint, somehow manages to bore us.  Is it possible that, by their very nature, sporting events in movies just can't work?  Isn't much of the suspense and excitement of athletic competition generated by real-time factors of chance, unpredictability and unknown outcome?  Games that are contrived and scripted lose most of what we go to athletic events for and the result is that all these sports stories seem, somehow, self-defeating.Alas, `Mystery, Alaska,' though well intentioned and inoffensive, is instantly forgettable.  "},{"Title":"R Rated Ducks","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Things sure have changed since The Mighty Ducks, but then The Ducks were aimed at a younger audience.I shouldn't have been surprised I suppose, but when for laughs the dreaded f word spills from the mouth of a three year old you know we're in the naughties.The writer of Mystery Alaska (with Sean O'Byrne) , David E. Kelly, helps sets the pace and probably the unofficial rules for popular culture while he writes Ally McBeal and The Practice.  I'd guess that I would have seen it all before if I watched more television.All of the expected characters are trooped out for this sporting film. But this is a adult version of the Mighty Ducks formula.And why not? As one of the players says fornication and hockey are the two fun things to do in cold weather.Australia's Russell Crowe does a good job of playing the older player on the local hockey team who doubles as the sheriff in this small town.He's the grizzled one who gets dropped and made coach of this small town team when it's slated to take  on a major team from New York as a promotional venture.There's the speedy, premature ejaculating young gun who would like to have it off with the local judges daughter.And there's the sheriff's wife (Mary McCormack) who' s husband becomes jealous when she shows interest in a (God forbid) non skating journalist played by The Birdcage's Hank Azaria.)Burt Reynolds plays the Judge and former coach stiffly but overall this is a mildly pleasing time filler with a fair bit of bite for your puck.  "},{"Title":"A curious little town.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"       The town of Mystery is a intresting little town nestle in the snowy gigantic mountains of Alaska.  There isthe town sheriff, John Biebe (Russell Crowe) who obeys and upholds the law.  The town judge, Judge Walter Burns (Burt Reynolds) who is more concerned about the town's dignity than anything else.  And the man who left town to become successful, Charles Danner (Hank Azaria). It's like any other typical American town, sort of like.....Mumford!     Instead of having the town's popular psychtrist being a phony, the claim to fame of Mystery is hockey, and Mystery does take it's hockey very seriously.  Every Saturday morning the entire town gather at a frozen pond to watch the local hockey athletes play.  This is a very big deal to Mystery.  Being on the hockey team is like being a part of the in-crowd. Just ask the local school teacher, Skank Marden (Ron Eldard), who not only plays hockey, but pretty much has intercourse with most of the women in Mystery.  Skank claims that hockey and sex is the only fun things in cold weather.  Mystery is very proud of it's players, they generate so much popularity over the years that successful former Mystery resident Charles Danner, writes a feature article of the Mystery hockey players in Sports Illustrated.      The feature article caught the eye of the National Hockey League, and they suggest to have a game with the Mystery hockey team play the.....New York Rangers!!!!!  This is very big news for Mystery.  The town mayor, Scott Pitcher (Colm Meaney) sees this as a major publicity event that will generate popularity with for the town.  But the Mystery's lawyer, Bailey Pruitt (Maury Chaykin) feels that it's the perfect opprotunity for the hockey team to finally get recognized.  And the town... well, they couldn't be more excited.      MYSTERY, ALASKA is a entertaining little film.  It's the film about the nobody's from nowhere who go up against the giants from metropolis.  And it does have it's moments.  The story is pretty basic, where the local team players have many different stories.  Skank can't seem to stop sleeping with various women, including the mayor's wife (Lolita Davidovich). Birdie Burns (Scott Grimes) is struggling to please his overbearring father, Judge Burns.  And Sheriff John Biebe, has to face almost retirement from age, and has to compete with the very young and very fast, Stevie Weeks (Ryan Northcott). While Stevie has to face what he's going to do with his relationship with, the Judge's daughter Marla Burns (Rachel Wilson).     If MYSTERY, ALASKA came out when it was originally suppose to be released (March 30th), it would have been a bigger hit, and a better film.  I think Hollywood Pictures was scared of THE MATRIX, therefore they decided to delay it.  Well, if it's not one Warner Bros. movie that's going to kill MYSTERY, ALASKA, then it's going to be another, and that movie is THREE KINGS.       Which is a shame, because MYSTERY deserves more business than it's getting.  Granted it is very similar to a typical small town film (i.e. NASHVILLE and MUMFORD), but it does grab one's intrest and it does have some very well done moments. Also, the hockey scenes are very exciting, but personally, I thought that there were too little.      What I thought stood out in the film were the actors and actresses.  Russell Crowe proves that he can carry a film very well, and be a very likable person.  Burt Reynolds is also very good as the strict town judge who also becomes the team's coach.  He shows that he his all hard on the outside, but also does have a soft spot inside of him.  And Maury Chaykin is also great as the town's lawyer, who doesn't protray the typical vicious and money-grubbing lawyer, but pretty much the most sensitive man in town.      There is also good support from Ron Eldard, Colm Meany, Hank Azaria, and Mary McCormack, the latter playing the wife of the sheriff.  But sadly, David E. Kelly can't really write a script for a film.  I'm sure that he's good for television character development, but with a film, it seems like that he's leaving some characteristics of the people out.  I will say this though, this is A LOT better than Kelly's previous screenplay, LAKE PLACID.     And Jay Roach does a decent job of mixing in the seriousness and comedy of the story.  And for those Jay Roach fans, there is a nice cameo surprise in this film.  But it's good for the director of the silly satires of AUSTIN POWERS take a somewhat serious turn.      MYSTERY, ALASKA is a good movie, but with other small town movies out there, it will be a mystery to where it went.  As for a hockey film, I personally thought that SLAP SHOT (1977) with Paul Newman was funnier.  Before I leave, I would like to point out the scenery.  IT WAS BEAUTIFUL!!!!!!!  I loved the scenery, I would like to live in the location where this film was made.  It's much better than the dry and hot region where I've lived for over 20 years.  ***1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"an adult Mighty Ducks clone/film!!where was everybody??!!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is about a town called Mystery ,Alaska(hence the name of the fim). The town lives hockey and everything is centered around it. A former resident (now a big sports magazine writer) tells every one that a big NHL team is coming to the town to play. The players of the team now have to get ready for the big game. It was now starting to feel like the Mighty Ducks movies.Although the movie was delayed(it was originally due out last July!!) it was a OK movie. We also get to look into the players personell lives, which I never saw in the Mighty Ducks movies. Mystery, Alaska has colorful cast with great stars!!One of them is Russell Crowe(L.A Confidental,The Quick and The Dead,The Insider) and Hank Azaria(Godzilla,Mystery Men) . It also has a cameo by Mike Myers(Austin Powers 1 and 2,Wayne's World) . The other hockey team play themselfes. Overall, if you like sports movies(I'm a causal fan of sports movies) , you might like this movie.Also since the guy behind the hit show Ally Mcbeal was doing the screenplay where was everybody? I thought he was popular!!? Maybe judging from the poor turn out he should stick to stuff like Lake Placid, Ally, The Pratice and Ally McBeal. My guess is the american public has not forgiven him for last summer's Lake Placid. If you want to see something diffrent from David A Kelly(writer/producer) then see this movie!!Who cares if it is almost a clone of the Mighty Ducks movie , then go check out this movie!!BTW this movie came in ninth on this opening weekend!!! "},{"Title":"Cheap Hockey Thrills.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is filled with new actors that are show potential and a bunch of washed up actors. Burt Reynolds ,the washed up, plays the city court judge that tries to keep the town from going out of control when the town hockey team gets to play the NHL New York Rangers. Even the two comic scenes and potential actress Beth Littleford, can't help this movie. Like hockey the language is salty and crude. Save this movie for Bargain Basement rental night. "},{"Title":"This movie is too slow","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  The movie is extremely drawn out. In the beginning of the movie you know the story line and what will happen, you have to wait  the two hours to actually see it happen. The story line is extremely cheesy. "},{"Title":"if 0 was an option on the ratings list....","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I have never written an online review, but I feel as if it is my civic duty to warn everyone against watching this movie. The cast of the Mighty Ducks are all grown up - how....pathetic. This movie tried to please a general audience with its oh-so-hilarious one-liners and edge-of-your-seat sports action. Well, it didn't score. The characters were not developed at all. I got the sense that I was just being given an overview. The movie jumps around from character to character, not giving you the chance to relate to any of them. The sexual comedy element in the film (to convince us that we're not watching the Mighty Ducks) would hardly be funny to a 14 year old, much less adults. Even the game at the end....what the whole movie led up to, was disappointing. If you are looking for a moving or inspiring picture, this is just not it. Even if you're just looking to be entertained for an hour and a half, look further. Mystery, Alaska is dull, cliché, and utterly forgettable. The time I spent watching this film was definitely time wasted.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant story of small town glory.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Mystery is a small town in Alaska that lives and breathes their weekly hockey match. The towns folk take great pride in their elite hockey players. A former resident, working for a national sports magazine, concocts a game between the best of Mystery against the professional New York Rangers. The game is to be televised and brings focus on the inhabitants of Mystery.This sports comedy pulls together a diverse cast Russell Crowe, Burt Reynolds, Mary McCormack, Hank Azaria and Lolita Davidovich. "}{"Title":"language vs story line","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  _Fornication _Under _Christian _Knowledge Is it now a contest to see just how many times in a minute this anachronism can be used in a movie?  This movie was an insult!  Excelent story line, but thats all it had going for it. "},{"Title":"I Wasn't Won Over","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I read this page just before I watched MYSTERY ALASKA and after seeing the movie the only mystery was why so many IMDb users seemed to enjoy it First of all it seems the audience needs some knowledge of ice hockey to understand the premise featuring a local team playing the NY Rangers team . If I mentioned to you  Glasgow Rangers  would you understand i was talking about a Scottish football team ? Would you understand its political and religious affiliations ? Would you know of its standing in British / European / World soccer ? Secondly if this movie is marketed for ice hockey fans then why does it spend so much time on sub stories ? Worse why does it include sex scenes and some crude humour ? The idea of a sports comedy screams family film does it not ? But there's no way you'd be able to recommend MYSTERY ALASKA as family fare I'm only going on my own opinion guys so don't hate me for it but I found little to recommend in this movie , not even an early starring role by Russell Crowe "}]