[{"Title":"Warm and Colourful","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kate Winslet and her young co-stars are charming in this film.  The children have some priceless scenes which are faultlessly acted and leave you wishing that you could encounter such vibrant children in real life instead of the ones prone to throwing tantrums in crowded shopping malls.The story drifts all over the place - more of a string of events meandering along in search of a purpose, much like Winslet's character.  The scenery is stunning, the colours of Morrocco vibrant and the glimpse into another culture is well executed.  A fine film to watch if you want visual stimulation, but don't wish to concentrate on a complex story. "},{"Title":"An Honest Movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A young English mother, Julia (Kate Winslet), packs up her two daughters, aged 5 and 7, moves to Morocco and embarks on a voyage of self discovery. Set in 1972, the film catches up with Julia and kids nine months into their trip. We're never told why she left London, but her artist-husband back home has just stopped providing the rent checks. This is putting a crimp in the self-awareness game. In the process of surviving and searching for Sufic fulfillment, Julia must also deal with her children's growing disenchantment with life in Morocco, and their desire to return to a stable, normal (and English) childhood. Family friction increases when she takes a young Moroccan lover, and a group of wealthy English ex-pats start second guessing Julia's childrearing abilities.  There is no big story here, no buildup of drama, and no real endgame. Hideous Kinky is a study of the family dynamics amongst this odd troupe. The acting is very good, especially the two children, and the on-location filming in Morocco is a treat. This film is definitely not for everyone, but if you are in to this type of movie, you should enjoy it. The single word that I would use to describe Hideous Kinky is 'honest'.  "},{"Title":"A movie that rewards you to the degree of your own insights","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has all the qualities of an exquisite poem the rhythm of feeling, the power of understated experience, the slender and subtle plot.  Some elements of this story--the existential search for identity, the lack of obvious momentum, the subjective encounter with alternative civilisations etc.--are very much out of fashion at the moment, as is evident from several reviews.  Poetry may be out of fashion for similar reasons, but probably not forever.  I admire this film as a gesture of art, one that enriches the viewer without spelling out a heavy-handed individualistic message.  I hope we will see more movies like this one. "},{"Title":"Authenticity, great characters, good story","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of a Julia, young  Englishwoman who travels to Morocco in 1972 with her two young daughters in search of enlightenment.  Kate Winslet, of Titanic fame, plays the lead, and evokes the experience of the early 70s, with its innocent hippie culture. The two young daughters, 6 and 8, are delightful and seem much wiser than their mother, who loves them dearly but is somewhat overwhelmed by the world around her.Perhaps it was the sound system, but my American ears missed some of the British dialog and I wished I was watching it on videotape so that I could rewind and hear some of it again.  Also, some of the editing seemed disjointed, and episodic rather than a smooth flow.  However, I loved the cinematography, the setting, the realistic portrayal of Morocco.  Casting was more than excellent, especially the two young actresses who played the daughters.  Much of the story is told from the children's point of view, which added dimension and insight.There's a romance between Julia and a charismatic street acrobat, played by a hunk of an actor named Said Taghaoui, who also works at a quarry doing hard physical labor.  We get a serious glimpse into his character and his world.  One great thing about the film is that the story moves along with twists and turns and, at the same, time, there are culture clashes and explorations of responsibility, escapism and common sense.   Always, there is a sense of tension and a constant concern for the children.The movie portrays a time and place and mindset that has a sense of authenticity.  I give it one of my highest recommendations.  "},{"Title":"fascinating","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a really fascinating film, extremely well-acted (the two little girls are especially good), whose only flaw is an ending that is a bit too neat.  The soundtrack is wonderful traditional Moroccan music mixed with some very well-chosen popular songs of the period.  Using White Rabbit to accompany Julia's frantic search for her missing daughter is a particularly good choice.Hideous Kinky serves as a reminder of something that seems shocking now -- just 30 years ago, a whole class of educated Western women sought enlightenment, and even liberation, in Islam.  One wonders what became of these women?  Did they remain in Islam?  Have they survived the rising tide of fundamentalism?  And what of their children?  What is their cultural legacy? What burdens do they bear?    "},{"Title":"not for the story seeking weak willed not prepared to do some thinking of their own","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is simply a beautiful film, breathtakingly shot, with wonderful acting especially so by Carrie Mullan. Of the two girls, she rightly so has the even if only slightly so bigger acting part. Refreshingly free of a rigorous story line, you can just enjoy the atmosphere and exquisite photography. And, of course the actors. Winslet is her usual self, solid acting, and she's apparently not afraid to show herself in a less than perfect physical appearance, against the Standard-Issued-Hollywood-Bodies culture. A leeettle chubby, she's the perfect reflection of Greek sculpture. Mullan's mimique is very grown-up, Riza is good, though at times her inexperience shines through and Taghmaoui is quite sympathetic. The nudity in this film can be but should not be considered daring in this day and age, and is thus true to the film's era. The makers obviously thought something like 'Shove it, if this arouses or excites you, there's something very wrong with you' and i salute them for it.  "},{"Title":"Transporting","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The perfect movie for me does a few things. The first is that it should take me some place that I have never been not just a strange location, but a perspective with exotic causalities. It should be deeply self-referential, in that the form of the cinematic vision should convey as much or more than the `story.' The images must captivate and flow, and a significant part of that is the image presented by the actors.What stance they present is up to them, whether they charm or amuse or tease. But it must show deliberation and be consonant with the whole. My absolutely perfect film will be intelligent, and deal with some great ideas rather than fey emotions, but it is nearly good enough to be competently transported.This is a nearly perfect film. It takes us to an era that some of us remember fondly but placed in a warm sensuous Morocco. What's so strange here is the film has a superstar, newly from `Titanic,' but she is there primarily to walk us through the environment. This is an expertly architectural film. Not arty, so much as giving a presence an enclosure that sometimes contrasts with an (unsheltering) sky.It is deeply self-referentially wrapped it has no goal, just an opportunistic drift. Nothing is resolved, nothing illuminated, no moral imparted. Just as it really was -- a large part of the transportation is to remove us from the need for linear narrative. Thankfully, this is not hammered home by the slight references to sufism.These three Kate and the two girls, are absolutely endearing. So without guile. It is a dangerous type of acting to act so open -- you need to be bigger than the part, which means more open than this totally open Julia. Small wonder Kate fell in love on the set. She is surely one of the best film actresses alive. It is especially appealing she chose this path, plus `Holy Smoke,' which can be seen as a companion film.I wonder about how small children can act so. Bigger mystery than any special effect I've encountered -- the magic is greater. Makes the viewing somewhat dangerous if you yourself choose to be open.The only flaw is that this is not about any great idea. But the strange thing is that it is about something we believed in the seed of our souls to be important at the time. Richie Havens!A nearly perfect film. "},{"Title":"A simple, beautiful film","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has been quite a while since I saw this film (I viewed it in the theatres when it opened), but I read some of the negative user comments and decided to throw in my 2 cents.I remember not having a clue what to expect as I walked into the theatre as I had heard nothing of the film and was accompanying a friend who wanted to see it.I also remember being touched by the performances of all involved, especially Ms. Winslet and her lovely on-screen children.  The scenery was beautiful and the story was a poignant journey into the life of a young family uprooted from their London home to travel to the Moroccan countryside.  As the final scene ended and the credits began I remember sighing with enjoyment and satisfaction at an hour and a half of viewing pleasure.While the movie will not appeal to everyone, I must say that it is nice to sit and watch a simple film that is not bursting with gore, nudity and profanity for a change.A surprise treat!  "},{"Title":"A Breathing Brochure of Morrocco","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hideous Kinky is not a plot-driven movie but more of a meditation on time and place.  And I can live with that.  The photography is so rich with colors and beautiful locales, I want to visit Morrocco.  The acting in splendid across the board with particular note to the two young girls who were handed quite a bit of duty with the roles.  Where this movie failed me is in the character played by Kate Winslet.  She behaves with such selfishness and stupidity--not once--but over and over again, that I really grew to dislike her.  Sure...she may be a young, naive, adventurous, hippie in the early '70's, but a I refuse to believe she didn't realize what kind of danger she was putting her children in.  Hideous Kinky is a good movie--not great.  And it's good for one viewing, maybe two for the cinematography. "},{"Title":"Dramatically gutless, gorgeously photographed rambling travelogue with no  goal or progression, no character development and an apparent terror of emotional confrontation.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kate Winslet is almost director-proof. She, the girls who play her daughters and the photography are the best things about this meandering tale of an upper-middle class, twittish young mother dragging her two daughters around Morrocco in 1972. She apparently wants to find something spiritual, but is very half hearted in her search for it. Things do happen, but almost none of the potential character, spiritual or cultural conflict is interestingly explored -if at all. The punches are constantly pulled when it comes to emotional confrontation. A typical scene is where a Christian teacher tries to steal one of Kate's daughters. Kate confronts the woman, and we assume we will now see what our heroine is really made of. But no the confrontation takes place behind a closed door! There are some nice moments and some very clunky ones.(Some of the kids' dialogue was especially woeful). However, it's hats off to the photography, which is utterly gorgeous.   "}{"Title":"A Refreshing And Responsible Film About An Unconventional Encounter Between European and Arab","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hideous Kinky is based on the semi-autobiographical novel by Esther Freud (descended from a certain Swiss Psychiatrist). The film, set in the 1960's, follows Julia, a young English mother with her small children, Bea and Lucy, recently divorced from her creative, and philandering, husband. She is in Morocco, like many young Europeans inspired by the counter-culture philosophy of the time, to explore herself with respect to its eastern philosophy and culture.It would be so easy for a film with such a subject to fall into the trap of using the 'orient' as merely a backdrop to depict fun backpackers engaging in pseudo-spiritual experiments. Or, on the other hand, take a more malevolent track of exploiting the bad feeling between Europeans and Arabs by having the bright young Julia encounter the traditional savage, woman-hating Arab as depicted in most western films, and pioneered by Valentino in Hollywood's silent classic The Sheik (1921).However Hideous Kinky is refreshing as it is fun and 'exotic', but does not compromise in its sense of responsibility. It attempts to show an intelligent, though wayward, young mother with the genuine desire to explore her self internally, and captures the richness and humanity of the country and its people around her, exhibiting their interesting religious life and culture.The feel of place in the film is astonishing. Marrakech, with the narrow streets and courtyards of its old town, dark and forbidding, but also revealing wonder, and the surrounding desert, are filmed deliciously with ambition and assurance. Julia, as well as being part of the 'drop out' European expat community, finds herself accessing different strands of Moroccan society, the common society of Morocco via her relationship with Bilal, a shady character who turns out to be a convict, played wonderfully by Said Taghmaoui, and the higher rungs via her ex-husband's friend, Santoni.Central to the film- and what also complicates it, giving it an added, new dimension- is Julia's relationship with her two children, played astoundingly well by Bella Riza and Carrie Mullan. They, in turn, have their own incredible experiences, good and bad, as shown by their delightful but confused sayings. Julia, unusually in film, is a complex female character with many shades. She is naïve, foolish and irresponsible. At one point, she even manages to lose one of her daughters. But she is also smart, soulful and canny, and from her time in Morrocco, Julia does gain an insight into her self, but it is not the insight that she expected, and perhaps it is a genuine insight for that reason. She is played by Kate Winslet with characteristic heart and intelligence, and a brave choice as she had just come off the safety of the glitzy but vacuous blockbuster, Titanic.Hideous Kinky is a rare thing- despite being government financed, usually the kiss of death for a British film, it is a refreshing and responsible film about an unconventional encounter between European and Arab. "},{"Title":"Looks great but is a bit aimless at times","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story of two young girls and their mother who leave London to live in Morocco to allow their mother, Julia, to discover herself.  Once there they find many things ranging from love, happiness to poverty and loss against the backdrop of Morocco.This is an interesting film that I must admit I did have high hopes for.  All I heard about this was good with critics praising it pretty roundly.  The story itself is pretty thin.  It is not exactly linear as it focuses on experiences rather than a straight series of happenings.  The effect of this to me was to make the film feel rambling and that it wasn't going anywhere - it certainly felt longer than it's 90 minute run time.  The adventures, for want of a better word, are very interesting and sometimes moving but they do give the impression that the film wants to give the audience a feeling or an experience rather than a story.Visually the film is beautiful and Morocco is well shot - both breathtaking landscapes and realistic scenes of poverty, but this doesn't make up for the lack of story.  Some people may feel that the scenery is enough to watch the film for but not me.  The acting is also faultless - Riza and Mullan are excellent as Bea and Lucy, while Winslet is also strong as Julia.  The main problem with the story is that it is quite focused on Julia and she is such a selfish, unpleasant character at times that it makes it hard to stay with her all the time.  I didn't feel that I could learn anything from her travels and at times I was just amazed that such a spoilt Westerner would just act in such a way as to hurt her daughters either directly or indirectly.  The daughters were great characters and were worthy of all the interest and sympathy that the script gives them.  But Winslet's character is a major turn-off.Overall it looks great with great performances.  But the lack of a coherent story or message is a bit frustrating and can make it feel a bit aimless. "},{"Title":"The best movie about the sixties counter culture so far","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie addresses the search for spiritual meaning that propelled thousands of western hippies to North Africa and India in the late sixties and early seventies. Although the brain-dead hippie stereotypes are there, often with comedic effect, the narration follows Julie, a single mother played aptly by Kate Winslet, and her two young daughters on a quest for transcendental knowledge around Marrakech Morocco and the nearby villages. Although this is not Winslet's strongest performance (see Hamlet or Quills)her craftsmanship is superb in conveying the emotional turmoil that follows the trail of her character. Is Julie merely escaping from the drudgery of a cold water flat and a fourteen hour workday day in South London or is she on a serious path to spiritual awakening? Is she exposing her children to undue danger in a strange land or is she leading them on the adventure of a lifetime? Has she found the love of her life and a surrogate father for her daughers or has she thrust them into the hands of a polygamist bandit?The story does not take the easy way out and answer these questions--we do admire Julie's strength of character in coping with them-- but rather twists on a few epiphanies experienced by her children. Winslet  brings out the best in the children actors that play daughters Bea and Kate, and Assiz, a delightful steetwise Morrocan youth. As the movie opens the daughters beg Julie to return to London and to their father, a well known writer and poet who is maintaining a second family and a son in Kensington. Julie meets and starts a love affair with Belal, a Morrocan street performer and acrobat. The daughters beg for his acceptance but doubt his loyalty when, out of desparation and out of money, he takes them to the village of his family. The villagers welcome them warmly and throw flower petals over them but the scene is clouded by the presence of a woman who may be Belal's estranged wife.Julie returns to Marrakech to find long overdue money has arrived from the father in London. Julie can finally make the pilgramage to the Sufi Sheik, her heart's desire all along, but daughter Bea, tired of turmoil and lack of security , asks to be left behind in Marrakech in the house of well-to-do friends. When Julie meets her Sheik a marvelously acted scene takes place where the Sheik, by asking simple earnest questions in a kindly manner draws out of Julie the realisation that her real purpose is to care for her daughters. Although she no longer fears death herself, she must face the more awesome fear of loosing her children. Julie returns to Marrakech to find Bea abandoned to the streets. A mother's worst nightmare comes true when Bea becomes deathly ill. Only taking Bea home to London can save her but there is no money for the trip.Julie makes the sacrifice of giving up the spiritual life for the sake of her daughters, but, unexpectedly, it is Belal who makes the sacrifice that opens Bea's heart to Morroco.The film is edited with a break-neck speed that conveys the exotic and strange experience of the young girls in Morroco. If the movie has a weakness, it is that it did not slow down and linger as the the love between Julie and Belal blossomed. In the end we are left with hope. We hope that in the director's cut unseen footage can be ressurected to give dramatic depth where it is needed. We hope Belal is not caught by the authorities; we hope somehow he and Julie can continue their love relation; and we hope that Bea returns to Morroco and is once again welcomed by village women throwing flower petals over her. Imshalla. "},{"Title":"meandering movie","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1972 Marrakesh. Julia (Kate Winslet) moves from London to Morocco with his young daughters Bea and Lucy. The girls' father has another woman in London. They struggle waiting for the father's check to come in. Julia falls for acrobat street performer Bilal (Saïd Taghmaoui). She goes to study in Algiers with Sufi mystic Ben Said.There is a meandering pointlessness about this movie. It doesn't have enough exotic style. The movie doesn't tap into a child's wonder. It doesn't have tension of surviving in a foreign land. Kate Winslet looks downbeat which somewhat fits her character. She may want to be someone looking for spirituality but she strikes as someone self-obsessed running away from her troubled home. She's more about her love life than taking care of her children. "},{"Title":"The Book is Highly Regarded","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I came across the book via an entry in a book called 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die, which I have come to trust as a great pointer to entertaining works. The point-of-view in the book is rigidly and relentlessly that of the youngest daughter. And the picture that is painted from Lucia's 5 year old perspectiove is done very simply and lightly, with no deviation into a more adult rendering of the events. There are no aha moments, no coming-of-age realizations...just a world-view of a 5 year old girl, where anything and everything is already fantastical and enchanting.Never seen the movie. But looking forward to it, if it can remain faithful to the author's intent, should be very interesting and unique in film. "},{"Title":"i liked the movie (Possible Spoilers)","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I walked in on the middle of this film, but it was very cool to watch this movie! I din't think the people were shallow, I just felt there needed to be more explained in the story, because some parts didn't make sense.As far as sexual scenes I walked in on the part before Bilal jumps into the lake and before Bea insists there father has forgotten about them and from there on I saw no-sexual themes(besides Bilal's bare bottom when he runs into the lake) I quite enjoyed this movie and did not find it boring. Despite the title it is not a very adult movie, the most violence I saw was a vase being thrown, and she threw the F-bomb around casually a couple of times. Overall I found this movie to be very enjoyable and I would definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Needs MORE of Morocco","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Winslet is fine and the girls are, too.  You get enough chance to see their unconventional relations played out broadly on screen.  The problem I saw was that in seeking the 'annihilation of self,' the Winslet character forgets entirely that she'll have to take her daughters with her.  It's a jaunt for an immature Westerner enjoying the developing world.  So, many people did likewise- it still needs no glorification.  We can watch as her deus ex machina, a young man I'd love to see more of, arrives in the nick of time to rescue her and her innocent children from tragedy that visits the native people frequently.  Whew.  I also found the soundtrack impossibly grating.  When local music played, it did so fairly softly unless key to a scene. BUT when some Western hit of the time was played, it bloody well blasted out the damn speakers.  Good lord, why?  I would have appreciated MORE local music to accompany the stunning cinematography.  Yes, that was the best part by far.  The cinematography was, at once, so sharp and so dusty.  It was a joy to behold.     "},{"Title":"Fine recreation of Morocco in the early 1970's.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I lived in Morocco between the fall of 1971 and the spring of 1972, and thoroughly enjoyed this movie. They got it right - the sights, sounds and feel of the place. And like another British film, Withnail and I, they manage to convey the goofy absurdity of the sixties by focusing not on stereotypical hippies but actual flawed human beings. I've read a number of criticisms of this film, and can only say - I was there, and so was the author. If you weren't, take our word for it - it was even more hideous kinky than you could ever imagine! "},{"Title":"Major Yawnfest","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great scenery and high production values do not keep one's interest for 90+ minutes.  Kate Winslett's usual quality performance is the only redeeming aspect of this film.  Her movie daughters, although cute and energetic, were difficult to understand as much of their dialogue was muddled in thick British accents and a sing-song delivery.  The story line meandered through numerous uninteresting sub-plots including possible mysterious criminal background, some sort of slave-like manual labour, near death illness, and nightmare/flashback scenes.  Half way through this tedious journey, one gets the disappointing feeling that it ain't gonna get any better, and guess what - it didn't. "},{"Title":"Slice of hippie life","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone old enough to remember the hippie era probably had a friend or two back then who talked with a kind of knowing dreaminess about going to Marrakech.  If yours were like mine, they never went, and are now someone's obese grandparents who drive Navigators and  talk with knowing dreaminess about IPOs.  Such  is the way of things.This movie is about a luscious young woman who really does go to Marrakech, with her two cute little daughters, in search of enlightenment. She is a good person at heart, despite a selfish streak.  Her only flaws are an almost cowlike stupidity, and an habitual inattentiveness that  enables her to sail along oblivious to grim  reality until she runs smack into it.  In other words, she is a comic character.  The problem is that Kate Winslett plays her (as I assume she was directed to play her) with a kind of breathless  lack of affect that doesn't quite bring the comedy  out.  One narrative device that I enjoyed was the way a new scene or shift in focus is introduced by a scene of one or both of the little girls.  My  favorite one was of Lucy, the younger of the two, trying to wrap a length of turban cloth around her head.  This movie might not be to everyone's taste, but it's worth a rental or two. "}{"Title":"Makes one want to stay far away from Morocco.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film to be nearly unwatchable.  Thank goodness for the ability to put the dvd on 4x speed.  The story did not interest me and though I am infatuated with Kate, nothing could have saved this film for me.  I would not suggest people pass it up.  It is important to support such small films. It could have been that I was not in the mood for such a drama.  I doubt this. I was so sick of everyone in the film in the 45 minutes I gave it.  I rarely turn a film off or hit fast forward but this required it.  The dvd looks great, though. "},{"Title":"A fine film with some great acting, weak story","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fine film with some very good actors and a beautiful setting.  However, the film lacks a message.  It is a movie of episodes, which is fine. However the scenes seem to cut out a little too quickly, making hard to get to know any of the supporting characters.  Despite the relatively weak story, the characters are engrossing, especially the two girls.  "},{"Title":"Subtle, but not pointless","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had been hearing that this movie was very nice and atmospheric, but kind of meandering and pointless. I don't think it's pointless, and there was a nice character arc in all of the characters, it's just that this film was very subtle and carefully shaded. It reminded me of the kinds of French movies you might find Daniel Auteil and Catherine Deneuve in lately.I expected Kate to play a much more despicable character, much less responsible, and she is somewhat loose, but in a lovable way, and she does change as the film wears on. The film does not have a linear storytelling structure, and does not supply detail after detail to have viewers arrive and a predetermined point. It just presents their words and actions, and lets you decide.Kate is good, the girls are amazingly good, and their Moroccan friend is nice and sexy (I had gone in expecting him to be a cad). The script is careful and subtle, and there is a particularly good dream image that is very chilling when a similar image appears in real life.Don't expect a nice, compact, neat story, but go see this for a beautifully put together movie that doesn't smack you over the head.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Patience will be rewarded ...","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... by which I mean that it takes a LONG time for this film to get started, but the wait is worth it.Until it kicks into gear the viewer risks getting buried in National Geographic details, and it's hard not to get annoyed at Kate Winslet's seeming disregard for her daughters's best interests or well-being.The character -- and the film -- are very true to the times, and to the residue of the sixties free-love-do-your-own-thing mentality.The reward for your patience is yet another great performance from Winslet and from two of the best child actresses I've seen in years.  "},{"Title":"Not the Same Old Thing","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nicely mounted flick, with near-astonishing performances from the 2 girls playing Winslett's daughters...a film that may seem to wander from time to time. But by the end you realize it's hit all its targets and made a memorable impression. "},{"Title":"And this is all about....","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have no idea what this film was meant to be about. I am sure the original script had some destination but I think the Director got a little lost in the souks of Marrakech and gave-up on the plot. Great setting for a movie (Morocco) but please remember that we do expect a story of a little more purpose, depth, excitement and direction.   "},{"Title":"Kate, stills, hash, and young","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Escapism is subjective isn't it?  On a cold, dark, and wet night in a strange town I was lifted by the warmth, colour, and exotic desert landscapes that make up Hideous Kinky.  I loved it.  There were a hundred and one reasons why just about every character should not invoke any sympathy from me, but it was the nature of this delightful film that the innocence of the time infected me throughout.  Particular credit to Kate Winslett, (did I really say that?), in matching the naiveté of the priceless Carrie Mullan.  Catch it before you are too old! Ron "},{"Title":"Meandering plot","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film can boast superb cinematography, excellent performances by all (the two children in particular), dense atmosphere ... but a meandering plot that had me looking at my watch with 15 minutes to go.  Basically there was little suspense because there was no sense of direction in the film.  It is a series of episodes rather than a coherent story.  As a result the characters lack real lives, and there is little incentive to care much about them.     "},{"Title":"'Hideous Kinky', yes.  Hideous movie, no!","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw 'Hideous Kinky' at the London Film Festival.  I read the book a few months ago and absolutely adored it.  The movie did not entirely live up to the standard of the book.  As an adaptation it was good, I would imagine that it was not an easy book to translate to the screen.Gilles MacKinnon did a great job with this movie, presenting us with the events and characters that made up a year in the life of a young 5 year old. As such the movie has a slight disjointed feel to it, events happen and people appear and disappear for no reason - but that is how it seems when you are that age.Kate Winslet turns in another good, strong performance, however not - in my opinion - one of her best.  Unfortunately she was overshadowed by Bella Rizza and Carrie Mullan as the young Bea and Lucy, Winslet's not-so-annoying daughters.  This really is their movie and they should be congratulated, along with MacKinnon for coaxing the performances out of them.A thoroughly enjoyable movie.  4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"less than the sum of its parts","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are plenty of good things in this movie, most particularly some excellent performances from the cast and some beautiful cinematography. Yet it leaps along from one short scene to the next without communicating a great deal about its characters or their lives. Director Gillies McKinnon visited Morocco during the 1970s and his pleasure in taking us there is evident. But there is little more to the movie than this; the occasional hints at more searching themes, such as Julia's desire for self-discovery, are superficial and irritating. If the viewer is to enjoy this movie, s/he has to be prepared to just sit back and enjoy the ride. "}{"Title":"Kate Winslet is superb!","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love HIDEOUS KINKY for the same reason most people do...Kate Winslet is the star of the film. She chose this role over the leads in ANNA AND THE KING and Shakespeare IN LOVE...and if you ask me her character of Julia is much more challenging and interesting, and faces REAL dilemmas. And Winslet is just luminous...really the woman is staggeringly beautiful here. And the story is simple and sweet, quietly moving. SAIID TAGHMOUI is also very good. The photography and scenery is beautiful, the music is beautiful. This is the kind of film you can watch as eye candy...but there is still substance there in the story. It just doesn't hammer you over the head with trying to be ultra important. However, that said, there are very serious matters of the heart and soul dealt with by the 2 lead characters.Kate Winslet is the best actress of her time. "},{"Title":"Delightful surprise!","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never understand what other people look for in films so I never quite understand negative reviews of quality movies. To me, I just love it when a story comes at me out of nowhere, like it does in Hideous Kinky, and dishes up characters I have to work at to understand. I also love photography, especially when someone goes to obvious great lengths to put together breathtaking scenes. Kate Winslet is stunning to watch, as always, and her character is artfully portrayed with both painful honesty and dignity. The two little girls, played by Bella Riza and Carrie Mullan, absolutely stole every scene they were in and the movie is probably worth watching just for the two of them being in it. Hideous Kinky is a great example of what good storytelling is all about and I give the director, Gillies MacKinnon, a perfect 10 for the effort. "},{"Title":"A visual and aural feast","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I can understand the negative comments which abound regarding this film, I feel sorry for the nay-sayers.  They have missed the point of the film.  Midway thru my first viewing, I realized that my discomfiture with the film's plot while being inundated with exotic images, colors, and sounds (AND the shenanigans of two incrediby believable young ladies) was a perfect parallel to Julia's escape, frustrated spiritual quest, and self-imposed flighty existence abroad.  MAGNIFICENT!Splendid casting and acting by an eclectic ensemble of professionals and locals! Kate Winslett has a certain je-ne-sais-quality which is reprised in the intelligent flightiness of her later (2001) role as the young Iris Murdoch.If you love world music - especially the exoticism of North African rhythms, vocalizations, and instrumentation - this film will be as much a feast for your ears as for your eyes.  Even the interspersal of well-chosen western pop hits works to advance the on-the-edge/off-balance feeling of the entire film. This is cinematic art at its finest! While not for everybody, this is a film for those who wish for more than simple, passive entertainment. "},{"Title":"Atmospherically quirky grabbed me from opening credits.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interwoven stories focused attention on side plot lines.  The mother, the friends and their hosts in there travels who took them in for safety never gave the viewer an indication the kids or mother would be healthy, secure and taken care of where they would be in an  alright, safe , healthy environs.  There were moments the viewer was becoming quite anxious regarding the plot action, whereby they went in different directions in what we knew were fraught with possible medical, social and sexual dangers. Almost Hitchkockian in the use of the  mc guffin   A plot device was the question... who was taking care of whom.  I Started watching and after two minutes I was hooked.   Then there was the music.  It was so good yet so out of place it gave you a personnal connection to the film and the story. This movie is not to be watched in a cursury manner.  To watch this you must put the two hours aside and fall into this film.  Twenty years from your friends will be impressed you knew it so well. "},{"Title":"Straight To Bargain Bin","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are beautiful shots of Morocco which must have exalted the local tourism board, and there is Kate Winslet in it and she once gets her knockers out, wa - hey!  And that's about it.  What annoyed me was that Hideous Kinky pretends to provide a story, insight, truthfulness, whereas it really is just a money making vehicle aimed at a specific market (which I would describe as female, 20ies to 40ies, likes to read) in the same way that Rambo I was aimed at 16 year old boys with an inferiority complex.  Superficially both movies pretend to deal with a certain time and place (hippy Morocco and Vietnam war, respectively), but really have nothing to do with it.  I have been to Morocco myself and just couldn't connect my experiences with this movie at all, the real Morocco is beautiful but also impoverished, menacing, dirty, in short more than just a long Kodak moment.Hideous Kinky will appeal to women who have an unfulfilled dream to travel to a sunny place to search for themselves.  Everyone else will most likely be bored and annoyed. "},{"Title":"Good teaming of Kate Winslet and Said Taghmaoui.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler Well once again you have the makings of a good movie to watch and it doesn't end the way it should.  The teaming of Kate Winslet and Taghmaoui is a good one and they are very comfortable to watch together.  I realize this is only a small film but it could have become a bigger movie with a bigger storyline.  (Spoiler) Oh how I wish the movie ended with Said going to London with Kate Winslet and the kids.  Then it would have been a good feel-good therapeutic film to watch.  Thanks for the revealing skinny-dipping scene of Said.  I will continue to look for more films of Said Taghmaoui as well as Kate Winslet. "},{"Title":"I like the spiritual dimension of this story","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the way this film shows, quite realistically, how easy it is for a foreigner or anyone to approach the spiritually loving side of Islam through Sufism.  As Kate Winslet's character drifts through her random adventures, experiencing joys and frustrations, she has only three anchors to keep her in touch with reality 1) caring for her kids; 2) love for the Moroccan gentleman; 3) discovering mystical nearness to Allah through Sufism.  This last focus is open to anyone visiting a Muslim country like Morocco; it makes it easy and natural to be accepted by the common people and become part of their lives, no matter what country you come from. The Sufi Islam of Morocco is more open and welcoming than most cultures in the world.  There was one telling scene where Kate finds an impenetrable barrier to communication with a wealthy modernized Moroccan who rejects his people's Sufi heritage.  But she has no trouble fitting in with the common people once she gets used to their ways. "},{"Title":"Loved This!!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took me a couple of tries, but I truly understand its purpose and beauty. The daughters are extremely likeable and Kate Winslet is fantastic as Julia, their fun-loving, yet irresponsible mother.  It would be quite an adventure with them and Bilahl. traveling throughout the deserted wonder of Morocco. "},{"Title":"A Slice of Life","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my book, the director did his job, which was to leave an impression. No, the story doesn't have much of a plot, but it does capture the tone of a particular time. It's one of the few films that doesn't portray all counter-culture types as air-headed burnouts. Kate Winslet's character, Julia, is just doing what a lot of young, bright people were trying to do in the '60s and early '70s--explore alternatives to mainstream culture. Ultimately, the trip couldn't last, but the director portrays, realistically, a young woman's journey during the early '70s. Being a mother of two young children adds tension to the film. Their trek isn't safe, but was necessary for Julia to take. BTW, the photography is first-rate. I would have left out some of the pop music tracks. "},{"Title":"A choppy, plot-deficient melodrama.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Choppy, choppy, choppy. After the first 20 minutes, I was beginning to wonder if this film had a plot at all. The director couldn't stay focused on one scene long enough to engage me in the story. What story? Trust me, I could sum it up in one fragmented sentence, but I don't want to be blacklisted. One technique annoyingly overdone is ending scenes with one of the characters staring pensively off into the distance while the next song from the MTV soundtrack begins. The only redeeming quality to Hideous Kinky for me was some fairly good photography, but it wasn't good enough to warrant one hour and 40 minutes of disjointed storytelling. "}{"Title":"Makes a change, at least!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film. I recall purchasing the Esther Freud novel a few years ago and I honestly must say that reading it was a pretty tedious affair; even for a novel, its pace was sometimes excruciatingly slow and its adequate use of character development greatly marred by the story's very weak plot. When I heard that director Gillies Mackinnon was producing a film adaptation of Hideous Kinky I had very large doubts. From reading the first few pages of the book, you could tell that this was not something that could be adapted to screen with ease.Hideous Kinky (its mysterious title derived from the two girls' favourite words) is a semi-autobiographical story by Esther Freud, concerning her time in Morocco during the early seventies. Julia (Kate Winslet) and her two daughters Bea (Bella Riza) and Lucy (Carrie Mullan) have left London and  Julia's husband (a character that is often talked of but intriguingly never seen) in order to move to Africa, living an unstable life in the north of Morocco. Soon Julia meets Bilal al Hamal (Said Taghmaoui), a poor man who works as a public entertainer and acrobat, with whom she soon falls in love. Life seems reasonably stable but very depressing and uncomfortable, and Julia's various attempts to find work are all flawed, forcing her to move and so leave Bilal and his newly found occupation behind. She attempts to become a Sufi in a Muslim monastery. However, upon her return she discovers that her eldest daughter has gone missing from the apparently reliable company of Santoni (Pierre Clementi) during her travels. She finds her in a convent school, later discovering that she is severely ill. Upon her recovery, the returned Bilal manages to sell a stolen item and therefore buy tickets for the family back to London in order for Bea to be treated properly.The film is handled with masterful style, and is often a great improvement on the novel. Many scenes are cut shorter and sometimes deleted (as they should be with a film adaptation), the faster pace therefore rendering the plot more interesting. The visually clever and sometimes awe-inspiring touches that occur in the film throughout also add depth, as does the film's music, which effectively blends the traditional hippie atmosphere of the time with the country's hypnotic rural rhythms. What's more, the performances are first-rate all round, especially the two young actresses Bella Riza and Carrie Mulan (the film's real stars), playing the two daughters aged 6 and 8, Riza arguably the weaker of the two, but in no way discredited. The star presence, Kate Winslet, complete with long hair, bracelets and the usual hippie gear, makes you wonder at the fact that this was almost instantly filmed after the box-office smash, Titanic, the contrast (especially in appearance) from the previous film is just one of the aspects of this film that illustrates how good an actress she is. Said Taghmauoi plays Bilal, his appearance is a little briefer than the other three characters. His deliverance of lines may be a little weak at times but his character and its background allows us to let it pass. Good supporting roles also from the likes of Abigail Cruttenden and Pierre Clementi.Some may complain of the film's occasionally tedious sentimentality, but this picture gives us a pleasant rest from the usual Hollywood film full of unnecessarily foul language, gratuitous sex and heavy gore. Simply enjoy a wonderful film of style that deserves more recognition.   "},{"Title":"Delicious Kinky","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hideous Kinky Now that the world knows Kate Winslet's enormous acting talents, It's refreshing to see her not rest on her laurels.  She returns to the screen after the huge success of Titanic with a nice small drama, a film that is far more satisfying than any sinking boat. Being a fan of director Gillies MacKinnon(A Simple Twist Of Fate, Small Faces), it's no surprise that this films works.  What is surprising is that he retrieves two amazing performances from two very young English actresses.  Both Bella Riza and Carrie Mullan do such amazing jobs it really puts American child actors to shame.  Winslet portrays the mother of the two girls and the film follows them as they wander around Morocco during 1972.  They stumble upon many misadventures during their travels, and the film is manly about that.  There's no real plot - that's no criticism - and the film grandly recreates a very unique time and place.  It's a well made picture with top notch performances and striking cinematography.  Like the best art house films, it takes you someplace you've ever been before.  That's all I ask.------- 8 "},{"Title":"Forget the title !!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget the title and go see this film. I viewed this movie last evening at a UCLA film course and attended with little in the way of expectations. Maybe because of this I am even more impressed with Kate Winslet and the rest of the cast. The two children are absolutely terrific and will blow you away. The film has been described as art house but the quality of the cinematography and the backdrop of marrakech make for an experience you will not forget. The music score is one of the most exciting with lots of 70's rock and roll combined with middle eastern exotic that will carry you away to another culture and another time. I doubt if many others in attendance felt as strongly as I do about this film , but I definitely think it is worth your 8 bucks when it opens in  the USA on April 16th.   ........... begold "},{"Title":"Kate Winslet finds herself, (and one of her kids) in sumptuous Morocco","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I wrote a movie script titled after the two words I think of most, then Cameron Diaz would star in an Eponymous role. For Kate Winslet's kids in Gillies McKinnon's new movie, however, these words are hideous and kinky. McKinnon, who made his name with dark, brooding dramas like Small Faces, Trojan Eddie and Regeneration, proves that, like all the most macho directors, he's also capable of making a light, female-centered movie. Winslet plays Julia, a character on the run in Morroco from her unfulfilling life in cold, sad London, with her two kids, who both prove more sensible than her. The film captures the milieu of early '70's hippiedom excellently, though when Julia declares that she wants to achieve annihilation of the self we wonder if she isn't in the wrong continent. The movie has some wonderful moments of intimacy, humour and pathos, particularly when one of the children is almost lost to a gaunt Christian missionary; and Morocco glows almost as warmly as Winslet's artificial tan. This movie won't change anyone's life, but if you only see one movie this year in which a Swedish hippie pretends to be Jesus to the sound of Jefferson Airplane on the back of a truck on a cliffside in Morocco, make it Hideous Kinky "},{"Title":"A Sixties Suckfest!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kate Winslet is a great actress and not bad looking to boot. BUt this movie well lacked a story. Winslet's character was very unsimpathetic and selfish. She was basically a bad mother who put her kids in a bad and unhealthy situation all because she wanted to find herself. AAhh the sixties, what a wonderful time! Did this movie have a purpose or a meaning. I sure didn't see it. It is a very big waste of video tape. Seems like Winslet is too good of a talent to be in these kind of pictures, then again, she signs up for them.This movie get a minus four. It sucked to bad to even get one star out of four. "},{"Title":"A well constructed and entertaining film.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hideous Kinky, named for the young girls favorite words, is set in Morocco -- particularly Marrakech -- in 1972.  The story deals with a young flower child fleeing London with her two daughter because of a broken love relationship.  Kate Winslet, as Julia, captures the mood of the era very well.  She plays the role of the naive, self-absorbed young woman searching for spiritual enlightenment or as she says, annihilation of self convincingly.  At these times an interesting role reversal takes place with the daughters acting as the parent.  The daughters are played brilliantly by Bella Riza and Carrie Mullan and steal the show.  A great performance was also given by Said Taghmaoui who plays a local acrobat, Julia's lover, the daughter's father figure, and somewhat mysterious and confused young man. Morocco with its marketplace scenes, people and customs, architecture, and desert give the film an omnipresent exotic feeling.  A soundtrack that includes local traditional music and dissident rock music of the era (America and Jefferson Airplane are two I can remember) fit seamlessly. Good plot, interesting characters, great acting, fantastic setting, and well integrated soundtrack --- what more could you ask for?  Recommended! Three plus stars!!!     "},{"Title":"It never quite comes together.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has much that one would expect to enjoy, not the least of which is the lovely Kate Winslet.  Many things about it are good, and all the performances are quite strong (again, including Ms. Winslet's).But I didn't enjoy it.  I'm all for long, slow, understated movies, but this one didn't make the grade.  I suspect the problem was either the direction or the editing;  I'm not sure which.  Permit me to explainMovies that have a leisurely pace need to allow their events to breathe by surrounding more dynamic moments, if you will, with more tranquil ones.  (Any of the better Merchant-Ivory films will provide an excellent example of this.)  This movie, however, suffers from being perpetually caught between calming down and taking wing.  There's not enough happening to make it exciting in a moment-to-moment way, but there's too much happening to give one the same sense of scale that one gets in a true leisurely masterpiece.  Sometimes it's the soundtrack (which gets a bit much in places), sometimes it's the direction, sometimes it's something one can't quite put one's finger on.  To put it differently, I don't think the film ever finds its rhythm, and as a result, the problems with the narrative and character motivation become far more of an issue than they would have been had the movie been better paced.In any event, throughout the entire movie, something is amiss, and it's never put quite right.  As a result, what could have been a great movie comes out muddled and jumbled, and leaves one feeling oddly unsatisfied and apathetic. "},{"Title":"Nor Hideous Nor Kinky, just gripping and mesmerizing (web)","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I felt the first trauma at screen for Wadja, then it reappears with Baby Call, then Daisy Diamond and now with this movie. Thus, my panic button isn't bloody monsters, slashers or creatures but only a single mum with her kid. As i met this situation in real, maybe that's the explanation.As this movie shows, in such a family, the mother is so obsessed that even if she loves truly her kid, she doesn't see him also. At the end, due to his erratic mother, kid being kid, he is put in danger and it's very painful to share this moments.Here, it's indeed the case Kate is in search of meaning, of truth and she thinks that the answer lies with Sufism. So it's a trip from England to Morocco with her two daughters and as money is the blood and fuel that makes the world spins, without any, life becomes difficult. In a way, it has the same flavors that Coelho's novel the Alchimist, mixing desert, spirituality...At first, the movie is a bit annoying as nothing really happens. But, surely, the movie gains intensity as the family takes trips, meet friends and the magical exoticism of Morocco comes inside you As i went there once, there's truly a wonderful light and you can see it shining here. But you'll notice also that this country has one of the most colored cultures in the world and that it's also a very inegalitarian one as the gap between poor and riches is huge.Still very young for this movie and a mother to be, Kate is however very maternal and really cares for her daughters she never shouts at them even as they talk straight. But it's her daughters that steal the spotlight they are funny, intelligent, and ready to grasp the world. The bond between her is great as they could pass for real sisters.At the end, it's not a surprise that this movie is dates from 1998 today, I don't think that a self-discovery journey of a western family into the Arabic world would be produced so that's another reason to not miss this one. "},{"Title":"Kinky Holiday","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Hideous Kinky' initially gives the impression of being a movie about a woman's adventurous and spiritual journey when it is actually about her journey to self-discovery. MacKinnon captures the landscape of Marrakech beautifully. The wild exotic culture looks authentic. The cinematography and music blend superbly with the overall mood of the film. The director makes the viewer feel like a silent observer and travelling companion of Julia and her children. I loved how her relationship with Bilal was portrayed as a beautiful friendship based on love, compassion, kindness and in the end, sacrifice. Kate Winslet does a phenomenal job once again. Said Taghmaoui does an equally convincing job but unfortunately, he still remains an underrated actor typecast in terrorist roles. It's a pity that Hollywood does not offer this actor much else to do. Child actors Bella Riza and Carrie Mullan deliver some of the better performances by child actors. 'Hideous Kinky' is an adventurous movie in the true sense of the genre. It's not an 'Indiana Jones' or 'Pirates of the Caribbean' type experience but rather something more layered, subtle and profound. Think of a kinky summer holiday about self examination somewhere exotic and less known. "},{"Title":"Excellent, interesting, could have been even better","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A very good film, very well cast, Kate Winslet in fine form, Bella Riza acted with a great power for conveying emotion. Carrie Mullan was charming, and enabled all of the others to act off her. The set was excellent, the script seemed good but I felt was portrayed badly by the editing - however I have not read the novel, so this is a personal judgement call. A good film that could have been even better save for the fact I felt like I had missed bits due to the editing.At times the disjointed editing helped to put across the disjointed experiences the girls were having, however at times it just felt like you had skipped a chapter.Overall an excellent film and another example of a should-have-seen-but-hadn't-heard-of-it. "}{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Any movie that Kate W appears in, is a movie I want to watch. I just adore watching her face....Kate is a Hollywood superstar, yet she comes across as real.But anyway. I really did enjoy this movie. Life is a search for something and it was fascinating to watch a young woman go to such lengths to find her truth. Her kids gained much from being dragged along, but who in their right mind would risk putting their children in such potential harms way?I've traveled a lot and there is nothing as exciting as being in an exotic place, in a strange culture - the hint of danger and then the exhilaration when you make it out. Watching this move resonated.Morocco was indeed portrayed as a fascinating, beautiful place to visit. I'd wonder these days would it be as welcoming as this movie suggests. Wouldn't it be wonderful to find out? The part where she lost her daughter brought back the time we thought our young daughter had caught malaria in India. Thankfully she hadn't as we discovered after a trip to a hospital in Hong Kong (an experience in itself). We brought our kids to India to teach them something extra about what it really means to be human on this earth. However what a horrible feeling it was when we thought it was at the expense of their health. We got away with it and learned our lesson.I loved this movie, - the kids acting was superb, Kate was a joy to watch as usual, the location was stunning and the soundtrack makes me want to go out a buy the CD. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Hideous and not so Kinky","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not your typical chick flick, this Kate Winslet drama is at sometime a drama and other times a coming of age movie with Kate on the sidelines. Although she is the star of the movie and see on the box cover art of the movie and poster, she is not the main character of the story. The real stars of the movie are two very young actors Bella Bella Riza and Carrie Mullan. Both girls are very good actors and have wonderful screen chemistry. It is there story that fuels many interests. While Kate Winsley teases the audience from time to time with her body (nude) it is the innocence from Bella and Carrie that make the movie interesting and watchable. "},{"Title":"I found it enjoyable","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really don't understand all the negative feedback about this movie. It's about an English woman who takes her two young daughters to Morocco in a search for the meaning of life. Julia is guileless and careless, exposes her children to dangerous situations and people, gets a boyfriend who is a street entertainer and has been in trouble with the law. She wanders here and there, ultimately not really discovering anything at all. The little girls are good actors, and the film is as much about their reaction to this life as it is the mother's vain spiritual quest. The older child just wants to be normal, and they both try to find a father figure in the boyfriend, who is kind to them, but comes in and out of their lives. I enjoyed all their characters and was interested throughout the film. It is very beautiful to look at and Kate Winslet is gorgeous as always. There is a nude scene in the beginning - I am starting to think she loves them. It is very much a drama, and will probably bore most guys, but I would think most women would enjoy it and appreciate it. Despite the situation, the mother and children really love each other and their interplay is interesting to see. "},{"Title":"A Risky Venture...","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"      There was just something about this movie that I really loved as the main character was so contrary to my self. The idea of this young woman with two young daughters leaving London for India in search of a better existence... not knowing from day to day where their next meal would come from or whether they would have money for rent.    Incredibly courageous and stupid all at the same time.  At first I was extremely annoyed with Julia, the mother, wondering when it would all go  horribly wrong.  It almost did in one unbearable scene involving the eldest daughter.  I didn't understand alot of the things that Julia did since it placed her children at so much risk.  But ultimately I believe Julia truly wanted something better for herself and her daughters.  And that is always a risky venture.        "},{"Title":"though interesting, it's really a lesser companion to Holy Smoke","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a little slight on its own; but makes an excellent opening act for the heavy ideas and hyper kink of similarly themed, Holy Smoke. (See my review of Jane Campion's 1999 film Holy Smoke to get a full picture.) Here Kate Winslet does some good work though she is outshone by her costar, Saïd Taghmaoui, who was so phenomenal in Three Kings as the tortured torturer/interrogator. the locations are great in a tourist travelogue sort of way. And the child actors who play winslet's daughters, as she wanders around 1970s morocco in search of enlightenment and an occasional meal, deserve special commendation. still this is the kind of film that never engages quite as well as it should and fails to live up to its promise of exotica or winslet's star power. "},{"Title":"Not too sure about this film.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the first half-hour of this, I thought the film was mainly treating us to an extensive advert of the sites of Morrocco.  There was absoloutely no story, no intelligent dialogue, and a gratituous shot of Kate Winslet's boobs.It did get better, but not by a great deal.  Nobody can deny the scenery was beautiful, the two little girls were cute (and surprisingly quite good actresses) and Kate Winslet, as ever, gave in a solid performance.  But there were parts that were just, well, weird.  When she's hitchiking with one of her daughters (Lucy?) what is the deal with that blonde guy?  And where were all the sub-plots heading?It wasn't a bad film.  It even got quite interesting about halfway through.  But there were no climaxes, and no resolvements.As a film, I'd only get it five, due to it's poor narrative and lack of a plot.  But if I was to judge it on it's cinematography, it gets ten out of ten easily.   "},{"Title":"Winslet Is Anything But Hideous","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  	Though the `Beat' generation of the &#145;50s may have been the genesis of it all, there is no doubt that the &#145;60s spawned an accelerated social upheaval like nothing that came before it.  It was an era that was to become synonymous with uninhibited freedom and free love, as well as a quest for change and enlightenment on a variety of levels.  `Hideous Kinky,' directed by Gillies MacKinnon, has it's roots in that &#145;60s sensibility, but the story picks up in the early &#145;70s in Marrakech, Morocco, where a twenty-five year old mother of two has come seeking not only enlightenment, but a means to effect the `annihilation of the ego.'  Kate Winslet stars as Julia, who has left her home in London behind, as well as her children's father, in order to pursue her quest for spiritual freedom.  But, as often happens when reality sets in, that quest becomes something of a trial in itself, as life becomes a matter of living hand to mouth, depending upon the generosity of others-- in many cases strangers-- and unfortunately at times putting not only Julia, but her two young daughters in peril for their lives.  As a friend tells her early on in the film, in response to her reaction to the brutality to which he is subjected at work, `This isn't London--'  And had she been a bit more astute, those simple words from her friend would've been all the enlightenment she needed.  But to one with an eye on the prize and an adamant attitude, such simple wisdom is rarely perceptible, and-- as in Julia's case-- more often than not will go unheeded, as it does here.	There's beauty in much of what Julia encounters on her journey, but mostly it's something of a travelogue for places to avoid at any cost; and the film is disconcerting in that the audience-- as an impartial observer-- can readily discern the futility of Julia's endeavors, and the fact that her children are subjected to it, as well, is unnerving at times.  Of course, hindsight is always the nectar of the gods, and it's easy to see the `big picture' when you're able to view it at arm's length.  There is no question that her quest is admirable, but because this is a person you come to like early on-- her personal qualities and motivations are beyond reproach; it's her decisions that are questionable-- it is frustrating to watch her muddle her way through (even during the happier moments) when it all seems so unnecessary, somehow.  What is required, perhaps, is a thorough understanding of the times, and the attitudes effectuated by them; for the allurement of an awareness that can effect spiritual release is compelling, and the wisdom thought to be afforded by the fool on the hill can be an irresistible enticement even today.   	You have to admire Winslet for taking on a fairly unglamorous, though somewhat sympathetic role, after her mainstream success in `Titanic.'  With what I'm sure must have been a plethora of plum parts from which to choose, rather than play it safe she took the daring route and determined upon a project with character and substance.  And though Julia may not be her most memorable creation, there is no question that her performance here is the highlight of the film.  She lends an earthy, endearing quality to the character that make her not only likable, but believable; and because you sense the danger of her situation, it evokes a feeling of uneasiness that cannot be dispelled.  It also makes you empathize with those whose loved ones embarked upon journeys similar to Julia's during this era; and there were many. 	The supporting cast includes Said Taghmaoui (Bilal), Bella Riza (Bea), Carrie Mullan (Lucy), Pierre Clementi (Santoni), Abigail Cruttenden (Charlotte), Ahmed Bouland (Ben Said), Sira Stampe (Eva) and Amidou (Sufi Sheikh).  A film that prompts emotional involvement on a number of levels, `Hideous Kinky' is a paean of sorts to those who seek the fulfillment of a better way of life, and are willing to take the road less traveled to find it.  And the strength of Winslet's performance alone makes it a film worth seeing.  In her previous outing, she may have had a beautiful blue jewel to wear around her neck, but in this one, she `is' the jewel.  And, make no mistake, it's the magic of the movie.  I rate this one 7/10.                   "},{"Title":"Best Over 40","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having been active and part of the exploration depicted in the film at the time of the piece as set 1972 I believe.... Im 46 now) there is an unmistakeable genre and feeling which was well time generated. I was also aware that if I were to view the piece with many younger etc that they might just not GET the full feel. It worried me because I wanted to share the richness of the piece and the texture of the production. I shall disagree with thoughts that there is a rambling in the characters..indeed there was rambling(mixed with her wisdom, remember) at that time esp in such an adventure as she had the courage to choose. Hey, I experienced the rambling in NY and Europe bet 16 and 20 in travels bet schools, acting and writing. I'd rather see more rambling than Banana Republic Ads and Gap neutrals! so BRAVO for a piece of a life, where one can actually view the depth of a search for truth and beauty and simply allow. through the film piece, for it to be a glimpse... but such a well acted and crafted one.  I have no problem combing my hair back and finding a great pair of indian/african earrings and a long scarf....They could surely use a waft of color and feel! "},{"Title":"A fine, dreamy little film","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lots of the reviews here are negative.  Well, I liked this film.  It's short on plot, but it moves with a dreamy vagueness that matched real life in the era/social environment portrayed, and it is beautifully filmed.  As a mother, I feared for Julia's children--and indeed for poor, naive Julia--which no doubt is what the writers and director intended.  A lovely little film, gentle and exotic, that explores the conflict between generations and ideologies.  Accolades too for the fine acting of young Bella Riza and Carrie Mullan, who carry much of this story on their small shoulders.  (And of course Winslet is very fine.)  Good soundtrack too...guess I'm the target audience because I remember these songs and this era well...  Dumb title, though.If you like this film, check out Heat and Dust. "},{"Title":"Kate Winslet is the Best.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ugh! Horrid! Oh boo hoo!  Whee-skan-sin accents are harder to understand than english ones, garrepito_27.  This movie was an excellent excerpt from this hullabaloo we call life.  It doesn't always have high outcomes.  It doesn't always have spiritual epiphanies.  For some of us it has a lot of sex, and the rest of us a lot of dreams.  It has relationships with people we don't like, can't understand, can't stand to be without, and sometimes follow for no reason whatsoever.  This movie is life.  It's not entertainment.  It's art.  It's not meant to take you and make you feel better or worse about yourself.  it's meant to take you out of your life and let you experience someone else's.  No expectations, no promises, no fake endings or fake possiblities.  Just reality.  This movie is about life, not entertaining you!  And on a side note, aside from being beautiful, Kate Winslet is the best actress of this generation and earning her place in all time.  "}{"Title":"Dramatically gutless, gorgeously photographed rambling travelogue with no  goal or progression, no character development and an apparent terror of emotional confrontation.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kate Winslet is almost director-proof. She, the girls who play her daughters and the photography are the best things about this meandering tale of an upper-middle class, twittish young mother dragging her two daughters around Morrocco in 1972. She apparently wants to find something spiritual, but is very half hearted in her search for it. Things do happen, but almost none of the potential character, spiritual or cultural conflict is interestingly explored -if at all. The punches are constantly pulled when it comes to emotional confrontation. A typical scene is where a Christian teacher tries to steal one of Kate's daughters. Kate confronts the woman, and we assume we will now see what our heroine is really made of. But no the confrontation takes place behind a closed door! There are some nice moments and some very clunky ones.(Some of the kids' dialogue was especially woeful). However, it's hats off to the photography, which is utterly gorgeous.   "},{"Title":"Very uneven","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie somewhat, it was a little uneven. Parts were interesting and the next minute it was boring and confusing.  The great Kate helps a lot, but I really cannot recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"What an annoying movie!","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every now and then I come across a movie that I found truly genuinely annoying to watch. Coicidence or not, these type of movies also often star Kate Winslet.Well, let me just say that Kate Winslet is a great young actress, who often impresses with her roles and has won many awards, even at a still very young age already. I just wished she would stop in playing in these sort of semi-artistic and deep dramatic movies. They just annoy me with everything in it.The movie just never really got to me, as it featured a distant story, set in a strange foreign country, with a completely different culture. As a cultural movie this movie does have its strong points and it also is insightful and refreshing seeing this movie shed some light on the Muslim culture, in Morroco, without prejudices. It's an open movie, that tries to create some understanding and handles its with respect, even though you still won't sympathize for with just everything.Just problem is its overall story and main character. It's a young mother who in my opinion selfishly drags along her 2 young daughters with her to a strange and far off country, with a culture that is potentially dangerous for the young girls and women in general. They don't really have any money and the mother doesn't act very responsible, by getting her and her daughters and trouble and mingle in with dangerous men. How can I enjoy watching a movie such as this one?Also it's visual style annoyed me. Sure, it's beautiful looking with its sets and locations and all but yet the movie feels the need to feature some artistic shots and editing in it. This is mostly what annoys me about the movie.Also the British accents did nothing but annoyed me, especially those of the little girls. Of course British accents normally don't bother me much but in this case it did, which was probably due to the overall style of the movie added to it and it's unlikely and/or uninteresting moments. Perhaps the movie is more of a chick-flick, more or less and I'm simply not the right type of audience for this movie.Deserves some credit but overall a weak, uninteresting and annoying little movie.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not for Hollywood CRAP lovers","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  See, what's wrong with people (do we dare call em that?) like T. robertson is that at an early age, they were exposed to Hollywood bang em and shoot em 'movies' and that they lack the moral fiber, inner strength or just plain intelligence to free themselves from that strain. As soon as they see some film with a slightly differing or complicated story line (something like Teletubbies or so) they begin to rant and rave against it, cry 'chick flic' or something equally degrading in their fish-and-chips lovin'-eyes. mr. robetson is too dense to see the difference between this film and 'Holy Smoke' and then too thicke to apologize for that. This clearly indicates the level we're talking about.Then he goes on about the 'bad role model' the Julia character is, in his eyes. It's clear that he denies women the right to be independent, to be different, to define their own rules. He definitely had HIS mummy waiting for him after school with tea and cookies. Any role beyond that is apparently incomprehensible to him. If only his mother had been barred from having him .... And it's very clear that the only thing that should be barred and banned here, is mr robson's commenting on films. Let him constrain himself to the next straight-to-video-release by Jean Claude Van Damme (sorry, Jean Claude!) or Police Academy XXXVI. "},{"Title":"Kate Winslet is fabulous...movie is so-so","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From Esther Freud's book about a single 25-year old British woman and her two pre-teen daughters living on a shoestring budget in 1972 Morocco, hoping to experience a journey of wisdom and truth but finding that difficult without benefit of money. Flashy but disappointingly one-note odyssey is about as appealing as its ungainly title (which certainly didn't help the picture at the box-office). Still, Kate Winslet is terrific in the difficult leading role, beautiful and pliable under such heavy-handed circumstances, and nothing prepared me for the quiet simplicity of the finale. That sequence, staggering in its subtle nuances of beauty and emotion, gives the viewer a sense of grandeur that the rest of the film fails to adequately capture. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Who greenlighted this?","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kinky? Nah, Kate's nude. Again. That's par for the course. Hideous? Well, now we're getting warmer. HIDEOUS TEDIUM would have been a much better title. Gee, another chronically dull European film with good cinematography. Who woulda thought? "},{"Title":"What is this about?","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved the scenery, I loved the soundtrack...but where is the story?  I sat through this entire film, the whole time wondering what it was about. I've never really come across a film that made me have to try so hard to find its plot.  I have read reviews, plot summaries, etc., in hopes of getting answers...They didnt help, though they couldnt have even if they wanted to. This film has no purpose except to show off the gorgeous Morrocan countryside.  Thats all it has to offer.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Finely crafted film with a weak story","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film's tone, loved the acting, cinematography, but disliked the story.The film is about a mother who is irresponsible towards her children and dependent on others while on a quest for spiritual enlightenment. As much as it may seem attractive that she is  ready to give up on traditional values for the sake of freedom, this film showed a rebellious, immature and naive person falling in love out of desperation (with a person of dubious character) who's not capable of leading an independent and responsible life. By being the way she is, she looses the very freedom she's looking for. She also never realizes any of it.Hardly anything inspiring or interesting about that.  "},{"Title":"The Marakech Express to where? - tree-hugging hippieville?","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A strange sorta film this.  No real plot or story line - it meandered like an unchecked stream (I sound like a hippie now!)I was clueless and bored senseless most of the time, and watched the clock a lot.  90+ minutes is a long time for a meaningless hippie journey, if this could be called such.  Like most other commentators, I think the children were cute, and I would have turned the video off in minutes without their presence.The only other good bits were the architypical hippie music segments, which were far too short!  On The Road Again (by Canned Heat) was nicely augmented by the sight of Kate Winslet's naked torso.  Yes, I admit, the atmosphere was good at times, and the loss of her lover a bit sad.  Also the photography was above average, but overall, this movie was Snorzville Arizona.  If it was meant to have any spiritual meaning, I couldn't see it.  I have gone back to watching the grass grow now - MUCH more exciting... "},{"Title":"Hideously Boring","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main problem with this movie was that I was never given any reason to care what happened to these people.  Their characters were all very shallow.  The mother was clueless.  The children were totally unreal -- always doing cute children things, but never going beyond that.  The remaining actors were all cliches. The editing was random. The story was predictable; there was never any dramatic tension.  Things just happened, and they reacted to them (or didn't).  Who cares.  At least the scenery was nice. "}{"Title":"The World Was Our Oyster. And We Chose Ruislip","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My DVD of Hideous Kinky, originally given away free with a Sunday newspaper, had been gathering dust on my shelves for some time when I decided to watch it for the sole reason that I had just returned from a holiday in Marrakesh, where the film is set. The action takes place in the early seventies, a time when the city was an essential stop on the hippie trail, largely because of the easy availability of drugs. (It was doubtless this reputation that was responsible for the Crosby Stills and Nash hit Marrakesh Express, the railway systems of North Africa not normally being regarded as a major source of inspiration for songwriters).There were, however, some in the hippie community whose interest in the city was less pharmaceutical than spiritual, this being a period of great interest in alternative forms of religion. Just as some young Westerners travelled to India or the Far East to sit at the feet of a guru, so Julia, the main character in the film, has been drawn to Morocco by her interest in the mystical Islamic Sufi tradition. She is a young Englishwoman who has travelled to Marrakesh with her two young daughters Bea and Lucy. She has formed a relationship with a young Moroccan, but has no job, and her only sources of income are the maintenance cheques she receives at irregular intervals from the estranged boyfriend who is the father of her children.The film has two strengths. One is its vivid photography, which well captures the brilliant light and colours of Marrakesh (a fascinating if exhausting place to visit). The other is the charm and naturalness of the two young actresses who play Bea and Lucy. The two girls are carefully distinguished; Lucy is happy with her life in Morocco, whereas Bea, the elder, wants nothing more than to return to a normal life in London. (The odd title Hideous Kinky is a meaningless phrase invented by the two girls as part of a children's game).The film does not, however, have much else going for it. Morocco seems to have a strange effect on European filmmakers; I was reminded of Bernardo Bertolucci's The Sheltering Sky, another beautifully photographed but lifeless film set in the same country. Hideous Kinky is not quite as bad as Bertolucci's mammoth epic of tedium (for a start it is considerably shorter), but it is still dull and uninteresting. One reviewer describes it as refreshingly free of a rigorous story line, which he evidently intended as praise but which struck me as a euphemism for having nowhere to go and nothing to say. Kate Winslet could do little with the character of Julia, who came across as a rather unattractive personality. It is ironical that someone so intent on the annihilation of the ego (the goal of Sufism) should be so egotistical; she is so obsessed with her own spiritual journey that she neglects her children. The film, however, misses the opportunity to explore the ironies and contradictions in the hippie shopping-cart attitude to religion.Following the immense success of Titanic, Winslet was in the enviable position of being able to choose just about any role she wanted. A small-scale, low-budget European art film like Hideous Kinky was therefore a strange career move, but doubtless Winslet wanted to prove to the world and to herself that, despite having played the leading role in a huge blockbuster, she was still a quirky free spirit. (Another egotistical way of annihilating one's ego?) Watching the film, however, I was reminded of that quote from Ken Loach's Poor Cow, immortalising a dull West London suburb- When Tom was in work the world was our oyster. And we chose Ruislip.In 1998, the world was Kate Winslet's oyster. And she chose the cinematic equivalent of Ruislip. 4/10 "},{"Title":"pretty country, ordinary tale","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The tagline for this movie (on the DVD box) It's not about escape, it's about discovery would be inspiring if it were true, but I'm not sure 25 year old Julia found her time in Morocco as a single mother with two young girls living precariously on occasional cheques from home particularly life-changing. It is the late 60s. Julia (played with suitable poise by Kate Winslett) has fled London to Morocco after her painter husband has taken up with someone else. Marrakech is a cheap place to live, but it's a struggle. Her kids Bea and Lucy befriend Bilal (Said Taghmaoui), an acrobat from the Medina who promptly beds Julia. Charming though he is, he turns out to be unreliable. Her efforts to become a follower of Sufi mysticism end in rejection. Eventually Julia and her girls board the fabled Marrakech express, but it is in retreat from the exotic, not in search of it.It seems that Esther Freud, the original author, wrote her more than slightly autobiographical first novel from the point of view of Lucy, the younger child (6 years old in the film) and produced a very interesting book. The film is much more matter of fact, though the locations and cinematography are gorgeous, and Julia's struggle to survive is more obtrusive. It's an interesting country all right but Julia does not belong there.Your correspondent happened recently to be in Morocco, and Marrakech, and was told about this film by some local friends. They liked it because despite the beggars, heat and dust, it portrayed Morocco as a friendly, welcoming place. And so it is, but that does not make it the place for hippy dreamers. Ms Freud's mum settled down in the Home Counties after this experience. Here, Bea, the older girl, wants nothing more than to be normal', to have a satchel, wear a uniform and go to school like all the other girls, and to heck with exotic Morocco. Lucy, on the other hand, just soaks it all in, and hey, 20 years later writes a promising first novel. Well, maybe Julia's odyssey was not entirely in vain.This film did not do well at the box office, despite the presence of Kate Winslett, and I can think of a couple of reasons (apart from the meaningless title) why not. The story, such as it is, is pretty discouraging and the locations over-relied on. (There are also a few dreadful minor performances). But as a psychological travel film it succeeds quite well, even if not everything is possible in the Moroccan Postal Service, as one brave official claims.Esther Freud happens to be the daughter of the noted British painter Lucien Freud, and hence the great-granddaughter of the great Sigmund, father of psychoanalysis. I mention this only because Julia has a couple of dreams great-granddad would not have had any trouble with, but Lucy's dreams eg the disembodied hand are more intriguing. Perhaps if the director could have approached the story more from Lucy's viewpoint it might have had more impact. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  expected the film to be terrible.  watched it on cable.  surprised to find out that it was not bad to watch while doing other household chores.  might be a little dull if viewed in the theater.  completely neutral on the film. "},{"Title":"Warm, charming and honest, but lacks tension","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kate Winslet (Julia) eschews the glamour here in favor of depicting a 25-year-old mother of two seeking adventure and enlightenment with the Sufis in Morocco (instead of with the yogis in India, as was once the fashion). The year is 1972 and Julia might be a welfare mother except that there's no dole and the locale is rather exotic. Having left her poet husband behind in London, rather than share him, Julia seeks the annihilation of the ego, and the god within. What she finds (aside from the fact that she's a little too young for that) is Bilal (Said Taghmaoui), a Marrakech street performer of questionable character who speaks English and charms her and her daughters.Beautiful cinematography combined with a steady effort by Kate and winning performances from Bella Riza (Bea) and Carrie Mullan (Lucy) as her pre-adolescent daughters, however, cannot quite save this slightly plotted, although always realistic tale, from the bargain video bin.Too bad because there is something wonderfully charming and honest about this film. Wow! Hideous! Kinky! is what the girls like to exclaim (in their London accents) in reaction to their experiences in the world. When Bea, wise as only a seven-year-old can be, describes the women on the balcony as prostitutes, so thick is her accent that only the context allowed this old Yankee's ears to comprehend. There is a little peek-a-boo nudity that might offend some, and yes Marrakech and environs look as clean and sparkling as an upscale suburban mall, and true the editing is jumpy and a little chaotic; but in the land of the whirling dervishes perhaps this is as it should be. Bea is the daughter who disapproves of mum's adventurous spirit and wants to be normal and go to school every day (reminding me of Cher and Winona Ryder in Mermaids (1990)), while younger daughter Lucy finds love in her heart for all, especially for mum's new boy friend, Bilal. Somehow she actually teaches him the beginnings of responsibility, while he shares with them the delight of being alive.I think what carries this story (from the novel by Esther Freud&#x96;yes, a relation) and made it an attractive part for Kate Winslet is the fair and honest character of Julia who struggles to find herself while caring for two little girls, which is what it is like for all women. A woman cannot find herself alone. She cannot throw off the constraints and responsibility of being a mother, because those are HER children. So she must take them along where ever she goes and find with them whatever it is she seeks, and this is a burden and a delight, as this film, despite its shortcomings, clearly shows.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Tree-Hugging Hippie Crap","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Plot Anyone?? No, no thanks, we don't want a plot ... or so it would seem.  Kate Winslet reprises her Titanic role as a good girl trying to be bad.  She throws off her English upbringing for a fling in Morocco with a lusty Moroccan street-entertainer.  And she brings with her, her two little girls.Much of the movie is manipulatively spotty, much like the English Patient. The story consistently wants us to think, such probing questions as why is she in Morocco?; where is her husband?; why did she bring her kids with her?; why is she such a conservative 'hippie'?  All these questions and more are more-or-less answered in a round about way.  However, by the time we discover the answers to those burning questions, it's rather difficult to care anymore.  The director must believe that audiences want to feel challenged and have subject matter that is thought-provoking. Unfortunately, the director does not know How to do this, and so throws in plot holes that are filled in later on, instead.Recommended for those who were enthralled by the English Patient.  "},{"Title":"A dull drama set in Morocco.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A rather aimless, plot less movie which doesn't grip one's attention. The movie sort of plods on, and nothing much happens. It's almost like one of those Continental European dramas in that regard. The mediocre 60s/70s hippie songs do not in any way match the setting of the movie (Morocco). But unlike Casablanca, at least we get to see the real Morocco. (At least I think it was filmed there&#133;) However, Kate Winslet's presence alone makes it worth a watch apart from being her very good-looking and charismatic usual self, she exposes her breasts - yet again - which is always a good thing. Thumbs up for Winslet's dedication to her art! "},{"Title":"Kiss my ass!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know I know.  I've already written a comment on this film.  I just felt I needed to write another.  I just saw it again.  It amazes me how many people dislike this movie.  They say it's underdeveloped (I wonder how many people's lives would seem underdeveloped if they were shown on the big screen?), it looks too clean (good grief, SOMEONE'S a snobby *expert* on Morocco), the children were overdirected(I have a question, what the hell does an overdirected child act like? really, please enlighten me littlesiddie), they say it never came together, that one couldn't quite put one's finger on the problem(maybe this one should educate themselves a litte more in the art of filmmaking so they could actually find something wrong with film instead of being so amibiguous and sounding like an ignorant fool, *ahem*rhombus.).Unlike Marian Michaels, I wasn't alive in 72.  But after seeing this film, I felt like I was.  It had a wonderful sense of atmosphere, and a perfect title to boot(dumb?  DUMB?  How intelligent can a person be if they use the word dumb?).  This movie now has my favorite beginning(on film at least, my favorite written beginning would belong Billy for his Romeo and Juliet).(spoilers of the first 2 minutes of the movie)  Open on a cute little girl, face pressed against a train window.  Cut to another little girl gazing in the same direction as the first girl.  Voice over It's because I flooded the bathroom, and the ceiling fell in and the cats ran off.  That's when she started talking about Morocco... and the Soufi's.  Mum says a Soufi doesn't ask who a Soufi is...  the little girl turns her head and looks in the other direction.  Cut to a close of Kate Winslet's closed eyes.  So what the hell is a Soufi, anyway!  In the background, an middle eastern flute hits a high note and Kate Winslet's eyes open abruptly, peircing straight towards the camera, her deep blue iris' cutting straight to your soul.It doesn't get any better than that!  "},{"Title":"I Got This Confused With Something Else","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ah yes HIDEOUS KINKY that`s the one with Kate Winslet getting abducted by a cult and Harvey Keitel races to save the day . I was slightly confused as to why Keitel`s name didn`t appear in the credits but this is for the simple reason that I had got this movie mixed up with HOLY SMOKE . I won`t bother to apologise , it`s an easy mistake to make Actually I would have enjoyed Harvey Keitel turning up in this film blowing away a few bad guys because this would have given HIDEOUS KINKY some male appeal since this is a dreary chick flick about nothing much of interest . Julia is a single mother who takes her two young daughters to Morocco , so there you go that`s the plot summed up .Anymore comments ? Not much except to say I thought Julia was one helluva poor role model for mothers everywhere . She doesn`t mind letting her daughters see her rolling around in bed with a man she`s just met , or letting them live in some drug fuelled doss house full of hash heads . In truth women like Julia should be barred from having childrenAnd film makers should be banned from making low concept feature films like HIDEOUS KINKY unless they feature Harvey Keitel blowing away bad guys    "},{"Title":"Lacking Story","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high hopes when I first started watching this movie.  I thought it would be gripping or challenging in some way.  Instead, its just pointless.  The story is only just barely there.  It's more of just a string of events than an actual story...and there IS a difference.  I am always angered by films like this. Movies are supposed to tell stories.  Stories have beginnings and endings, conflicts and resolution. This movie did not have that.  Basically, its about Kate Winslett's character and her two daughters, wandering around India without any real purpose.  The film hints that Kate's purpose is to discover the truth.  About what, exactly, she is never clear.  Here is a quick, and slightly sarcastic, synopsis Kate and her daughter's are abonded by her man, so she goes wandering around to live free, man, like a hippie, man, and find enlightenment.  Some uneventful stuff happens, dude, and they like wander around mooching off people, and when the going gets really rough they decide to return to the up-tight world of civilization, back in London.  Bummer, dude.  THE END!This movie was really stupid.  It definitely had good opportunities for strong social commentary, something about disillusionment, or believing in fairy tales, or how a mother's love for her children gives her the strength to overcome the woes of the world, or how true enlightenment comes from believing in yourself, or SOMETHING like that.  But the film makers just simply abandon the movie.  It was like the writers were lazy.  They sort of said, Well, lets just shoot these cities that are plagued with abject poverty, but use good lighting and make it look beautiful, then we won't have to come up with a concrete ending.  I think what happened was they set out to make an epic movie, but Kate and the Director were too busy GETTING busy, and the film suffered for their distractions. "},{"Title":"Pearls before swine...","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kate Winslett in this movie is like a handful of diamonds thrown into an outhouse of raw sewage. Kate is a wonderful, amazing actress and her presence in this movie is nothing other than a shame. The movie portrays a selfish, hippie mother traipsing about North Africa with no regard for her beautiful little girls as a sort of fun adventure. In other words, the mother is the heroine despite neglecting her children to espouse free love (in front of them) and this sort of thing. It is truly twisted. One gets the feeling that it was written by a self-centered, middle-aged woman who always wished she had done something like this but never got to. It is depressing and sad, especially if you are a parent.The movie also treats the savage culture of that area of the world as sort of quaint and beautiful in its own way. It's the old propaganda on ethnocentrism we have all been so ruthlessly subjected to in college in an attempt to brainwash us into believing that there is no such thing as a civilized culture. Why of course defecating on the ground and wiping with your hand is just as civilized as any other culture.If you enjoy child abuse or just lots of dirty, immoral people with no teeth, you may want to catch this movie. Otherwise, spare yourself the mental slime you will accumulate after having subjected yourself to such cultural and moral camel manure. "}{"Title":"Back when people could go there...","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When we watched Hideous Kinky a few years ago, it seemed like a period piece it looked at the days when people could go to a place like Morocco and not have to fear for their lives. Since September 11, 2001, it's become even more of a period piece.Is it a good movie? Even if the movie's no masterpiece, it's good just to be able to see Kate Winslet as a Swinging London flower child taking her daughters to Morocco, where she strikes up a relation with a local man. That probably would be dangerous nowadays.So see it just for that. Given the current state of the world, you may not have much more time to watch it. "}]