[{"Title":"Star Power Raises Film a Cut Above","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The action races from New York to London to Scotland to Kuala Lumpur, while three intricately plotted and technically executed thefts take place. The action twists and turns, the characters may or may not be what they seem to be, and crosses follow double-crosses. Thus, there is little time for the viewer to be bored or to ponder the implausibility of it all. But, in a sleek glossy film such as this one, logic is not a key factor, it's the look and the action that count, and both of those attributes, especially the look, make Entrapment an entertaining film. Sean Connery, who plays an aging master thief, can anchor any film that he appears in, and this one is no exception. His presence alone grounds the movie and nearly makes the implausible plausible. However, while Connery is one of a handful of men who have retained their looks and masculine appeal beyond middle age, the likelihood that the luscious Catherine Zeta-Jones, who is at the peak of her beauty here, would fall for him tests the bounds of credibility. Perhaps the romance was written in as a fantasy for us near-codgers and to give us hope. Besides the excellent cinematography of the human scenery, which also includes the dependable Will Patton and Ving Rhames, the lush photography of the Scottish Highlands offers an unsolicited advertisement for the Scottish National Tourist Board. If rooms were available in the luxurious castle that Connery uses in the film, this would have been written there.Thus, Entrapment seems to have everything beautiful people, solid performances, breathtaking scenery, suspense, and excitement. There is definitely enough here to entertain a not-too-discriminating viewer for two hours. Of course, afterward, one might ponder why all of the expensive high-tech security systems that are depicted in the film quickly fall victim to a pair of thieves who seem more amused with themselves than intense and focused when they are stealing such incredible sums of money. If theft were as easy and casual as Connery and Zeta-Jones make it seem to be, we could all have a lot more fun in life plotting and executing heists instead of commuting and staring at computer monitors. "},{"Title":"You won't remember much about the movie other than Catherine Zeta-Jones in the laser scene","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"48 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I remember how, after seeing this movie, everyone in my office was talking about Catherine Zeta-Jones and how she was, arguably, the most beautiful woman in the world. The women in the office went to go see it after hearing all the fuss, many going just to confirm that she isn't all that. In a way, it's a bit of a shame because it's a decent heist movie with a good plot and pretty good acting. Sean Connery was, as always, excellent in his role and the cinematography. It all gets overshadowed by the Catherine Zeta-Jones laser scene that guys will be thinking about for days (Years?).Does any of this make the movie any less entertaining to watch? Probably not. "},{"Title":"Can stealing be an art form? Convincing look.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of those that keeps the characters purpose twisting and turning. You have to second guess the ending twice. The vivacious Catherine Zeta-Jones plays a top notch insurance agent that specializes in art theft. She takes on the mission of catching a master thief(Sean Connery)by convincing him that she too is a supreme art thief.Just enough action to keep your attention. Wonderful scenery and the more than just beautiful Zeta-Jones makes for advanced heartbeat. The age difference of the two stars fits the script like a glove and gives a fleeting glimpse of romance.Camera work is intense. The big chase/escape scene is awesome.Also appearing are Ving Rhames, Maury Chaykin and Will Patton. "},{"Title":"All I'm seeing is Catherine and the laser beams","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  That was the coolest part of the movie. I mean, I'm not a guy or anything, but I have to admit she does look sexy. I really enjoyed Entrapment. It had high action and intensity. I saw the film over HBO, I showed my mom and she was in love as well. Although this is not my favorite Connery film, it's still worth a look. The love story wasn't really needed. But you'll deal. Over all, the film is good. It was well directed with some remarkable actors. And remember LASER BEAMS! If you don't like the film, you will definatly like LASER BEAMS! Hehe. I would recommend this to fans of Connery or Jones.7/10 "},{"Title":"The characters carry this film","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The best aspect of Entrapment is the wonderful understated romance between Sean Connery's Mac and Catherine Zeta-Jones' Gin. I thought this was far more moving than many of the swoony full-blown love affairs I've seen in other movies. Zeta-Jones is very glamorous and got to model a lot of swanky clothes. Connery is weary and reserved as befitting his age and that made the May-November romance all the more poignant. Ving Rhames again was the street wise tough, a role he has done many times before. The action sequences while quite good are not as exciting or suspenseful as in other movies of this type (ie. The Thomas Crown Affair). Still I enjoyed this movie thanks mostly to the the chemistry and as I said understated romance between Mac and Gin. Recommended, 7.5/10.   "},{"Title":"Walked into the trap","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"37 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment It's got two handsome stars, a smooth portrayal of stealing, and just a hint of action and romance. Considering that this doesn't end at the prom or a warehouse, this is a breath of fresh air. Director Jon Amiel has a very checkered past, but with Entrapment, I've never seen him so sure of himself. The film glides effortlessly between some sketchily drawn romantic inclinations to well-executed scenes of training to actually exciting action moments of the heists.  It's a nice package.The film is really about the art, or maybe even the beauty, of stealing. A refreshing idea that hasn't been considered in some time.  There is a giddy glee in just watching the thieves use high tech mechanisms to outsmart the systems that house the loot. It's a carefully paced film, so the usual action-payoff-drama-action-payoff-drama form for these types of movies isn't used here. It's entertaining as hell, and the climax holds many thrills.Like I said before, the two leads are some of the finest looking in the film biz.  Sean Connery makes a wonderful choice by playing off his old age.  As the character, he seems overwhelmed by Catherine Zeta-Jones. It makes for a few moments of sly comedy.  As for Ms. Zeta-Jones, it has been said of her that she takes the best close-up in current motion pictures. Entrapment proves that statement time and again.  While she does struggle trying to keep down her natural Welsh accent, Zeta-Jones makes for a lively sidekick to Connery, and despite the ballyhooed age difference, they work together just fine.Despite a lackluster and forced final, Entrapment works better than you may think.  It's easy to get hung up on the age difference or Connery's hairpiece, but the movie is too much fun to be bothered with such minute details.  This is good pre-summer entertainment.  I give the filmmakers kudos for keeping the tone light and the suspense on 11.------------ 8 "},{"Title":"Zeta-Jones enough said","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment beings with as a priceless Rembrandt is stolen from a New York skyscraper in a daring and technically executed robbery, insurance investigator Virginia Baker Gin (Catherine Zeta-Jones) begins looking into the matter and is soon convinced it's the work of master art thief Robert MacDougal Mac (Sean Connery.) Gin thinks the best way to get the goods on Mac is to work her way inside his operation, so she locates him in London and, posing as a fellow art thief, offers to work as his partner. While Mac is smart enough to not accept an offer like that from just anyone, most thieves don't look as good as Gin does, and she soon proves an able assistant in a shakedown robbery where they swipe a rare Chinese mask from a British museum. After this success, Mac agrees to join forces with Gin for what is literally the heist of the millennium as Midnight rolls around in Kuala Lumpur on December 31, 1999, the security computers in a major multinational banking facility will be breached for a split second as the computers roll over to a new program for Y2K. Entrapment may have been pretty weak for a story, but the robbery scenes were very good. I liked this movie overall, I know it wasn't the best Connery, but I watched this for the sexy Zeta-Jones, I thought she was great. "},{"Title":"Entrapment is a good, entertaining movie.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I liked watching Entrapment. It is a good, entertaining movie. But what I don't understand is why this movie is called a comedy? It didn't really make me laugh. It did make me smile though and that is already a good thing. There were some humorous parts in it, but in my opinion, that's still not enough to call it a comedy. If it isn't a comedy, what is it than? It's a well produced action thriller which was able to keep my attention from the beginning to the end thanks to the many twists and the good acting. You could say of course that Sean Connery is still used to playing this kind of roles. He wasn't James Bond for nothing. He still knows how to play a smart gentleman who likes to play with a lot of gadgets and pretty ladies... And what an opponent he has! Catherine Zeta-Jones is really nice to look at in every way...Connery is an art thief who is able to pass the best security systems, stealing the painting and making fun of the security people by changing the original painting with a picture of Elvis. Catherine Zeta-Jones investigates the crime scenes for an insurance company and tries to catch Connery. To do so she will try to convince him that she's a thief as well, that she has planned a huge robbery but that she needs his help to complete it.Thanks to the many twists, this movie will keep you guessing till the end who is what, who did what to who and why,... And the ending is, in comparison to other movies of this kind, a pure surprise, very subtle and truly original. That is why I reward this movie with a 7,5/10. Truly a good job!  "},{"Title":"Movie Shouldn't Have Fallen Flat, But It Did","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I have this film two chances and liked it much better the second time. I guess I expected more on the first viewing, but why not? Sean Connery usually is good, Catherine Zeta-Jones was a hot, new commodity at the time, and I usually enjoy heist films. This movie had not just one but TWO heists in it, so it should have been really good.....but was fair, at best.It just wasn't that entertaining, too flat in too many spots. Connery looked at times like he was just going through the motions. His usual spark was missing. It's not bad....so-so as a thriller goes, but really not memorable and certainly not as dramatic as it should have been. "},{"Title":"Fairly enjoyable heist flick - effortlessly watchable, totally forgettable.","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The heist caper genre, so popular in the '70s, rears its head with this uninspired but fairly enjoyable 1999 flick. Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones generate genuine sexual chemistry despite their age gap (Connery was just shy of 70 when the film was made), and there are a couple of suspenseful heist sequences along the way. Between the high spots the film is rather bland and forgettable, with little of the humour that made the heist movies of yesteryear such fun (try to imagine The Hot Rock or The Italian Job stripped of their sense of humour, and you'll have a fair impression of what this film has to offer).Virginia Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) works for a top insurance company. Also, secretly, she is a master cat burglar who greatly admires the audacity and criminal success of another thief, Robert MacDougal (Sean Connery). Virginia double bluffs her boss, Hector Cruz (Will Patton), into allowing her to track down MacDougal. Her official brief is to become his partner-in-crime for a daring heist, after which she is supposed to turn him over to the police. But in reality, Virginia actually DOES want to be his partner-in-crime.... and has no intention of turning him in whatsoever! Aided by MacDougal's buddy Thibideaux (Ving Rhames), the thieving twosome complete their robbery successfully. Later, MacDougal reveals his plans for an even bigger job. With Virginia as his accomplice, he aspires to pull off the near-impossible theft of $8 billion dollars from the world's tallest building in Kuala Lumpur on Millennium Eve. By this point, Cruz has begun to suspect that Virginia may not be working on the side of the law any more. In a taut finale, MacDougal and Virginia attempt to complete their ingenious crime before the security forces catch them red-handed.Entrapment is slick and effortlessly watchable stuff with little discernible style of its own. Connery and Zeta-Jones, as already noted, overcome their remarkable age difference to make for a rather attractive pair. A good measure of any heist flick is whether your sympathies lie with the crooks or the law. In this one, the burglars win hands-down.... they are infinitely more charismatic than the good guys. The globe-trotting narrative provides some exotic locations in which the stars can indulge in their posturing. Kuala Lumpur especially comes across as an exciting and interesting locale, somewhat underused to date in the movies. Entrapment has its share of silly moments, including a gratuitous sequence in which Zeta-Jones trains for her first robbery by writhing in a skintight cat suit through a maze of wool (strung out in such a way as to replicate the pattern of an infra-red alarm system!) Too many scenes also have Connery vanishing into mid-air to avoid capture, a trick that becomes increasingly hard to swallow and hampers the film's credibility. All in all, though, Entrapment is a harmless time-killer that keeps you moderately entertained, especially if you catch it in the right frame of mind. "}{"Title":"Heists & Surprises In Glossy Y2K Thriller","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Entrapment is essentially a lightweight caper movie about a scheme to catch one of the world's greatest art thieves. It features an enjoyable series of action sequences, daring heists and enough double-dealing, twists and intrigue to keep its audience engaged and entertained throughout. This is pure escapism and a fun film that's a great vehicle for its two lead actors who make the most of the considerable amount of screen time that they're given.After a priceless Rembrandt painting is stolen from a New York skyscraper, insurance investigator Virginia Gin Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) suspects that the culprit is international art thief Robert Mac MacDougal (Sean Connery) and persuades her boss to allow her to go undercover to pursue him. She meets up with Mac in London where she poses as an art thief and suggests that they join forces to steal an extremely valuable Chinese mask from Bedford Palace. Despite their success in stealing the mask, Mac remains very suspicious of her real motives but then she interests him in a plan to carry out an even more daring heist which could net them $8 billion.Gin's plan involves carrying out a sophisticated computer based robbery at the headquarters of the International Clearance Bank located in the Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur. The type of theft that she envisages exploits the fact that the bank's computer system has to be shut down briefly just before the new millennium and so the heist is eventually carried out in the countdown to the year 2000.The tension builds as they attempt to carry out their plan at precisely the right time with Gin's boss and a very large number of security officers monitoring what's happening in the building. Mac and Gin complete their mission successfully but in the process inadvertently set off the alarm system and have to make an incredibly dangerous escape by clambering precariously along some cables that link the building's two towers. The remainder of their plan doesn't run smoothly and they have to escape the building separately before meeting up again the next morning at Pudu train station where a further series of unexpected developments follow.The relationship that develops between Mac an Gin is amusing to watch as there's a certain amount of attraction between them but also a significant absence of trust. Mac clearly appreciates Gin's physical beauty especially in the sequences where he breaks into her hotel room unexpectedly and also when she's practicing the contortions required to negotiate a network of laser beams. On the other hand however, he is very suspicious of her motives and on one occasion asks, has there ever been anyone you couldn't manipulate, beguile or seduce? and she replies No.Commendably, the quality of their performances and the amount of charm they exude, enable Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones to compensate greatly for the lack of witty repartee that would normally be a feature of a story involving their kind of relationship.A series of exotic locations, excellent cinematography and well-executed stunts are also used well to further enhance the enjoyment of this glossy Y2K thriller. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Example of A Hollywood Star Movie","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I did not go into Entrapment expecting too much, and well, there wasn't much. I have come to the conclusion that there are only two reasons why people may like this movie and both have to do with the two leading stars. Sean Connery is universally seen as the best looking older man and his Scottish charm is of course also one of his attractions. Then there is Catherine Zeta Jones, a red-hot newcomer whose luscious figure would make any man want to watch. Entrapment is a perfect example of a Hollywood star film, which has the sole purpose of raking in as much cash as possible. Any attraction to the film is based entirely on its stars. I saw the movie with a number of people who liked it, and when I was discussing it with them, all of their praise was based on the two leads.The director, Jon Amiel is generally an unknown film-maker to most people. He has done Copycat and Sommersby, both of which are average films and whose success can be attributed to the stars. Entrapment does not contain any breakthroughs in terms of editing or cinematography, and it certainly does not have an original plot. We have seen the formula that makes this movie many times, perhaps in varying inflections, but essentially the same. So what's left, entertainment value. Many people reading this review may think that I do not look at films in terms of entertainment value. Not the case. There are many films that I have given excellent reviews to based entirely on the merit of entertainment. Two recent examples that I can think of are Cruel Intentions and Go. But Entrapment lacks anything close to what might have been an entertaining or interesting plot. The idea of basing a heist that will only work if it is conducted on New Years of the Millennium is a great idea. I would love to see a film about the meticulous planning and the execution of such an endeavor. Entrapment tries to accomplish too much and ends up leaving such huge plot holes that the film feels rushed and absurd.Gin (Catherine Zeta Jones) takes on the role of an insurance agent/undercover thief who hooks up with Robert (Sean Connery) a rich career criminal to execute a couple of huge international heists. They train together in Robert's castle. There are a few scenes here that I enjoyed. I especially liked the scenes of Gin practicing avoiding lasers simulated by strands of yarnOf course Robert and Gin have a romantic tension that is complicated by the rules of being a thief. You can not trust each other if you're romantically involved, right? At first, they do not seem to get along. Hollywood loves to put together two misfits who have to put aside their differences to accomplish some task. This formula has marked the cop-buddy film for years. Take for instance the first Lethal Weapon. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover at first hate each other. And in Die Hard With a Vengeance Bruce Willis and Samuel Jackson did not at first get along, but in the end their differences are put aside and they emerge as friends.Entrapment also exists as a catalyst to Hollywood's ongoing trend to have romantic encounters between young, extremely attractive women, and much older men. There is a forty year age difference between Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta Zones. Other recent examples of this trend include Michael Douglas and Gyneth Paltrow in A Perfect Murder and Harrison Ford and Anne Heche in Six Days Seven Nights. This trend is not necessarily a negative thing, but in Entrapment, it's just too blatantly obvious and cliched.Entrapment is a movie that had potential, but got lost in a number of cliches and its hurriedness. Connery and Jones do have chemistry and look good together, but forget the romantic tension; leave it for romantic films. Forget the first heist; it feels like filler to keep us occupied until the final scenes and climax. A strong film could have been made with the planning of the year 2000 heist. Because it would be the heist of the century, so many ideas could have been developed which would have made for a much more entertaining film.** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Synchronise watches - to wake yourself up in two hours","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Sean Connery is a notorious thief who teams up with undercover insurance agent Catherine Zeta-Jones to rob a high-tech bank on the stroke of midnight when everyone else is ringing in the new millennium. But is she a goodie or a baddie? Does Connery know which? Do they trust each other? Does this film contain one minute that is actually engaging? The answer to that last question is a resounding 'no'.'Entrapment' is drearily photographed, directed with no verve, the central pairing lacks chemistry, and the script is padded to the hilt with dull banter when it should be tight and focused on the robberies. Still, those scenes are lacking in invention anyway, and the numerous twists manage to arrive without causing a singe ripple. "},{"Title":"Slick and disposable star-vehicle...your mind flushes it away while you're watching it","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Globe-trotting adventure about the attempt to nab an infamous cat burglar by a beautiful insurance investigator who may not be what she first appears. Confusing, derivative, and underwhelming teaming of two attractive stars, Sean Connery and Catherine-Zeta Jones, who look good while encased in this glittery, shallow box. Beneath its slick exterior, the film is merely a retread of several heist pictures from the past--better ones, mind you, than this. One stops counting the clichés after a while, during which time the foolish and formulaic script from Ron Bass and William Broyles nearly sinks the charismatic couple in the foreground. * from **** "},{"Title":"What was Sean thinking...","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Why was this movie made..?!  Sean Connery seemed to sleepwalk through his lines.  There was no chemistry between him and Catherine Zeta-Jones.  Ok, I have to rant a little bit.  I will always give good movies their due, but this movie was terrible.SPOILERS1)  When they  are in the big party scoping out the castle to get ready to steal the mask or whatever, the clock says 1030 pm.  Next we see them under the castle blowing up the floor to match the clock bells at midnight.  So this HUGE extravagant party was over and everybody completely cleared out in 1 and a half hours?  Maybe they came back the next night, but I don't think so.   With this movie's pacing and direction, it was impossible to tell what day was what, when things happened etc.2)  That stupid looking Mega-Tower that they were to infiltrate.  Give me a break.  Hmmmm, big sky-walk 1000 feet off the ground, I wonder if the thieves are going to somehow end up hanging on it or falling from it...wow what a surprise! They did!3)  The ending was plain atrocious.  Sean's friend lets him go because of some stupid fake kidnapping plot?  They finally caught the art thief of the century and they are guarding him with..hmm...2 cops?  GAWD, I get so sick of this crap.I could go on, but you get the picture.  If you are smart, you will not get THIS picture. "},{"Title":"Except laser scene with Zeta-Jones there is nothing else in this film","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" As I put in the title I did not find much in this film. I have to say that Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery are trying very hard to do something out of paper thin screen play and not very interesting plot.I tries to like this film but I could not. Since I have to fill ten lines of text let me just say that Cathrine Zeta-Jones is a fantastic actress and very good looking. I am sorry that she has so many health and other problems. There are rarely any people today who do not.The scene in the end with the trains was cute otherwise it was not that interesting film. I would recommend that you watch it if you do not have anything better to do in your life. "},{"Title":"A movie with a preposterous plot, exotic locations, absurd action sequences, and so much chemistry between actors","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" A movie with a preposterous plot, exotic locations, absurd action sequences, and so much chemistry between attractive actors that we don't care. Gets by well enough on style and star chemistry and the basic allure of watching a tightly-planned caper unfold. A certain sunny sloppiness almost redeems Jon Amiel's throwback caper flick.Connery and Zeta-Jones not only look great together, they work well together, too.Connery and Zeta-Jones are such fun to watch together it almost doesn't matter how little sense the movie makes -- and their relationship is far more gleefully perverse, weirdly chivalrous and surprisingly interesting than the trailer makes it look.Cleverly updates the formula with a sprinkling of fun, fin-DE-millennium touches.Entrapment luxuriates in the best Hollywood big bucks can buy superb sets and cinematography, spectacular locations, expensive stars. During the opening credits the camera glides through a romanticised Manhattan skyline. The steel and chrome gleam, the lights of the skyscrapers are digital jewels and the frame of the screen is dynamically pierced at odd angles by a laser-like red beam. This sequence holds out a tantalising promise for the movie, particularly when the camera rests on a sinuous cat-burglar entering a high, tightly shut window with elegant ease. We expect an exciting, sleek and slick caper movie, something like To Catch a Thief (1954) or at least (let's not be too greedy) Arabesque (1966). It's not the stars' fault that Entrapment is disappointing. Sean Connery gets the Cary Grant treatment here, made the object of his co-star's desire. Catherine Zeta-Jones chases him just as surely and shrewdly as Audrey Hepburn chased Grant in Charade (1963). Given the 40-year age gap between them, her instigation is presumably meant to make their romance less risible, but it's an unnecessary precaution. Close-ups reveal Connery's skin is losing the battle with time, but his appeal was never really based on youth.Connery's stardom rests on his ability to represent a man completely at ease with his masculinity and his sexuality better than any other star of his generation. There was always something a bit suspect about prettier men like Paul Newman (cf. Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, 1958) while tougher guys such as Clint Eastwood seemed too stiff to be turned on by anything but seaminess (Tightrope, 1984). Connery, however, deploys his physical size, gruff and commanding voice, a glance both sure and sly and a stillness that can pounce into graceful movement at any moment to project a sexuality so confident it can afford to be nonchalant and playful. We are easily convinced that what Zeta-Jones wants from him, give or take a couple of billion dollars, is delivery on the promise of a rough good time.Zeta-Jones more than holds her own here. Connery may be the object of her desire, but Zeta-Jones is meant to be the object of ours. The sight of her leotard-clad figure practising gymnastics in order to avoid the burglar alarm's lasers is more spectacular and pleasurable than the action set pieces. She emerges from Entrapment a full-blown star, flirting with such intelligent sultriness not even a man of Connery's strength can resist. Good alone but even better together, the two have an undoubted chemistry.Entrapment aspires to be nothing more than a bit of glamorous nonsense, but although it has done all right by the glamour, it has perhaps done too well by the nonsense. Very badly structured, the story begins to feel ripped off half way through, its maze of double-crossings never delivering a narrative payoff. At the unbelievable and tacked-on ending, even a cynic might feel a twinge of discomfort at the lack of even a half-hearted gesture towards a moral rationale for the action. We're meant to root for these thieves just because they look gorgeous, seem meant for each other and are good at their work.The fact that the combination of sex and capital as spectacle is thought to need no other rationale says a lot about millennial culture, and would make a good subject for another movie. But this is by-numbers genre work which has forgotten a few sums. Entrapment fails as a caper film because it neglects that fundamental ingredient - a credible plot, evidently something even the biggest chequebooks in Hollywood can no longer guarantee. "},{"Title":"Grandpa buglar Team lack sexual chemistry","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Virginia Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) works for an insurance company, and suspects old master thief Robert MacDougal (Sean Connery) is responsible for the latest improbable theft of a high price artwork. She tracks him down to propose stealing a valuable mask.This has a very weak cat and mouse game between CZJ and Conner. It's more innuendo and sexual gamesmanship than actual compelling story. None of it is worthwhile. The two leads would work better as a grandfather granddaughter team, and has as much sexual chemistry as that. It's an excuse for CZJ to roll around in skin tight clothing and get caught naked. As for the capers and exotic locations, they are a bit of fun distraction. It's kind of sad to see Sean Connery in this. "},{"Title":"Bubble gum for the eyes at best","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  An action film with little substance, likely not to be remembered after a short time. The film relies on Connery's screen cred and and Catherine Zeta Jones' good looks. If Connery had a poor CV and Zeta Jones was a ropey old trout then you certainly wouldn't get people queueing up to see this one. Reliance on superficialities like this, unlikely plots and exotic locations does not a good film make. "},{"Title":"Average Hollywood fare","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment - Instructions for use1) Only operate this movie if you have sufficient spare cash that isn't needed for anything too important.2) Remove sufficient portions of your higher order brain until your I.Q. is no more than 76.3) Remove sufficient portions of your memory such that you will forget movies of a similar nature.4) Repeat steps 2) and 3) during the movie to ensure ongoing belief.5) Enjoy "}{"Title":"Originality doesn't live here","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The makers of this film have probably been reading How to make Hollywood films for dummies.  Everything in this film has been done time and time again, from the lame romance (which seems to pop-up from nowhere) to the pure cheese that comes from Connery and Jones' mouths, though their performances are not that bad, just hindered by an uninspiring script. Cheese is fine if funny (like most Bond films) but at times this film would cause projectile vomiting to the most stable of stomachs.  The only saving graces are the beautiful location shots of New York, Scotland, Malaysia, and Catherine Zeta Jones' backside (which the director seems to have an unhealthy obsession with).  Also some decent gadgetry and a few twists that soon become tiring, but apart from that this film is definitley one for the quick to video pile.  If you want to see a film in the same genre but just done better, then watch Mission Impossible.  Rating 3/10. "},{"Title":"Trapped, indeed.","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery has a history of really good movies, what happened to this one? A beautiful co-star. But a flat movie. It was way too slow to enjoy. Something must be wrong when a beautiful young woman wants an older man, way older. No satisfaction in this movie. "},{"Title":"A completely average movie in every respect","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I've read that some people thought this was an edge of your seat, nail biter.Well, maybe if you are able to turn off your whole cerebral cortex while watching.  There were no surprises Are they going to fall???!!!??Answer No.It was not bad, that is, it was well shot, the settings were exotic (although exactly which juristiction the FBI had in KL is anyone's guess!But it was not, by any possible means, good. "},{"Title":"Back after 33 years","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Old enough people will probably remember the movie How to steal a million. This is the same thing except Connery is no O'Toole, Zara-Jones is no Hepburn and Entrapment is How to steal minus wit, fun, balls and idea. Special effects and stunts won't save a thing. "},{"Title":"gorgeous catherine and handsome sean","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that Catherine is so gorgeous in this film and Sean so handsome (as always!) that they (themselves not the character) kept on getting my attention while we watched the film.Now to the film... the picture is not so sharp and the audio is okay. (This is the next film that we watched after The Matrix).  As for the storyline, the chase scenes didn't live up to how the story was brought up which was very good and exciting and intriguing.Sean and Catherine make a good pair in this film. Catherine didn't look like she was 'intimidated' by working with a veteran actor like Sean. She endured the film and it looks like that she actually quite overwhelmed Sean on this one. It is an honor for Hollywood actors and actresses to work with an icon like Sean and not only Catherine was fortunate but she did fit as Sean's sidekick. The 'romance' that was built up between them has a good chemistry and they really are suited as a match (despite the age gap).To my surprise, the latter part of the film was shot in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia where i worked for almost 6 months. It is very refreshing to see our side of the world in big films (with big names) like this. I am not sure about this but it's quite weird that there are no people/commuters at the train station at 630 in the morning. I felt funny seeing them alone on the station that really didn't look like realistic at all. I know for sure that KL is a busy capital and it justs doesn't look correct.On the chase scene inside the current tallest building in the world, the tear gas event is also a disappointment. I've experienced the agony of what tear gas do to your eyes, skin and nose/lungs - and this without even being near the teargas can! I just can't imagine how the characters would have 'survived' going thru the smoke and then continue running away from the authorities.Sean and Catherine were great together and the story was thrilling and exciting. If not for the sloppy chase scenes, I have given it 8 stars. In this case, it's a 7.  "},{"Title":"Worth the money, and lives up to it's name.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment was an excellent choice of name for this movie.  By the end you'll see it has everything to do with it.  Once again, Sean Connery (like his Bond movies) perfectly delivers those one line comebacks that he does so well.  With the aid of his accent (but of course).  Catherine Zeta-Jones was very good as well.  It has suspense, spying, gadgetry, action, and keeps you guessing to the end.  Go see it today, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Okay, okay - let me admit right off that I had no expectations for this film (it had been so universally panned) and saw it on the cheap merely to ogle Catherine Zeta-Jones for a few hours (does that make me a bad guy?) However, within a very short amount of time I became hooked - this is just a really entertaining story, well told, well shot, and totally enjoyable from start to finish. Implausible plot? Yeah sure, but what escapist movie isn't, and the important thing is that the *characters* really believed in it, and so we did too. The heists in this movie were all meticulously thought out and grippingly presented - and the extended middle sequence where Connery is training Zeta-Jones is just really interesting. It reminded me, in a weird and distant way, of those Yoda-Luke Skywalker sequences in Empire Strikes Back, and emphasizes how seldom Hollywood movies (particularly action ones) ever show anyone in the process of learning something characters either know what they're doing ahead of time, or pick up skills with alarming speed, usually in the heat of conflict. Now, about that relationship between Connery and Zeta-Jones. Entrapment is no mere Grandpa romances the baby-sitter movie (like Bulworth, or Six Days Seven Nights, or just about any Woody Allen film) simply because the focus of their relationship is always the cat-and-mouse game of accomplices in crime (who don't trust one another) not the mating dance of  horny singles. Both stars are certainly attractive, of course, and the filmmakers know it and emphasize it, but the fundamental relationship takes its cue from Mac's (Connery's character) advice early in the film to the effect that there can be no romance between thieves. This advice is scrupulously followed in the film itself, keeping it free of an embarrassing romantic sub-plot, and thereby maintaining a sharp focus upon the story and action. (If only the other heist film this past summer, the inferior but far more lavishly praised The Thomas Crown Affair, had stayed true to this maxim, we might have had more great sequences like the beginning and the ending, and been spared the long, looooong middle section where nothing happens save for Rene Russo and Pierce Brosnan getting it on, improbably and boringly, in as many situations as possible.)To sum up tight plot, exciting action sequences, great looking stars, and some nifty twists and turns along the way - all without the curse of a boring and improbable romance slowing everything down. What are you waiting for? As long as you're in a purely escapist mood, Entrapment is GREAT entertainment.  "},{"Title":"We Always Do Well what We Like Best !","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I know  many viewers resented the apparent lack of physical chemistry between the characters played by Connery and Zeta-Jones.   Most of them had vivid memories of Sean Connery playing the always charismatic 007, and Catherine Zeta-Jones exchanging sparks with Antonio Banderas in The Mask of Zorro.But is chemistry between a man and a woman just, physical, sensual, and sexual ?I find the movie entertaining, as it shows 2 people enjoying doing what they like best.   The chemistry is between Zeta-Jones youth, outgoing passion for life and Connery's less evident, more inward quest for adventure which is backed up by his wisdom and longtime experience.   As they go about doing and accomplishing things together, the old man develops respect and acknowledges the younger woman's worth.   Slowly he starts to like her and, despite his age, or, perhaps because of his age, he feels that, to a certain extent he cares for her.   While, at the same time, she turns from intellectually admiring him to actually liking him on her side.Admittedly, it is an uneasy chemistry between Connery, the Scott gentleman and Catherine, the Welsh with long brown hair and eyes, but the film offers enjoyable action moments interspersed with occasionally good dialogue and exchanges between the two leads.Watch Entrapment !   Enjoy it as I did for what it is, not for what it is not!- (rating 7.5/10)  "},{"Title":"It was unbearable. But watchable.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Another action movie for the fans of the 'look-how-these-stunning-people-do-the-impossible' sort. Most people could not act, only Sean Connery was very good... And somehow what you see was not much beyond the trailler... "},{"Title":"Lousy script and Mediocre Action","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There were a few good points in the film (like the start when the painting is stolen) and these managed to stop me falling sleep by the end, but overall this was the worst film I've seen recently.  Catherine Zeta-Jones can't act and had a lousy script.  Sean Connery had all the best lines (as there were) and saved the film somewhat.  The plot twists could have been made so much better.  Connery is definitely too old for this role - he could easily have been Catherine's grandfather rather than her lover!Save your £5 and wait till it shows on TV and there is nothing else on. "}{"Title":"More body than brain...","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Catherine Zeta-Jones is good looking and Sean Connery used to be The James Bond. But these two facts aren't enough to make a movie on. The acting is poor and some really good high-tech action scenes mixes with some attempts to love-and-romance. I don't know but there is something wrong when CZJ tries to act as someone who is very clever but just acts like a stupid insurance agent. The supporting acting by Ving Rhames is good, very good, why doesn't he get a lead... "},{"Title":"Viewer feels trapped.","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It all seemed so perfect. Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones in a cat-and-mouse thriller. How could that go wrong?Well I still don't know how, but it did, big time.The movie opens up well enough. We get treated to a high-tech, Mission Impossible style break in. A mysterious person watching from the shadows. The viewer gets right into it.Fifteen minutes later all of the suspense goes right out the window.The first key to a thriller like this is having characters who remain a mystery throughout the movie. Zeta-Jones spills the beans about her character in the said fifteen minutes, and Connery is merely an art thief that everybody in the WORLD knows about.Key two A duel of the minds. You can't tell me for one second that you ever thought that Zeta-Jones could outsmart a stump of wood, let alone Connery.Chemistry, 0.Dialogue, repetitive and just plain stupid (ie. You should take a look at the facts! Why don't you take a look at the facts? Why should I take a look at the facts?)Suspense, a bit. The robbery scenes are well done, but they always seems effortless.As far as continuity, this is basically a big wiffle ball of a plot.A rental if you're desperate... maybe.4/10 "},{"Title":"Harsh criticism of a bad movie.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was very disappointed in the story line of this film.  The cast did an admirable job with an over-blown, far-fetched plot.  Also, there are many discrepancies in the relationships between the characters.  Obviously the writer and director were trying to confuse the audience by hiding the true identities of some of the characters.  There is nothing wrong with that in this type of movie.  However, doing so by having characters say and do things that openly contradict earlier scenes is not excusable.  The performances of Connery, Zeta-Jones, and Rhames are very good considering what they had to work with as far as dialogue goes.  As a gen-x male, I must applaud the appearance of Catherine Zeta-Jones.  WOW!!!!  It almost made everything else seem unimportant. "},{"Title":"Very exciting action flick","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After watching The Matrix which was a very boring movie to me, I was ready for some real action and that's what I got.  I loved the chemistry between Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones and they were very believable characters.   This movie kept me guessing and kept me on the edge of my seat.  This movie kept moving and I was never bored.  This will definitely be one of the best movies of the year.  Loved it! "},{"Title":"Slick, glossy fast-moving and does not take itself too seriously","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" In the cinema, as in most areas of life, one occasionally comes across some strange coincidences. In 1999 the then reigning James Bond, Pierce Brosnan, starred in a heist movie, The Thomas Crown Affair, about a suave, sophisticated Scottish art thief who becomes entangled with a glamorous female American insurance investigator. And in the same year the original Bond, Sir Sean himself, starred in a heist movie, Entrapment, about a suave, sophisticated Scottish art thief who becomes entangled with a glamorous female American insurance investigator. A priceless Rembrandt painting is stolen from an office. Virginia Baker, an investigator working for the painting's insurers, suspects that the culprit is Robert Mac MacDougal a well-known international art thief, and is instructed investigate him. She tries to entrap him by claiming that she herself is an art thief and that she needs his help to carry out one of her schemes, the theft of a priceless Chinese mask from an English stately home. Mac does not need the money (he is already extremely wealthy and lives in a luxurious castle in the Scottish Highlands) but cannot resist the challenge of trying to outwit the owner's extremely elaborate security precautions. Having completed the theft of the mask, Mac and Virginia then plan an even bigger job, the theft of $8 billion from a bank. (This particular theft does not involve works of art, but will be accomplished by computer fraud). The scene of the crime is to be the Petronas Towers, Kuala Lumpur, Jon Amiel having borrowed Alfred Hitchcock's device of a cliffhanging scene set at a well-known landmark structure. (In 1999 the towers were the world's tallest building). Like his exact contemporary Clint Eastwood (both were born in 1930), Sean Connery has continued to act in action films throughout his sixties and into his seventies- The Rock and The League of Gentlemen are other examples- but as with Eastwood his age is generally an important plot point. (Certain other ageing action heroes still insist on taking roles which rally should go to men several decades younger). Here Mac accepts Virginia's assistance in stealing the mask because, in his sixties, he is no longer as athletic as he once was and needs a younger accomplice. Like most films of this type, Entrapment has a complicated plot. Many of the complications, apart from the details of the actual crimes, derive from what might be called a triangle of mistrust. The three parties involved in this triangle are Mac, Virginia and her boss, Hector Cruz. No-one knows whom they can trust. Is Virginia really helping Mac, or is she simply trying to entrap him? Is she working on her own account, planning to betray both Mac and her employers in her own interests? Or is it in fact Mac who is planning to betray Virginia to the police?For a film that makes glamour its main selling-point, it was a wise move to cast Catherine Zeta Jones as the female lead, as she was probably the most beautiful screen star of the nineties. Apart from the Petronas Towers cliffhanger, the one scene in this film that everyone will remember is the one where the lovely Catherine, dressed in a figure-hugging catsuit, does an elaborate gymnastic routine around network of laser beams during the stealing of the mask. She and Connery work well together despite the big age difference.For me, one weakness of this film, and of the genre to which it belongs, is that it is based on the sort of moral code that will not bear too close scrutiny. The main rule of heist movies is that the commandment Thou shalt not steal does not apply in situations where no-one gets hurt, where the victims are large corporations or hugely wealthy individuals and where the perpetrators are suitably glamorous, especially if they are sexy young women like Catherine Zeta. Yet despite its dubious morality, Entrapment is generally enjoyable. I would rate it higher than the Brosnan Thomas Crown Affair remake, which suffers by comparison with its predecessor. Like the best heist movies- the original 1967 Thomas Crown being a good example- it is slick, glossy fast-moving and does not take itself too seriously. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good plot. Bad acting.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I watched Entrapment with low expectations. Since the only trailer I had seen focused mainly on Zeta-Jones' body, I expected a mindless mental thriller.As the movie progressed, I was actually impressed by the plot, which held quite a few unexpected twists, although some of the nuances of the script seem quite contrived (the scene on the castle roof is an example.)However, the actors let this film down. Connery, as always, is good (although his character was not as fleshed out as he could have been,) and Ving Rhames, while covering no new territory, does a passable job. But Catherine Zeta-Jones seems incapable of showing any emotion other than outright glee or despair, and Will Patton exhibits his one-face-fits-all acting style again.Unfortunately, this movie strikes me as a good idea gone horribly wrong. Save your money and rent an old James Bond movie. "},{"Title":"OLD FOGIE'S FANTASY COMES TRUE!!!!","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Saw this on video, was very glad I never saw it at a theater. I was bored throughout the entire sitting, and even the silly action sequences did not interest me. The story was stupid and completely unbelievable, and the holes in the plot were large enough to fling that gigantic, ugly Petronas Towers building through. Biggest flaw The so-called 'chemistry' between Zeta-Jones and Mr Connolly's characters. YUCK!!! I like Sean Connolly's acting, but he did NOT suit this movie! As for her, her acting was mediocre and totally forgettable. But some kind of romance going on between them? A young woman and a crusty, bad-tempered old geezer, old enough to be her grandfather? Come on now! She's 20-something, he's 70 years old! Scenes of him groping her The lustful, *dirty old man* image springs to the forefront of my mind.The ending Stupid.CONCLUSION Forget it.  "},{"Title":"Nice body and great voice can't carry this one....","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Not even the beautiful Zeta-Jones and the sexy voice of Sean Connery can carry this cookie-cutter type action adventure film. The story is weak and absolute full of holes, the action sequences are all too measured. Just a very sad effort all around. "},{"Title":"Boring and uninspiring","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is certainly not the worst movie I've ever seen, but I'd rank it as one of the most boring ones. The story is slow-paced and uninteresting, and acting ranges from mediocre (Connery) to horrible (Zeta-Jones). If I hadn't seen this movie on a ferry, I would have left it halfway through.4/10 "},{"Title":"Bad premise, bad script, bad movie.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The only excuse I can think of for how bad this movie turned out, was that everyone was doing it for the money.  Sean Connery sleep-walks through his part and Catherine Zeta-Jones was just there to look pretty (the story sets her up as extremely smart, yet her character plays dumb the whole movie).I couldn't even swallow the storyline - tallest building in the world, millenium bug testing, corrupt 'cops', old master-thief and young beauty in a love tryst...I mean, come on! The biggest twist of the movie was stated bluntly by one of the characters as well...no tension, no great lead-up, no false trails, just blurted out.With no action, no witty dialogue (they did try) and no tension, what you end up with is a bad 'thriller' with big names - definitely a cash cow for all involved. "}{"Title":"what moviemaking has come to.....","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I had a chance to see this and Clint's True Crime on successive evenings on hotel ppv while on vacation. This movie is a sad example of the triumph of glitz in Hollywood product. Connery sleepwalks through his role. Catherine Zeta-Jones' acting abilities range from A to B (pace Dorothy Parker). The plot devices strain credibility at every turn, and the makers of the film must have missed class on the day they went over character development. The whole movie is overlaid with a brittle layer of cold, lifeless, glossy techno-sheen. True Crime, while no masterpiece, is at least a real story with real people. This is contemporary moviemaking at its worst. "},{"Title":"Disappointing over-hyped action movie.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a disappointing over-hyped action movie.  The characters are two-dimensional and totally unbelievable. The cinematography in parts is great with stunning palm-sweating sequences shot in Malaysia and beautiful, if corny, travelogue sequences shot in Scotland.  But the plot is full of holes and with more unjustified twists than usual for this kind of film.  "},{"Title":"A poor movie.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A silly movie with some good technical effects but a movie that's hamstrung with a poor script and a storyline that was hopelessly implausible--even for an adventure/suspense movie of this type.  The girl was pretty and Sean, of course, was Sean. Rating 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Inane, mediocre, suspenseless suspense film","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Here we have a movie that's made without anything remotely shocking, exciting or surprising about it.The only thing worthwhile about it is Zeta-Jones in a body stocking.Connery looks too old and tired to be a 1st class burglar and he probably should stick to less physically challenging parts in the future.A mainstream film with no surprises whatsoever. "},{"Title":"a bland mix of action and romance","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Before I went to see the over-advertised movie Entrapment that attempted to attract male viewers with Zeta Jones' body shot, I was excited for a fast paced action thriller similar to the early James Bond films with a romantic edge with the spicy Zeta Jones.  Unfortunately Entrapment left me utterly disappointed.The movie itself makes an attempt to glorify the art of theft and desire for money.  Which, if done in the right manner, can be pulled off.  However, Entrapment's very premise left much more to be desired.The entire movie was simply two thieves moving from one job to the next in hopes of making more money from their endeavor.  I found myself drifting off, wishing their was more of a solid plot.And if the lack of a solid plot wasn't enough, most of the scenes were not very exciting, and left me wanting more.  For example, the scene in which Jones' navigates through a series of lasers (string in practice), is an obvious substitute for the quintessential action/adventure sex scene, and not a very good one at that.Another of the many aspects that annoyed me was that Connery and Jones' were not only thieves but vanishing magicians during the movie, appearing and disappearing out of thin air.  This ruined the credibility even more so.In conclusion, Entrapment was a bad movie, and if you are a Connery or Jones' fan, don't spend the 8 bucks to see it.  Wait until it's on VHS or DVD. ----  I give it a 4. "},{"Title":"Did I see the right movie?","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After reading through other reviews of Entrapment I can't help but feel I saw the wrong movie. The version I saw was a never ending string of cliches embedded into a plot so flimsy it couldn't stand up if it were not for Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones. The direction of Jon Amiel was a never ending series of well worn manipulation techniques that were not even well done. I don't mind being a passive observer, but I do not like to be blatantly manipulated.Several times during the movie I found it difficult not to laugh out load at the ludicrousness of what I was seeing. For example, in the well advertised scene of Catherine Zeta-Jones wriggling her way through the fake laser beams I couldn't stop thinking Why doesn't she just crawl or What was the point of that move? It's indicative of the whole movie. It's a scene played for the audience, and we aren't supposed to be there. In another scene between Sean Connery and Ving Rhames, Rhames scolds Connery for changing partners etc. Who is this scene for? We discover later in yet one more feeble plot twist that these two know this conversation is a sham, but rather than playing it out to further some clever hidden agenda it is solely to pull the wool over the eyes of the audience. And as I've stated before, the audience is not supposed to be there.There are so many good caper movies ranging from The Great Train Robbery to Ronin to The Great Escape. It is truly a disservice to the research that went into making those movies to add this fairy tale to the same genre. There are movies like Spanish Prisoner and even Wild Things that do a far better job at consistent plot twists and intrigue. Even the bank job concept was better done in Superman III. In short this movie was a waste of time and money.  "},{"Title":"Barely Watchable, Hardly Memorable","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is one of those Hollywood movies that are so bad, you have to wonder how they got made in the first place.  Just awful, I'm giving it 2 out of 10 instead of 1 out of 10 because the beginning is kind of interesting.  Then it turns into this utterly silly movie with Connery and Zeta-Jones as super-thieves who slink around in black stealing things... it was just unwatchably AWFUL.  Nothing like this would ever happen remotely in real life.  I place the entire blame for this movie on screenwriter Ron Bass, who to his credit, wrote the great script for Rainman.  But this piece of junk... it's not worth any further comment. "},{"Title":"Dull, dull, dull","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a strangely unengaging action film. I felt no interest whatsoever in the characters or their plans. The twists in the film were hardly surprising and overall this is a film we've seen a hundred times before. The ridiculous age difference between Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery makes the film totally unbelievable. And Zeta-Jones is a very mediocre actress, she's not bad, but she's certainly not good either. Boring. (3/10) "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful and even Worse","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Generally in movies the movie goer has to suspend disbelief while watching the movie, but to enjoy this movie you would have to had taken your brain out of your head. Without revealing any of the plot to the reader, the two things that I thought most ridiculous was the age difference and the many, many flaws that occurred in the movie. Example - Jones says that a job HAS to be done the next night - but two nights pass before they do they job - stupid! The producers of this movie used Jones sexually draw to get the 18-49 males to this movie, and thats the only reason that this movie has any numbers. my rating - 4  "},{"Title":"Rent Mission Impossible or Goldfinger instead","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Although it was refreshing to sit through an entire action movie without seeing one fatality, this movie was dull.  The action sequences were unimaginative and predictable.  The problem is that the characters don't run into any problems.  What makes crime capers fun is that they never quite go as planned.The film was written by My Best Friend's Wedding screenwriter Ron Bass. More than likely, it was the result of a pitch meeting, where established writers try to convince studio bosses to pay them to write treatments, and ultimately scripts.  The disadvantage of this method of script creation is that often, thin ideas are never fully fleshed out.  This is a prime example of that defect.  Instead of developing a story, the studio simply attached two charismatic stars to the project and hoped that the rest would take care of itself.  Based on the mostly-positive reaction to the movie, it can be argued that such hopes were well-founded.  I disagree.  The movie needed more conflict and a more developed plot.Rent Mission Impossible if you want to see how action sequences and contrived plot are SUPPOSED to unfold.  Or if you're dying for a glimpse of the ever-entertaining Sean Connery (or you need to work on that hilarious impression of him that you're developing) rent Goldfinger or another Bond classic.  This movie just isn't worth your time. "}{"Title":"Scooby Doo meets James Bond. So cheesy","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A 90s' attempt to emulate James Bond which goes sadly wrong. The plot is riddled with flaws and inconsistencies and the relationship between Sean Connery and Catherine Z-J is frankly laughable. Apparently Sean Connery vetoed love scenes, because it would be unbelieveable with the age gap. However, in an effort to do portray a frisson of excitement, any semblance of reality has disappeared. Honestly, how many single 65-year-old men would turn down Catherine Z-J if she threw herself at them? Point proven!I'm afraid that this is totally geared towards the US market and Catherine Z-J will do very well out of it, but with a dire script and unbelievable plot, the only trap being set here is luring punters in to pay and see it! Sorry! "},{"Title":"It's just not enjoyable.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Very much a sub-Bondian crime caper, Entrapment is a film that doesn't induce much comment, so I can but be brief. Its plot is tedious and far from the big deal it thinks it is. The only characters really given any time are the starring pair. Any chance of the dynamic between the two working is undermined by a cringe-worthy sentimental ending scene, although the dynamic was hardly that interesting or tense to begin with.  Connery, once an effective James Bond, but never a true character actor, is dull here, but at least has some residual screen presence. In short, he's no better really than in most of his recent and very mediocre films. I suppose he's at least less OTT-in-a-bad-way than he was in The Avengers.Catherine Zeta Jones acts almost as the catalyst for the plot; much prancing surveillance dodging merely to show off her figure, although none of it had a hint of true sensuality. The lack of true chemistry, perhaps understandable given the 40 year age difference between the stars, is a major undoing. I don't see why Ms Jones always feels she has to adopt an American accent in her films; this and the rest of her vaguely posturing performance fail to impress. A very bland, conservative film, with not an ounce of innovation, and barely even much fun.Rating- * 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"It took 80 million and 4 writers to be THIS bad.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Easily the worst movie this year. If you're looking for character development, good dialogue or a halfway decent plot, this is the wrong movie. Even if you're looking for Catherine Zeta-Jones' butt, you're still going to be disappointed. (You saw it all in the previews.) The only compelling aspects of the completely 2-dimensional characters were due to the fact that he's Sean Connery and she's Catherine Zeta-Jones. But even James Bond with a Hellenesque beauty at his side cannot save this cerebrally-challenged script.The worst part is that it was too painful to make fun of. If a cheap and bad horror movie is a man falling off of his bike that you can laugh at (and sometimes laughs with you), than Entrapment is a catastrophic and very painful train wreck. If your Connery/Zeta-Jones fix is unsatiated. Go rent Goldfinger and Zorro. If you just want to get out of the house, please save yourself and see The Matrix. "},{"Title":"Spare us... spoilers...","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  As one of the world's great cynics (that was me snorting with derision during Bambi) I feel I can spot an insulting, obvious piece of hack-work a mile away, but not even I was ready for something as tawdry and soul-crushing as this.  Starring Catherine Zeta-Career-Move and Sean - Will This Do? - Connery, it offers nothing to entertain, enrich, or even divert any viewer unlucky enough to have it downloaded into his or her brain. With zero chemistry between them, the lovely Ms Zeta Jones and the charismatic Mr Connery run rings round each other for no sensible reason.  Is he double-crossing her?  Is she double-crossing him?  Is Ving Rhames in this for anything other than hard cash, and lots of it?  Is Zeta attempting an American accent?  Perhaps, but that does not explain why she keeps saying combuder instead of computer.  Watching her grapple with the name Kuala Lumpur in half-Welsh-half-American is genuinely moving.And could the high security in the world's tallest building, filled with some enormous banking combuder in its own enormous room, be perhaps a tad tighter?  They could , for example, install some armed personnel, CCTV, motion sensors, etc. Instead, we are witness to a security system so lax it might as well be protecting a ZX spectrum and some pennies in a bucket.  Also, it would help if the dolts in the CCTV control room were awake and looking at screens, rather than just sitting there saying, they seem to have disappeared.  Is there any art in this building? asks some other dolt, trying to work out why Cathy and Seany have arrived at this building, on Millennium Eve.  Yeah, that's it, they're here to half-inch a couple of Klimts.  Meanwhile, there's some banking control room somewhere where guys in shirt sleeves stride around, yelling things like, This is for real, people!  Wouldn't you love to have a job in banking that was like that?  Catherine has this brilliant plan where she slows down time for a few seconds, enabling her to nick eight billion dollars while different banks around the world are off-line (We're about to lose Hong Kong!).  It really is that simple.  Needless to say, things go wrong, resulting in Sean and Zeta hanging off the world's tallest building for a while, as perfectly inappropriate fireworks go off around them.   With faxed-in performances, lacklustre direction, bland cinematography and exotic locations, Entrapment is the epitome of dull film-making.   "},{"Title":"Don't get trapped in the theater with this one","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery cashes a check, and Catherine Zeta-Jones becomes an early front-runner for a Razzie worst-actress-of-the-year award in this unimaginative and often laughable movie.While there are a couple mildly interesting heist scenes, the movie throws most of its energy into trying to build sexual tension between its two uninteresting lead characters who--as in so many bad movies of recent years--were born half a century apart.  The flimsy mood is broken whenever they speak to each other, which they do in dialogue that seems like it comes from a Saturday Night Life parody of itself (it wasn't clever, it was. ..PERFECT!).  The title of the movie is spoken in one of the dumbest exchanges of all.If you manage to stay to the end, you will see Entrapment disintegrate into a bunch of bad cliches.  These include the heroes dangling from the top of a skyscraper by a steel cable (which of course must start to snap) while a crowd of thousands of people below (that is looking up, no less!) doesn't notice.  Then there are several surprise revelations that don't fit with the logic of what has happened earlier.  Apparently, the writers felt that they could make up for writing a by-the-numbers heist script by ending with the tired thriller cliche of a-half-dozen-pointless-plot-twists-that-make-no-sense.On the plus side, there were several things I learned about the business of cat burglary from this movie (1) If, after you steal a piece of art from a museum that is swarming with police, you and your partner feel it necessary to stop outside and scream at each other at the top of your lungs, don't worry. Nobody will notice you! (2) Apparently, a bank won't notice if several billions of dollars are suddenly shifted into a new account. (3) While I have had posters damaged in the mail after sending them in cardboard tubes (which subsequently got crushed), cat burglers are not afraid of this happening to a priceless canvas. (4) The easiest way to break into a skyscraper is to scale to the top on the outside. "},{"Title":"What WAS that?","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Oh man this movie is crap. The plot is convoluted and the movie is weak overall. And Sean Connery is FAR to old to get anywhere with Catherine Zeta-Jones, if you know what I mean.And the ENDING. OMG the ending self destructed the entire movie and was COMPLETELY illogical and pointless. One of the worst endings I have ever seen in a motion picture (the train goes by and they disappear into thin air) which completely ruined the mood of the film and left me feeling like I had been watching a fantasy or sci-fi movie.A much better bet if you like this kind of movie is The Thomas Crown Affair. Compare the two then TRY and tell me Entrapment was better. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty, but dumb","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a pretty movie to watch, but you'll have to switch off your brain if you really want to enjoy it.  The action takes place on (not in) New York skyscrapers, beautiful castles, high tech museums and all over Kuala Lumpur and Catherine Zeta-Jones and/or Sean Connery are in every single scene.  There's something for everybody to see.  But, the missing details make the film an unbelievable mess.  Wouldn't you expect a huge rush of cold wind if you opened a gigantic window on an upper story of a tall building in the middle of winter?  Just like pro-wrestling, you'll enjoy the movie more if you think as a twelve-year-old does and look at all the pretty moving pictures on the screen. "},{"Title":"Get Entrapped.","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Entrapment (1999) Dir Jon Amiel / Cast Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Ving Rhames, Will Patton, Maury Chaykin Well crafted action film about being caught but not so much within a crime but within a relationship. It is about technique when committing theft. Sean Connery plays a elderly thief who steals art paintings and Catherine Zeta-Jones plays an agent assigned to bring him in but she wishes to steal the Chinese mask and needs his help. Detailed plot that gets lost in its action scenes particularly in the conclusion where nothing makes sense. Well crafted by director Jon Amiel whose credits include Copycat and The Man Who Knew Too Little. He is successful when it comes to different genres and subjects. Action is exhilarating but it is the psychological aspects of the thieves that draws us in. Connery is excellent as a thief unreeling charm and intelligence as if baiting. Zeta-Jones is graceful in her romantic curiosity and physical skill. Supporting roles are unfortunately cardboard. Ving Rhames and Will Patton appear in flat supporting roles that are beneath the two leads that overshadow it all. This is a film that depends on the strength of its leads because other roles pass through with very little to make them broad or interesting. Clever in its examination of crime and skill with luring romance and stunning sets that may captivate and entrap viewers. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"A good variation of the Thomas Crowne Affair","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I picked this up from the bargain bin at the local discount store. It was not bad. Zeta-Jones and Connery are both talented thespians, but honestly, the first hour or so of this flick kind of bogs down. It eventually picks up. Also honestly, my wife enjoyed this one more than I did.The special effects are pretty cool. The scenery is also quite nice. The acting is so good that it makes up for a script that, had it been better, would have made this one a slam dunk blockbuster.We both enjoyed it, but I don't think I would have paid a full ticket price.This is a heist, action and romance plot; much along the lines of The Thomas Crowne Affair. Like the two Thomas Crowne films, it includes some interesting, even if predictable plot twists.If you run across this in the bargain bin, or if it's available via Amazon or Netflix, it's probably worth a watch. Not really good, but not really bad either.6/10 "},{"Title":"Entrapment Romance & Action","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Entrapment is the very embodiment of a star vehicle a movie with a preposterous plot, exotic locations, absurd action sequences, and so much chemistry between attractive actors that we don't care. It stars Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones in a caper that reminded me of To Catch a Thief, Charade, Topkapi and the stunt sequences in Bond pictures. I didn't believe a second of it, and I didn't care that I didn't.The film is about thieves. Connery plays a man named Mac, who is getting along in years but is still respected as the most resourceful master thief in the world. Jones plays Gin, who in the early scenes is established as an insurance investigator who sets an elaborate trap for Mac. I will be revealing little about the plot if I say that neither of these people is precisely as they seem.Watching the film, I imagined the trailer. Not the movie's real trailer, which I haven't seen, but one of those great 1950s trailers where big words in fancy typefaces come spinning out of the screen, asking us to Thrill! to risks atop the world's tallest building, and Gasp! at a daring bank robbery, and Cheer! as towering adventure takes us from New York to Scotland to Malaysia. A trailer like that would be telling only the simple truth. It also would perhaps include a few tantalizing shots of Zeta-Jones lifting her leather-clad legs in an athletic ballet designed to avoid the invisible beams of security systems. And shots of a thief hanging upside-down from a 70-story building. And an audacious raid through an underwater tunnel. And a priceless Rembrandt. And a way to steal $8 billion because of the Y2K bug. And so on.It works because it is made stylishly, because Connery and Zeta-Jones are enormously attractive actors, and because of the romantic tension between them. I got a letter the other day complaining about the age differences between the male and female leads in several recent pictures--and, to be sure, Connery at 69 and Zeta-Jones at 29 remember different wars. But the movie cannily establishes ground rules (Mac lectures that thievery is a business that permits no personal relationships), and so instead of questioning why they're erotically involved, we wish they would be.The plot, by Ron Bass and William Broyles, is put together like a Swiss watch that keeps changing time zones It is accurate and misleading at once. The film consists of one elaborate caper sequence after another, and it rivals the Bond films in its climactic action sequence, which has Mac and Gin hanging from a string of holiday bulbs beneath the walkway linking the two towers of the Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur. The stunt and f/x work here does a good job of convincing us human beings are actually dangling precariously 70 stories in the air, and I for one am convinced that Zeta-Jones personally performs an earlier stunt, in which she treats an old wooden beam in Mac's Scottish castle as if it were a parallel bar at the Olympics. Most of the movie's action is just that--action--and not extreme violence.Watching Connery negotiate the nonsense of the plot is an education in acting He treats every situation as if it is plausible, but not that big of a deal, and that sets the right tone. He avoids the smile in the voice that would give away the silliness of the plot. When he says, I'm never late. If I'm late, it's because I'm dead, we reflect that some actors can get away with lines like that and others can't, and Connery is the leader of the first group.As for Zeta-Jones, I can only reflect, as I did while watching her in The Mask Of Zorro, that while beautiful women are a dime a dozen in the movies, those with fire, flash and humor are a good deal more scarce. Taking her cue perhaps from Connery, she also plays a preposterous role absolutely straight. The co-stars and Jon Amiel, the director, respect the movie tradition they're working in, instead of condescending to it. There are scenes in this film when astounding revelations are made, and although I didn't believe them, I accepted them, which is more difficult, and enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Even Sean Connery seems bored","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" It's not hard to see what attracted Catherine Zeta Jones to 'Entrapment'. Her roles in 'Blue Juice' and 'The Phantom' hardly did her any favours career wise.So following up her role opposite Antonio Banderas in the hit movie 'The Mask Of Zorro' the previous year, by teaming up with Sean Connery (Enjoying an Indian summer of stardom thanks to movies like 'The Rock' despite his role in 'The Avengers' in a heist movie) seemed like a good idea.However, the movie just doesn't work. The chemistry between Connery and Zeta Jones is awful, and the scene where they making out is awful. Excluding his voice work in 'Sir Billi' Connery only starred in two more movies after this. 'Finding Forrester' a year later, and 'The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen' 4 years later. Here he seems tired and pretty bored. Ving Rhames and Will Patron are solid support, but other than that, there is nobody else in the cast worthy of note.Zeta Jones is the worst love interest of Connerys career. Worse than Lorraine Braco in 'Medicine Man' and that takes some doing. A leading lady more in the vein of Demi Moore would have been better suited to the role as A, she is a better actress, and B, she is a bit closer to Connery's age than Zeta Jones. Worst on screen romantic couple I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****; Grade C+","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  An ace thief and an undercover insurance agent team up to pull off a huge Y2K corporate theft, and maybe to put the thief behind bars. A tribute to star-power, with Connery and Zeta-Jones charming and beautiful, and a nicely complex plot. The last half hour, however, sabotages the film, with too many plot curlicues and Zeta-Jones acting rather bizarrely. A near-miss. "},{"Title":"An average movie until the ending","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a very predictable movie, but somehow it is hard to hate it. Even though it seems to want to be hated because the movie is sometimes really irritating. When it comes to the romance between Connery and Zeta-Jones I can only agree with the majority; it's totally unbelievable. But hey, the movie is still OK. Well that's til the ending of course, because of all the cheesy endings I've seen, this has to be among the cheesiest, if not THE cheesiest I've ever seen. I won't tell you what happens, because even though the ending is horrible, I would never spoil an ending. What I can say however is that the screenwriter(s) have tried to do refreshing ending but failed big time.Summed up, it's an average movie until the ending drags it down to somewhere between awful and bad.  "},{"Title":"As silly as James Bond but without the humour.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Good drama is about suspension of disbelief. A lesson the director of Entrapment should re-learn. I wanted to like the film. I wanted to get involved with the story and be carried away by the adventure, but alas a string of howlers kept yanking me back to the reality.It was one as-if! after another. As if an insurance clerk could create a wonderful computer rendering of a burgled office on her office PC. As if Sean could have a quiet chat with Catherine in a helicopter. Everyone know those things are so darn noisy talking is impossible without the use of the intercom. (Incredibly she even managed a nap.) As if Scotland doesn't have thieves. I mean who would leave the door of their house unlocked, when it contains priceless art? As if - wait for it - a 10mm steel cable would break under the puny weight of Mr Connery and Ms Zeta-Jones. (If that were so, we'd be deafened by the sound of elevators crashing to the ground all over town as their cables snapped.) And finally, who was that geek with the headphones directing operations at the international settlement bank? (Which curiously, was trading over a public holiday.)I know this is being a kill-joy, I know it's fiction, but somehow the implausible simply becomes ridiculous when it's delivered in a such an earnest manner - and I'm sorry, I thought the acting was appalling. Too many lines many were delivered to the accompaniment of a loud clang. At least with James Bond films you know they're taking the wee-wee. "},{"Title":"Eagerly anticipated film turned bad.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment,  ever since I saw the trailers for this movie I was anticipating its release.  After watching this movie I was disappointed.  The movie was exaggerated,  call me a skeptic but during the end scene with all that stealth movement at the train station made me get up from my chair and start shuffling out of the theater.  WHY oh why did they ruin it.  Then we have Zeta-Jones chumming up so much to Mr.Connery that he would HAVE to suspect an underlying plot is in effect.  Seems that Mr.Connery wasn't playing a super intelligent thief. "},{"Title":"Decent entertainment...","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I never thought I would like this film. I normally feel sick when I hear that there has been made yet another big explosive action film. But...this one here was actually quite nice. In the Rock, Sean Connery was changed into a swearing brute. But in this film, grandpa Connery is a real James Bond, gentleman again. And about the beautiful Catherina Zeta-Jones...this girl is one to keep an eye on. She is playing this character pretty good. If you like her, you will find the scene where she is playing the snake act in the laserstreams definitely erotic!!! OK, the film is overwhelmed by old fashioned stupid cliches, but with the two acting performances, the energetic tempo and its suspense, this is a very entertaining movie. Just for fun... "},{"Title":"Marginal Thumbs Up","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If for no other reason, this film is worth a look just to check out Ms. Zeta Jones.  And seeing Mr Connery, with that scruffy beard and leathery face, makes Ms Jones stand out even more.The bottom line this movie was really a collection of three or four riveting scenes, particularly towards the end, strung together by a lot of boring script, that seemed to just drag in parts.  I also thought the ending to be a tad bit confusing (especially if you too spent too much time drooling over Ms. Jones instead of paying attention to the plot.)Overall, it was ok, nothing special though. "},{"Title":"Stupid fun","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Every scene is enjoyable, but if you string them all together, you get gibberish.  This isn't a story, it's a collection of well told cliches that don't go well together.  If it weren't for the star power of Connery and Zeta Jones, and the talent of hired directoral gun Jon Amiel, this dumb, splashy caper film would have collapsed under its own idiocy.  However, because of the effort its talent put into it, it's a diverting movie. "},{"Title":"A James Bond movie without the action, the intrigue or the sex.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The worst thing you can say about a thriller is that it doesn't thrill. Entrapment doesn't.Sure, Sean Connery is still The Man.  Sure, he still has the charisma to pull off action roles.  But this movie doesn't let him loose.  This time he seems a little feeble, and actually shows his age.  Connery himself was one of the producers, so he must've thought allowing that was a good idea.  It wasn't.  Connery also appears to have sensed that romancing co-star Catherine Zeta-Jones, who's young enough to be his granddaughter, might appear unseemly.  It would explain why the script has his character resisting her advances -- for most of the movie anyway.  It may be more romantic that way, but the result is a James Bond movie without the action, the intrigue or the sex.There are a few twists, but nothing surprising.  The finale, set on Millennium Eve in the Petronas Towers in Malaysia, the world's tallest building, has some tense moments.  Ving Rhames, as another MacDougal accomplice, also steals every scene he's in (hell, he's so good, he probably stole the props and much of the lighting equipment while he was at it). The cinematography resembles nothing so much as a Visa ad.  Really, the only reason to see this movie is for Zeta-Jones.  Not only is she gorgeous, she can act.  Her looks also allow you to easily forgive the few times when her American accent sounds phony.  She has the kind of dark and sensuous beauty you could look at all day.  The movie at least lets you look at her for a couple hours. "},{"Title":"Good Story, but a little flat...","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a good movie, but it ended up being a little flat, particularly the ending...  The key to the movie was how new facets of the characters are revealed throughout.  Motivations are never quite clear until right towards the end.  The problem with this movie is that after two hours, there were too many ends to tie together, and the ending became rather predictable, and somewhat trite.  But overall it is still a good movie. "}{"Title":"One heck of a film","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the best I have seen this year. Sean Connery puts in a good performance by playing Robert Mac MacDougal, a world renowed art thief. Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Ginger Gin Baker, a worker for an insurance agency who convinces her boss to let her work with McDougal. Oh, she does all right, and in a big way. The story can make your head spin as it is misleading and confusing. The skin-tight outfits on Zeta-Jones are awesome. Ving Rhames puts in a good word by playing Thibedeaux. He works for Connery's character and provides all of the humor in this film, basically (Although there is very little humor).Don't miss this one. This is a must-see. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Alas, Sean Connery is old.  He plays a 60 year old, and looks considerably older.  That being said he is still Sean Connery, and will be cooler at 90 than just about anyone else at 30.  One of the best things that a heist movie can show is the level of preparation the characters go through before pulling off their caper, and this movie spent an enjoyable amount of time on that aspect -- providing some shots of Ms. Zeta-Jones that were worth the price of admission. In the end, they lost the mystique of the cat burglar and opted for an action-adventure cop-out ending.  And the final heist was trite.  See Superman 3 and Office Space. Overall - enjoyable, and about as good as you can expect from Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Thank you, and can you now point me towards the Matrix!","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Well, through all the movies I have seen, this one isn't that bad.  Sure it has its moments when its bearable to not leave, but mostly, not.  What it basically boils down to is, Catherine Zeta-Jones needs to try and keep at least some clothes on, People need to keep straight who they're working for, and for Sean Connery, he's no James Bond!! "},{"Title":"terrific flic with 2 entertaining stars out doing themselves to keep our attention and on the edge of our seats.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  sean connery is the most engaging rascal on today's screen. new comer catherine zeta-jones is a great foil for sean. the two of them add a wonderful comedy touch to a james bond type adventure, with a diabolical twist at the end.  "},{"Title":"Started slow with poor dialogue but picked up and was very entertaining.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  During the first part of the movie the dialogue was terrible. This is not a fault on the part of Catherine Zeta-Jones nor Sean Connery who are both capable actors. The writing seemed very amateurish in terms of dialogue as if the writer is a professional in writing action, but wanted to try his hand in the romantic/dramatic genre.Eventually, however, the movie picks up in action and the need and desire for such dialogue is minimized. Overall, the movie was very entertaining, quite action and suspense filled and keeps one guessing as to who is on what side till the very end. However, as this puzzle started to unravel, I was unsure if it would ever become completely undone.I recommend the movie as it was very entertaining, but I wouldn't put it on any top 20 list of mine. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, just not a GREAT film","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this movie. As a fan of Sean Connery, and of Thief stories as a whole, I thought this might be the penultimate Thief movie.  While both Catherine and Sean were great in this film, they are the only reason to see it. The plot has a couple interesting twists, but is predictable throughout. All in all I gave this 7 outa 10 points. (I would watch it on TV, but won't rent it when it comes out on video)  If you are looking for a REALLY good thriller, rent Heat or The Usual Suspects both of which I consider to be the best of the genre.  Heat is also a longer movie, which translates to more bang for yer movie buck.  "},{"Title":"Rembrandts, high-tech thieves, double crosses, and women in leather - a mix for success or bad take on an old theme?","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment - Gin Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is an insurance agent who specializes in antiquities.  She is entranced by the recent theft of a painting from a heavily alarmed  high-rise office.  The job carries all the markings of Robert Mac MacDougal  (Sean Connery) a supposedly retired super-thief.  Gin is determined to trap him with the promise of an even bigger prize, using herself as bait.  Things aren't as clear cut as they seem, and the only certainty is that no one is to be trustedConnery is excellent as Mac, the over-the-hill jewel thief willing to carry out the big heist -the consummate actor, he gives his character spirit and makes him believable.  Zeta-Jones, in her first big role since The Mask of Zorro also does a good job and proves that she is more than just eye candy. Add stunning locations -  the Petronas towers in Kuala Lumpur, and the rugged Scottish coast, -  good chemistry between Connery and Zeta-Jones, great stuntwork, some interesting crosses and doublecrosses and this should be a surefire hit.  Unfortunately there are some significant flaws.The script simply does not have much to offer- the dialogue is stilted and the actors have little to work with.  The supporting cast is basically one-dimensional cardboard cutouts that add little to the story. In addition, the action - impressive when it is on screen - is too infrequent.  Finally, the relationship between Gin and Mac should have been explored more thoroughly.Thanks to the trailers, and the stars involved, this movie will do well. Whether or not it should is another question. "},{"Title":"Entrapment is a hit-and-miss prospect","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  For pure entertainment value, you can't go wrong with Entrapment. Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones are sexy and suave as a pair of art thieves who find themselves falling in love. Connery plays his usual character - dashing, brave, and the quintessential ladies' man; he always seems to have a quip ready to spout and the savoir-faire that makes his fanny-patting James Bond style work. Of course, Connery is arguably the best of the actors who have portrayed James Bond; his latest characters have put that panache to good use, whether playing a hardened criminal in The Rock, a criminal mastermind in The Avengers, or an ingenious art thief in Entrapment. Is Connery getting typecast? That's a discussion to be held at a later time - but his character here, Robert Mac MacDougal seems to have echoes of many of his earlier characters.Catherine Zeta-Jones, whose main claim to fame thus far has been the romantic interest opposite Antonio Banderas in The Mask of Zorro, is a sultry and sassy Virginia Gin Baker. Zeta-Jones tries hard to hold her own against Connery, but it's really his show and she's just there for the eye candy. Not that the audience was complaining - she is a very attractive woman and the sheer gymnastic routines she goes through to steal the artwork will be the stuff of every preteen boy's dreams for weeks to come. For all her sex appeal, however, I found it difficult to take Zeta-Jones seriously in this role. She's not the most experienced actress in the world, and often her dialogue sounds forced and unnatural.The plot is a basic rehash of Mission Impossible and The Rock, a sort of let's break into the impregnable fortress show that features high-tech special effects and some acrophobic stunt work. We see three individual heists here - a Rembrandt, a priceless Chinese mask, and the money supply of Southeast Asia. One big problem I had with the movie is that Mac is supposedly a legendary criminal - he's the guy who (right or wrong) gets blamed for the major art heists. However, we see Baker doing all the work, even so far as planning each job. The movie fails to put a real handle on Connery as a thief and instead plays him mainly as a love interest. Due to some machinations of the screenwriters, Ronald Bass and William Broyles, Mac manages to stay ahead of Gin by stealing her clothing (off-screen), stealing the stolen Rembrandt (again off-screen), and stealing the Chinese mask (yet again off-screen).Director Jon Amiel strives for some stunning visuals here; there are terrific shots of Gin practicing to beat a laser-protected field, of Kuala Lampur at night, and the opening sequence ranks right up there with the Langley break-in from the movie Mission Impossible for sheer excitement and invention. As in Mission Impossible, Ving Rhames is in the cast, acting tough and spitting out pithy tough-guy sayings.Entrapment isn't nearly as well-done as Mission, but it does have some terrific sequences and the characters, while not fully fleshed out, are at least engaging enough to spend a couple of hours with. There are some major plot holes, but why quibble? Entrapment moves right along and has enough plot twists to keep you interested, so take a date and spend the next two hours trying to figure out how to get him into bed.  "},{"Title":"No chemistry between the 2 stars, dull plot","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I sensed a lack of chemistry between the two stars, unlike Jones' last movie (ZORRO). On top of that, they told you what they were going to do, practiced doing the job, then went out and did it. It had some twists in the plot I didn't see coming, especially at the end. These twists do not justify the first hour and a half. I hope to see better from both of these two stars in the future... "},{"Title":"Very disappointing...","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This could have, and should have been a good movie.  Unfortunately, it was very disappointing.  Sean Connery just seemed too old for this role; the movie's trailers also lied about it being an action movie - the plot was slow-moving for more than an hour.  While the action was good at the end, it was too little, too late.  Catherine Zeta-Jones ALMOST made it worth it, but overall, I'd say it was a 6/10. "}{"Title":"Exciting, but flawed heist adventure","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery stars with Catherine Zeta-Jones (Mark of Zorro) in this Thomas Crownish heist adventure. Just as The Thomas Crown Affair was the stylish in-film of the 60's, Entrapment, as directed by Jon Amiel, has taken on the high tech feel of the 90's and merged it with the heist film. Any movie with Connery has something to recommend it. His voice alone can be so convincing. Zeta-Jones is as beautiful and alluring as she was in Zorro. Although some of their scenes together do have some chemistry, as a whole something is missing. Of course, the questions here are will they get caught and who are the good guys and bad guys? All of these are answered by the finale. The film has multi-national settings including New York, Scotland and Maylasia. The latter is a character in itself. The edge-of-your-seat climax takes place in the tallest building in the world, not the Sears Tower any more. This building is a spectacular 2 tower edifice with a high bridge joining the towers. This sequence alone is worth the price of admission. Supporting performances by Ving Rhames and Will Patton are adequate, but they are both under-used. Cinematography and editing are helpful in pulling the whole together.  "},{"Title":"Short Refractory Period.","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" An enjoyable, good-natured thriller, in which Sean Connery is one of those master thieves and Catherine Zeta-Jones is an undercover FBI agent who wiles her way into his company to pull off a joint job.Two joint jobs, as a matter of fact, with virtually no refractory period between in which the viewer can recover his breath. The first one introduces us to one of the film's best scenes. While the dynamic duo are practicing for their first Rififi-style theft of a heavily guarded Oriental mask, Catherine Zeta-Jones, with her skewed irises and her abundant bilateral symmetry, performs a number of slow-motions gymnastics and grotesque arabesques in a skin-tight suit. And a very artistic scene it is, too.The second thrilling scene takes place while the duo are trying desperately to inch their way from one of the tallest buildings in the world, in Singapore, to the other tallest building in the world. Their only support is two smallish steel cables, one to walk sideways on, and one to hold on to over their heads. They have about one hundred yards to cover. I won't describe their difficulties because if you've ever seen a movie with a dangerous crossing of a rope bridge or something, or a movie about someone dangling by a line that's parting thread by thread, you already know the breathtaking, spine-tingling, nerve-wracking devices that are on display.What happens at the end? Well, no power on earth could force me to give away the fact that it involves twisted identities, love, and Catherine Zeta-Jones winding up with one billion dollars tucked somewhere around her handsome body.Younger viewers might not realize that the approach of the year 2000 -- the millennium -- was heralded by near panic among many of the public who believed that all the computers would go berserk at midnight on New Years and the world would end and we would all go to hell where we would have to listen to twelve-tone music for eternity. "},{"Title":"Decent Caper/Suspense Flick","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The globe-trotting caper flick Entrapment is more or less a showcase for the talents of Catherine Zeta-Jones, who was arguably at her peak of hottie perfection at the time the film was released (1999).Catherine Z-J plays Gin, an investigator for a high-end insurance company who's in charge of finding out who stole a Rembrandt painting from an office tower in New York City. Unbeknownst to her employers, it was Gin herself who stole the painting, making it look like the trademark work of Mac, a legendary cat burglar played by Sean Connery (who was constantly playing old-but-charming bad-asses like this throughout the late 80s and 90s). Gin's got big plans of her own and she wants Mac's help in pulling off a really big job in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on the eve of the millennium. After a meeting in London, Mac takes the charming Gin into his home and they begin an uneasy partnership in which he trains her Yoda-style to be the best burglar she can be. The pair rips off a priceless Chinese mask from an art museum as a practice run, and when that's done, they head off to Malaysia to take on Gin's high-tech bank heist, which may be more than either one of them can handle.Heist films like these were a dime a dozen in the '60s and '70s but the genre had all but died out by the 1990s. Entrapment gave it a bit of a boost. It's got all the trademarks of a good caper movie - amazing scenery (and I'm not just talking about Catherine, though the scene of her creeping across a laser grid in tight spandex pants is epic indeed), cool high-tech gadgets, and suspense and chases galore. Connery is always fun to watch, and Catherine Zeta-Jones provides primo eye candy, so you can certainly do worse than Entrapment for your crime-movie fix. The end of the millennium/Y2K bug hook is hopelessly out of date now, of course, but when the film was made such things were a real concern and probably could have provided a loophole for heists such as these.Not a classic for the ages, but a decent enough way to kill two hours. Add a few extra points to my rating if you're a Sean Connery or Catherine Zeta-Jones fan. And who isn't? "},{"Title":"Mildly exciting heist flick that isn't a patch on Ocean's Eleven - 67%","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This has, for many years, been one of those annoying movies that I keep seeing in bits and pieces rather than from start to finish. But with a rare night off work and nothing else on TV, my Better Half and I settled down to watch this strangely old-fashioned but contemporary heist thriller. It might not offer anything new to the mix and is even slightly silly at times but it's perfectly acceptable TV fare, which may explain why it gets shown so often.Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Gin Baker, an insurance worker who investigates art thefts. After a priceless Rembrandt is stolen, Gin is sent after the prime suspect, legendary thief Robert MacDougal (Sean Connery) but like all heist movies, nothing is as it seems. It turns out that Gin is an accomplished thief herself and she needs Mac's help to pull off a massive job on the eve of the Millennium. The question is, who's playing who? Like most heist movies, Entrapment is a film that wants to be very cool and tries too hard. True, it doesn't bother with irritating split-screens and flashbacks like Duplicity but like that film, it bases the whole film around the two leads. Zeta-Jones and Connery aren't exactly newcomers yet they simply don't gel as a couple - the age difference doesn't help but neither character struck me as being particularly appealing. None of it felt believable from the rightly mocked heist sequence itself to the clunky dialogue. Even the ending felt far too convenient and dare I say it, predictable. In fact, what made Entrapment entertaining was reminding me of all the pre-Millennium fears that were voiced in the days and weeks before Y2K. But when the credits rolled, I didn't feel involved at all and if a heist movie has to make any impact at all, the very least I should feel is challenged.Like I said, this is perfectly acceptable to watch on TV because at least you're not paying for it. But had I splashed out on a DVD or seen it at the cinema then I might have felt short-changed. Entrapment could have been much better than it was but by trying too hard, it ends up falling flat on its face. It also hasn't aged well due to the complete lack of chaos everyone predicted that was Y2K. For once, I'd like to see a heist movie where every character isn't double-crossing each other, where the ending isn't ambivalent and that doesn't involve the whole one last job routine we've all watched hundreds of times before. Entrapment, sadly, isn't the movie I've been waiting for. "},{"Title":"Thomas Crowne Affair was better...","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Entrapment is worth a look for that famous scene with CZJ slinking between the lazer beams, but Thomas Crowne Affair, which was released the same year (1999) is the same story done better. Thomas Crowne Affair also tells the story of a pro thief being trailed by a romantic interest, but with more believability. The age difference between Connery and CZJ, the over-the-top stunts, and the cheese factor of the death-defying climax make Entrapment cheesy but fun. The movie has sex appeal and some daring heist scenes, but none of the sophistication or wit of The Thomas Crowne Affair. Also, Connery really is getting a little too old and gray to be jumping off buildings. "},{"Title":"Malaysia Boleh (Can)?","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Directed by Jon Amiel, various international film festival winner. Golden Globe winner Ving Rhames, as seen in Mi trilogy as well as Dawn of the Dead is star in this film surprisingly.Frankly speaking Catherine Zeta-Jones is too young to match with Sean Connery. We can't deny that when we spend some time with someone we will get closer and eventually fall in love.Sean Connery is the co-producer of this film. I guess many people couldn't remember Sean Connery for his first Oscar winning work in The Untouchables (1988) due to his impressive James Bond and Indiana Jones series.On the other hand, Catherine Zeta-Jones is now an Oscar holder after Chicago in 2003. We will never know what will happen in the near future. She is really sexy.You will enjoy this film if you like something like The Recruit apart from being the fans of the big stars.As a Malaysian, it is really proud, surprise and happy to see KLCC areas are being selected as the main action shooting location when it was the tallest building at that time before the completion of Taipei 101.Besides that, during the shooting period the STAR LRT was the first in Malaysia and still new as compared to its old-fashion today after the completion of ERL, PUTRA LRT, and KL Monorail.I feel the sense of belonging when I see the ending scenes in STAR LRT Pudu Station. "},{"Title":"Get caught in this trap","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Will Patton, and Ving Rhames star in one of the best movies I've seen all year. Sean Connery is Robert MacDougal a jewel thief; Catherine Zeta-Jones is Virginia Gin Baker, an insurance investigator sent to capture him. As Entrapment evolved, it became apparent that not everything is what it seems.Entrapment is a movie that people will enjoy as it will keep them on the edge of their seats and keep them guessing whether or not certain characters are on the level. The plot includes trying to capture Robert MacDougal while he tries his hand at a theft of mask. The movie doesn't end there, not only does it have one robbery but there a two; the second is an offer by a mystery person who can only be revealed when it is seen.I was kept guessing throughout to who might be on the level, wondering who might be the real thief. Along with the suspense, Entrapment includes underlying but clear sexual tension and incredible chemistry between Connery and Zeta-Jones.Also, Entrapment was enjoyable due to the many high-tech gadgets, which were used by Connery and Zeta-Jones. One scene in particular was very enjoyable as it involved Zeta-Jones in sensual positions. It seems like Connery's character was a father figure for Zeta-Jones and was proved in several scenes throughout the film.Entrapment also includes great support from its co-stars Will Patton and Ving Rhames. Patton and Rhames are so good it is difficult to tell whether or not they are part of a conspiracy to steal the mask or they are really tracking Connery and Zeta-Jones.This is a movie for people who like a good suspenseful thriller that will make them think and doesn't have a resolution until the end. Furthermore, it contained a surprise ending that will the audience will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Late Capitalism as Symptom of Entrapment","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" _Entrapment_ was produced like the usual thriller plus romantic interest. But beyond this pop B-movie work, the film is a symptom of so-called late capitalism or our own global era of market dominance and online networks. The film envisions the Malaysian capital as a real Cyberjaya which is one of the centers of networked global financial transactions. High-tech criminals, assisted by actor Sean Connery's stern-yet-likable masculine mastery, plan to tap into the heart of these financial transactions during a Y2K preparedness test of a bank's main computers. The computers are said to be privately networked to New York and other metropolitan centers of transnational capital flows. The tallest towers in the world are the site of this crime--as though the nebulous and secretive interconnections of transnational flows requires some visible center, some master-signifier or sign of mastery to enable the mis-en-scene of an otherwise nondramatic and non-visual act. This crime intends to download relatively small amounts of money from hundreds of banks operating across Asia. Such a crime could take place by hacking in from a ranch in Oklahoma, but Hollywood style needs to visualize the actors on a set which itself defines a specific imagery. So the difficulty we have with cognitive mapping of the new social formations across global dislocations and complex flows of postmodern value is imaginatively solved in such films by registering landmarks the tallest towers in a city constructed on the promise of digital networks and overseas investment. Interesting to note that Malaysia officially complained about this film, since it used cinematographic techniques to make a slum appear right next to the shining hypermodernity of Cyberjaya (or the symptoms of the 3rd world right in the shadow of the symptom of the 1st world). This juxtaposition was manipulated by Hollywood and led to the Malaysian complaint of bad press. The film apparently made some feeble gestures to show that it is not merely a symptom of our times, but also a deliberate revelation. Much more should be said about this, but not in this cramped space... "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Entrapment is a action thriller focusing on a number of capers by two thieves (only one of whom is really a thief). Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery star in this 1999 movie from director Jon Amiel. Taking place in a little over 16 days, this is a fast moving action flick with enough twists and turns to keep a viewer interested. There are enough IMDb summaries for you to figure out the gist of the plot, so I won't burden myself with that.The plot seemed somewhat plausible to anyone unfamiliar with actual capers and was decent for a movie of this caliber. I would not accept this plot if it was coming from as great a director as Ridley Scott (for instance), but I will allow it from Jon Amiel. Several plot holes and errors, however, make most of the believability of this film go to pieces and the many plot twists leave the viewer slightly confused. Still, it is entertaining, mixing bits of heart-pounding adventure sequences with lighthearted comedy.What romance is put in this movie is entirely unnecessary and is put in strictly to please the gentler sex (which it failed to accomplish in my case). It is highly unsettling that a 30 something and a 60 something would want to share a bed.The acting is also decent, although Zeta-Jones' beauty impressed me more than her acting ability.All in all, I'd say this movie is good enough, but not great. If you want to see it, I'd suggest waiting for a TV showing rather than paying to rent it.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Zeta-Jones Wears Eyeliner to Bed","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Caper films always have intricate plots which often do not stand up under examination but Entrapment may be the most implausible ever. The story line with its convoluted schemes, betrayals and counter-betrayals makes no sense at the beginning, less sense in the middle and no sense at all at the end. The only justification for this movie is that it serves as a vehicle for the aging but still magnetic Sean Connery and for the formidably beautiful Catherine Zeta-Jones. When Connery's high-tech second-story man initially confronts her, she seems to be wearing eye-liner and nothing else to bed. But never mind, she's gorgeous and, though Connery's character is a thief, he's also too much of a gentleman to take advantage. (It later turns out that he stole her luggage which is why she's naked in the first place. I told you it doesn't make sense. Trust me.) I can think of a dozen films with more or less the same plot, all of them better than Entrapment. Even Ocean's Eleven (I haven't seen the sequel). But the best of the lot after 40 years remains Topkapi, which was directed by Jules Dassin, Melina Mercouri's husband. On a related path of skulduggery and misdirection, the elaborate scam perpetrated in The Sting offered a lot more fun than any caper film I've ever seen, even including Topkapi. "}{"Title":"Connery does the Thomas Crown Affair","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jon Amiel ( recently responsible for the tiresome save the earth adventure the Core) brings us a Thomas Crown Affair copy. This time with Connery playing Mac (a master thief who doesn't like complications), and Zeta-Jones as a resourceful yet petulant insurance fraud agent. One has to wonder at the point of this film, except maybe to deal some concessions to Connery fans by having him live the life of a playboy in a Scottish Castle, stealing not because he needs to, but rather for the sport of it. Likewise Zeta-Jone's character has little to offer (as it seems she never outgrew the adolescent stage of throwing tantrums when someone was mean to her). Unfortunately, entrapment ('that's what cops do to thieves') has little more to offer than a set of exotic locales, stunts, and luring shots of a voluptuous Zeta-Jones. Bottom line Even though the plot was preposterous I found the romance between Zeta-Jones and Connery to be a sizzler. 3 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"It's All in the Script","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I love Sean Connery and have since the days of Bond.  Sean tries hard in this film, but he is not convincing anymore as a romantic, adventurous leading man.  Since this, he has gone on to more understated roles, which I think should suit him very well for the rest of his career.Despite Sean's efforts, this film is a convoluted mess.  It is filled with plot holes (after having ALL of her clothes stolen from her hotel room, how is it Gin's wearing a different outfit the next day?...how is it that Gin can scale a wall in the castle and walk across a 4 inch beam like it's nothing, yet get all wobbly while walking across an 18 inch ledge?) and there is really no chemistry between the two leads.Catherine Zeta-Jones is really nothing more than eye-candy...and very nice candy, indeed.  Regardless, she is no actor.I felt that the pacing of the film was really poor.  There was never any tension developed.  Not in the heist scenes and not between any of the characters.  After about 70 minutes, I felt like I'd been sitting through this for 2 hours!Despite all that I've mentioned, the real problem here is the script.  It does not matter who the actors are, who is directing, what the basic story is or how eye-popping the FX; if the script is bad, the film is bad.  This script is terrible.If you want to see a real film about an aging thief and a beautiful woman, check out To Catch a Thief.  It's not Hitchcock's best, but it beats this thing any day of the week. "},{"Title":"Back to James Bond however grown-up he may be","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There is no denying that men need to feel masculine and dominate the world (and women) around them, which is basically why Edgar Rice Burroughs made such fame from his horrendous `Tarzan' personality, or why James Bond became so popular half a life-time ago. So we have now Schwarzenegger, van Damme, Seagal, Willis and like ilk doing very `macho' things all over the place and for absolutely no other purpose than to spend thousands of metres of celluloid so as to keep mindlessness alive and kicking.So without much expectation other than the hopes that the grown-up Sean Connery (after his excellent contribution in `The Name of The Rose') might be doing grown-up things, and thus assure keeping my wife happy, whilst delighting myself seeing the most beautiful woman to come out of Wales since Boadicea conquered marauding Roman armies, I picked this one up at a give-away price just down the street, and dedicated an otherwise useless Thursday evening to a few peanuts, a couple of glasses of `pacharán' and 115 minutes of forceless fantasy-making on the basis of practically nothing.Definitely Bill Gates should see this film as there is a whole lot of computerised techniques being flashed about which he will not have got wind of and which I am sure he would be more than capable of converting into something less fanciful, thus being of great use to future users of `Windows Millenium XP Version 5.5' and `Explorer 19.3'. Apart from some nice scenery up in Scotland, possibly Loch Lomond, the only thing one can say about this film is that at least Sean Connery earned himself a few shillings, and that Catherine Zeta-Jones is as beautiful as on any web site you may care to find her on, though her antics in this apology do nothing to redeem anything either for the film or herself. Perhaps the only way they could have made the farce worse might have been to replace the ex-007 with Michael Douglas, but that might well have added insult to injury. The main difference between `Entrapment' and the original 007 entertainments is that there are not half a dozen lightly-clad beauties gliding across the screen, but just one; this is because splendid female specimens come out far more expensive per film than they used to.Anyway, it is all hugely exciting, and they saved themselves miraculously from certain death, and without breaking too many light-bulbs, fortunately, as it would not have been at all nice to upset Kuala Lumpan New Year celebrations.No wonder, then, that this video was at a give-away price down the street.........three and a half out of ten only because Ms. Zeta-Jones is good to look at. Sorry if that sounds chauvinistic, but is not that what these kinds of films are about anyway?  "},{"Title":"Leave your brain at the door...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  An action thriller that relies on fancy gadgets and star power to sell an otherwise dull story. Make that insulting to persons of intelligence too while we're at it.*Mild spoilers below!*If you think that mainframe computers at a bank are easy to hack (by rearranging cables?), armies of guards easy to evade, security systems easy to bypass, complicated plans easy to make, then this is the film for you. It also helps if you have no problem with the heroes stealing from innocent people and corporations.If you prefer a heist film that has interesting characters, a motivation you can understand, and a victim you can accept, then watch another film. I only wish I did!  "},{"Title":"Nothing new here.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If there is such a thing as a run of the mill high tech thriller this is it. Entrapment has nothing it it that stands out from any other thriller, it does not have what i call the  Wow factor. That is not strictly true because Catherine Zeta Jones does look beautiful in this but that is not enough for me give this movie good review. Entrapment is one of those films that tries to be clever with the plot but just ends up disapearing up it's own backside and loses the watchers interest. It is too far fetched for it's own good and the plot has more holes in it than Sean Connery's wig. If you dont think to deeply about the story then you may well like this but it wasn't for me. The only person i end up admiring after watching this is Michael Douglas for getting a catch like Catherine Zeta Jones and he's not even in the film! 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A cool follow-up to Bond","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I always suspected 'James Bond' was a name given to an agent after he gave up his identity for MI6(like the agents from Men  in Black)...Entrapment gives us a cool follow-up if the Sean Connery James Bond retired from the service after Never Say Never Again...A 7 out of 10... "},{"Title":"Glitz, Glamour and Gizmos","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Catherine Zeta-Jones is a beautiful and glamorous woman. Sean Connery, though grizzled and old enough to be venturing into problem prostate territory, still is a sexy manly man, and exemplifies a sort of mature cool with a touch of sardonic wit.The problem with Entrapment, is that it is as real as, oh, I don't know, a 5 cent cigar. It is utterly empty and unbelievable, and the glamour and sexiness are all painted on in the thinnest veneer.Unbelievable? Sure. As in last year's glam-thief pic, the remake of the Thomas Crown Affair, a very beautiful, even regal woman happens to be the brilliant insurance investigator who tracks the most exquisitely talented thief and then gets involved with him.Heists in these flicks require the most remarkably sophisticated equipment, all stainless steel and black rubber, electronic counter-measures, digital countdown timers, fine wires and computer interfaces. Of course, the thieves and the glamour queen both are able to deploy the high-tech equipment with split second precision in impossible circumstances - knowing in the dark which circuit to bypass umpteen close-circuit cameras, re-wire a switch-box in a communications closet and able in 10 seconds - in a closing window of the right 10 seconds - to take over a massive high-tech system... but that would be giving it away.In spite of being beautiful, drop-dead gorgeous and glamorous, with a lovely smile and a twinkle in her eye, unfortunately Catherine Zeta Jones has an air of unapproachability. One can't quite imagine her really getting it on with old Sean, even if one sets aside the quasi-incestuous part.(He is old enough to be her grandfather, fergoshsakes.)  There just is something about her, in spite of the beauty, that seems, well, unbonkable. Maybe there are certain visual cues that are typically used, like pheromones, to denote sexual availability - cleavage, the texture of nipples though a blouse, panties, the right lascivious hair out of place look - that is ususally inserted to prime the audience for sex and is just missing here. And face it for a possibly typical heterosexual male movie goer, part of the ineffable je ne sais quois of watching a beautiful woman in a caper flick, is the vicarious thrill and expectation of the conquest, as the leading man has sex with the beauty.(I know what you are thinking that I'm just ticked off that I didn't get to see her tits. Of course, an ascending star like her, having reached the height that she has, would not could not do that these days. Maybe a Greta Scacchi, a few years back. But not today.)So what do we have? Not much. Some high-tech gizmos. Geatiful Zeta-Jones, cool Connery, the mandatory very cool black guy (Ving Rhames). Some tense hi-jinks. An empty time-waster.Big whoop. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous plot twists spoil movie","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Imagine for a moment that in the last couple of minutes of Star Wars, you found out that Hans Solo was really working for Darth Vadar all along, and that 3-CPO was actually a storm trooper. Would your reaction be, wow, cool plot twist, or, what the hell is Lucas doing? This is the predicament offered by Entrapment. I defy anyone, to view the movie a second time, knowing the final conclusion, and find a single scene in the entire movie that plays with the slightest hint of truth. I like surprises and plot twists as much as the next person, but only if it does not blatantly contradict everything we have seen. Suspension of disbelief in an escapist fantasy action thriller is perfectly normal, but the ending of this movie is so unimaginably dumb that it makes my teeth hurt.If you really want to see this video &#150; and it does have its strong points &#150; I highly recommend hitting the stop button a couple of minutes before the end, just before the meeting in the train station. Then at least, you will be left with just the usual stock of cinematic absurdities, and you will be spared being played for a complete fool.  "},{"Title":"mediocre caper film","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The heist plot has been a staple of movies down through the decades, including such films as Rififi, Topkapi, Gambit, How to Steal a Million, The Hot Rock ad infinitum.  In most cases, the object of the carefully crafted theft usually involved priceless jewels or artwork.   In the latest installment, Entrapment, there are indeed valuable tangible works to be lifted, gut, in the style of true '90's thievery, the real goldmine lies in the more abstract vein of computer banking and currency transfer.  Alas, the aptly named Entrapment falls into a trap of its own making, gussying up a hopelessly conventional script with a display of impressive computer hardware and eyeboggling gadgetry in a vain attempt to overcome dull, barely believable characters and a script totally devoid of the cleverness and wit necessary to carry this sort of story off.Sean Connery and the beautiful Catherine Zeta-Jones portray accomplished thieves who, after a customary skirmish of mutual doubt and suspicion, decide to steal first a priceless Chinese mask and then $8 billion from the Southeast Bank in Koala Lampur.  To give the film's its patina of contemporary relevance, the script inserts timely references to Y2K and the millennial bug - all to no avail.  For unfortunately, Connery and Zeta-Jones, though both very charismatic stars in other circumstances, do not register high on the credibility scale here.  It is hard to believe that this doddering dolt and this whiny, weepy fashionplate could possible concoct, let alone carry out, such elaborate heists and even gravity-defying stunts. Even less believable are the romantic interludes between this 60-year old man and this 20-something year old woman.  The scenes in which Connery trains Jones to perform elaborate tricks of physical dexterity are dull and cutesy - and the final scene of reconciliation (at an empty train station) is so hopelessly contrived that the filmmakers seem to have thrown all logic out the window and allow the characters to perform feats that actually defy the laws of physical possibility.The basic purpose of Entrapment seems to have been to allow two likable actors the chance to cavort in a myriad of eyepopping settings and to dazzle the audience with the latest in technocyber hardware.  It's too bad that the less techno value of a solid script driven by smart dialogue and well developed characters was not downloaded into this film as well. "},{"Title":"Catherine Zeta Jones' a** deserves an oscar for this film!","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Good dumb goofy fun.  Nothing serious here, but if you're a fan of let's go steal something kind of movies, this has some good heists.  The scene with Zeta Jones' a** sticking up as she practices sneaking through the laser beam array is a thing of beauty.  I won't nitpick, the motivations for the characters is questionable, and why she would like to share an $8 Billion heist with someone she barely knows is beyond me.  But what the hell, she looks great robbing stuff, and that's all that matters.  And how could you not like Sean Connery, who's charming as usual. "}{"Title":"...Decent","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This review may be considered a spoiler.My wife and I rented this movie last night and I have to admit that I enjoyed it.  I honestly did not see the twist at the end coming.  I wasn't sure who was working against who, but I did not expect it to turn out the way it did.  Seeing Catherine Zeta-Jones bending to get under the yarn in the practice session was worth renting the movie to see.   "},{"Title":"Suspenseful all the way","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I dont know what the other commenters on this movie are talking about! This is an awesome movie. It has good acting, yes, Catherine Zeta-Jones did good acting in this movie. She is fine too!! The movie kept you in suspense and had a alot of action. It was a very thrilling movie. A lot of the critics rated it bad but they just did that because Catherine Zeta-Jones was in it, and she did good. Very well written and directed, good acting, good suspenseful plot twists, great actions. Just an all around origonal suspense/action film! Go rent it, its worth it, and someone on this page said see The Thomas Crown Affaire...there both sort of the same thing but Entrapment is better.  4 stars! out of 4! "},{"Title":"it left me disapointed and bored","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Not a great movie, no real good story. Actually a bit boring.Out of the 4 points (out of 10) I can give this motion picture, there is 1 point for the looks of Catherine Zeta-Jones, and 1 point for the acting & the mere presence of Sean Connery and Ving Rhames.It is a quickly forgotten movie experience, and I felt kind of disapointed when I left the theatre. "},{"Title":"Great first half.  Definate Fiction all the way!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I must admit it.  I think Catherine Zeta-Jones is a goddess.  Yet I feel that this movie did not help her career.  She was mis-used for this role by far and that didn't help the plot at all.  Like I said, the first half was excellent and the second half where they get to Asia is pure fiction. No-one could ever pull off a heist like that in a day and a half. Sean Connery, not-so-fantastic in this role, did help set the realism (if any) for the first half which I must say was shot magnificently in Scotland. His age did not help his character.Overall......6/10.P.S. Mr. Connery.  Please at least read the script and say no to the next idiot who offers you a movie like this.  Your way above this kind of garbage. "},{"Title":"sean connery phones it in","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a nice piece of Hollywood fluff but nothing more. Sean Connery is a master art thief(is there any other kind?)who is playing a cat and mouse game with Catherine Zeta Jones agorgeous insurance investigator(is there any other kind?). This Thomas Crown Affair  meets It Takes A Thief concoction is easy to take but just as easy to forget. Connery here is coasting on his popularity and charisma. A 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The trap is set!!light summer action with a love story too!!different twist on action movies!!Fun ,Fun Fun!!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This light summer action movie is full of action and fun. The previews showed it as a fun movie . In this movie ,Connery is a jewel thief , that Catherine Zeta Jones wants to capture. The movie takes places all over the world.Will Patton plays Jones boss. Eventually the two people fall in love. The two lovers plan to rob a high tech building in Asia.I am not going to ruin the movie for those  who have not seen it. The ending was quite different than the previews had shown . It could possibly have a sequel made if their are enough plot holes to do!Both Connery and Jones are awesome!My only problem ,parts of this seemed like last summer's Six Days,Seven Nights. Also when is Hollywood going to quit doing these older couple things(like a Perfect Murder etc)? Overall it was great if you like action movies with a different twist!! "},{"Title":"Not quite sharp enough to be great, but still very good...","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment feels old, not old in a bad way, more old fashioned like a caper film from the sixties or seventies but injected with a nineties gloss. Now that's not a bad thing, but it does lead to the occasional stretch where things slow down dramatically, only to speed up again at a later point, stopping and starting as it switches from caper to drama to mystery and back again. That's not to say that Entrapment is disjointed, it's not, it's just that it's structure and execution owes more to the past than to the more recent all action set piece format so popular and prominent these days. And better still it manages to pull it off...pretty much.While it's not quite sharp enough to pull everything off perfectly there are no real missteps and the script (by Ronald Bass and William Broyles jr.) and direction (by Jon Amiel) are both well handled. But that said the films real saving grace is the two fantastic lead performances.Sean Connery is great (as usual) as the aging cat burglar, and has charm and charisma to spare, spreading both around in good measure, but the real surprise here is Catherine Zeta-Jones who gives a head turning performance and is every bit the match, both in character and screen charisma, for Connery in her best, and most natural performance yet. Zeta-Jones seems to be going from strength to strength and handles her role here with ease and skill and is a definite talent on the rise.Supporting players Will Patton and especially Ving Rhames both give good support, while Maury Chaykin is passable, if a touch cheesy, but this is really a two person show, with both Connery and Zeta-Jones igniting the screen and dominating the film to great effect.Overall Entrapment is nothing remarkably new, but that said it still makes a good bet for good, old fashioned entertainment and has enough thrills, twists and charm to more than sustain it's length, plus two top notch performances, and as such is a hell of a lot of fun at the end of the day.8/10 One Man's Opinion. "},{"Title":"Please, stop doing that!!!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Stoo-pid this movie is. The plot is great, let me tell you what you need to be a thief nobody can see you... Woah! who would have thought of that, this is brilliant! Maybe it is me but, I don't think a metal cable of one inch diameter would break under 150 pounds Sean Connery and 105  zeta-Jones. And what would Catherine do with that old, rotting guy (no offense Sean). Who do you think we are, trash-cans to take all this garbage. Fortunately I had a free plane ticket when I paid for this movie... or was it the opposite?  "},{"Title":"Dirty old man and common criminal do not a hero or heroine make","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery hooks up with Catherine Zeta Jones and despite the fact that they are common criminals they are made out to be heroes. I am always uncomfortable with these movies where the criminals get away with it. Robbing the World Clearance Bank is no different from breaking into your house and would you want a hero made out of the person who did that. Also the dirty old man thing. I resent also this notion that Catherine Zeta Jones would be remotely interested in a 70 year old man (even older than Michael Douglas!!). I was trying to think of a reverse casting to illustrate the point, but such is the sexism in Tinseltown I couldn't think of a single actress of Connery's age still headlining movies. The nearest I could get was can you imagine Leonardo making a romantic movie with Judi Dench!The stunts were good as were the locations, but Connery was just Connery and Zeta Jones was alright I suppose. If you don't moralise it, you'll probably enjoy it, but the holes in the plot and the lack of consequence of their actions made it too much for me.  "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a terrible movie! The only really cool thing about it was the computer animated snipers in the fabricated building! It was simply boring -- and we never get any reason why these two characters should fall in love...it's just thrown together. Both Jones and Connery are great actors, but this is a movie they should have avoided!  "}{"Title":"Biggest disappointment of 1999","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  You would think that a movie with the legendary Sean Connery and the sexy Catherine Zeta-Jones would be a great ride.  Wrong.Connery, of course, is fine.  Not spectacular, but adequate.  It's Catherine that is the bad one in this movie.  Ever since Mask of Zorro, I've been in love with Catherine Zeta-Jones.  She had a sexy acting style that made her the biggest discovery of 1998.  Why wouldn't we expect something great from her?  And especially after Connery actually got her the part. Unfortunately, she was absolutely terrible.  I was reminded of her role in The Phantom, where she was a turncoat villain, but was standard bad guy material.  Here, she's even worse.The direction was even worse.  I saw establishing shots of Connery's scottish castle some many times, I lost count.  It seemed that there was at least 20 minutes of screen time of just establishing shots, most of which were wastes of film.I wouldn't recommend anyone to see this film.  Please, please, let's hope Austin Powers 2 and Wild, Wild, West make up for the dismal movie season of April and May (that includes Star Wars!!). "},{"Title":"What was this movie about?","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A teenager in theater for Entrapment, asked her grandfather when the following question as the credits were rolling  Grandpa, what was this movie about?  My sentiments exactly.  Not since Mission Impossible has a movie plot been so jumbled and so hard to figure out.  "},{"Title":"Trapped","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Trapped was how I felt while watching the film Entrapment. I couldn't wait for the movie to end. I went through the other reviews and was thoroughly surprised to read that there were many people out there who enjoyed the movie. My thinking is that - what was there to enjoy? The plot was unoriginal, the script lame and the acting absolutely soulless. As far as I was concerned, it could have been two unknowns as the lead actors and the effect would have been the same. It is such a waste that big names like Connery and Zeta-Jones were used for a humdrum movie like this.Much was said about the chemistry between the two leads. Romantic, intriguing, charming were some of the words I saw being used to describe the relationship. I beg to differ. I would use more befitting words like contrived, incestuous and downright disgusting. Didn't anyone notice the 40-year age gap between them? Had they kept their relationship purely professional, then the movie would have been slightly more palatable.There were two reasons why I decided to watch the movie. First was the two leads and second, the filming location. Having being disappointed by the former, I was hoping that the latter would have been the saving grace. Being a Malaysian, I was eager to watch how the Petronas Twin Towers, currently the tallest building in the world, would have looked on the big screen. Of course, a sense of pride enveloped me when the first few glimpses of the majestic towers were shown. It is not often that major movie productions come here for filming. Although some scenes were manipulated (like the scene when Connery and Zeta-Jones were on a boat on the Malacca river with the Twin Towers on the background. Malacca and Kuala Lumpur are over 100 km apart!), I couldn't help but feel a sense of fulfillment whenever a familiar setting was shown. Notwithstanding the fact that none of the actors who potrayed Malaysians were actually from Malaysia. Perhaps Anna and the King starring Jodie Foster and Chow Yun-Fatt would do justice to talented local actors. This remains to be seen as the movie is still actively shooting here.In conclusion, I feel that unless you're a Malaysian, there's nothing that the movie can offer that's groundbreaking. You'll leave the cinema with a hollow feeling and will find yourself hard-pressed to recall a scene that will make an impact in your movie-going life.  "},{"Title":"walked in excited, came out bored","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I waited long for this movie, from the moment I saw the first preview I thought now that looks like a good movie Boy was I disappointed. The movie started out interesting, slowed down a bit got stupid, maybe a few more kinda intresting parts then like most of the audience I lost interest in the movie. Like the guy behind me said I can't believe I just paid $6.50 to see this crap  "},{"Title":"All I can Say Is BAD!","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  First, I must say that Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery have great chemistry.  They both are very sexy from both points-of-view (men and women).  However, they couldn't have chosen a more worse movie than this one to act in.  Why do filmmakers think they have to trick the audience as much as they trick the character in a movie?!  The plot of this particular movie was convoluted and predictable.  I've never been embarrassed as much as I was walking out of this movie.  Don't waste your time with a movie like this.  It's not worth it, unless of course, you like to see movies with more twists than a pretzel!! "},{"Title":"Mission Impossible 2?","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Entrapment mostly as a caper movie.  Sean and Catherine are both entertaining enough, and they do the best they can with what they're given. But that isn't much in the way of characterization.  Mac and Gin seem to bond remarkably quickly - they're thrown together, they fall in love (sort of), and it's all left to the audience to assume this.  Not much is played out, and there isn't really a feel, IMO, for why Connery's character falls in love with Gin despite the fact she's a manipulating b***h.The capers, are all excellent.  Most of it is left to Zeta-Jones to perform, as someone noted - all of Mac's thieving is left off-screen.  I found the final money-transfer a bit confusing, and they seem to be doing a Mac/Old Thief style vs. Gin/HighTech competition that didn't make much sense  Mac used plenty of high-tech during the mask robbery.  That mask robbery is really the highlight of the film, although it doesn't really contribute much significance to the plot.  But even then, they somewhat mess it up by showing Zeta-Jones performing essentially the same sequence in rehearsal.  As acrobatic as she undoubtedly is, do we need to see the same thing twice??That brings us to the twist angle.  Quite frankly, I thought they didn't play quite fair.  Thibadeaux's first sequence with Mac is between only the two of them.  But they don't act like FBI boss/blackmailer and caught criminal - they act like criminal and supplier.  But...there's nobody there to see them act like that.  Okay, they might be doing that for Gin's benefit...if she were there!  As it is, this sequence only exists to mislead the audience.  Boo.As for the other characters, Rhames is entertaining as always, but not given much to do.  Neither is Patton, except to look alternately p****d and infatuated.  Maury Chaykin's performance is absurd.So overall, I rate this movie a bit better than average.  It doesn't dumb down to an intelligent audience, but that same audience probably would rather see more action/intrigue/caper and less of the romance angle. "},{"Title":"Soooo bad","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I can't think of anything good to say about this movie.  Catherine Zeta Jones puts in a very dull performance, that will cast a shadow on  the good work she did on The Mask of Zorro.  Connery is just Connery.  No better, no worse.  But he is old enough to be her GRANDFATHER!  The attempt at creating some sexual tension between them was very odd.  The setpeices are also disappointing, as they are tensionless and lacking in inventiveness.  Don't pay money. "},{"Title":"Finger Down the Throat Awful","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Cringe-Fest of the first order. Full of expensive Scenes at the expense of anything involving or Entertaining. It even fails as a bit of attractive Fluff. It misses at every turn and is a grueling get-through and an embarrassment to all involved.Sean Connery is a good Actor but his choice of Roles after James Bond is mind boggling. A lot more misses than Hits. CZJ is attractive and competent and can add some dimension to one dimensional Beauty parts, but this is one unattractive Movie.The Plot is laughable, hard to follow at times, seems incompetently disjointed and misfires in all three Acts. The ending is unwatchable and the icing on this deflated cake is the finger down the throat Romance forced on the Audience, when in the beginning they promised not to. This Film fails to deliver on anything it promised. "},{"Title":"What? Catherine Zeta-Jones in a good movie?","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Saw this at the cinemas in 1999 and was pleasantly surprised, plus have watched again a bunch of times.The movie revolves around Mac (Sean Connery), a brilliant art thief. Little does he know insurance agent Virginia (Zeta-Jones) is hot on his trail, and knows his style almost better than he knows it himself. Virginia manages to go undercover and get in on Mac's latest heist. Will he work out who she is, will she get killed, or will she round him up? Very good action movie, with a solid cast and script. My only problem is the laser beam scene. This has to be seen to be believed. After watching for a while you start to think that this would actually be possible, but then you're brain clicks in and you realise she only has to be about 1mm out to ruin the whole thing. RIDICULOUS is about the strongest word you can use on IMDb to describe it. That's not even mentioning the old over ride the security cameras with old footage trick. "},{"Title":"Trying hard to trap audiences !","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Have caught this movie last night on TV and boy! was I glad that I saw it on TV and not in the theathers.(might contain spoilers)1) The plot was thin and boring.Just take one scene, I mean, if it takes several minutes for Gin to move thru the laser beams to get to the mask than she only what, take few seconds to get back in order to escape ?2) The movie smells like rip off from several other movies from my point of view.3) Minimum acting from the cast, Sean and Catherine looks as though they are sleep walking thru their roles and in some scenes, they are just trying hard to act !Sean Connery is a good actor in other memorable films but he is medicore in this and well, as usual, Catherine just look pretty (but she does better in Traffic).4) This show can't decide if its a action, thriller or romance flick. And did I say romance ?  Yeah almost forgot, urrrrrgh, the casting is horrible! It's really a put off and unbelieveable to have a 30 something with a 70 year old !5) Maybe I am slow but I did not catch the ending, its confusing.  And is it a spoof from highlander that Mar can sprint from one side of the train tracks to another in a blink of an eye, really has to be the joke of the movie.Awful show. Period. "}{"Title":"This intrigue picture isn't intriguing enough to justify its length","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure if it's the lines that she was given, or the way she performed them (a little of both, most likely), but Catherine Zeta-Jones is embarrassing as the sugar-coated Gin Baker, who seems to be doing nothing more than a bad Audrey Hepburn impression.  Sean Connery doesn't fair much better with his lonely crook with a heart of gold character.  The two of them together are laughable as romantic leads.  Their chemistry is abysmal, and Sean Connery comes off more as an abusive father, rather than a sensual lover. Although most of the movie consists of this idiotic affair to forget, there are a few fairly entertaining action sequences.  Sadly, they're spread thinly out over the two hours, and we're forced to watch the stuff in-between to get to them.  This intrigue picture isn't intriguing enough to justify its two hour plus length.  "},{"Title":"What an awful movie","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Whoever green-lighted this script should have their skull professionally thinned. There is nothing good in this movie, in which the cliches are only outnumbered by the glaring plot-holes.Basic plot summary Sean Connery plays a 70-year-old cat burglar (no giggling, now) named Mac who is being pursued by a number of people, including the young maybe-a-cat-burglar-maybe-a-cop played by Catherine Zeta-Jones.But is he really being pursued? Mac walks around freely, when he is wanted for theft. He leaves fingerprints all over every crime scene, he is photographed and followed as he cases new opportunities. He lives in a mansion on an island where he proudly displays the items he steals. Why isn't he arrested? Because then we couldn't introduce him to a love interest, that's why!As for chemistry, Zeta-Jones and Connery ignite the screen with all the fiery passion you can imagine between a gorgeous young woman and her elderly grandfather. The guy is 70 years old, folks. Thankfully the two never sleep together (at least, not on screen), but the viewer is forced to endure several torturous kisses and gropes between the two.Even the action scenes are ridiculously bad, relying as they do on plot contrivance after plot contrivance. Whenever the dynamic duo get into a bind, they whip out some new whirligig to spirit them away. Their pursuers alternately fire at them indiscriminately, then refuse to shoot when the two are in plain sight (we want them alive! Then why were you shooting at them? Why do the pursuers have guns in the first place?)The worst thing about this movie is the way in which it attempts to keep the viewer guessing by throwing plot twist after plot twist at them - even when they make no sense. The viewer isn't interested, because all of the plot twists are completely arbitrary. Character X is actually a cop? No real surprise, we never knew anything about Character X, or the remaining characters, either.Skip this movie. You won't miss it. "},{"Title":"10 things I learned from watching 'Entrapment'.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the not-real-great movie.  I learned 10 lessons that will help me greatly in life (or not).10. Seventy-Year old men can easily hook up with much younger women.9.  The FBI has authority to operate on foreign soil.8.  The better the body on a woman, the more likely she will sleep in the nude.7.  Someone can steal billons of dollars from the world bank and nobody will notice it's gone.6.  A small team of independent thieves have acess to high-tech gadgetry James Bond could only dream of.5.  The most sophisticated security system in the world, backed up by an army of police, can't keep out an elderly man and his young mistress.4.  The most complicated theft imaginable can be planned out in a few days.3.  Cathrine Zeta Jones looks good in spandex, but her acting is mediocre at best.2.  It is possible for Sean Connery to do a bad movie.and the #1 thing I learned from Entrapment.1.  It IS possible for a movie trailer to be better than the movie itself. "},{"Title":"Trapped in the movie theater!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film makes the mistake of trying to substitute nifty gadgets for complex characterization, And what worked for 007 and Batman etc. comes across as thin and mechanistic for an adult action drama.  The story of high level thieves is clunky and cumbersome with no real tension and flat acting. And I think very highly of Sean Connery, but............? "},{"Title":"Possibly the most boring heist movie ever","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Definitely one of the few heist movies I saw which can be described as utterly boring. By their very nature, movies about robberies are full of action and usually entertaining. Entrapment is neither. The script is terrible and revolves mainly around the very athletic body of Catherine Zeta-Jones.Her character, Virginia, is supposed to work for an insurance company, but she is also interested in putting a little something illegally aside. Enters Sean Connery, playing super-thief Mac (and a mere 40 years older than Zeta-Jones) and the two are struck by love at first sight and get involved in a series of criminal activities.Connery is only 40 years older than Zeta-Jones - albeit in good shape &#x96; so she is bound to find him irresistible... Putting aside the ludicrous matter of physical attraction, the whole fantasy about super-thieves and transferring billions from one bank account to another has been done - much better &#x96; many times before and since.The pace of the whole movie is sloppy and boring. For instance during the stay in Mac's castle, nothing happens apart from the camera lingering lasciviously on Zeta-Jones's body. Even the travel, from the US, to Scotland and to Kuala Lumpur seems to be in the plot for no other reason than adding the usual glamorous globe-trotting.Entrapment is also a very dated movie. It is hard to think it is only a little more than 10 years old, as one would think it belongs to the over the tops fantasies of the Eighties. Eventually, it boils down to a series of overlong sequences, leading to a fairly predictable end. "},{"Title":"great film for everyone","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Will Patton, and Ving Rhames star in one of the best movies I've seen all year. Sean Connery is Robert MacDougal a jewel thief; Catherine Zeta-Jones is Virginia Gin Baker, an insurance investigator sent to capture him. As Entrapment evolves, it becomes apparent that not everything is what it seems. Entrapment is a movie that people will enjoy as it will keep them on the edge of their seats and keep them guessing whether or not certain characters are on the level. The plot includes trying to capture Robert MacDougal while he tries his hand at a theft of mask. The movie doesn't end there, not only does it have one robbery but there a two; the second is an offer by a mystery person who can only be revealed when it is seen.Entrapment kept me guessing throughout to who might be on the level, wondering who might be the real thief. Along with the suspense, Entrapment includes underlying but clear sexual tension and incredible chemistry between Connery and Zeta-Jones.Also, Entrapment was enjoyable due to the many high-tech gadgets, which were used by Connery and Zeta-Jones. One scene in particular was very enjoyable as it involved Zeta-Jones in sensual positions. It seems like Connery's character was a father figure for Zeta-Jones and was proven in several scenes throughout the film. Entrapment also includes great support from its co-stars Will Patton and Ving Rhames. Patton and Rhames are so good it is difficult to tell whether or not they are part of a conspiracy to steal the mask or they are really tracking Connery and Zeta-Jones. Entrapment is a movie for people who like a good suspenseful thriller that makes you think and doesn't have a resolution until the end. Furthermore, it contains a surprise ending that will the audience will enjoy.Entrapment worked for me because it showed Sean Connery at his best and Catherine Zeta-Jones as a star on the rise.  "},{"Title":"A must see action....","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"     It is a good movie and if you like Zeta-Jones, you`ll be watching this movie again and again. Connery and Zeta-Jones are a nice combo for this movie. And not to mention the gizmos you`ll see in this movie. Right in the openig scene there are a few things that will make you think twice about what does security mean when somebody has the right tools. I belive that maybe, even a James Bond movie could borrow a few things from Entrapment....   Anyway, the movie it`s worth watching. You might even add this to you collection. For me it`s worth 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I wish I hadn't gone!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The movie was borderline embarrassing for all involved. I heard that a bedroom scene was cut from the movie. Thank God!!!! Sean Connery is a very handsome sexy man but really............Catherine Zeta Jones??? I am getting really tired of the older man younger woman thing! Only men with mid-life crisis syndrome going on could ever come up with this stuff! It shouldn't be classified as action/adventure but as fantasy! Women over 30 should be insulted as I was!!!  "},{"Title":"Did I miss something?","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I can't seem to recall when Catherine Zeta-Jones wore those velvet tights that are on the box cover, can anyone enlighten me? Anyway, aside from the scene where Gin is practicing going through lasers this film is appalling garbage. Some fundamental questions such as Why did it take Gin over two minutes to negotiate the lasers if she managed to get back to safety in less than 30 seconds? Are banks insensitive to an $8 billion overnight deposit? Didn't the millennium start on 1/1/01? are left unanswered. This movie makes no sense at all and is made for children. If you think that you missed the scene that I mentioned earlier then switch the channel and watch something else. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I remember in the summer of 1999 really looking forward to this one after seeing the trailers, but it was a big let down. It was too slow and boring. Sean Connery and Zeta-Jones had no chemistry, and the action wasn't thrilling or convincing. The only good thing in it was the fact that Catherine is just so drop dead gorgeous!, but even she and Sean's greatness couldn't stop this from being a dud. "}{"Title":"Cheesy Trash","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This awful film is a waste of good talent (Connery/Jones). Ludicrous plotline, pathetic characterization and a simply astonishing lack of research into the facts make this a stinker you really want to avoid. The worst moment of the film must be the caption that pops up (what is this, a cartoon?) saying 14 days to Millennium. Yeah that pretty much sums up the intellect of the writers of this flick. Brain Donors no doubt. "},{"Title":"Listless Acting and Plot Holes","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is strictly a star-vehicle for Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones in which they play a pair of world-class, super-cunning, art thieves. Actually, she's working for the insurance company that's being burned by Connery's pilfering of valuable art. Her job is to get into his confidence and partner with him on a multi-billion dollar financial rip-off to coincide with the millennium celebration. The job is a set-up to nab Connery, or is Ms Zeta-Jones working a double-cross? For the first half of the movie you care. There are a couple of well-choreographed and photographed heist scenes, and the film moves along as a passable caper flick (although the developing sexual chemistry between Zeta-Jones and Connery is a little creepy, and thankfully short-lived). But by the second half of the movie, the plot holes, poor direction and lackluster performances made it so I didn't care who's double-crossing whom.  The plot-holes become plot chasms, and the acting is so listless that it seems that the actors felt that just their presence in the movie was sufficient. Needless to say, it isn't and this movie should be avoided. "},{"Title":"Stupid and annoying","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  First of all the girl can't act her way out of a Spandex bag. Connery looks like a cadaver. The plot is inane and the payoff is that these two narcissistic criminals rip off a Malaysian bank for a billion--exactly the sort of thing that recently plunged a few hundred million people in the region into economic ruin, starvation and riots. So very sensitive and tasteful--especially when this fun-loving pair does it for the thrills and not the money. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I never really wanted to see this movie in the first place.  The only reason I did was that my date and I were waiting for Toys R Us to open up on May 3rd at midnight and we needed something to do.  Having seen all the other films playing at the theater, we decided to watch Entrapment.  Not even a fourth of the way through the movie I was ready to leave.  The story was really slow moving, and very shallow.  Foreshadowing works to a point, but when you know how everything is going to happen before it does, you are drastically overdoing it. And by the the way, Sean Connery is what 60 or 70 something now?  Come on.I am usually very open minded when going to see a new film.  I can usually sit through pretty much anything and have a good time.  Entrapment was different.  If I hadn't paid 7.50 to get in, I probably would have left in the middle of it.Definitely not worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible, terrible","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" If the Connery/Zeta-Jones romance weren't such a turn-off to begin with, the characters fail to retain any sympathy throughout the film. I don't watch many thief films hoping for the thieves to get there come-uppance in the end, but nothing would have pleased me more this time. The plot line was contrived and standard heist fare. Hugely disappointing, except for the realization that Catherine Zeta-Jones and Daphne Zuniga appear to be the same person. "},{"Title":"We've all seen it before","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is nothing new and nothing special. It has two excellent actors - that I thoroughly enjoy watching - in the leading roles Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones, but it could just as well have been Michael Douglas/Sharon Stone or Tom Cruise/Nicole Kidman. Because this movie, like most other movies, is marketed and sold through its stars.There's nothing wrong with this movie, it's just that we've all seen it before so many times. It doesn't have anything extra at all. You know what you're gonna get, and that's it !! That's all you get. You're not gonna be bored. No, you're gonna be entertained. You're gonna get action, unexpected plot twists, some laughter, and some romance. The same ol' package. Sure it's fun to know what you're gonna get, and then get it, instead of being disappointed. But watching movies like Entrapment, can sometimes feel like opening exactly the same christmas gift, year after year. That's why I think it's mediocre. And since I think it's mediocre, I'll give it the rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Hollywood at its worst!","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What can I say?  I wasted my hard earned cash on this useless piece of contrived rubbish.  The story seemed as if it was made up as they went along.  The action sequences were just plain stuipid and the plot was a joke.  Keep your money.  If you want a decent crime thriller then rent The Usual Suspects or such like. Just don't go and see this awful movie. Don't say I didn't warn you... "},{"Title":"Pretty Flat...w/ a believability factor of Zero","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I know most films are suppose to entertain but I have the unfortunate habit of putting realism into a lot of these high tech typa films. This one just had to many yeah right typa moments. Where to start...The first and biggest one is the fact that they actually want us to believe that they're gna walk away with 8 billion dollars? What bank in the world would not get an alert to this? The bank they transferred this money to, do they have Barney Fife or Asa as crack security? Come on.Second...they were in this Koala Lampur towers for a total of maybe a handful of hours and they already know how to get away and had a layout? Come on.Third...this one most wouldn't prolly care about but where the Connery character has the phone in his little UK hamlet tapped is just ridiculous. No-one I'd believe is that far ahead of anything.Zeta Jones is a mighty attractive lady but I wasn't in this for that, I wanted a decent plot and some action but what I got...was a flat Coke. "},{"Title":"Flaws Or Not I Was Hooked","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I am sure you'd have heard about this movie a little bit or have an idea,but let me introduce you to the cast Sean Connery & Catherine Zeta Jones.So it's a heist movie involving a thief & FBI(An insurance agent is sent by her employer to track down and help capture an art thief).It's not a movie thats extraordinary or mesmerizing but it sure is a great fun to watch and enjoy.This Movie doesn't try to come out as a masterpiece or anything but it sure does what it gets out to do.You'll enjoy every bit in the company of Sean Connery and Zeta Jones.Let's talk about the negative reviews or rather comments.There No 1) problem is that they can't get the age difference between Sean & Catherine(actually the romance between these two).My answer to this question would be (actually it didn't go down there throats that a girl that beautiful could fall for an old man,i think they should open their minds a little bit) that it was the demand of the script..........Catherine Zeta Jones admires and adores the genius of Sean Connery's art of theft.She has been his student in a sense that she idealizes him that's why she seems leaning towards him and then there is the other thing that she knows that she needs his help. 3)Some had a problem that Sean Connery wasn't as Legendary as he should have been in this movie.............i would ask them what did u expect Sean Connery's next 007 or Tom Cruise Style stunts performed by him,he did what he was supposed to do. 2)Many have provided some other holes in the script too & 7hat the twist's were not that good but again they don't burden the audience one bit..............there are worst movies than this,one-two even in the 007 series and in the Bat Man series.And if not for anything else See it for the gorgeous Catherine Zeta Jones..............You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Heist Movie. A Must for Sean Connery's Fans","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Entrapment is a heist-cum-thriller movie concerning an aging but agile thief Mac (Sean Connery), who along with a beautiful femme fatale crook Gin (Catherine Zeta Jones) commits robbery worth billions, but with lots of deception and betrayals and twist along the way.Cast-wise, Astounding. Sean Connery is a legend, undoubtedly. His charisma, flair, verbal expression all is profound and nonpareil. His portrayal of an aging thief is so absorbing and peerless that contemplating someone other for his role will seem like inutile. Catherine Zeta Jones looks jaw dropping gorgeous throughout the movie. Playing the role of a crook with a mind as smart as a whip, looks as exquisite as a Picasso's creation and body flexible as a gymnast, Zeta Jones was convincing enough to obviate any negative criticism concerning her portrayal. Rest of the cast chips in well.Entrapment strength lies in its clever plot, impeccable dialogue, sufficient character development and stylized cinematography. The obvious downfall of the movie will be its final half an hour. It includes a heist that is very infeasible and the final twist where Mac leads the FBI to Gin undesirably, only to exhibit certain inconceivable gimmicks resulting in a happy ending.Overall, Entrapment entertains sufficiently. Barring a few hiccups, it is a very enjoyable heist movie.My Verdict 7/10 "}{"Title":"overestimated movie","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" First of all Sean Connery is an overestimated actor. This movie is overestimated too. I do not like neither plot and actors in this movie. This movie is trying to depreciate the IQ of people. I m boring see Sean Connery to be the wise and the perfect guy in the movies and every time with the same unnameable style. Why plot is so stupid? Because two guys have stolen the International Clearance Bank and they avoided FBI and CIA and finally the end was too happy. The plot and the end was so predictable. Finally i think Catherine Zeta-Jones is an overestimated actor too. Let see the true which is if she was not so beautiful she would never be a good actor. "},{"Title":"Good burglar mystery if you don't take it too seriously.","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" We had seen this way back last century but forgot most of it. Greg and Tanya loaned us their DVD.Sean Connery is Robert MacDougal, notorious burglar who it seems can get away with almost anything.Catherine Zeta-Jones is Virginia Baker, who works for an insurance company. She seems to know the tricks of the trade too.Ving Rhames is Aaron Thibadeaux, who appears to be working with MacDougal. While Will Patton is Hector Cruz, the head of the department that Baker works in.This movie is hard to summarize except to say things are seldom as they seem to be. We never know for sure if MacDougal and Baker are working together to plan a big $8Billion new Millennium job, or if one of them is working to catch the other. Connery and Zeta-Jones are both fun to watch and the movie is good for that even if it weren't a good story. But it is a pretty good story, and with good scenery.MAJOR SPOILERS It turns out MacDougal was working for the FBI to lighten his sentence by entrapping Baker, which they do in the millennium heist of $8Billion by siphoning off little bits by computer from many large financial accounts. But MacDougal fell in love with Baker, arranges for her to escape at the train station, he only admitted to $7Billion, so the two of them hooked up with $1Billion to play with. Highly unlikely but that is how they wrote it. "},{"Title":"Good fun. If a little far fetched","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. Yes the relationship between Connery and the now Mrs Douglas is a touch on the creepy side, but don't let this fool you. I seem to remember the film getting absolutely panned when it came out, which i think was a little unfair. Its no Du rififi chez les hommes or Heat which are two of the best heist movies ever made, but Entrapment is no Lost in Space (sorry couldn't think of a rubbish heist movie). Nicely paced and not overlong, Entrapment is a nice way to spend an evening losing yourself with a nice cup of tea and a biscuit. Connery and Zeta Jones are supported by the ever dependable Ving Rhames and Will Patton who both appear to be enjoying their parts. In my opinion worth a watch. What have you got to lose??? "},{"Title":"Perfect Balance","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen a movie with such a perfect balance between action and story in a while. This is one of those great, popcorn crunching good time movies. Sure some of it is implausible, but this still has a lot more intelligence then most senseless action flicks. The chemistry between Sean and Catherine Zeta Jones was believable, and acting above par for all. Add to this the exotic scenery of Kuala Lumpur and Scotland, great cinematography and unrelenting action, and this makes for a great classic. The ending is also very unexpected, and almost needs two views to fully make sense. Perfect for someone looking for a good old fashioned heist movie. "},{"Title":"With two such charismatic leads, couldn't the movie have been a little more interesting?","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I have a weakness for heist movies so I thought I might like this movie. On the plus side, it's nice to see Sean Connery has still got it! He's as charismatic as ever and the chemistry between him and Zeta Jones is quite strong and believable. On The minus side, the movie just wasn't that interesting. It moved way to slowly and the dialog was rather weak and just didn't reach out and captivate. I am surprised I didn't get into this because it's got an interesting plot and two vibrant leads with fantastic chemistry. But the movie didn't really go anywhere and apart from some beautiful cinematography It didn't really entertain all that much.I think the dialog could have been improved on(much of it was so matter of fact and I wish the dialog had drawn me in more.)The movie should have also moved faster and just maybe focused more on the romance then the heist part of it.(or at least made the heists more interesting.) I wouldn't give this a 1 or 2 or say it's awful but it didn't really do anything for me and I wish it had. "},{"Title":"What the Eye never saw...","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It might be the subtitle for this highly entertaining action-thriller. In fact it's more a cat and mouse game... but who's the cat? In the best tradition of Hitchcock's To Catch a Thief it's a well balanced movie.Sean Connery is in his top form when mixing duty with humor.Catherine Zeta-Jones is amazingly subtle in her role. She starts out cocky and glitzy only to end up being confused to the kazoo in her encounter with Connery.This is a pure actioner, not a minute passes without a twist in the plot and nobody stands still for much too long.There are double-crosses, triple-crosses and quadruple-crosses,... well in fact, there are so many crosses one could become confused...It's a harmless no-brainer, but so well acted and directed that you will be constantly gripping your armchair just to see what happens next.The DVD edition is not top notch, but with a movie like this one who cares... You get engulfed into the action practically as the movie starts and the roller-coaster ride ends when the movie ends. So who's got the time to examine whether frame 121 was sharp enough or if that squeaky noise on the right channel was really perfect.Once you enter in the game it won't let you loose one minute and you will almost shout at it to stop, but as Zeta-Jones, you will be dragged even deeper into the charade and be so fascinated by it that you won't want it stop once it does.The finale is a pure surprise and, though not unexpected for a Hollywood movie, truly original.If you like this kind of movies, this one is certainly for you and will keep you guessing to the end on the who does what to whom and why... but who is really what and does really what to whom? Have fun with it... and let the ride of your lifetime begin...  "},{"Title":"Trap yourself","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Will Patton, and Ving Rhames star in one of the best movies I've seen all year. Sean Connery is Robert MacDougal a jewel thief; Catherine Zeta-Jones is Virginia Gin Baker, an insurance investigator sent to capture him. As Entrapment evolves, it becomes apparent that not everything is what it seems. Entrapment is a movie that people will enjoy as it will keep them on the edge of their seats and keep them guessing whether or not certain characters are on the level. The plot includes trying to capture Robert MacDougal while he tries his hand at a theft of mask. The movie doesn't end there, not only does it have one robbery but there a two; the second is an offer by a mystery person who can only be revealed when it is seen.Entrapment kept me guessing throughout to who might be on the level, wondering who might be the real thief. Along with the suspense, Entrapment includes underlying but clear sexual tension and incredible chemistry between Connery and Zeta-Jones.Also, Entrapment was enjoyable due to the many high-tech gadgets, which were used by Connery and Zeta-Jones. One scene in particular was very enjoyable as it involved Zeta-Jones in sensual positions. It seems like Connery's character was a father figure for Zeta-Jones and was proven in several scenes throughout the film. Entrapment also includes great support from its co-stars Will Patton and Ving Rhames. Patton and Rhames are so good it is difficult to tell whether or not they are part of a conspiracy to steal the mask or they are really tracking Connery and Zeta-Jones. Entrapment is a movie for people who like a good suspenseful thriller that makes you think and doesn't have a resolution until the end. Furthermore, it contains a surprise ending that will the audience will enjoy.Entrapment worked for me because it showed Sean Connery at his best and Catherine Zeta-Jones as a star on the rise. "},{"Title":"Trap yourselves in this movie","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Will Patton, and Ving Rhames star in one of the best movies I've seen all year. Sean Connery is Robert MacDougal a jewel thief; Catherine Zeta-Jones is Virginia Gin Baker, an insurance investigator sent to capture him. As the movie evolves, it becomes apparent that not everything is what it seems. Entrapment is a movie that people will enjoy as it will keep them on the edge of their seats and keep them guessing whether or not certain characters are on the level. The plot includes trying to capture Robert MacDougal while he tries his hand at a theft of mask. The movie doesn't end there, not only does it have one robbery but there a two; the second is an offer by a mystery person who can only be revealed when it is seen.Entrapment kept me guessing throughout to who might be on the level, wondering who might be the real thief. Along with the suspense, Entrapment includes underlying but clear sexual tension and incredible chemistry between Connery and Zeta-Jones.Also, Entrapment was enjoyable due to the many high-tech gadgets, which were used by Connery and Zeta-Jones. One scene in particular was very enjoyable as it involved Zeta-Jones in sensual positions. It seems like Connery's character was a father figure for Zeta-Jones and was proven in several scenes throughout the film. Entrapment also includes great support from its co-stars Will Patton and Ving Rhames. Patton and Rhames are so good it is difficult to tell whether or not they are part of a conspiracy to steal the mask or they are really tracking Connery and Zeta-Jones. Entrapment is a movie for people who like a good suspenseful thriller that will make you think and does not have a resolution until the end. Furthermore, it contains a surprise ending that will the audience will enjoy. Entrapment works for me because it shows me Sean Connery at his best and Catherine Zeta-Jones as a star on the rise. Entrapment deserves to be seen.  "},{"Title":"fun... romantic... great... but, don't hope so much!","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The perfect duo I think! Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery!i have to say, this movie is really funny and breathtaking. although there are some parts which all movie lovers would think so silly and dummy, still this movie is enjoyable.one thing that make this movie so fun is that the chemistry of Mrs. Jones and Mr. Connery are so perfect. like their motto ehm! First we try, then we trust, they seems take their own weight and let go the story became more powerful i mean only at the beginning scene.minute by minute, Sean and Catherine take us to explore so many magnificent place. London, Scotland and finally Kuala Lumpur. one thing i really missed is the story became plotless and more screwed up in the ending. maybe they should changes the ending from disappearing like wind to disappearing with train. as the story isn't so bad, man at the world bank office with sleeves enough to say this is for real, people. i think it's totally nonsense! it ruined the film!well, if you really wanna see them, be sure to get the special edition DVD before it's too late. or, perhaps, find another movie which more fun, like Ocean's Eleven. one of my favorite after Entrapment.overall rating, *******1/2 out of 10 stars!  "},{"Title":"The Trap it Set","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment has got to be one of my favorite films. The locations are stunning along with Chris Young's movie score. There's a definite chemistry between zeta and connery and the age difference doesn't make me think less of it. Mac's attraction to Gin does seem to be a bit paternal and protective. One of my favorite scene's has got to be the end at the Pudu train station. Gin's expressions are memorable. Sean Connery plays a master thief thought to be long retired while Katherine zeta jones is his foil, an insurance investigator assigned to his case.It's a great action film with plenty of twists and turns. If you haven't seen it already, then rent it. You'll be surprised. "}{"Title":"I liked it, but you may not","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie very much. It wasn't particularly interesting, but it did have Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery, and there were some enjoyable parts. The story itself, robbing a bank, is a little duff, but hey, no-ones perfect. If you see this movie with a good idea of what a movie should be like, you'll see that this isn't it. Still, I can't deny that I did find interesting. If you can get the DVD for less than 10 dollars I say go and see it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sean Connery, Master Criminal, It Fits","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  To me Sean Connery is 007, but only the talent of such a great actor can be believable as a master criminal also. Connery is truly the man that holds this film together because everyone in this film is not what they seem to be. Undercover insurance investigator Gin Baker is suppose to be playing a criminal and trying to catch master criminal Mac MacDougal Connery in the act. But in reality she is a talented criminal trying to rob 8 million dollars on January 1, 2000 and needs the talent of MacDougal. There are more people undercover but in spite of the confusion at times of people trying to entrap one another the film is a rather enjoyable one. The well thought out plans to steal a golden mask, picture and the 8 million dollars is the other part of the film besides Connery that makes this a cut above most steal-em films of today.  "},{"Title":"Two thumbs way up","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is,and always will be,on my top 10 list of fav movies. Catherine Zita-Jones and Sean Connery are perfect together. The overall casting couldn't have been better.My favorite part was when they were training to steal the crown-thingie and recreated the laser grid with red yarn and Catherine had to go through it blind folded following Sean's directions.Overall ********** out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"A romantic action thriller","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It was very entertaining. I was never bored from all the robbery plans and the real good special effects. If you liked this watch The Thomas Crown Affair starring Pierce Brosnan and sexy Rene Russo. The difference between both movies is that in Entrapment there is more action and adventure. But another big point is that in TTCA there are some good erotic scenes with super girl Rene Russo & Pierce Brosnan. I missed that a little bit from Catherine Zeta-Jones but she played a good part. I gave 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Simply entertaining.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is simply an entertaining movie.The story is ok and so is the acting.The movie has lot of suspense and some intense moments. The cast consists of Sean Connery,Catherine Zeta-Jones,Ving Rhames and Will Patton, to name a few.Catherine Zeta-Jones is great looking and has a sexy body (watch out for the scene where she crawls under the laser)ohh.This movie isn't just an ordinary entertaining thriller,because it has some small twists in the story that makes it really good actually.An the ending is the best part,where everything gets put upside down. All in all a good movie,that you can watch just for the entertaining part,or if you are looking for a good suspense story about relationships between two thieves. "},{"Title":"needs some adrenaline","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Well-cast but disappointingly mild crime caper/action movie about an ambitious American insurance agent who persuades her boss to allow her to try and track an elusive art thief who they've spent years trying to apprehend. She eventually tracks the thief down and sows the seeds for a complex crime scheme, but it soon turns into a globe-trotting game of cat and mouse as to who's playing who. An interesting setup, two very appealing leads, and a script with enough twists and turns set the stage for something truly memorable, but the story drags, the film's execution is surprisingly dull, and the whole thing runs out of steam long before it's over. **½ "},{"Title":"kind of dull","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones make a good team, but the film suffers from an identity crisis. It doesn't seem to know if it wants to be an action flick, a slick heist movie, or an unusual romantic love story. There are plenty of action scenes(though they all seem to be cheap gimmicks), insight into stealing as it is approached like a game, and a predictable romantic subplot, but overall the film really has no life. 2/4 "},{"Title":"I saw a film similar to this one years ago","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable film which could have been titled The Saint Robs the Orient & Meets Sneakers. Very expensive looking production with several high grade players doing a lot of fast and furious things while delivering loads of tense, dramatic dialogue. That bit on the high wire had me squirming, but the tale was really nothing new, nor to get excited over.  "},{"Title":"Way to go Zeta-Jones and Connery","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is my favorite movie. I think that Catherine Zeta Jones played a cunning and sexy thief. Connery did an excellent Job playing a part that wasn't his age as he was really 69 during the filming of it. I loved the action sequences and the ending. No matter how surprised I was I will watch it over and over again. This is deffinatly my favorite movie along side Titanic if anyone wishes to talk to me about either of my favorite films email me! I give entrapment 10 stars!!!!! Way to go Zeta Jones and Connery!!!!!!! sorry for spelling errors "},{"Title":"Not good, not bad... just okay!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Okay, films like this one are normally not my cup of tea, but I liked the charming play of Sean Connery and his partner-in-crime Catherine Zeta-Jones. The plot is really nothing special, many déjà vus from other movies of a similar kind, so there is nearly no reason to watch Entrapment... Positive points however are that it´s entertaining from beginning till the end although there are no spectacular things happening. And as I said the two main actors plus a well-performing Ving Rhames save this average movie! "}{"Title":"don't you people know when Millennium is???","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm saying this once and for all the Millennium night was between December 31st 2000 and January 1st 2001. Not a year before, like this movie presumes. The same mistake was done in the End of Days, but that's understandable, because you can't expect too much inteligence from those who make such a crappy Schwarzenegger movie. But i expected more from these people.Okay, now about the movie it was good. Really good, actually. A nice story about a cop joining a world class thief and planning (and then realizing) some great robberies. The movie is tensed, full of good scenes and clever ideas. The ending is also surprising - i never saw it coming. But i totally disliked the disappearings in the final scene - it gave the movie a sense of foolishness.All in all, it's a 8 out of 10, that turns into a 6 out of 10 because of the Millennium mistake. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun despite script problems","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised by this picture, I have to admit that it was a lot of fun, the actions scenes are very good and Zeta Jones IS impressive.There are problems with the film, but you seem to forget some of them because the director makes the wide-screen frame very seductive, giving very little time to ponder.The script is a big problem, the film starts off with a bang, but forgets to give us a proper introduction to the characters, I felt it unwinded too quickly. The relationship between Connery and Zeta-Jones was poorly written, it just didn't work at some levels.The script really didn't have a clear 3 act structure, the development of the characters was a little off!The director does a good job with the film. The photography is superb, the location work is impressive.The acting is good, Zeta-Jones shows off some talent. Connery is himself, but always worth watching. Ving Rhames isn't giving much to do, a great actor, but always in a supporting role!The film lacks a strong villain, this is very weak.If you are too serious, you'll hate this film, relax and enjoy the ride! "},{"Title":"She's as game as a bagel...","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was an excellent movie. Action packed, filled with interesting plot twists and great acting.Sean Connery once again showed his acting prowess and isn't slowing down at all.Catherine Zeta-Jones-Douglas showed that she's up for anything. Performing many of her own stunts has helped solidify her place in the action genre and I hope to see her in many more.If you're looking for a fun movie to watch, pick this one up. "},{"Title":"far fetched plot unwinds to implausible ending","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  no doubt about it..filmakers can produce brilliant pictures, direct them and all, but as always and underneath it( star-billing included ) one must judge a film by its story ( plot ) and the way in which its told ( screenplay/direction )....Entrapement is up there with the former ie. great cinematography, actors, direction )but boy does it suffer from a pretty poor story and plot. So much of this messageboard igonores the fundamentals that is story and screenplay in spite of what is budget and usually impressive visuals. Entrapment given a few minutes reflection is a desperately poor film, played to its best by Ms Zeta Jones and Mr Connery ( did he ever act? )Pretty ( Zeta Jones ) Average ( the rest )! "},{"Title":"Entertaining...but no chemistry","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The film is enjoyable, and the techniques used to steal just about anything are entertained, but the chemistry between the two thieves is a little shallow. They try, but it just doesn't come off as real. Good acting, good story, nice pace, but the only sparks are from the fireworks on New Years 2000.  "},{"Title":"Decent film","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  As far as plot goes, this movies was ok. It offered some nice twists to plot, but the real praise goes to the action scenes. They kept me on the edge of my seat. I recommend this movie to anyone who just wants to have some friends over and be entertained. An added bonus .... Catherine-Zeta Jones is gorgeous! "},{"Title":"Another Sorry Film From Sean Connery","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery used to be in good films, but as he ages he seems to get into sorrier movies.  This time he stars as a high-class thief who welcomes the help of a very sexy Catherine Zeta-Jones to pull a near impossible heist.  However, nothing is what it seems and the film has an ending that almost never ends.  Connery and Zeta-Jones make for an alluring pair, but they are not given any screenplay to work with.  There is a bare minimum of direction as well.  Ving Rhames is also on hand, but his screen-time is minimal.  Do not waste your time here.  2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A Bit Disappointing, But Not Totally Bad.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting Entrapment to be all that good, but it was certainly better than I expected. Although it is not a great movie, Entrapment never fails to entertain. Most of the performances are good, Catherine Zeta-Jones is awesome in her part of the daring secret agent, while Sean Connery was cast perfectly as the Irish art theif. Ving Rhames did a pretty good job in his supporting role also. The sound and editing are remarkbale in this movie, and also the cinematography is lovely.Entrapment is highly recommended for action fans and Catherine Zeta-Jones freaks.Rating 6 "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, despite the huge number of contrivances","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is one of those movies quite difficult to review, just because you have not much to say. You say Catherine Zeta-Jones is gorgeous, but still has to prove that she is a good actress. Sean Connery is charming and convincing, but he never changes his face expression. The plot is the most unbelievable thing I've seen in a long while. The screenplay and the direction do not make it better or worse. The soundtrack... Well, I don't remember it very well... The fact is that Entrapment is not a great film, nor a bad one. It's just an okay way to pass your time without worrying with huge character developments or Biblical plagues suddenly falling on San Fernando Valley. Oh, sorry! In resume Entrapment is a (very) flawed film, but one that doesn't bother you for its lack of quality.The story... Well, let's not worry about the story. But one thing I found really peculiar (in the bad sense) was how they introduced Catherine Zeta-Jones' character. You know where she works, what she does, how she dresses, what are her plans... You just don't know a single detail her name. One of the newsgroup critics noticed the same thing as me, and it clearly shows how full of holes this movie is. But it doesn't mean it is bad. The chemistry between Zeta-Jones and Connery is pretty fine. Both of them are charming, both of them are limited actors. Even with that, they are a delight together, helped by the great style of the movie.Entrapment starts off slow, has many disposable scenes, but its climax is the worst part. The scene passed on the New Year's Eve is almost laughable, but what would you expect from a film with a plot like this would offer? I also didn't enjoy the twists in the end very much. They were really surprising, but broke the logic of the whole film. That's something to complain about. Talking like that, it seems that I hated Entrapment, but I didn't. I didn't love it, just thought it was a so-so movie, with good entertainment for an afternoon. Actually, I didn't expect much, and that's what I had. Fortunately, I didn't believe in some critics who made a direct comparison with Hitchcock's classic To Catch a Thief. Otherwise, it would have spoiled my delightful, uncompromising entertainment.6 out of 10 = HITS AND MISSES FILM "},{"Title":"The Story Of O wrapped up in a caper movie.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A dark, disturbing exploration of perverse sexual relationships, more typical of the French school, a sordid May-December affair where the machinations of the heist-movie are used to express sado-masochistic principles.  Their Oshima-like rituals are played against the forces of the law, which try to corral their subversive activities.  Perhaps the film's nearest equivalent is the scene in AI NO CORRIDA, when the heroine pleasures the old tramp.  What had seemed bland and superficial turns out to be candyfloss Bataille.  Hooda thunkit? "}{"Title":"Star quality and classy production make for good entertainment.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that I have a weakness for caper movies and this one has all the requirements for holding the interest. Big stars, Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones, and a lavish budget with international locations. The plot follows the usual pattern, old hand trains the novice and then we get the, who is double crossing who twists.The robbery scenes are tense and exciting but I must admit to getting lost with some of the technical details.   The stars can carry this kind of thing off but credibility is strained a bit because of the age difference. The truth is that Connery is started to look and sound his age. You can imagine him passing along his knowledge but to actually go on the assignments with all the athletic requirements required strains logic (even James Bond has to get old). Catherine Zeta-Jones is a feast for the eyes and some of her contortions during the training sequences are quite delightful. She does what she has to do in the acting department and to my ears her American accent is quite convincing. As is often the case these days the movie tries too hard to give us a surprise ending so the final scenes have too much explaining to do and tend to drag a little. "},{"Title":"Lotsa fun. Lotsa thrills","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Great to see a movie thats modern and exciting yet one which doesn't overdo the heavy breathing or the bang bang stuff. The chemistry between Connery and Jones is great despite the fact he is old enough to be her grandfather. And the sequence on the skyscraper gave me vertigo even on a 23 inch TV.  "},{"Title":"A savory morsel that may leave a bad taste.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A fast-moving technocaper film that should entertain you if you don't ask too many questions and don't demand too much logic. Just sit back and don't think about it because it really has a brainless script. To discourage skepticism, one can be distracted by the clever antics of the thieves, their strong personalities (Could Sean Connery ever be boring?), the convoluted plot (Who are the good guys and the bad guys?) and the well-paced action. At least it's unbelievable in a slick, stylish way and doesn't sag until the preposterous final scene. "},{"Title":"Some Action a Mega-Star and a Babe","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There is good and bad in every film, so I'm going to tell you a little about both that I found in Entrapment. Let me start with the good. Despite what half the armchair critics like myself wrote about the chemistry between Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones it was not all that bad. Will Smith and Kevin Kline's Wild, Wild West is an example of bad chemistry and that wasn't even their fault. If you must sit there and waste your time trying to figure out that Connery has 40 years on Zeta-Jones then you are already looking way to far into the film. If this were intended to be a very serious Drama then maybe you'd have a gripe, but this was an action/adventure and for all intensive purposes it is not supposed to be taken to literally. The same thing can be said for all the Hi-Tech toys. I thought they made the story too easy and fictitious hence if you got the money you can steal anything, but that's the breaks in an action/adventure film.What's the story about? Well, it seems to have similar traits to the The Thomas Crown Affair. Of course I'm talking about the later 1999 version with Brosnan and Russo. Rich thief's of valuable art becoming involved with women out to catch them. Entrapment is not trying to prove anything and the dialogue and plot has many unfilled holes, still it's worth seeing. If you are an action aficionado then you should make this a must-see. For guy's that just like beautiful women then sexy Catherine Zeta-Jones may be all you need to keep your eyes glued on this one. I admit she is not very talented as an actress, she was cast here for one reason only, to be beautiful, and she does a fine job of that. I must give credit for some beautiful filming locations in the feature. Then, I must also include that another big name Ving Rhames is in the film and does a fine job in his small role. The most disappointing part of the film was the ending, but even it had a plot twist. So on a final note, if your too wound up and can't enjoy a movie unless it's serious and realistic then you may want to let this one slip by, but if your an average JOE and just need your weekly fix of action and a hot chick then give Entrapment a try. "},{"Title":"An entertaining thriller","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment was a fun movie. I saw it in the theaters and was glued to my seat for 2 hours. It is an exciting thriller with many twists to it and there is a nice chemistry between the leads, despite their age difference. Sean Connery, one of my favorite actors, was terrific. Catherine Zeta-Jones is very sexy and talented, too. Ving Rhames, always entertaining, should have had a bigger role.This is a fun movie to watch with lots of action and you get to look at Zeta-Jones for 2 hours. You can't lose there.  "},{"Title":"Some good scenes but...","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There was a certain element about this film that I thought was fairly stupid.  This was why pair Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones as a 'couple'.  I think it would have worked so much better had they been just partners in crime- everything in the story may have still worked without them being romantically involved.  There are some great scenes in this film, with Zeta Jones showing her flexibility in the physical sense of the role.  There is also some great cinematography, particularly in the castle sequences.  Its all very glossy and high tech, but some of the dialogue is a bit rough around the edges - some parts did need more energy and feeling.  Its not exactly a bad film, but its not that good either.  I think it could have been a lot better with a tighter script.  The locations were very nice though. "},{"Title":"YAWN","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry to anyone who truly enjoyed this film, but I didn't like it. It confused the hell out of me. The thing that confused me the most, though, was how I stayed awake through the whole thing. I love Sean Connery and I love Catherine Zeta-Jones, but seriously, what were they thinking? I can't believe I paid money to see a sixty plus year old man ogle a thirty year old. Also, it was way too predictable. Oh my god, she's a spy, too! I didn't see *that* coming! Honestly, if you're looking for a good movie, don't see this one. It's a waste of time. But this is just my opinion. If you wanna see it, go ahead. But don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Slick, stylish but ultimately hollow and unsatisfactory","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery really should give up doing action films, because on the basis of Entrapment, it's no wonder why Gidgets and Geezers (old men being cast with babes) won Worst Movie Trend at the Golden Raspberry Awards this year. Entrapment is not a bad film, but it stumbles in its romantic pairing of a crusty old man with the young and lovely Catherine Zeta-Jones. (Art imitating life here?) The plot has Zeta-Jones as insurance agent, Gin Baker pursuing master thief Robert MacDougal (Connery) after an art-heist. To get near him she poses as a thief and follows him on a heist to trap him. There are a barrage of twists in the script as to the real purposes of both characters, except after a while, they become rather tedious and predictable and by the time they are resolved, the plot has already run out of steam. As well as that, Connery's resolution not to get involved with his partners is forgotten as soon as he sees Zeta-Jones in a tight lycra suit, curving her bottom to avoid security beams. The supposedly suspenseful heists and computer disk downloads, don't really produce much tension, with the scene where the pair dangling off the World's tallest building easily the standout from a mainly mediocre lot. So what of the relationship between Connery and Zeta-Jones? Well, it has to be said that the massive age gap doesn't produce much sexual chemistry. Connery is still looking fairly good for his age and the pair's sparing certainly induce winces in the audience; in fact they do make a half-decent team. Yet one can't help thinking that Connery is really too old for action films now and should start going for character roles like Clint Eastwood and Gene Hackman are doing in their old age. British director Jon Amiel handles the film with style and slickness and I have to admit that Entrapment never bored me. Yet this doesn't compensate for Entrapment's flaws and Amiel would have been better served with a more intelligent script and more appropriate casting. "},{"Title":"Good stars, good action, good plot","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of the best things this movie has going for it is the two stars. Sean Connery is one of the most recognized and appreciated faces in film today. And Catherine Zeta-Jones is one of the most talented and beautiful new faces around today. Mix them into a film with some good action, an interesting plot and some cool gadgets and you've got a winner. That's what ENTRAPMENT is.Gin Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) seems to be working for an insurance company. She has a certain fascination with Mac MacDougal (Sean Connery), who is an incredibly good thief who has stolen numerous works of art. After a particularly expensive work of art is stolen, her boss Hector Cruz (Will Patton) sends her to track him down, lure him to an extremely beneficial robbery and trap him (hence the title) so the FBI can arrest him. But Gin, who is a very talented thief herself has her own plans. With the help of Mac, and his partner that she doesn't know about named Aaron Thibadeaux (Ving Rhames), she wants to do a robbery with a payoff of billions of dollars.The acting in this movie is, of course, excellent. Sean Connery, naturally, does his usual outstanding job, but Catherine Zeta-Jones steals the show. Her close-ups are beautiful, as expected, and she manages to give off a professional, and sexy, performance. Ving Rhames also does a good job as the not-sure-he-can-be-trusted partner of Connery. Will Patton also does a good job, even though his part isn't especially large.The plot is very interesting, but the ending is a little confusing. It happens and ends rather quickly, which may make you think What just happened? You'll understand it a few minutes later, but some will be left with a some what dissatisfied feeling about the end.This movie is really pretty good. The actors are good, the plot is interesting, the machinery is nice and the close-ups of Catherine Zeta-Jones' butt are great. Worth a rent, for sure. "},{"Title":"If you like movies where characters disappear often, this is it!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is the kind of movie where characters disappear into thin air about every five minutes, only to reappear standing just behind whoever is looking for them.  You know what I mean, these characters are tricky!!  It is also the kind of movie where you will laugh out loud about every fifteen minutes from the latest ridiculous development. "}{"Title":"Gal from Zorro meets guy from Bond....","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Well, this was okay as far's it went, your basic Sean Connery star vehicle, he is in decent if not great form, while Carmen as always is a beauty. Can't say that I bought much of what I was seeing to be honest;Connery is after all 70 and Zeta Joans is simply too Porcelain to be anything resembling a cat burgler in my way of thinking.Semi Spoilers below!!!!!Some of the twists I thought were tacked on-the bogus 'arrest'and 'escape' at the end, plus Sean's little allegences with Chick Chapel there just didn't work for me. Why go through all of that if you are really not what you seem? I don't care that they stashed a good chunk of the loot for themselves anyways...there were a few too many contrivances for me to skip over and simply enjoy.Now-is the movie worth seeing? Sure-decent capers though you have seen'em all before-Ving Rhames and Will Patton are fine support in anything they do. But this one didn't really fly, and if you want anything more than decent VCR-ing for an evening, this isn't for ya.**1/2 outta ****, hopefully Thomas Crown affair is a little better.... "},{"Title":"Watch the Thomas Crown Affair instead","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Holes in the plot you could drive a very large lorry through, terrible performances from people who really should know better and loose, sloppy directing. Not to mention being about half an hour too long.A woeful movie. From around the same time the Brosnan/Russo re-make of The Thomas Crown Affair treads a similar path of high-class thief, tracked and entangled with an investigator. Ok, so Entrapment had a couple of twists, but they weren't enough to maintain interest, and it wasn't a patch on its competitor. Apparently Brosnan turned this down to play Thomas Crown. Wise move Mr B. (Or was it the other way around - that Connery declined to play in this one? Not so wise move Sir Sean.)   "},{"Title":"Could have been worse.....","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment was a good story with average acting and an attractive cast. The only real problem was that it got big time corny at the end.  How many times have we seen this fantasy warp scene crap where the hero seems to have disappeared, but shows up in a flash at an impossible spot?  Oh well, the ending did knock my original vote down a point, but the flick is still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"the old guy fantasy subtext manages to share the screen with a genuinely good, well-paced action-adventure","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Is this film an illustration of an old guy's fantasy?  Not only is he a rich, kind of lonely old guy who lives in a secluded castle, which I think borrows heavily from Connery's previous role as King Arthur of Camelot in FIRST KNIGHT, but he's a thief, abreast of all the latest technological gimmicks great for pulling off heists.  He also happens to be saddled with the exquisitely beautiful, and not to mention young Zeta-Jones.  The finale is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Hmmm","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery seem to be perfect for their roles as skillful art thieves. The movie has exciting and breathtaking scenes, leaving their viewers in awe. However, due to its very unpredictable nature, viewers are left in confusion as to who the characters really are. Also, we are shown thieves acting as heroes? Do they expect us to believe in that?  3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. It had some very good nail bitting scenes in it. There were also a lot of boring parts in it though. Like watching Zeta Jones do the same silly little dance like 5 or 6 times got boring even if she was wearing tight clothes. The acting was solid, the story was a little shakey at first but all comes together at the end. All in all this movie was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting, Engrossing and Clever Plot, Spectacular FX...","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  First, I have to admit that after seeing this movie, the first thing I thought of was The Thomas Crowne Affair... after all the plot is very similar... however there is a wonderful distinction between the two...as in Affair, Entrapment is about two people who find out they are both after the same thing... but you never know who is on who's side until the last minute... that's what I mean by engrossing... during the entire film the plot, the pace, everything that happens constantly changes to the exact opposite of what you would think should happen... very clever tricks, plans and ways the two team up to get to their goal are just one of the ways the film constantly surprises and delights you from start to finish... as again, as in Affair, Entrapments ending seems dismal and depressing five minutes prior to the actual ending... but along comes a heartwarming, feel-good-inside ending that makes you want to leap for joy... this film completely delighted me with it's many, many surprises and new ideas, along with excellent acting and a soundtrack that keeps the adreneline going, this is one not to be missed... highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Heist Flick with a Few New Twists","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There is a lot about Entrapment that is fun. I happen to like jewel thief movies because they are based on cleverness rather than explosions and the piling up of dead bodies. Entrapment stretches the master thief formula a bit with more plot twists than usual. It is fast paced, has good photography, clever gadgets and is well acted.While Connery can always be expected to be dashing, I equally liked Catherine Zeta-Jones' fire and coolness. Combining beauty and strength she is able to transform stealth into a ballet of movement. The fire that does not ignite in Entrapment is in the romance between Connery and Zeta-Jones.Entrapment bends the formula for this type of movie but it can't break it. So, in the end the surprises are limited. Also since a few scenes were shot in a famous high rise building, some of the escapes looked a little forced, then a plot twist made that more believable. More disappointing was that Entrapment follows the trend about how honest cops are allowed to be in such films. But that is how these movies are.One always has to suspend belief somewhat with films but it wasn't much of an effort with Entrapment. There are no massive explosions taking out several buildings. Also, the heroes didn't become bullet proof, machine gun toting killing machines. Entrapment was fun. It didn't wow me but it didn't disappoint either. It is a well made, well acted, exciting entertainment.	 	 "},{"Title":"A rollercoaster, house of mirrors, and a tunnel of love all in one.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Amiel's description of the staff's ambition with this movie, with which I concur. Wonderful. Lovely. After viewing four cinematic burn-outs in a row it was refreshing to again make the acquaintance of someone who knows the medium and the art. Connery has a magic hand, a very steady brush, and almost everything he does these days is a success - from my viewpoint. There are those who say that Connery saves this movie - and although I do not agree at all, I suspect they have no inkling of how much he has actually contributed - as usual.  "},{"Title":"It was thisssss close","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a movie with a good premise, but unfortunatly falls victim to its own slyness.The premise is this  a skilled thief, posing as an insurance investigator, joins forces with an equally skilled thief to pull off the heist of the millenium.  Catherine Zeta-Jones stars as Virginia Baker, a thief with a skill at gymnastic movements who poses as an insurance investigator.  This character is very complex, almost too much so for her own good.  She pulls off both roles to the hilt, keeping you guessing as to who she really is.  Too bad that same good turn also easily confuses you as to who she is...making it essential you dont even blink while watching this movie.  Her slithering along the floor while preparing for a theft with Connery is easily her characters highlight.Speaking of Sean Connery, you can't really say anything bad about him. I've seen him in some real stinkers, and he always seems to shine.  No difference here, his Mac drips of history and legend.  No matter what role it is, he always comes off as the main man, the guy who can handle any situation.The supporting cast is basically non-existant.  Ving Rhames plays a FBI agent who is helping Mac in his secondary task.  Will Patton plays Virginia's boss, who is more than suspicious of his star agent.Entrapment is a bit too clever for its own good, forcing the viewer to pay very close attention to the story, almost to the point of making the movie un-enjoyable.  A few less twists and turns and this would have been a stellar watch.1 out of 5   "}{"Title":"Good chase scene -- stupid plot","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, the chase scene kept me watching this movie.  It was kind of exciting to see the heroes climb a bluilding, almost get crushed between doors, etc.  The bad part?  This plot is completely unbelievable.  The acting by Zeta-Jones is pretty sad.  And I'm supposed to be rooting for a couple of thieves.  Am I supposed to let my kids see thieves as heroes?  Give me a break.  Skip this movie at the thearter.  If you can rent it for one dollar, that's about what it's worth. "},{"Title":"The twists make the movie.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones make this a believable mystery thriller til the end.  Their chemistry together is superb.  Every scene has a new twist and the unexpected is the norm.  What an outstanding combination!  "},{"Title":"Slick, tense, entertainment, with a twist that works","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I suppose we can accept the excitement of thievery, but not really its romance. In this film, the uncertainty as to who is stealing what, for which purpose and for whom adds some extra interest to a story, the outcome of which can be predicted almost from the beginning.I do not really think that the film is about theft, or that it takes an ethical position in relation to theft (in itself, perhaps, ethically risky). Rather, it is about excellence, about being the best at what you do; and it succeeds in demonstrating something of the commitment needed, and the satisfactions to be found, in the exercise of superlative skills.It is amazing that Connery still manages to convince in action roles, but how very clever to give him so lithe and stunning an amanuensis as Miss Zeta-Jones. In her role as Gin Baker, she claims a perfection that seems justified and which is an undeniable part of the appeal of the film. In the rehearsal for and performance of the defining theft scene, which could so easily have slipped into bathos, Miss Zeta-Jones is convincing and her balletic grace entrances. The switches between the tough girl and vulnerability are intrinsic to the stereotype, but are well done, and we manage to admire and sympathize with her character throughout. The action scene towards the end is sufficiently tense for the genre, and the final scene twists the plot, and the people and roles switch sufficiently, to add a final touch of irony.This film succeeds completely in what it seeks to achieve, without troubling to puzzle us with the plot, it is thoroughly entertaining, with some interesting locations, plenty of action and enough tension. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Moderately entertaining","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Although it's certainly no True Lies as far as action is concerned, Entrapment is a film that manages to be quite enjoyable in spite of itself. There are several boggling plot twists, and it's actually work to remember who's who, but still fun nonetheless. Sean Connery and the lovely Catherine Zeta-Jones work together nicely, and Ving Rhames (Armageddon) is a good addition.All in all, a good film. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The pre-release hype of Entrapment was enormous in this country, expectations very high. What else does one expect from a movie blending together seasoned veteran Sean Connery and the coolest Brit of them all, Catherine Zeta-Jones ? Unfortunately the movie presents nothing new. In stead it leaves you with an eerie feeling that you are watching Mission Impossible II or something in that vein. Ving Rhames as supporting actor certainly adds to this perception. Furthermore, the much anticipated romantic angle in the movie is a farce because nothing really happens between Connery and Zeta-Jones.The setting of the final scenes at the world's highest building in Kuala Lumpur provides for some spectacular stunt action but at this stage it's a case of too little too late. If you're a Connery/Zeta-Jones fan, rather try and avoid this one, you'd be bitterly disappointed.   "},{"Title":"Good action for a summer night","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film is full of cliches and you certainly know what to expect before seeing it. It would be so typical and boring if it weren't for Sean Connery. He enriches this film just by his presence. Cathy Zeta-Jones is a remarkably beautiful woman, I didn't like though some scenes where the director imposes her as a sex symbol. The last half hour is far beyond reality but you'll still enjoy it if you stop thinking too much (or you'll find immense plot holes). If you want pure entertainment for a summer night (here in Greece in open air cinemas), this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  this movie was just GOOD, nothing more, nothing less. The chemistry between the two leading stars was pleasant, the action scenes were the best part of the movie, and Catherine is a treat to look at. The only thing i didn't like was the very ending, i didn't really get it. I don't know about seeing it again, but it was a pretty enjoyable and worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie. It could have been better if Will Patton had a relationship with Catherine Zeta-Jones. I also found it hard to believe that Catherine Zeta-Jones' character could be so tough and also such a big cry baby.I had to look away when Connery and Zeta-Jones kissed. Yuck!There are a few surprises and Zeta-Jones' face is worth the ticket.I gave it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"better than i thought it would be","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The ending saved this movie for me. It was clever (but not too clever), cheesy (but not too cheesy), and just cool enough to tie together all loose ends in the movie. The ending was a lot less predictable than The Sixth Sense, but a lot more predictable than that epitome of twist endings, The Usual Suspects. All in all, 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Fun Piece of Fluff","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  On the menu tonight we have an insurance investigator named Gin Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) who is assigned the job of tracking down veteran art thief Robert MacDougal (Sean Connery).  She poses as an aspiring art thief to win his confidence.  Or was she posing as an insurance investigator all along?  Unfortunately, this issue is resolved all too clearly very early in the film, and we are left with a pleasant but strictly routine cops-'n-robbers flick.ENTRAPMENT gets a lot of mileage out of the two leads.  There is perhaps no other actress in Hollywood as heart-achingly beautiful as Catherine Zeta-Jones.  She proves here that she has some character range, showing Gin as a pugnacious, scrappy little woman out to make her mark, in contrast to her breakthrough role last year as Helena Montero in THE MASK OF ZORRO where she was every inch the aristocratic lady.  Sean Connery has still got it after all these years as the old pro art heist man.  His growing, repressed affection for Gin is nicely understated, particularly in one scene where we simply watch him sitting on a bench alone thinking about her.Noteworthy is one scene where Gin trains to avoid a laser security system by twisting and contorting her body through a complex of taut, bell-laden threads that MacDougal has set up.  The erotic tension this scene creates is pleasing and original.  (And for those prudes who retch at the thought of romance between the young Jones and the elderly Connery, I'm at least one movie fan who would not mind in the least seeing some future romance between DiCaprio or Ulrich and Loren or Taylor!).  ENTRAPMENT also has the good taste, rare in an adventure film, not to shower us with unnecessary blood and gore.Is ENTRAPMENT great art?  Heck, no!  It's contrived, absurdly unrealistic, and mostly shallow.  And the finale, which could have lent some meaning to the film, boomerangs completely. Think how sappy CASABLANCA would have been if Rick had flown off with Ilsa; that's how bad ENTRAPMENT's ending is.Flawed and shallow, but a fun ride for most of the way, ENTRAPMENT is worthwhile renting if you have nothing important to do and don't feel up to a more challenging movie.Rating **1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Good thriller!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a really exciting thriller. Catherine Zeta Jones is really hot, and Sean Connery is a good leading man. The casting is a little off, but I won't argue with it.The action and laser sequences are really good.. and the movie is a little confusing at times (especially at the end), but later i understood it.Good movie, cast and effects.My rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good thriller movie!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I found this to be a very exciting movie and a good forum for Ms. Zeta-Jones to display her combination of sex appeal and acting ability. Also, Sean Connery shows that he's still got what it takes to wow the viewer!This movie has something for just about everyone. If you like romance, you'll find a bit of that in here. If you like action and thrills, you'll DEFINITELY find some of that here! Finally, if you like mystery and plot twists, then this is DEFINITELY a movie for you!Without giving away the movie, let me just say that the plot twists in the last 15-20 minutes of this movie will blow your mind! "},{"Title":"Gentleman Thief Movies Revived","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  ENTRAPMENT. With Jon Amiel's Entrapment, I think it is safe to say that the Gentleman Thief movie genre has officially been revived.The debonair Sean Connery plays the great thief Robert Mac MacDougal and the steamy Catherine Zeta-Jones plays insurance investigator Gin Baker. Together, they steal a jewel mask and fall for one another. However, Gin has an idea to pull off the ultimate heist on New Years Eve, 1999 (there's a funny Y2K subplot involved in that one). And it can also be noted that the climax of this picture is NOT for the acrophobic.Entrapment isn't much more than a stylish, glossy caper film. But in an era when movie protagonists are violent loners or thin rebels, it's quite refreshing to see Connery and Zeta-Jones light up the big screen as a pair we can root for cheerfully. With people in movies either being too violent or totally devoid of a personality, I'd actually like to see the two lead characters from Entrapment again sometime. Rated PG-13. *** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Eye candy. Yum, yum.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  For the men, there is the supple and lovely Catherine Zeta-Jones. For the women, there is Sean Connery. (And for those who pooh-pooh the idea of a romance given their age difference, I have only to say that you should have been sitting behind us in the theater when my 16-year-old daughter and I were claiming dibs on Connery; true sexiness is ageless.)Plot holes, plot twists, who really cares about a plot, anyway? The whole point is fantasy, and Entrapment delivers. The sexual tension was high and believable and a refreshing change from the usual smut. The suspense was intense without the obligatory gore splattering everywhere.Entrapment isn't high art. If you don't like it, send me a ticket and I'll watch it for you again. "},{"Title":"Impressive film","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty good. This must have been hard for Sean Connery and Cathrine Zeta Jones. She was fantastic in this one doing all those fancy moves in between the alarm lines. The castle that Connery lived in was gorgeous. I would like to live in one of those. Anyways I give this movie 3 *** stars out of 5!! Oh yeah if you don't have any intrest in seeing this film watch it for Catherine Zeta Jones she sleeps in the nude!!  "},{"Title":"You're too old for this s**t-Rhames to Connery","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Catherine Zeta Jones(The Mask Of Zorro) and Sean Connery(The Avengers) star in a confusing thriller. Despite the rumours, it isn't quite a romance and definitely isn't an action. Support is provided by Ving Rhames(Pulp Fiction) and Will Patton(Romeo is Bleeding). For any film to survive, there must be a bad guy. It is essential for the leading protagonists to have some sort of rival to make the film exciting-this film has none. There are brief moments throughout the film that I was hoping for either Rhames or Patton to become the bad guy, but that didn't happen. Patton scraped through the film with a sort of constipated look on his face whilst Rhames cruised through with his stereotypical 'homeboy' style. Which is a shame really, considering that both of these actors have had good careers so far. Patton was excellent in The Postman and Armageddon whilst Rhames was brilliant in MissionImpossible, Out Of Sight and Pulp Fiction. But having said that, this film was not too bad. The last bank job was a nail biting finale, and Connery and Zeta Jones both did well, and Zeta Jones was incredible throughout. So for a thriller, it was a decent effort as audiences leave the cinema smiling. Caution-The rental experience will not be the same. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Gorgeous Catherine, Old Sean","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a modern caper movie, with more than a nod towards the best of the Bond films. And, like the best of Bond, it's a good gadget flick, it's got a number of impressive stunts and the plot is pretty unbelievable. Unlike Bond, there's only one stunning woman. But I must hasten to add that Catherine Zeta-Jones is absolutely gorgeous.We were first treated to the charms of Zeta-Jones in Blue Juice, a whacky, very entertaining film about Welsh surfers. She's since played opposite Antonio Banderas in The Mark of Zorro.So what about Entrapment? Well it's about big time heists. Sean Connery plays Mac, who's the world's best thief. Zeta-Jones is Gin, who's a high powered insurance investigator.Gin gets on Sean's tail, or was that trail, and the Bond scenario is alive and kicking. They don't know if they can trust one another. Gin claims that she's a thief as well and Mac puts her to the test, demanding a couple of decent scores before they can work together.Then they plan to steal a fabulous mask, during which Gin will have to execute a series of complicated, athletic and, as it turns out, very sexual/sensual moves through a maze of laser beams. This scene is terrific, firstly because of Zeta-Jones's suppleness and beauty (it's obvious that at least some of the time no double is used) and secondly because of the quiet sighs of appreciation we hear from Mac as he watches his accomplice make her moves.But what of Sean Connery, who is about 40 years older than Catherine Zeta-Jones? Well, leaving alone the argument about age differences in the movies, Connery, about as interesting as a soggy sponge, added very little to Entrapment.His character was colourless. I began to think of say Alec Baldwin in the part and found the idea attractive. But there are plenty of Connery fans out there who may disagree with me on that one.See Entrapment for the gadgets and for Catherine Zeta-Jones, who will appeal to fans of both sexes. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1999!!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" The final sequence of this film, that happens exactly in the middle of two buildings,is literally touching and frightening, loaded with adrenaline and tension! Sean Connery and Catharine Zeta Jones try to cross a small bridge made of electric threads that attach the two large constructions ...and everything almost comes out wrong!man, get ready to sweat!scenes like this made Entrapment a great hit, not only in United States, but also in Brazil. I watched it and I liked Jon Amiel's work,who ,instead of accomplishing a film in which the action and the shooting explode everywhere, built an excellent level show supported by a well-written and accelerated script, even not being Speed or Sharky's Machine, Entrapment is a fast and furious movie. Sean Connery, talented and experienced, should thank  the guy who wrote the plot the charming and courageous thief MacDougal is the kind of anti-hero that only he, or maybe Burt Reynolds, could play! Catharine Zeta Jones proves that she is an actress of great potential, and not just a pretty ,charming woman, and her acting is so touching that she really gets to pass to us that she really feels affection and love for MacDougal. Just being an excellent actor didn't help Ving Rhames here,who has a role without importance and appears in a few scenes, however he contributed to turn Entrapment more interesting, as a dangerous FBI agent. Director Jon Amiel deserves applauses, I always believed that he was a mediocre and not very daring film director, but here he was redeemed.Entrapment  is a beautiful, intelligent, and full with adventure movie, and unlike the last releases of the action gender, this thriller stands out among them for a private qualityit has the same kind of innovation , in terms of plot, that made films like Ronin or Sharky's Machine become success, played by two stars in the top of their talents, after all Connery and Zeta Jones will always make the difference!!! "},{"Title":"Sean, you're better at supporting","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment, by trying hard not to be a stereotypical summer blockbuster and developing a decent plot with well worked twists, actually comes off worse for it. It isn't quite sure whether it wants to be an action movie, a heist movie or a sneaky espionage-type movie. So it tries to be all of these. And it doesn't quite work.Here is the tale. Sean Connery plays an ageing but still very successful art thief. Catherine Zeta Jones appears as the insurance investigator charged with capturing him. Is she all she appears to be, though? Is he?Her plan is to present herself as a potential protege so as to be taken into his schemes. She is, of course, successful. She soon demonstrates a developed ability at thievery that should have set a few alarm bells ringing, or rather keep them silent.Anyway, the suggestion is that she is a professional who has infiltrated the insurance company to use them as a legitimate cover to nick lots of nice bits and bobs. The on screen relationship between Sean and Cathy is a little more sensible then you usually get - he is, after all, old enough to be her grandfather.But in the end it is that wily old Scottish National Party supporter who comes up short. He just isn't quite right in the role. It's not that he's too old or that she's too young. He just isn't right. "},{"Title":"Action, forced romance, twisty plot.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a solid movie if you like heightened drama.  Entrapment is a solid movie if you like a very twisting, turning plot that keeps you guessing.  And Entrapment is a solid movie if you find either one of the two stars attractive.But outside of that, it's kind of bland.  First off, the romance between Connery and Zeta-Jones seems forced and unnecessary.  I wasn't unable to suspend reality to believe that those two could have a solid romantic interest, no matter what their ages.  Zeta-Jones' character, who is otherwise somewhat strong, comes off as whiny and just waiting to grasp at any man who comes her way.  Yawn.Character development is also a sticky spot; we don't get very much of it. This movie is about the here and now, which is just before the end of the millennium (well, actually, the end of 1999.)  Why are these two doing this? How did they get started?  And most importantly, why is this romance so tacked-on?While I as a guy enjoyed the scenes of Zeta-Jones practicing moving through a laser-filled room (ha ha), the scene itself was incredibly stupid and roughly 3 minutes too long.  It seems to have been written for two reasons 1. to please men (which it does nicely! ;) and 2. to show off the actress's amazing gymnastics skills (which it also does nicely.)  That's fine, but it has precious little to do with the movie.Entrapment hits the mark in some places, but misses in so many others. Better than some films, but it could have been so much more.  Lose the poor attempt at romance, shorten it, and you've got something.3.0/5.0 stars. "}{"Title":"it was good - atmospheric , slightly slow going but good.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a good film to watch , after Ronin. started off slowly but once it was going than definitely entertaining. I like to watch Sean Connery films so this was another one that follows in the line of the others like Hunt for red october , the rock , etc,As for the actress , she looked very nice - didnt watch her on tv programs but on film , she looked charming and mature. They shouldnt do close up of her too much in the film as i feel that she looks better from slightly further away as you can appreciate her features , etc.The dress enhanced her look quite well and she looks stunning.Worth watching - sure thing. "},{"Title":"Good, but not brilliant!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a solid entertainment, but far a way from being a fantastic movie! The plot is nice and a bit of a surprise comes at the end, but the actors are not really convincing. The last bit of tension is always missing. So, if you just want to sit back and relax, go for it!  "},{"Title":"Got Trapped by Connery","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen this year! Connery is magnificent and amazingly charming and shows once again that he can play just about any role and make it look credible as well! Everything he says in his cute scottish accent seems quotable. Even though the man is three times my age, I admired Jones for having worked with him! "},{"Title":"Preposterous, but entertaining..............","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a preposterous, but entertaining, film because of the charisma of Sean Connery and the charm of Catherine Zeta-Jones. The ending is a typical Hollywood contrivance, but the film should be a fun rental for a weekend evening. "},{"Title":"Better Than I Expected","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  To be honest with you, I thought that Sean Connery was getting a little old for this sort of thing, at least he would probably be too old to keep me entertained, or so I thought. The movie had a great opening which, though typical, did great justice to the movie. The good news is that the viewer is surprised but not utterly confused like other movies, that, if not so incredibly confusing, would be great movies (i.e. Mission Impossible). I was surprised and delighted when everything came together at the end. Though the disappearing behind the train thing started getting old, I was very satisfied. "},{"Title":"A super-action movie with the fascinating background","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It seems to be a normal action- movie, with a quick plot and fancy hi-tech gadgets used by Zeta-Jones and Connery. But it isn't. It/s not 'The Saint' how it seems to be in the beginning. It is not bond-movie, not even because of gadgets. It is not 'Mask of Zorro', how you can think after a scene of Jones' training in Connery's castle . Not often we have in cinemas such a movie- an action with a background. Background about love, and life. Even in such a world there is a place for love. Of course we don't say nobody wants money- everybody wants. Everything is payable and doable. But love between Connery and Jones, just like between Audrey Hepburn and Peter O'Toole in this movie about a big robbery of a piece of art ( worth million $). One of them resign of one's freedom in favour of the partner's freedom. But who can stand loneliness?  "},{"Title":"Grandfather Sean","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I think It is a good movie. Not excellent but it is remarkable to see. Especially I want to attract your attention to Sean Connery. Although this guy is 67 years old, he has still been making action movies. That is really a huge success. I am right, aren't I? What do you think of him? I think He is one of the best of actors. "},{"Title":"I am very very happy with an excellent, a superb performance and direction...","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am extremely happy with a superb performance of all key people involved actors, director, plot, filming. I like very much and enjoy all movies of both my look-alike Sean and the most delicious Catherine who could be my daughter. In fact I have adopted them both as my VERY FEW selected stars. This movie is wholesome, this film does not promote the violence that has turned the armed teenagers into chaotic citizens in the U. S. My warmest congratulations! Thanks IMDB for allowing me to communicate!  "},{"Title":"Funny and ENTERTAINING","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit I am a little surprised about how negative most of the reviews in this section are. I walked out of this movie thinking this is is one that, while it's not brilliant, virtually everybody will enjoy. I share the criticism that the plot gets really ludicrous at times, but - in a movie like this does one really care? I know I didn't. What the film relies on is the chemistry between its actors. And because there is A LOT of chemistry the film ultimately works. I enjoyed every second of it. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It could have been excellent, if there had been lesser plot holes (and one toupe less)","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  First of all it needs to be said, that this MIGHT have been an excellent movie; after all, you have great actors, good locations and an interesting layout; unfortunately the story is so thin that you can steal a battleship that is hidden behind it. Why does Connery trust Zeta-Jones ? After all, he is a master thief and should not really trust anyone (and he did kill off two guys who tried the same, remember). Does nobody pay attention to what is happening in the various building (none of the guards, I mean) ? Also there are a lot of inconsistencies which should have been sorted out before making this film. Zeta-Jones may look great in a catsuit, her bending around invisible beams may look sexy, but sometimes she bends directly into the beams. How come it takes her more time to get to the mask than to retrieve it, yet the alarm is not being set of. Curiouser and curiouser. All in all, a pleasant film for a rainy afternoon, but this could have so much better (and I wonder what kind of strange bird built a nest on Connery's head ) "}{"Title":"Nice Movie.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Why did I watch that movie?Well, because of Sean Connery. I just like watching him. He plays so smooth... And because of Catherine Zeta Jones. She looks terrific!Apart from that, the movie is quite average. So, if you don't see it, you won't miss much!Bye "},{"Title":"Pure escape and a lot of fun...","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Pure escape and a lot of fun.  Not much believable here, but in the end who really cares?  The females get to watch Sean Connery, the guys Catherine Zeta-Jones.  And the guys win that battle, hands down. "},{"Title":"Delightful movie","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A fun movie.  We enjoyed it as much as The Hunt For Red October. Although the plot was unbelievable, the non-stop action made it entertaining.  It reminded me of old Bond movies.  I would recommend it for the action and actors.   "},{"Title":"Just Above Average Action filled, Techno Thiller","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie has got some cool gadgets and very suspenseful edge of your seat scenes. The best is when Connery and Catherine  Zeta-Jones are crossing between the two buildings on the lights hanging between the buildings. Catherine Zeta-Jones has become one of my favorite actors and she really is good in this movie. The only thing that was disappointing was the ending, I think I might have missed something. I understood the rest of the movie but the ending was confusing. Well the ending aside this is a good movie.    "},{"Title":"Predictable, yet entertaining","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be a very enjoyable movie.  While it lacked a bit in originality, it was a solid performance by both Connery and Zeta-Jones.  I would recommend this movie to anybody who is looking for something that's entertaining and not too deep. "},{"Title":"An unlikely match that becomes a golden pairing;good plot twists and turns.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Zeta-Jones and Connery are an unlikely match as the first part of the movie would have you believe, but by the end you not only believe...you will the pairing to happen! Great twists and turns in the plot...especially the last 30 or 40 minutes. Good for the big screen or the little one on a cold winter's night. "},{"Title":"Very interesting and great detail.","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A good who done it, who'll do it movie.  Both leads were great with Connery leading the way.  Technical detail good except for the steel cable giving way. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones sizzle in a well made masterpiece","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Will Patton, and Ving Rhames star in one of the best movies I've seen all year. Sean Connery is Robert MacDougal a jewel thief; Catherine Zeta-Jones is Virginia Gin Baker, an insurance investigator sent to capture him. As the movie evolves, it becomes apparent that not everything is what it seems. Entrapment is movie that people will enjoy since it keeps them on the edge of their seats and keeps them guessing whether or not certain characters are on the level. The plot includes trying to capture Robert MacDougal while he tries his hand at a theft of mask. The movie doesn't end there, not only does it have one robbery but there a two; the second is an offer by a mystery person who can only be revealed when it is seen. I liked how this movie dealt with other facets than just its main plot. Entrapment kept me guessing throughout to who might be on the level, wondering who might be the real thief. Along with the suspense, Entrapment includes underlying but clear sexual tension and chemistry between Connery and Zeta-Jones. I also loved Entrapment because it had a lot of high- tech gadgets used by Connery and Zeta-Jones; furthermore, I loved the way that they used them. There was one scene that I enjoyed to death and, which involved Catherine Zeta-Jones practicing her moves through security lasers. It is almost a fatherly love that Connery has for Zeta-Jones and it is proven in several scenes throughout the film. Entrapment also includes great support from its co-stars Will Patton and Ving Rhames. Patton and Rhames are so good it is difficult to tell whether or not they are part of a conspiracy to steal the mask or they are really tracking Connery and Zeta-Jones. Entrapment is a movie for people who like a good suspenseful thriller that really makes you think and does not have a resolution until the end; furthermore, it contains a surprise ending that will the audience will enjoy. Entrapment works for me because it shows me Sean Connery at his best and Catherine Zeta-Jones as a star on the rise. Entrapment deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"Best Action Flick pre-Summer","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a fabulously entertaining action movie that features two wonderful performances from Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta Jones. Even with their 40 year age difference, sparks DO fly, and I loved every minute of it. The two big robbery incidents are mesmerizing and the cinematography is wonderful. I love this movie!Movie Fanatic Brian         ****1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"very very entertaining movie","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is definitely a must-see in the theater for fans of 'mission impossible' and the 'the real mccoy'. You get more than you expect with this movie, as the plot turns and turns again, with great action sequences as the heists' are performed. Catherine Zeta Jones plays her role great as Sean Connery proves he can still deliver a flawless performance in an action movie. I definitely say this is one of the best action movies to come out this year. "}{"Title":"Great movie with a little Impossible twist.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is just another excellent movie with Sean Connery and the up and coming Catherine-Zeta Jones.  It was similar to Mission Impossible in some aspects but still delivers a wonderful action punch.  This is an action movie lovers movie.  If you like those types, definitely go see it.     My grades B or a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Catherine Zeta-Jones Wow!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment stars Sean Connery as a thief and Catherine Zeta-Jones as an insurance agent who tries to track Connery's character down after he steals a priceless painting that has been insured by her company. This movie grabs you from the very start and doesn't let go, taking you on a wild ride filled with ultra-cool hi-tech gadgets, great stunts and unexpected plot twists. Fans who went to see this movie because of Catherine Zeta-Jones will not be disappointed. The ending is the only bad thing about this movie. It is contrived and over the top even for Hollywood  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a very entertaining film even though the story has more holes than Swiss Cheese. Sean Connery is as smooth as ever and Catherine Zeta-Jones is brilliant. Just enjoy it and never mind that it makes no sense what so ever. "},{"Title":"HE'S STILL GOT IT!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Unbelievable!  Sean Connery is nearing 70 and still has the sex appeal of...well....a man you'd want to be trapped with! Zeta-Jones and the ex 007 have wonderful chemistry that builds up with the help of mistrust, mystery and daring thievery.  Now one can be truly happy in their fantasy lives until the release of the next Indiana Jones movie. (mmmmm...Harrison Ford...) "},{"Title":"A Heist Movie, Where I Enjoyed The Heist But Not The Movie !","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" In 1999, while eating fish in our favorite restaurant, I asked my friend  So what do you think about (Entrapment) ?, which he watched alone in the theater the same day earlier, to have him silent for some time, then answering  Right when it ends, you ask yourself  Did Connery really do all what we saw ?!! I think, after watching the movie myself later on as a rented video, that my buddy was DAMN RIGHT ! They wanted to make an entertaining heist movie. The job was to hire the so old Connery (69 year old), with the so young Zeta-Jones (30 year old) to have girls who long for a father, old men who long for a young sweetheart, and some other parties who want to see a magical glamour happening between 2 dazzling stars on-screen. The thing is, I'm none of those !The details of the thefts and their complications were catchy. The surprises were unpredictable. And the cinematic elements made something glossy. However the final product was average for most of the time, and weak for the rest. Connery was way too old to believe him in many parts. His performance seemed blank (observe him while looking at Zeta-Jones's body during the training; his looks don't deliver a thing). And there was naught going on between him and Zeta-Jones, mostly a late grandfather connects with lost grandchild (and I mean belated by late !). Simply nothing magical was there. And the explanation for what we saw as weird casting and love story, is the fact that Connery was the movie's producer !The movie is just 2 heists attached by a story I couldn't accept. The last 5 minutes were big lunacy. While talking about beyond-forced endings, this is something to recall. It is one of those endings that could determine what side would win of a movie with few characteristics and some flaws. I was laughing after it, saying I can stand a lot of Hollywood BS, but this one is so childish !. It is the end that ends a movie indeed !So, with that casting, and somewhat that script, it lost the credibility. I may watch it for one viewing to pass the time, another one to pass another desperate time and enjoy the surprises (that you'll forget after the first viewing already), and that's it. I'm not so fond of the other mainstream heist movie from the same year, and more or less with the same characters, (The Thomas Crown Affair). But I have to admit, that last one had more entertaining points than this one. Sure something didn't click in (Entrapment), and between it and us. They relished showing Zeta-Jones's body for more than an enough time. I didn't like her body, or see it as sexy. And if I did, that wouldn't save much either ! "},{"Title":"Who tells the truth?","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Descending down from the roof to a certain floor, a thief uses telescopic poles to open a window and steal a certain painting, The Rembrandt and ships it off to Conrad Greene in the own building's mail chute while another person watches a distance away with a camera. Virginia Baker and Robert MacDougal are from completely different worlds, or are they? She works at an insurance agency, he is a known as a cunning thief. She convinces her boss to allow her to get this MacDougal. She must gain his trust and get close to him. They move onto the second item, to get an eight billion dollar account on New Years Day, the Millennium. But will they get the account and who really tells the truth and who deceives who? "},{"Title":"Connery and Zeta-Jones sizzle in this film!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have heard many negative reviews about this film and I have to say I disagree with them.  I find this movie to be exciting.  The chemistry between Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sean Connery is magnificent.  Though the two actors are about four decades apart in age, the attraction between them is very believable.  Afterall, Sean Connery has long been hailed as one of the most sexiest men alive, despite the fact he's now in his 70's, and Catherine Zeta-Jones is, well, just breathtakingly beautiful.It is not just the steamy connection that the two have on screen that makes this film worthwhile.  The action scenes make the movie easy to keep focused on.  In one sequence Connery and Zeta-Jones are dangling from a cable that's about to snap at the top of the world's tallest building while Millennium New Year's fireworks are going off.I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who enjoys an action movie laced with charm and sophistication.  "},{"Title":"Lowbrow escapism at its best","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  As the film progresses, one wistfully recalls the lack of technology in Hitchcock's To catch a thief or the William Wyler--Peter O'Toole/Audrey Hepburn film How to steal a million. Those films did not have half the technology used in Entrapment but yet made an impact on audiences. The opening sequence of Entrapment reminded me of Hitchcock--the hint of humour, the silhouettes.. and of course the thief on the roof in black. The question is do you find Connery/Zeta Jones more interesting than Cary Grant/Grace Kelly and O'Toole/Hepburn pairs. I feel all three pairs were made for each other. Finally, the film is sexy without any sex, the way Hitchcock might have made a film if he was alive.  "},{"Title":"I'll have to admit it blew me away!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment really impressed me.  At first I thought that it would be a really cheesy flick.  But then the way Catherine Zeta- Jones and Sean Connery make their generation gap work is incredible.  The action sequences are not at all that elaborate but they do keep you on your toes.  So Entrapment has my vote for sure. "},{"Title":"An 'air head' classic","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Not to dispute the acting abilities of Connery and Zeta-Jones, but this movie has nothing to recommend it. Lack-luster dialogue, no suspense, no character development, no plot development, no commentary (social, political, cultural, spiritual, economic or otherwise), no nothing!This movie represents that genre of public entertainment that is churned out to appease the appetite of an over indulged public.But if you, like so many people, enjoyed Payback or The Wild Wild West, then by all means, rent this video. It's an 'air head' classic. "}{"Title":"A great Movie, but not what audience of the 90's would be able to appreciate.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This was an excellent movie. It kept reminding me of Alfred Hitchcock's To Catch a Thief. It actually had a real conversation, and back and forth come-backs without using un-necessary vulgar language to fake coolness. If it had been made in few decades ago, then it would have gotten the tag of being a 'Classic'. However, since it is supposed to be an action thriller, it did not have enough explosions, cursing, and blood shed to satisfy the thirst for today's audience. John Amiel is a tremendous director. His movie with Bill Murray, The man who knew too little is another movie that partially revealed his genius, but was also largely unappreciated. Catherine Zeta Jones has same class, personality, glamour and presence that Grace Kelly and Rita Hayworth had. Her character's personality should be inspiring to women. Most of all, this movie has romance, which although is NOT at the calibre of Casablanca, but strongly reminds people of it. Even though the movie was not about romance, for me that was the best part. There was some decency and purity about the way two characters interacted. At almost near the end of the movie V. Rhimes character, who the director hints is like the Loui's character from Casablanca, delivers the line that ...this feels like an ending of a terrible friendship.One has to be very keen fan to notice that. I think John Amiel messed that part up. He did not let V. Rhimes  character develop enough, for that line to have an impact. Also, he did not give the lead characters an opportunity in a bit less stressful surroundings to open up, show their vulnerabilities, and get to know each other. However, I will recommend that those who enjoy movies like To Catch a Thief, North by Northwest, and Casablanca, to see this movie, as it gets you close to those times. "},{"Title":"Like the Good Old Elegant Thieves Movies","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment takes us back to the good old movies where elegant, charming thieves stole the money and our hearts.The two charismatic actors, Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta Jones, bring a lot to this movie in addition to action humor, romance, charm.The movie keeps you on the edge of your seat. With everyone cheating everyone else, it keeps surprising you.Catherine Zeta Jones steals the show. This multi-talented actress can join the list of the super-actresses of all times.Loved that movie!  "},{"Title":"Trapped in the movie theater!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film makes the mistake of trying to substitute nifty gadgets for complex characterization, And what worked for 007 and Batman etc. comes across as thin and mechanistic for an adult action drama.  The story of high level thieves is clunky and cumbersome with no real tension and flat acting. And I think very highly of Sean Connery, but............? "},{"Title":"Yet another clone of The Thomas Crowne Affair","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The story, although interesting and well directed is not without reminding The Thomas Crowne Affair, namely in the confrontation of a wealthy thief - whom incentive in crime is more excitement than money - with a brilliant - and how feminine - insurance agency detective!  None the less the movie keeps interest high  Diversity of sceneries, fast paced action as well as a nice uncertainty left over the detective's actual mindset and goals plead for this variation on a known theme.  And both CZJ and Sean Connery are so admirable!-- Olivier Hurez. "},{"Title":"Catherine Zeta-Jones has never been sexier!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have been disillusioned in the past few years with the gut-wrenching level of stupidity and mindless violence in the most recent action movies. Tomorrow Never Dies made me get up and walk out, and if I hadn't kept laughing at the sheer lack of quality, I would have left Knock Off, too. But this movie has renewed my hopes. The stars are brilliantly cast, as Connery honestly delivers a smooth, suave gentleman thief and Zeta-Jones tops her amazing job in Zorro with this smart, multi-leveled, and above all, sexy character.  The high-tech gadgets are cool, but not distracting like in MissionImpossible and the exotic locales really make the movie flow.  The plot is full of intriguing curves (not quite shocking or sudden enough to be twists, but not unenjoyable), especially those involving Catherine Zeta-Jones (Yes, she has nice curves - OUCH!).  See this movie. "},{"Title":"Entrapped-Don't Get Caught Up in This One *","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Terrible film which is muddled throughout despite Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones in it.I think that Connery and Jones should have stuck with that Oscar show several years ago when he announced her the winner of the best supporting actress award for Chicago. There was more chemistry between those 2 stars in that brief moment then in this entire film.Confusing isn't the word for this. Zeta-Jones is supposedly an agent going after Connery for being a crook. Unknown to her, her superiors suspect that she is a crook as well. The two plan heist after heist and do some mighty climbing throughout, but that's about it.The ending seems that Connery has fooled Zeta-Jones but love intervenes. It doesn't help in this absolutely choppy heist. "},{"Title":"James Bond it is Not...","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A thief, a woman pretending to be one, and the heist they pull.  That's what Entrapment is about. It tries to play it cool It sets up itself as a suave and hip, stylish film, but soon becomes overlong and boring. There are surprise twists throughout, but they come off more as blunders than plot turns.Catherine Zeta-Jones, known now for Chicago and being Michael Douglas' wife, got her big break in this film, playing a cat burglar who works for the FBI, who goes on an undercover mission to arrest another cat burglar, Sean Connery, only to surprise him by telling him she's a cat burglar as well, and to pull off a heist together with the sixty-year-old, for there to be only one more crucial plot twist that I'm assuming you've guessed by now.Entrapment is one big headache. The plot twists are more of migraine twists, not because they are confusing, but because they are so darn obvious, and there are so many more plot holes than twists. The film is basically one long excuse to see Catherine Zeta-Jones sliding across floors and bending her rear in tight-fitting leather outfits, and for Sean Connery to act as if he is still sixty. (He's actually in his seventies.) They meet, they train for the burglary, they pull it off, there're some twists, and then there's another burglary, then there's a few more twists, then it's the end. Did you enjoy the ride? I didn't.There are some things I can believe for the sake of believing in this film. I believe that Catherine Zeta-Jones would be fit enough to pull off a heist. I believe Sean Connery would be smart enough to do so. I also believe that the object they steal is worth what they say it is. But there are some things I don't believe, as well.I don't believe Catherine Zeta-Jones would fall for Sean Connery's aging body. Maybe the REAL Sean Connery, but not Sean Connery the non-movie-star cat burglar. I don't believe that Catherine Zeta-Jones would apply so much makeup to her face and spruce herself up just to go to work for the FBI. I don't believe that she would be able to do gymnastics on a post. I don't believe that she would know how to do half the stuff she does in the film. I don't believe that someone who takes so much time to make herself look perty would be so normal. I don't believe that Sean Connery would apply so much faith in her, especially in knowledge of the surprise twist at the end. I don't believe that all the gadgets in the film really have huge digital LCDs, and that there are wireless data scramblers the size of an SUV. There are some more things I don't believe, as well.But I'm willing to give all plausability a trip away from my mind when I sit down to watch this film. Regardless, the film is still long, boring, dull, unmoving, and downright average. It tries to be something it isn't. Ocean's Eleven handled the style and coolness much better. Entrapment does not.1.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Mission impossible-style star vehicle","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" I'm loathe to find the faults in a perfectly entertaining heist-romance yarn such as this. Really though, the film is a bit too cynical with a preposterous, early set piece which involves Catherine Zeta-Jones doing calisthenics in a light show for the benefit of those unwilling to simply rent pornography. There are ways of doing things like this and Jon Amiel's ain't one of them.Still, dollar-eying solipsism aside, the film is harmless and entertaining enough. The premise is basically the same as The Thomas Crown Affair - insurance agent and master thief go head-to-head and the inevitable romance muddles the reason for their original liaison (although the later film does all this better). Much fuss was made at the time of release of the age difference between the principals but it's well-handled on screen. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Well-crafted thriller about a daring heist","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" ENTRAPMENT, in my opinion, is a well-crafted thriller about a daring heist. Although I realize it's illegal, I thought that Mac (Sean Connery) and Gin (Catherine Zeta-Jones) made a good team for such a daring heist. If you ask me, planning to pull it off at the turn of the century was what really made it exciting. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast, the direction was flawless, the costumes were elegant, the production design was spectacular, and the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this well-crafted thriller about a daring heist. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Who is who?","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" When a very valuable piece of artwork is stolen from an art gallery, the insurance company people are at their wits end in trying to recover it. Enter Catherine Zeta Jones, who works for the company and watch her convince her bosses to allow her create a scheme to try and take down a master thief played by Sean Connery, whom is believed to be behind the grand theft. Connery and his team of thieves are very suspicious of her but welcome her into their midst as they plan their next adventure. A game of who is conning who then ensues when things begin to go awry with growing mistrust, a high priced payday and other twists and turns along the way. Ving Rhames, Will Patton, Maury Chaykin and David Yip all co-star. The film is directed by Jon Amiel. "}{"Title":"Fannnntastic!!","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie is, hands down, one of Zeta-Jones' greatest films. She's absolutely gorgeous in it, and the dialouge is catchy and fun. Who doesn't want to see her maneuvering lasers in a skintight wetsuit? The first time I saw the film, I was sort of disgusted by her and Sean Connery's attraction, but I actually do find their chemistry on screen quite beautiful and realistic. It definitely sets the precedent for her future lovers (hahaha), but in all seriousness... Catherine SHINES in this film. I can seriously recite all the lines from the movie, start to finish. I have seen it probably close to forty times, if not more. From scene to scene you are enraptured, enthralled, envious...Entrapped. "},{"Title":"very cleverly written and very interesting","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  i thought this was a very cleverly written movie and enjoyed it immensely. i 1st seen it on holiday and it took me an hour to work out what happened but i thought it was a really good movie. very clever movie and excellent viewing.i liked the way Catherine put the monkey mask on the switch it was very funny and at the end the double crossing which confused me a bit but i got it worked out. i also liked the train jumping which was very clever if u ask me. i thought mac really was going to hand her over 2 the FBI but gave her stuff to get away with and how mac froze time on the lift but they didn't realize for ages. very good movie would like 2 see again "},{"Title":"Connery. Sean Connery--ENUFF SAID!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie had Sean Connery in it. That's all I needed to know to convince me to want to see it. It is his 2nd best movie behind The Rock. Catherine Zeta-Jones did an ok job as his trainee/partner I would have cast someone else perhaps Michelle Pfieffer. But all in all it was a very good movie ******* out of 10. "},{"Title":"Don't they work so well together!!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Don't Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta Jones work so well together!! In the film they made the plot sound exciting and held everyone in suspense for many times!! They go together as criminals to Malaysia to rob the huge bank there of all its assets!! (Well over $8 Billion) But they hit a lot of snags along the way!! "},{"Title":"Good stars, good action, good movie","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sure Sean Connery always gives a film a boost, but here, Catherine Zeta Jones (who did have her first break in Mask of Zorro but makes a breakthrough here) steals the show with undeniably hot sexuality and finely tuned skills.  She plays a insurance person (or does she totally) who has to track down Mac (Connery), an retired thief.  But soon the two go into cahoots and go after big prizes (if you catch my drift).  Surprisingly good thrills and some other good things bring this film to be...good.  B+ "},{"Title":"Very good movie, ten stars **********","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a great flick!  I've seen it too many times!  I love all of the cool gadgets and the scenes where they are stealing the art!  Very exciting, fingernail biting suspense!   Ten Stars!  ********** Disregard any negative comments on this film! "},{"Title":"One of The Best","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is by FAR one of my favorite movies ever! Sean Connery is the greatest in this movie.. This is an excellent cast too, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Ving Rhames are also two of the others in this film.. The storyline couldnt've been better.. Anyone who says something negative about movies isn't a Sean Connery fan. Because Entrapment is one of his best films.. I have it on VHS and Spec. Edition DVD, the only regret I have about the Spec. Edition DVD is that the Deleted scenes are sound only.. No talking.. But if you are thinking of renting this movie, or buying it, I suggest you do.. Because entrapment is a GREAT movie.. 10 out of 10 stars!!! (**********) "},{"Title":"Exciting, and full of action and drama.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie and it was good as always. I think this movie could have done much better but still achieved plenty. This movie is fun to see except just a few scenes and if you liked this movie you will like mission impossible. Enjoy........ "},{"Title":"Great movie with talented actors","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Although I have heard comments about the movie being a good excuse to see Catherine Zeta Jones in tight leather, I think that the movie was a masterpiece.  With Catherine and Sean Connery, two VERY talented British actors and a plotline that kept me riveted, I think that this movie deserves lots of praise. "},{"Title":"A very cool and stylish thriller.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  You don't get to see much films like this anymore.Connery gives a very refined and believable performance as gentleman thief who is under investigation by Zeta-Jones.The characters in this film are not many but they are carefully written to warm the hearts of audiences of all ages whether it is love or adventure you're looking for Entrapment has it all and more.The story begins with a remarkable bunjee jump in New York and then the film takes you to England and Malaysia.Connery's character Mac' is pursued by insurance investigator Catherine Zeta-Jones who plays Gin',but as the story moves we discover that there are more twists and turns to this movie than your average thriller.Basically the movie centers around Petrons Towers in Malaysia,this is where the loot is for a billion dollar robbery.Photographed beautifully and with an equally engaging music score,the full credit however is in the hands of Jon Amiel who previously directed the totally miscast Copycat handles the film brilliantly by focusing on the story rather than the action.What I really enjoyed about this film is that it is very Hitchcock type story telling where the characters take the center piece and the rest is just wallpaper. "}{"Title":"The way movies should be","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Intriguing plot, good characters, good actors. Romance, Adventure, Excitement, Exotic Places.No gore, No bare-skin-for-bare-skins-sake.There are too few of these movies made.  "},{"Title":"A slick, entertaining behind the scenes look at robbery, blackmail, and double crosses. *** out of ****","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a wise and glamorous look at behind the scenes world of robbery, blackmail, and double crosses. It stands on fresh and original ground, and I liked it. The movie is directed with a stylish, savvy blend of unpredictable adventure, twists, action, suspense and mild humor, all contributing to a movie experience worth while.The film opens a little too quickly and energetically with a world class jewel thief breaking into a high security building to rob a citizen of a valuable painting. This person does this with agility, ease and sensibility, putting a sense of mystery and ponder of whom this could be.The proceeding scene introduces a couple of things. First of all, we meet a character named Gin, a seductive secret agent who appears to be tracking the described thief. She plans to become his partner, get close, then capture him right in the act of his robberies.The crook is named Mac, and is very old for his skill. He and Gin meet, agree to do a heist together, and the trap is set. There are a few other side characters as well. Thibadeaux, a young and tough African American who seems to control Mac and Cruz, who is Gin's trusting associate.  The problem with having so many key players in not containing so many of them, but never developing them. And in truth, the only two ever understood, and I struggle to say understood, are Mac and Gin.The movie is shot in a variety of beautiful locations, and the filmmakers take advantage of most of them. They do the same with the good-looking cast, always convincing and conniving. Even the background effects contribute to the many visual pleasures in this movie, which is full of style and substance, and performances that are distinct but still entertaining.As good as the actors and site areas where the film takes place are, they still can't cover up the clear and obvious formula present. The standard, no-one-is-who-they-appear-to-be blueprint laid out in full color. We see this because the characters are very carefully explained and never detailed. Writers only do this when they want the audience to know only a certain amount about the characters for a particular reason.The film's third act is glory in its greatest. The scenes are presented with a building level of tension, getting greater and greater until the shocking and baffling closing conclusion scene. Adventure and excitement permit.Entrapment is full of interesting and enjoyable elements a great and realistic cast, romance and sensual appeal, attractive sets and characters, this movie is sure to please the majority of a theater audience. "},{"Title":"Yea Baybee!","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Since i am both a Sean Connery and a Catherine Zeta Jones fan,this movie was an automatic must see for me.Neither Connery or Jones disappointed me in their character roles but that is to be expected from Connery anyway.Sean is a cat burgular who is hunted by Jones who wants to catch him in the act so she can receive all the spoils for apprehending him.However,unknown to her boss,she actualy idolizes Connery and is a thief herself.Since Sean was the very first and really only james bond(although one user said he isn't)he already had it easy when it came down to being suave and a charmer.Catherines skills as an acomplished dancer gave her the edge for being agile and gracefull.Especially when it came to dodging security lasers.Ving Rhames adds a slighty comical element to the movie when apropriate.If you enjoy movies where the main characters seem to actually enjoy working together and the film isnt dependant on huge explosions to distract from a weak or non existant storyline then Entrapment is the movie for you.   "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is standard Sean Connery. The film is suspenseful, fun and action packed.As usual, he is the object of some beautiful young woman's desires. What makes this even more extreme is that he is 60 in the movie (69 really) and she is somewhere in her upper 20's. The difference is too extreme even for a male chauvinist pig like me. Well, actually, I'm not, but even if I were, I would have a hard time buying it. Maybe if she had gradually fallen for him like Helen Hunt did for Jack Nicholson, but that was not the case.The plot was extreme and had some holes. The editing on the bedroom scene was shockingly bad. However, those things were minor. The suspense and action carried the day. It is a slickly made film that is very easy to watch.And, if there is a more beautiful woman on this planet than Catherine Zeta-Jones, I would to see her. "},{"Title":"Proves You Don't Always Have To Believe The Critics","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am a fan of Sean Connery, so I was anxiously awaiting this movie coming out. Before I went to the movie, however, I read many reviews of the movie. Almost all of the reviews came to the same conclusion This movie is absolutely terrible. I decided to go see the movie anyway because I was doing spring shopping and there was no other movie I was interested in. I went with two friends, and we all expected the movie to be bad. I thought it would be average at best. Since we had such low expectations, the movie was very enjoyable. I really liked it. Go into this movie with low expectations, and you will be pleasantly surprised. If you go into this movie with high expectations, this movie might be a disappointment. The plot of this movie is far-fetched, but intelligent. The movie makes you think, and is very confusing at the end. It is a movie that you probably need to watch more than once. Catherine Zeta-Jones and Connery are very believable. This is one of those movies where the bad guys are good guys and the good guys are bad guys. That is just part of the fun.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is a very entertaining movie. Directed with great skill by Jon Amiel, with excellent performances by the entire cast including Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta Jones, Ving Rhames, and Will Patton. You will love this movie. I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"A fun two hours","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Entrapment is not going to win any awards for originality.  You could probably argue that there are better spy/thief films out there, and there are.  What Entrapment does have going for it is Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones.  The two leads take the rather run of the mill plot and do all they can with it, and you know what?  It actually is fun to sit back and watch Connery train the lovely Ms. Jones in the ways of high tech thievery. The climax atop on really tall building is exciting, and very little bullets fly.  The film relies on suspense and whether or not these two characters will make it out alive.  All in all, an entertaining film. "},{"Title":"All the elements of a classic Bond movie","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm a huge 007 fan, so I was pleasantly surprised with Entrapment. Exotic locations, wonderful gadgets, a beautiful leading lady, and a far fetched but fun plot all add up to a great bond like ride. Connery  (007 himself!) and Jones have wonderful chemistry and they make their way through the movies twists and turns. Jones herself is not only right for the role, but amazing to look at. Just watching her slither around in that tight leather suit had me squirming in my seat. Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Take this movie for what it is an action-suspense but do not place too much emphasis on plot. If you pay too much attention, you will spot too many holes in the story line and ruin the intention of the movie, having fun. I found this to be a very entertaining movie with the usual excellent performance from Connery. Zeta-Jones was equal to her counter-part in the acting department as well being stunningly beautiful. Overall, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Entrapment","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" Entrapment is when cops do thieves, and that is exactly the idea. Virginia Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is a professional thief, she stole the Rembrant and she works for some company that wants to catch another thief. This other thief, Robert 'Mac' MacDougal (the excellent Sir Sean Connery) meets Virginia and they live together in a mansion. He has very good techniques to help her train and she does not approve of all of them. They plan to steal a priceless mask. When they succeed, she then plans to rob a bank on Millennium night. If they do not do it on the Millennium night, then they never can. Also starring Ving Rhames as Aaron Thibadeaux and Mousehunt's Maury Chaykin as Conrad Greene. A very good film where Connery dominates with his slight charm and good need for adventure. I think the critics got it wrong, it really isn't that bad. Worth watching! "}{"Title":"Good robbery scenes but most of the plot is stretched to breaking point","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Gin works for an insurance company investigating robberies committed by Mac MacDougal.  In order to catch him red-handed she ?approaches him with a series of big jobs that they plan together.  However as the crimes continue who is setting who up? and the double crosses begin to pile up.I had high hopes for this but it was a pretty big disappointment.  The story is very weak and relies on the robbery scenes for excitement.  These scenes are well done but are highs in a series of lows.  The romance between Mac and Gin doesn't work, and the double crosses are clever at first but get stupid towards the end.  The age difference between Connery and Jones is a problem - it makes the chemistry between them very uneasy.  At several points where Zeta is bending and moving around with her curves highlighted, Connery looks on like a lecherous old man - at one point he emits a low hmmm which just made me feel really uncomfortable.The rest of the cast is OK, Will Patton and Ving Rhames seem to be doing extended cameos rather than playing characters.  But Zeta's American accent made me wonder why she was picked for this role and Connery's role could have been played by a mature actor without him being so much older.Overall the robberies are exciting but the rest of the action is dull or stretched. "},{"Title":"A fun caper movie","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Romance","Review":" As the movie opens we see a daring burglary taking place; the burglar descends the outside of a skyscraper then carefully removes a window before entering and stealing a painting, audaciously posting it through the companies own post system then exiting... all the while this is going on an unknown person watches what is happening through a telescope. The next morning insurance investigator Virginia 'Gin' Baker is sure she knows who did it Robert McDougal; a Scotsman renowned for such thefts. She heads to London and when they meet she tells him that she is planning a robbery and needs his help. They fly to his castle in the West Highlands and plan the crime; here we also learn a little more about the original theft. The proposed theft goes ahead but it turns out the item being stolen isn't the ultimate goal; she says it is just the fee she must pay to acquire the means of committing the real crime; to steal eight billion dollars at the stroke of midnight as the world celebrates the beginning of the year 2000! The plot of this film is preposterous of course but that doesn't matter as it is a lot of fun. Catherine Zeta-Jones does a memorable job as Gin; few male viewers will forget the scene where she shows off just how flexible she is when practicing for the first robbery! Sean Connery is good as McDougal; he may have been getting on a bit when he made this but his character is no less believable that the film itself. There is plenty of enjoyable action despite the film's light tone. As in many such films there are plenty of great locations including the stunning Eilean Donan Castle and Blenheim Palace in the UK and the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur; these locations are used well without looking like a release from the local tourist board. Over the course of the movie there are quite a few twists which I've strived to avoid spoiling as some of them are genuine surprises; at least they were to me.Overall I'd say this is well worth watching if you want a light hearted caper movie with little in it to cause offence so it can be enjoyed by youngsters as well as adults without worrying about unsuitable material. "}]