[{"Title":"Kissing Billy Collier","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film was a rare treat in that it presents its subject matter with dignity and fun. The comedy, directed by Tommy O'Haver never goes for cheap shots. The story of this somewhat naive photographer trying to make it in Los Angeles, under another writer/director would have gone for the 'on your face' attitude, rather than give it the romantic tone Tommy O'Haver imparted on the movie.The performances are good. Sean Hayes, who has gone to bigger and better things, is fine as Billy, the photographer. Brad Rowe, as Gabriel, the object of Billy's love, is fine also. Best of all is Meredith Scott Lynn, a fine actress, who is the best asset of this movie. Her Georgina serves to tie all the different plots, and in doing so, she contributes to make the film better. Paul Bartel, Holly Woodlawn and the rest, do a fine job.Tommy O'Haver made a charming movie about people that are so normal they could be straight for all we know. "},{"Title":"Sweet-natured comedy hits all the right grace notes","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound format Dolby StereoAn LA photographer (Sean Hayes) falls madly in lust with an aspiring model (Brad Rowe) who's been hired to pose in a series of pictures inspired by old-time Hollywood movies. But Hayes receives mixed signals from the object of his desire - is he gay, or isn't he? - which leads to complications of the heart...Described as a 'trifle' by writer-director Tommy O'Haver (ELLA ENCHANTED), this unassuming confection asks little more of its audience than to enjoy the scenery (both geographical and human!) and to pine along with its luckless protagonist as he pursues the hunk of his dreams. Those familiar with Hayes' outrageous turn in TV's Will & Grace may be disappointed by his restraint as a bland, scatterbrained idealist who learns the hard way that the course of true love never ran smoothly, especially in LA. Spiced with dream sequences that recreate moments from Hollywood's 'golden age' (most impressively, an Astaire-Rogers dance routine between Hayes and Rowe to the strains of Petula Clark, with drag queens on backing vocals!), the film pays affectionate tribute to the movies of a bygone era, movies which inspire the leading character on his never-ending quest for perfect happiness. Watch out for the magical scene in which Hayes and Rowe share a bed for purely platonic reasons, only to end up touching each other by 'accident'...Also starring Meredith Scott Lynn (STANDING ON FISHES), Richard Ganoung (PARTING GLANCES), Paul Bartel (EATING RAOUL), Carmine D. Giovinazzo (IN ENEMY HANDS), and Warhol 'superstar' Holly Woodlawn (WOMEN IN REVOLT) as a musical attraction at the gayest party in town! Beautiful widescreen cinematography by Mark Mervis (HELLBENT). "},{"Title":"Lightweight, but charming","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Considered in the context of an initial effort by a young director, I thought  this was a very nice film. As a gay man, I found the characters all very  believable and recognizable, and the protagonist Billy utterly charming.   All in all, skillful, original and sweet. Don't go in expecting a deep  cinematic experience, but accept it for what it is and I don't think you  will be disappointed. However, those who are not gay or who cannot  empathize with  the gay experience, will probably not be moved,  notwithstanding the director's attempt to show the universal character of  human love and experience.   "},{"Title":"A Very Touching Movie","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts as a comedy, but somewhere along the way, it becomes a touching drama. The story about Billy who is often rejected by his love interests will give you a very different view of homosexuals, whom often portrayed as a group of people who have sex a lot and always change partners. This movie will show you that that is not the case. It's worth the money.  "},{"Title":"A Love Story...","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you watch this movie expecting Sean Hayes to play a Jack McFarland (Will & Grace) type character, you'll be disappointed. His portrayal of Billy is low-key & pensive. He's adorable (instead of obnoxious & swishy) with a little boy twinkle in his eyes. Billy is a photographer from Indiana who has relocated to Los Angeles. He comes across a waiter/bass player (Brad Rowe as Gabriel, a character I'm not too crazy about) working in a coffee shop, who becomes his model & the object of his affection. Supposedly, Gabriel is straight & has a girlfriend in San Francisco. The sexual tension between these two can be cut with a knife (it's nerve wracking.) I especially like the scenes where Billy opens up to Gabriel about his life & experiences. Telling him the types of things you'd only share with someone you truly feel connected to. Is Gabriel gay?? Will they get together??... (The film has great sets, & beautiful colors. There are also hideous drag queens on hand. The one who lip syncs Petula Clark tunes is horrendous looking & it's amusing hearing/seeing Pet Clark's voice come out of that face!) "},{"Title":"A carnival of Angelean queer decadence.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is another one of those discovered by accident while channel surfing movies that I am always grateful to have found. Before the movie was over, I was online buying the DVD. O'Haver must have summoned all his Indy Film clout to muster the likes of Paul Ganoung, Meredith Scott Lynn and the fabulous Paul Bartel to lend their talents both on and off the camera, but the coup of coups was casting Sean Hayes. Hayes is superb as Billy, a struggling gay photographer yearning for love. He falls for Gabriel (Brad Rowe) who may or may not be gay. The rest of the film dances around the inevitable question and let's just say that things have a way of working out for the best, albeit differently from what we often expect.Actor, writer, director and absolute gay icon Paul Bartel, who unfortunately passed away a couple of years after Screen Kiss, is deliciously unctuous as a would be mentor. Brad Rowe is passable, if a little lightweight, and benefits immeasurably from his co-star. Sean Hayes, even before the runaway success of Will and Grace, demonstrates the comedic genius that steals almost every scene. Spliced throughout the movie are several numbers by Mr. Dan, a notable drag artist and promoter from L.A., and as Petula Clark he helps generate the sheer joy of watching this movie. If you remember Lou Reed's classic Take a Walk on the Wild Side you may enjoy watching Holly Woodlawn (Holly came from Miami F-L-A - yes THAT Holly) as the party hostess.The DVD commentary is worthwhile, and offers an inside view of the resourcefulness it takes to make a good indie film. It does not detract from the importance of BHSK that it is not an original film. O'Haver had been toying with the basic story idea since his earlier Catalina, but in BHSK the story is more fully developed and humorous. Touching, moving, gentle and risqué, an uplifting and life-affirming message wrapped in a carnival of Angelean queer decadence. "},{"Title":"FABULOUS!!!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a straight guy and I LOVED this movie.  My friend told me to rent it and watch it without reading the summary, so I did.  I never would have seen this movie otherwise, but I am so glad that I did.  It was educational for me as well as entertaining.  I definitely recommend seeing this movie to anyone who is deciding whether or not to see it.  It was GREAT!!!  "},{"Title":"Journey to the Territory of Unrequited Affection","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the very few movies I saw twice this year, and not just because newcomer Brad Rowe is so terribly easy on the eyes.  Whether you're gay or straight (although, I suspect, particularly if you're a gay man), you're bound to see yourself on the screen more than once.  Billy (Sean P. Hayes) rushes headlong to a place where we've all gone before, a place where angels fear to tread the Territory of Unrequited Affection.  We've all been there; we've all done it.  The desire and need for emotional as well as physical intimacy is a great and terrible thing, and Billy's struggle is one we can identify with while still seeing the humor inherent in our own all-too-human endeavors.  Bright, cheerful cinematography makes the most of the distinctly L.A. locations (West Hollywood, Catalina Island).  Gentle, tender, funny, for the most part honest, and not a diatribe--which meant that I could recommend it to my straight friends, too. "},{"Title":"Sean Hayes carries this gay trifle through to a disappointing ending...","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Aptly described by its producer as a trifle, this is a cheerful little romantic comedy about a gay photographer (SEAN HAYES) who fantasizes about what it would be like to connect with a gay hunk (BRAD ROWE) who seems to be leading him on in a homo-erotic relationship that Rowe prefers to keep platonic. The bedroom scene is the best acted, best scripted, best directed moment in the whole film, done with rare sensitivity and acting skill by both. It culminates in nothing, which is what one feels by the time the movie has come to its disappointing finale. Nothing really new has opened up food for thought.By turns, sad, wistful, funny, irreverent, with a cast full of what we call misfits (and rather shallow ones at that), it fails to do anything more than pass the time as the kind of interesting little gay trifle that gains sympathy for Sean Hayes' character. At the same time one can't help being irritated by his hopelessly romantic character molded by the tacky romantic films he grew up on. Makes its point by having strains from Max Steiner's Now, Voyager as part of the background score.Certainly not for everyone, but amusing enough to please fans of SEAN HAYES who will no doubt like seeing him in a more restrained role than the gay man he played on Will and Grace. He does well in the part. BRAD ROWE is a bit stiff as his fair-haired dreamboy (and would-be lover), lacking the ability to create any sympathy at all for his character by the film's end. He's really too bland to care about.Darkly handsome JASON-SHANE SCOTT as Brad might have been a better choice for Rowe's key role since he shows considerable more dramatic ability in a minor part as well as the model looks required. "},{"Title":"Middle of the road comedy","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A tepid attempt at gay comedy which would appeal to or at least not offend potential straight audience members. The story revolves around Billy (Sean Hayes) and his infatuation with a seemingly straight man named Gabriel (Brad Rowe) who he meets at a coffee shop and convinces to do some modeling. Before long a more famous photographer on the L.A. scene, Rex Webster (Paul Bartel) is threatening to swoop down and take him away from Billy before he gets to finish his photo shoot.Much of the film is consumed with Billy's self-doubt about his relationship with Gabriel &#150; is he merely engaging in fantasy projection of his desire onto an apparently straight man (who assures us at every opportunity that he has a girlfriend in San Francisco) or has he fallen in love with the improbably handsome busboy? There are some moments of slight humor but nothing that made me laugh out loud. A lot of the characters just became obnoxious to me, particularly Billy's straight friend Georgiana (Meredith Scott Lynn) who for unexplained reasons spends time with a very very obnoxious drug addict musician type on Catalina Island. The drug addict character is an example of how the film tried to woo favor with the straight audience by projecting its unfavorable stereotyped images onto select straight characters and allowing the other straight characters to join in on ridiculing those characters' behavior along with the gay characters.I mostly watched the film to see Paul Bartel, honestly, and his work was fine here but not exceptional. There wasn't anything distinctive enough about the character, a sort of hackneyed artist/queen, that would have enabled Bartel to show much of his talent. Since this was one of Bartel's last roles that's kind of disappointing.I did enjoy Hayes' work, I thought it was fine within the limits of what he was given for the character.Not really a terrible movie but really just not funny enough to be worth it. "}{"Title":"Wonderful, Oscar worthy","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was a masterpiece. The movie is a delicate blend of stereotype and reality, allowing the audience to realize what's real and what's fake. It centers around a young man and his object of affection. The fact that this object of affection is another man throws an interesting twist that makes the audience realize that there is very little difference between gays and straights. Very thoughtful, the wisecracking Billy spends the entire movie trying to figure out if Gabriel (His love from afar) is gay or straight. It centers around relationships and how difficult they are no matter what sexual preference. Superbly done by all actors and actresses, but especially Sean P. Hayes. "},{"Title":"Realistic, Witty, Wild","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie and bought it the very next day.  It was probably the most real movie about relationships that I've seen in several years.  It continues to make me laugh after screening it at least five times.  Great acting and filming. It also has an excellent use of color.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie about an everyday guy falling in love with the wrong guy.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is excellent.  Good acting by all the actors and quite funny. It's a nice light tale of Billy who loves to produce his own art in the form of polaroids.  He falls in love with the guy that he asks to be his model for his first REAL photo shoot.  The model is supposedly straight but is breaking up with his girlfriend and seems to be slowly opening up to Billy and his lifestyle.  Billy thinks he can have him but isn't sure if he's gay or not.  Finally they get together but it's the model's first time and it falls through.  He loses the model to a bigger shoot by another photo artist.  The model goes to Catalina Island and Billy and others are invited (sort of) to the party afterwards.  Billy chases after his model love just to find that his model has fallen in love with someone else.  He also discovers that one of his best friends has loved him from afar for sometime but he never knew it.  At the end he finally get's his photos seen at a show and another friend introduces him to someone else that loves his work and you can see that he is probably headed for love again and you leave the movie feeling that he is going to live happily ever after with the new friend.I feel the movie is great because it takes a situation than we've all seen many times in movies about heterosexuals and switches it to the gay life. The nice thing is it shows that this is normal everyday life for anyone; gay or straight.   Anyone could see this and love it gay or straight if they just watch it for what it is.  This is not (in my opinion) a gay movie; it is a movie about they everyday life of anyone who's out there looking for love.  The film maker simply showed that everyday life includes gays as well.  Sure it centered around a gay man but it DID NOT center around gay life.  It centered around LIFE.  Period!  )  I'm pleased with this film on many levels but the fact that it shows that everyone goes through the same thing and has the same feelings regardless of whether they are gay or straight is my favorite thing about this film.  I highly recommend this film for everyone to see.  ) "},{"Title":"Evasive and sitcom-stupid","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Gay-themed fluff about a photographer with an infatuation for a straight waiter whitewashes the whole prospect of two men caring about each other in the physical sense. In an example of what has become typical of gay cinema, the characters are allowed to say they're gay but not to BE GAY. They have gay impulses, but are not allowed to act upon them. These movie-gays are in the same closet as James Coco's actor from 1981's Only When I Laugh (who tossed off lines about painting his toenails and cruising Central Park, but never got to flirt with another man on-screen). Some viewers might say this is fine with them--perhaps they don't wish to see two men being intimate--but, unfortunately, writer-director Tommy O'Haver never gives audiences a chance to decide (he's too busy evading the issue and hedging his bets). Tellingly, the most vivacious character in the whole film is a straight woman (fetchingly played by Meredith Scott Lynn) and the only man-to-man kiss on display is played for a cheap laugh. It sets gay cinema back 20 years. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"So-so movie at best","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This flick has its funny moments and it had a lot of promise but it fell down flat somewhere midway the movie, and none of the characters were interesting enough to carry the story the rest of the way through its 92 minutes. There seems to be no point to the plot because the story is just as thin and shallow as the lead characters. At the end of the movie I found myself wondering what the heck it was all about anyway. Was this a story about friendship, lust, and falling in love? Was it about Gabriel's confusion about his sexual identity? Was it all about Billy's life as a long-suffering and hopeless romantic in search of the elusive Mr. Right? Or was it a tale about a never-to-be romance between two unbelievably hollow people? I suspect the screenwriter attempted to do a combination of all of the above and simply failed to come up with a smoother and more logical ending.Brad Rowe plays the role of the handsome hunk Gabriel, a painfully stereotypical butch-boy character that most gay men can only fantasize about. At First Gabriel seems to be a really cool, down-to-earth, nice, charming, sensitive, and sweet guy. But he, quite predictably, turns out to be an insensitive, flake who toys with the emotions of his rather average-looking admirer, Billy, a gay victim-of-unrequited-love stereotype played quite well by Sean Hayes.All through the movie, Gabriel keeps us guessing about his sexuality, from his troubled relationship with his girlfriend (whom we never see), to his homoerotic lead-ons with Billy (especially in the bedroom scene), and to his hanging out with a really goodlooking guy and girl at the Catalina sioree. Billy eventually convinces himself that Gabriel is probably questioning his own sexuality and extends a hand of friendship to help him come to terms those feelings. But the cold and unfeeling Gabriel then tells Billy that he was never unsure about what he wanted at all, and he walks away hugging his gorgeous model boyfriend whom he had apparently been seeing all along, leaving Billy standing on the beach. Now, that was cold! At the end of the movie we want to feel sorry for Billy, his having been dumped by Gabriel for a super goodlooking guy. But it is unfair to say that Gabriel dumped Billy because they were never really 'together' in the first place. It just doesn't make any sense that Gabriel made such an effort to befriend Billy and to lead him on the way he did, unless he was interested in being more than just platonic friends, or, at least, in platonic friendship, albeit with an undertone of homoeroticism. But, the way Gabriel discarded Billy during that beach scene made it clear that he wasn't really interested in Billy's friendship at all. Something is missing here, and it is the key that would explain Gabriel's transition from being a nice guy to the son-of-a b*tch that he turned out to be. Did he ever really have a girlfriend, or was that just a lie he made up to keep Billy at bay? Was Gabriel's 'girlfriend' really the dark-haired guy that he eventually ended up with? Did Gabriel ever even like Billy as a friend, or did he just use Billy as a means to get the modeling contract and the Catalina shoot? Unfortunately, the movie ends without even attempting to explain it.Notwithstanding, as much as we like Billy, its difficult to muster any empathy for him because he's really a victim of his own superficial fixation on having a prettyboy stereotype for a boyfriend. This begs the question is it really so that lonely gay men like Billy are doomed to a life of singleness because they can't find Mr. Right. Or, is the singleness self-imposed because they're holding out for fantasy stereotypes like Gabriel? Unfortunately for the producers of this film, they've successfully made a statement in support the latter argument.I give this movie 3 stars out of ten. It could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"The Best Film in All of Q-Cinema","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss is by far the best film in its genre. Unlike most Q-cinema films that leave you with a bittersweet ending and a sinking feeling in your stomach, this film turns into a very sweet love story with a twist ending that encompasses the qualities of both a hilarious comedy and a touching romance-drama. The film opens with a witty narration by Billy like something you might see in Jeffrey, but slowly develops into something deeper and more meaningful, and ends with a sweet scene that is very uncommon of this genre. None of the characters are stereotypical or token, and all add something to the story. The film also carries very uplifting messages about finding true love, treasuring friendships, the harm of stereotypes, and how hard it is to really find your niche in this crazy world. So, if you are tired of the same old Q-cinema films that leave you upset, crying, and wondering why you just wasted your time and money, go rent this one. It just might make you feel a little better about yourself. "},{"Title":"Slight, but charming romantic comedy with a likeable lead.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy is a perfectly enjoyable trifle (the director's own word, I believe), with a good lead performance by Sean P. Hayes.The one drawback is that the object of Billy's affection is played by the handsome but rather dull Brad Rowe.   "},{"Title":"Shallow Waters Run Deep","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In West Hollywood, young photographer Sean Hayes (as William Billy Collier) appears bored with his amorous, model-perfect lover Armando Valdes-Kennedy (as Fernando), who would like to make it a threesome with even younger lover Mark Allen Anderson (as Peter). An aspiring, but unemployed Polaroid photographer, Mr. Hayes wants a monogamous, romantic relationship. While out for coffee with straight girlfriend Meredith Scott Lynn (as George, short for Georgiana), Hayes admires model-perfect waiter Brad Rowe (as Gabriel). Hayes is stricken. Later, he meets Mr. Rowe at a shallow party and offers the young hunk a job modeling for a series of photographs he's taking of beautiful young men kissing drag queens...Not to put this film too far down, but it fails if we're supposed to question whether or not Rowe's character might be gay or bisexual. It could be that what writer-director Tommy O'Haver conveys is Hayes' insecurity and/or fear of rejection. Even the declaration I have a girlfriend in San Francisco, seems like an invitation. We do want Hayes and Rowe to get together, so the story can be disappointing if they don't. Also, it may be difficult to feel sorry for a guy who slips out of bed with one attractive lover and appears to be headed for another, just because he doesn't get the one in between...There is not much on-screen sex in Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss, as Mr. O'Haver reveals in the opening. That's not bad in itself, but we know there would be a lot more shown if the story focused on a man and a woman. Consequently, our suspicion that both Hayes and Rowe prefer to be sexually passive (with other men) is sketchy. That seems be their problem. Through most of their hesitating courtship, we wonder why Hayes doesn't take more of a lead. Most of the time, Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss plays like a gay film. It would have been better as an offbeat film about the appealing characters created by O'Haver. Still, the music and dream sequences add an exceptional charm, both celebrating and lifting us out of the genre.******* Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss (1998-06-04) Tommy O'Haver ~ Sean Hayes, Brad Rowe, Richard Ganoung, Meredith Scott Lynn "},{"Title":"Love, this is my song","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss is a small 1998 film about a gay photographer (Sean P. Hayes) who falls for a young Brad Pitt/Robert Redford type waiter named Gabriel (Brad Rowe) but isn't sure if he's gay, straight, or undecided. Billy's looking for love in all the wrong places - a boyfriend committed to someone else is his latest. He uses Gabriel as a model for some of his photographs, which are re-enactments of famous movie scenes, and tries to figure out where he stands.There are some nice performances and neat touches in this film, including some fun drag numbers by Mr. Dan and Billy's dream sequences. The best scene in the film is a bed scene between Billy and Gabriel, strictly PG-13, that says more than pages of dialogue ever could.The late Paul Bartel plays an older, successful photographer, and Days of Our Lives fans will recognize Matthew Ashford as his boyfriend. Everyone is very good - for me, the beginning seemed a little stilted, but that faded quickly.I was interested in reading some of the reviews on IMDb that for some, this film was somewhat of a revelation about gay life and gay people. As I have many gay friends and am not a kid, it wasn't for me. It's nice though that people see Billy as a lonely person without a ton of self-esteem who'd like to make a real love connection - in other words, just a human being. "},{"Title":"The Best!!!!!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you love Sean Hayes then you'll love Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss. Its just a great movie that talks about a gay guy looking for love and he finds like the love of his life but he doesn't know if he's gay or not. So I definatly recommend it!!!   "}{"Title":"One fine guy...and great movie!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hey all. This movie is one that will keep you coming back to watch it again. Not because it is finely made...also because the hot guy that plays in it. Yeah Sean Hayes. I can't stop watching this movie. It is truly my favorite and most watched movie. I swear that I have to go buy a new one every now and then because I watch it so much. I know it may be a little extreme but hey...I love Sean Hayes and this movie. "},{"Title":"Practical Movie","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie starts out with a poloroid montage of Billy's early years, the sound effect of the camera got a bit too tiresome after the first 20 times!! The movie utilized a bunch of electronic keys and wipes thruout the movie making it look very 80's.During the poloroid intro Billy disclaims to the audience of the impending gaiety of the flick which to some people turned off right away. (I started watching this movie with 8 people, 5 left right after the disclaimer)The truly unique intro caught piqued my interest into how this movie was going to wind up.  Aside from the heavily gay overtones, (musicals, drag queens, homo sex orgies, j/k) it was a romance movie of a different color, urr maybe of a queer color.  I enjoyed Billy's quest to seeking his desire for a romantic lover, something common to all people.  I rated this movie an 8,  because of the unique directing and a twist of the romance genre. "},{"Title":"A cute, nice flick","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie works because it's cute. It's just a really nice, cute movie with a universal theme (developing a crush on a friend) and some hysterical drag queens performing various acts throughout. While Sean Hayes is not as funny here as he is on Will & Grace, it's because he's not playing Jack. Not every gay man acts like Jack, and in this movie, Billy is more of the serious type. There are a few good laughs in the movie, but it's not an uproarious comedy. It's just...nice. I don't know any better word to describe it. "},{"Title":"A cute movie","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie certainly took me back to my youth as a young gay man trying to find romance, in a culture where youth and beauty usually wins out over true romance.The story follows Billy, of the title, a young aspiring photographer looking for success and love in LA.  Dis-satisfied with being the other woman in his current relationship, Billy discovers Gabriel (Brad Rowe) at a coffee shop and asks him to model for him for a new project.  Along the way, Billy develops a crush on Gabriel, even though he's not certain of Gabriel's feelings for him.There's some old dogs hauled out and given new polish in this flick.  Three drag queens serve as sort of a Greek chorus throughout the movie, usually lip-synching to Petula Clark and camping it up.  The opening credit sequence featuring these three was truly hilarious.  Heterosexuals (especially males) are portrayed as slabs of meat following their slavish desires for women, but it's done humorously.  Paul Bartel goes *way* over the top playing a Bruce Weber like photographer, openly and contempuously laughing at the people who purchase his art (the character obviously is doing it just to be near stunningly handsome, near-naked men that are young enough to be his grandchildren) and the character of Whitey was just plain annoying.However, despite some of the cliches, Hayes' performance reveals the splendid sense of comedic timing we would later see in his supporting role on Will and Grace; he often puts Brad Rowe to shame in their scenes together, Rowe often seems a  stiff and wooden next to Hayes, often looking like he just doesn't get it.Overall the movie's a cute piece of fluff, a nice popcorn date movie. "},{"Title":"Hit and miss","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie might have soared if the  dream-dropped-from-Heaven Gabriel didn't seem so  short-sighted, and if director Tommy O'Haver wasn't  so intent upon keeping his central characters  grounded in reality.  The bittersweetness at the  end is a letdown.  It leaves those rooting for this  movie, snatching at the only lyricism we are looking for in the form of a drag queen lip-syncing to  Petula Clark's still-glorious My Happy Heart.  I  could have done without the close-ups.  With Sean  Hayes (from the inexplicably popular Will and  Grace) as Billy; and Brad Rowe as the dream.  "},{"Title":"It brought back Richard Ganoung","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I scanned the comments to see if this had come up, but unfortunately it had not.Richard Ganoung, who plays the older friend who does in fact plant the titled kiss, starred in one of my all-time favorite (and rarely seen) gay movies.Ganoung was the male lead of 1986's Parting Glances. I had only sought the film out a couple of years back, because a couple of clips were featured in The Celluloid Closet. In checking out his filmography, this is his first good role in the 12 years since.While Ganoung may not be the most spectacular of actors, he does display depth. Contrasting both of his roles will probably give you a better appreciation of the role he plays in this one. He went from being the youthful object of affection to the older man longing for his younger friend.Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss can't hold a candle to Parting Glances, which also features early work from Steve Buscemi and Kathy Kinney before her Drew Carey fame.I highly recommend getting the video and watching both films to see the different ways gays and relationships are portrayed.Ratings..... Billys 7  Parting Glances 10  "},{"Title":"Amusing, Light-Hearted Movie Doesn't Take Itself Too Seriously","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I doubt that this film was intended to make any serious social commentary other than, perhaps, that gays are quite capable of poking fun at themselves.The movie was funny and amusing. The singing trio that's a running gag throughout the film is hysterical.  The spoofs on classic films and the movie-like dream sequences were at times side-splitting.I thought the film possessed a certain serious subtext but it never competed with the comedic intent of the script. The actors were flawless in their understated deliveries of their often witty lines. Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss is a delightful film that should be seen and enjoyed by gays and straights alike.  "},{"Title":"A fresh, well-scripted, beautifully shot movie","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised at the simplicity of this story, and how the plot played itself out.  While I'm sure there are other films that follow the same truths, this one seems to have something honest to say about feelings and what they may or may not mean.  The director/writer keeps the most physical intimacies out of the way, letting eyes and words describe the emotions of each character. I really enjoyed the script and the creative side of the director, who also used lighting and colors well.  One more thing--It's nice to see a movie where not one person is violent or evil. Even if everyone doesn't necessarily get along, at least no one raises voice or hand in anger.  Thant's pretty unusual, and cool. "},{"Title":"No new ground covered, but sweet and entertaining.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this to be a charming, poignant and hilarious film.  The plot was a bit predictable, but the movie dream sequences were fresh and fun.  Hayes was an imminently lovable character, and I found myself hoping for a happy ending just so he could unleash that fantastic smile again.  I highly recommend this as a fun romance for anyone with an open mind. "},{"Title":"A Little Lacking in Credibility, But Still Fun","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a little hard to imagine that Billy's project of recreating screen kisses with gay guys would really fly, but the movie still has a lot to commend it.  Credibility aside, the characters make you care about them. For one thing, Billy, as played by Sean P. Hayes, is very appealing--so much so that you can FEEL all that anxiety when Gabriel agrees to spend the night and tumbles into Billy's bed.  When Gabriel decides to pose for the famous photographer Paul Bartel, it's almost like a personal blow that he might be slipping away from the earnest Billy.  Brad Rowe as Gabriel is wonderful as the unattainable model, too.  The drag queen numbers wear out their welcome after a while, though.  One thing that really caught my EAR was that snappy Petula Clark number Happy Heart which I hadn't heard in years! Overall, this a fun film that I would certainly recommend. "}{"Title":"You'll give the screen a kiss!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a charmer. The colors, the snippy come-backs, the cute faces, the hot bodies. The denial. The temptation. The regret. The new beginning. The music. The friendship. The risk. The recovery. The dance. The comedy. The lilting bittersweet sadness. This is a breakthrough in cinema. This is Rock Hudson dating Cary Grant. Hudson dancing with Grant. And music swelling in the background.The ending? See it for yourself! "},{"Title":"A re-write please!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When the film started, I was in hopes that the film would break new ground. As the movie progressed, my heart sank because I realized the direction it was going.  What would had been interesting, and ground breaking, would had been if the Brad Rowe character had turned out to be straight and he and Billy would have continued to be close and loving friends.  Believe it or not folks, gay men can be friends with handsome straight men!   All this movie did was to reaffirm stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Loved aspects of it, hated aspects of it","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My emotions were on a roller-coaster throughout this whole movie.There were times when I felt so much joy for the characters and times when I felt severe hatred for others. Although I did enjoy this movie a lot, I will never ever watch it again. The ending aggrivated me beyond belief.  I felt that Gabriel was a huge jerk, and that Billy was shafted. Although the drag sequence at the opening is FANTASTIC!! All in all, any movie that can jerk my emotions back and forth, where I get that involved in the characters, has to be good. "},{"Title":"really a let down","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Because of the party scenes, drag queens and the general gay content, it kind of reminded me of Outrageous but without any of the very interesting characters and done less well on a much higher budget.  Any of you who have never seen that film from Canada from ~20 years ago would do far better to rent it at your video store.One of our local critics had extolled upon how much more delicious BHSK is than The Opposite of Sex.  Clearly he was/is the opposite of correct.  The Hanging Garden was however the best of any of these gay themed movies I have mentioned. "},{"Title":"Poignant, funny, and oh-so-true!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recommend this movie to anyone, gay or straight, who has had an unrequited love.  Everyone will be able to empathize with Billy as he does ever more pathetic things to be with his love. It's poignant and sad, but also joyous and funny.  See it with a friend or lover!  The acting is superb, and the fantasy scenes are well-crafted.  Some of the stereotypes are a bit broad, but only enough to let you see them for exactly what they are.   "},{"Title":"Nice, cute fun","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a delightful little film that will appeal to a mostly young gay male audience. Others might feel a bit left out and some viewers might be put off by some of the humor and portrayals of straights and Hispanics. But if your a gay male you will probably identify with many of the situations as the main character goes through relationship trouble that we've all been through. Despite its glossy look, the film's characters are rather real and the ending is a pleasant surprise (not a roll your eyes predictable ending). There is a fantastic scene between Billy and Gabriel where the tension is played incredibly well. The drag interludes are a bit tired, maybe because we've seen it done more effectively in the film Stonewall. In short, if you are part of the primarily-young somewhat-urban gay male crowd you will find the film entertaining, and if you are a romantic you will also find it touching and familiar. "},{"Title":"A gay Beverly Hills, 90210","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a cute film, but one in which the characters act like chowderheads  (as it so popular in movies in TV shows).Since there is some degree of subject matter overlap, and they both were made around the same time, I can't help comparing this film to Edge of Seventeen, and there really is no comparison.  This is a lightweight bit of pleasant fluff, that is an exceptional, wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A Stroke of Genius","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss is an uplifting gay film that appeals to both heterosexual and homosexual audiences.  The bright colors, wide screen, and quirky, yet witty,  sense of humor make this film a breath of fresh air!  O 'Haver uses his knowledge in films to bring an old time romance to the 90's. Being a heterosexual woman, I loved the film and have experienced many feelings that Billy has.  It really is a stroke of genius! "},{"Title":"really good","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" billy's Hollywood screen kiss was an excellent film and an awakening to people that gay people and straight people are all the same and just want to find love. sean hayes played billy very well and put across his character in a funny sort of way. if you like sean hayes you will respect this film. if you don't like sean hayes you will still like this film because it is a comedy/romance and it portrays gay relationships. i think this movie was great and you will be able to watch it over and over and still enjoy it. all in all a great film. worth watching. and it contains great actors. i gave this movie 10 stars. it was great. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  BHSK is about a young man, Billy (Sean Hayes), who is a photographer and all he wants is true love. When he is at a small cafe' with his best friend, he meets a gorgeous worker, Gabe (Brad Row). So, Billy being raken back by Gabriel's beauty - asks him if he could photograph him...professionally. But the thing is...Billy doesn't know if Gabe is a homosexual or not.Well I won't tell you the rest or give away anything but I will tell you this This film is so great that you don't even pay attention to the fact that Billy is gay - you just wish he would end up with Gabe. The musical score is amazing and Sean Hayes is TERRIFIC that you don't see any Jack Mcfarland-ness in him.People complain that there was barely any kissing. Well of course there wasn't! This was supposed to be shot like a semi-classical film back in the...maybe 30's. Back then, there were no raunchy sex scenes. So if you love sweet complex romance, go watch this. If you're wanting grungy guy on guy action, rent an episode of Queer as Folk at the video store.I give this 5 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Brought back feelings we've all felt","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read many of the comments and think the negative ones (i.e., those who find it stereotypical in its portrayal of gays) must have been posted by gay men who're still dealing with issues which are best discussed on another board.  I found the movie charming, and the character of Billy especially so.  The scenes at Billy's apartment with Gabriel--the uncertainty and longing and desire for the other--is something we've all gone through.  The scene in Billy's bedroom had my stomach in knots just as if I were going through all that Billy was feeling.  Very effective.  As for Gabriel--the character has been accused by some posters as a stereotypical gay and an insensitive gay jerk, only attracted to gorgeous young men.  I don't agree.  I'm not entirely certain that he's gay--I think his orientation is still in question in his final scene, for the character played by Jason-Shane Scott is not identified as gay.  There's no reason to think that he and Billy won't renew a friendship.  I think I'll go and buy it tomorrow (and I'm not a 20-something, shallow gay man--I'm 40+ and well-adjusted and happy.) "},{"Title":"A sheer delight from beginning to end - a touching and fun film","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  BILLY'S Hollywood SCREEN KISS is a thoroughly delightful and original gay comedy - full of romantic longing, fun visuals, wry takes on life and love - all filmed with panache by Tommy O'Haver and with a perfectly selected cast who deliver handsomely.Sean Hayes in his pre-WILL AND GRACE days is a perfect Billy. Both dramatically and comedically, he gives a lovely performance and makes Billy an endearing man, we'd all love to have as a friend. The handsome Brad Rowe is his perfect foil as Gabriel- the sexually confused object of Billy's affection. Brad gives a sensitive, warm and appealing performance. Brad and Sean play together seamlessly.Adding vital support is Richard Ganoung - back with us once more (remember his unforgettable work in PARTING GLANCES?)as the older and wiser mentor, Perry. Meredith Scott Lynn is a delight as Billy's wacky girlfriend, Georgina, and Paul Bartel lends fine support as the effete Rex Webster. Chris Bradley gives us six memorable scenes as Georgina's well-meaning, goofy boyfriend, Andrew. He's a doll.You want to hug everyone in this cast - their characters are all trying so earnestly to be happy. We're rooting for all of them all of the time. Loved the happy ending. Want a sequel. See it- you'll love it.  "},{"Title":"Sean P. Hayes is the best thing about this movie.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sean P. Hayes, who is normally either very funny or just downright over-the-top and annoying in Will & Graces, manages to find a nice balance here and the movie is definitely carried by his performance. Not a great movie, but one worth watching. Alternately camp and romantic, the whole thing is a great deal of fun, with some wonderfully bitchy (but never savage) one-liners, and it seems obvious the cast were having a lot of fun. The audience does too. "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saw this film by accident really but just because of the credits I was hooked right from the start it was great. Reminded me of so many good memories of adolescence. Any Brad Rowe is gorgeous as well as Sean P. Hayes and it's got the Lesbian Militant out of Legally Blonde in it  "},{"Title":"Corny, yet sweet and cute","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I loved it.Well perhaps I just loved Billy, but I found the movie quite entertaining. Poor Billy just couldn't get his true love on side - a familiar tale that many gay guys could relate to only too well, especially when they fall for that elusive straight boy in the neighbourhood.Billy played a cute role, the story was basic yet sweet.  All in all, a quietly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Light Romantic Comedy","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy is an aspiring art photographer in Los Angeles, drawn to LA, as he explains in the opening monologue, because of its tolerance to gays like himself, unlike his small Midwestern hometown. Now after years in LA, he misses the sedentary monogamous lifestyle of the straight world he left behind. He yearns for his Mr. Right.Into Billy's life struts Gabriel; waiter, musician, model. He and Billy hit it off immediately. There is an attraction, but is Gabriel also gay? He says he has a girlfriend, or does he really? The entire movie is the romantic kabuki dance Billy and Gabriel engage in while sorting out their relationship.Not bad, but this one-note movie stretches it's story pretty thin before crossing the finish line. It does keep its legs though and is not a bad rental when in the mood for a trifle.  "},{"Title":"Something is better than Nothing -sometimes","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As they say, Something is better than Nothing, but in Billy's Hollywood Kiss, we may have both, something that is nothing.  These movie makers apparently have never seen a gay person east of Beverly Hills. Stereotype, California gays are all alive and well in this film.  The drag queens added nothing to the story or plot line and were as untalented as they were unpleasing to see.  The sets were trash and had cheap written all over them!  Sean Hayes' talent made the film doable, but thankfully he has gone on to a better role, though still steotypical, in Will and Grace.  "},{"Title":"If there was a sitcom for gays this would be it","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How nice that movies now a days can have an unapologetic mostly gay characters.  How sad that there still isn't a decent movie with with unapologetic mostly gay characters.  This movie is pointless, predictable, fake, and like a bad sitcom.  The movie actually seems afraid of its own intentions of giving us gays as they are and instead gives us cartoony drag queens and an annoying and fake lead man (Billy).  Gay guys deserve better. But hey, the lesbians have it down cold Go see High Art or All Over Me. "},{"Title":"If Only Straight Romantic Comedies Were This Good!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss is something I think gays have been missing for a while; that is, a simple, fluffy, light-hearted, funny love story. This isn't a complicated film, and if you're looking for a movie that gets all angst-filled and dramatic with its portrayals of gay relationships, this isn't it. This is just a very charming and delightful movie about the bittersweet longing for someone you fear you can't have. I think the ending, sometimes maligned, is simply saying that the quest for love is universal and unending. You just gotta keep looking. It seems that very few people actually ever find true love, so the rest of us just have to make do the best we can with the journey. BHSK is, up to a point, also about that.  "},{"Title":"Horrid Acting.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I usually watch a movie two or three times before I make a decide if it is good, mediocre, or bad.  I watch this movie when I was in a analytical mood, and then once again in a carefree mood.  Horrible acting on behalf of most of the actors in the movie.  Sean Hayes, made the most out of his part, but I feel that there was not actual direction.  The characters seemed underdeveloped.  I was lost in bits and pieces of the movie.  I give this movie a score of 3 at best analytically.  6 at best in my carefree mood.  Overall 4.5. "}{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This very nicely photographed film is not going to go down as a great classic.But it is entertaining with very likable characters.Actor/Director Paul Bartel (Eating Raoul, Scenes from the Class Struggle in Beverly Hills) has a good role as a gay photographer.The fantasy movies that run in Billy's head are very nicely done.  The tacky drag all through the film are the only laugh-out-loud scenes.All-in-all quite an enjoyable, low-budget film.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable light comedy","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The matter of youthful dating and mating  is nicely considered in this light comedy.  There's nothing deep about it, just a  modern view of making choices about one's  partner, with whom one would like to have  a more lasting relationship.  The casting  is done very well, the direction is  secure, and the photography just fine.  It's more than just one pleasant night out  at the movies; Billy's Hollywood . . .  has a quality that can easily accommodate  repeated viewings, each with a similarly  enjoyable result.  For this reason, it's  part of my video collection and always fun  to return to when a lighter mood is  sought.  "},{"Title":"Glitter and be Gay - Hollywood Style","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thank God, gay flicks have at last been freed from being angst-ridden and drama-queen tragic. The simple boy meets boy tale is all about style - and is right on the money. And funny, too. Sean Hayes (TV's WILL & GRACE's watchable best pal) is winning as he vies for the attentions of a Brad Pitt wannabe who may or may not be so inclined. Mating dance bits are funny and truthful. Viewer nods Been there - done that. Look for hero of 80's queer flick PARTING GLANCES and Holly Woodlawn among the cast.  Not unlike UK's BEAUTIFUL THING, with BHSK queer cinema has overcome the stereotypical desperation and angst to achieve something longed for - fun. "},{"Title":"Cute but predictable","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film has some clever material in it, including the mini-movies that Billy sees in his head. It has an appealing cast and amusing moments. The plot is predictable, however, and thus the film breaks no new ground.  "},{"Title":"Kiss it goodbye","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie had some good performances and good moments, nothing you'd remember the next day.  What it does, which is inexcusable, is support the thought that gay men are only into other men who are as good-looking as they are...which is true, but an audience without an open mind is going to think every single gay man is completely shallow..which is also true (only kidding)...it made me feel totally lousy (as a gay man) so unless you are twenty and gorgeous, I wouldn't risk it.  If it were not for this element, it might have been a cute little comedy.  I am not even suggesting a happy ending (I think the only gay-themed movie with a satisfactory ending is  Beautiful Thing), but the one we got left the audience (who didn't pay, at the screening I was at), numb.   "},{"Title":"Another sad, bad gay movie","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I avoid a lot of gay cinema (and books) because I fear the clichés and internalized homophobia one so often finds there. But every once in awhile, I try to check out something in the hope that things have changed.This was not a movie that met my hopes. Frankly, I was irritated by this movie from the opening narration, full of the sort of sad melancholic gay me, outcast as a child with Mom my only friend, unable to really connect as an adult which has made my life sort of sad, but I try to joke my way through the pain narration that should have dropped out of gay art years ago, along with pink feather boas and bad Judy Garland impersonations.There's nothing HORRIFIC about this movie -- it just plods along its relatively predictable path, occasionally stopping to underscore silly or offensive clichés like the gay man with the fag had best friend, or the older gay gentlemen and his loud and crass sexual double-entendres or the standard attempt to portray a gay party that consists primarily of witty insults among the guests. The odd bits of drag and performance art were just annoying filler.Sigh.I will say that the connection between Hayes' and Rowe's characters does work and the scene where they are in bed together is played very well. (For those who haven't seen the movie, don't get too excited about the idea that there is a bed scene between them -- it's a good scene, but not what you're thinking.)But, as at least one other reviewer has pointed out, the way that their relationship is left -- specifically the way Rowe's character behaves in his last scene, simply doesn't fit with how he's behaved (or what we've been told) before. Overall, I didn't find that this movie warranted spending the 90-some minutes I spent on it and I really couldn't recommend it to anyone. On a larger note, this film made me think a little about why so much gay cinema is unsatisfying. I suspect that one of the problems is that so much of it is based on material prepared by younger first-time writers/first-time directors, who often seem to be exploiting gay life as a way to get a first movie made or seen, but who then go off to do more mainstream projects afterward. What is missing are mature writers and directors (and I realize that mature in Hollywood means, at most, 35 but even that would be an improvement) making films about gay life when it has moved beyond the issues that pertain either to the coming-out/lost loves of early adolescence period or to the lives of gay men during the screw-around and party and try to get a boyfriend stage. "},{"Title":"Tries way too hard to be straight","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An infuriating movie. Sean Hayes, a gay unhappy in love (can we put that stereotype to rest PLEASE?) photographer falls in lust (understandably) with handsome, hunky Brad Rowe. Problem--is Rowe gay or not? Constantly the movie sets us up to see Rowe out of his clothes and, just as we think somethings going to happen, pulls back. This happens at least THREE times! It gets annoying and frustrating. Then it all leads up to a ridiculous and real bad conclusion--it's supposed to be happy, but it left me cold. This movie tries (too hard) to appeal to gay and straight audiences and ends up doing neither. The acting is pretty good (especially Rowe), but the movie is just bad. I gave it a 4 because it is colorful to watch and the drag queens singing and dancing numbers were enjoyable. Still, a must-miss. "}]