[{"Title":"Could have been a Classic Thriller","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"85 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie yesterday, and I was hooked to its haunting story till the end. First I have to say the performances were excellent, Johnny Depp still surprises me with his variety of roles, I can't imagine he could have done the hilarious role of Captain Jack Sparrow after this scary role.His eyes were acting more than any part of his body and you could feel the slight change in his character through the stillness of his eyes. Charlize Theron gave a better performance than her Devil's advocate role although they had the same criteria, the disturbed wife. But her genuine agonizing performance distinguished her in this movie.I noticed the music was a major pillar in this movie, it was like another main character in this movie, the editing was great also especially the scene in the subway. The story was an original also, it had good turn ups and twists.The movie had all the right elements in general and it certainly doesn't deserve a 4.7 on the imdb. I think the voters were greatly disappointed after seeing all those good elements destroyed by the cheesy and typical ending that only producers could have had a part with, in order to make another sequel.The ending by all means was bad, it destroyed the originality of the story and the tension build up. I give it an 7.5 for all the good elements, it would reached a 9.0 if the ending was different. "},{"Title":"An insult","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"72 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There is scene in this movie in which a stroke is medically referred to as a severe insult to the brain. A line which describes this entire film far better than any reviewer possibly could.Obviously influenced by The X-Files, the first thing that strikes the viewer is the invasive use of tense mood music. If the Astronaut's Wife is opening a fridge there is a string quartet behind anxiously heralding a danger which subsequently doesn't exist. In a TV show like The X-Files it's a trick used to great affect because it's stylistic and the shows exhibit a degree of wit and imagination that relieve us from the pointless tension. Neither of those saving graces feature in this film.The characters are poorly drawn, we're constantly told Spencer (The Astronaut) has changed since his last mission into space. We need to be told this so often because we're deprived of witnessing very much of his prior personality. And throughout the story Jillian (The Wife) never functions as anything more than a paranoid wreck, even before she suspects that something is really wrong.Fans of Depp and Theron will be as disappointed as the rest of us. Johnny's flyboy astronaut is utterly out of place since we all know true spacemen are stiff and boring scientists, yet this guy is exhuberant like the barnstorming 1950's test pilots that never really existed. God only knows what hewas thinking with this part. And Charlize, throughout she never lifts above the catatonic. Literally, and I mean this folks, there is nothing more to her performance than the bags under her eyes and hers is the lead character, our heroine for crying out loud! That's beyond appalling.As a thriller there is never a comfort break in this pretentious sci-fi flick that asks us to care for a character it's impossible engage with. It's non-stop, we're expected to be in the edge of our seat with every single scene, and if the plot doesn't supply the drama a 'bus' (that's the Hollywood term for a false shock) will. They are countless, and soon annoying. The same can be said for the way The Wife is mysteriously at the front of every crowd during key moments of action, which is one of the other cheap dramatic tricks overused by a really really bad director.Until recently writer/director Rand Ravich hadn't been in charge of a film since this 1999 failure, you'll know why.Fifteen years ago this was the kind of film that made a frustrated Quentin Tarantino decide he really needed to begin making his own. It's diabolical. "},{"Title":"highly derivative sci-fi film","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"51 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What do you get when you mix six parts I Married a Monster From Outer Space with four parts Rosemary's Baby, The Omen and Village of the Damned, shake it and stir it, then add Invasion of the Body Snatchers and the Alien movies as  chasers?  You end up with The Astronaut's Wife, a film cobbled together from so many disparate and familiar sources that the audience is always ten giant steps ahead of both the plot and the characters.This shamelessly derivative film, essentially an unattributed remake of I Married a Monster From Outer Space, stars Johnny Depp, taking one of his rare side forays into straight commercial moviemaking, as an astronaut who experiences a strange, inexplicable two-minute long phenomenon while outside his space capsule and who returns an oddly changed man - though Depp plays both the before and after roles in so similarly deadpan and lowkeyed a style that we frankly cannot see too much of a difference.  Charlize Theron portrays Spencer's wife, Jillian, who slowly comes to perceive that all is not true blue with her hero husband.The Astronaut's Wife suffers so fatally from a sense of deja vu that it becomes almost impossible to stay interested despite a yeomanlike performance by Theron who even sports the shorn pixie hairstyle made famous by Mia Farrow, thirty-two long years ago, as she too ran around New York City, desperately searching for answers as to just what diabolical force was incubating deep inside her womb.  This film does provide an admirably dark finale as well as art direction, cinematography and music that create a spare, almost hermetically sealed world, devoid of sunshine and life.  Too bad these quality elements are placed into the service of such completely unimaginative material.  "},{"Title":"Visually enticing and well acted, but poorly executes good ideas. ** out of ****.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"52 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE ASTRONAUT'S WIFE / (1999) **Johnny Depp plays a NASA astronaut named Spencer Armacost who, while on a space mission, losses contact with Earth for two minutes. He and his colleague, Alex Streck (Nick Cassavetes), return home to their spouses, Jillian Armacost (Charlize Theron) and Natalie Streck (Donna Murphy). Bizarre episodes begin to occur with Alex, leaving Jillian suspicious of her husband's condition. As her husband's strange behavior increases, Jillian begins to question what really happened in those 120 seconds.The Astronaut's Wife, written and directed by Rand Ravich, poorly executes good ideas. We have imaginative and potentially suspenseful ideas with this film's concepts behind such happenings in two minutes as Spencer and Alex are in galactic boundaries. The gradual increase in Spencer's unusual behavior depicts effective suspense-but thorough introduction of the characters does not take place, nor do we witness the key events in which the rest of the move hinges upon. Consequently, The Astronaut's Wife does not work.The film's first act is full of incidences, characters, and subplots. Clearly too many things happen too early in the story. Within the first thirty minutes the production attempts to develop two separate relationships, shows us the atmosphere of a teacher's workplace, something bizarre transpires out of earth's orbit, a decision is made to resign and move to New York, a suicide takes place, a character mysteriously dies, and probably  more. I just couldn't follow the plot.I liked the eerie, supernatural overtones located throughout the production. The film is smart to reveal the right amounts of information at the precise time. There is also a certain style to The Astronaut's Wife, containing an elusive mood, a weirdly intriguing design, and some tense and unusual camera angles. The movie becomes more interesting as we reach the closing.Charlize Theron has been in a lot of movies lately, but The Astronaut's Wife is her first leading role. She seems to have come out of left field in 1997 with the comedy Trail and Error. Afterwards, she contributed larger  performances in The Devil's Advocate, Celebrity, Mighty Joe Young, and most recently The Cider House Rules, and Reindeer Games. Her role in The Astronaut's Wife is a little more complex than her past credits, excluding her enticing and believable acting job in The Devil's Advocate. She presents the traumatized Jillian Armacost with the perfect blend of zest and tragic confusion. Depp and Theron conjure a chemistry-rich couple. The movie very clearly takes Jillian's point of view instead of allowing us to know mysteries with Spencer. This stays consistent and focused, but sometimes leaves us pondering about unexplained events.  The Astronaut's Wife builds for an awe-inducing conclusion through revealing and intriguing dialogue and an omnipresent undertone. The film suggests a form of extraterrestrial is behind the deaths of several characters as well as the strange behavior of Spencer, but we learn the truth  only in the end. Call The Astronaut's Wife an unusual The X Files episode featuring a cliffhanger conclusion and a supernatural climax. The movie must have appeared really exciting on script. If only more capable filmmakers would have claimed this production we may have had a real winner. Instead audiences feel disappointment and failure, potential is wasted and originality is underscored "},{"Title":"Aaaaah...","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"55 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two minutes of lost communication between a space shuttle and home. What went on? The astronaut involved returns, but his wife finds he is not quite the same... This film can be considered a serious blight on the resumes of Charlize Theron and Johnny Depp. I found the film a terrible mess,mostly because a slightly interesting premise, (which had tricked me into watching) disintegrated into adisjointed, incoherent plot and the final blow, horrific special effects. The cast seems to struggle with the script and the scenes of violence and sex are awful and unnecessary. Even the combined talents of Theron and Depp cannot save this bombshell from outer space. "},{"Title":"Payoff could've been better","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"43 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Up to about ninety percent through the film, The Astronaut's seems to be on course to being something special. Leads Depp and Theron are very convincing in their roles and they are backed by a very competent supporting cast led by the always reliable Joe Morton (T2, Speed, Bounce, Paycheck, Smallville). The special effects and cinematography are well done and the pacing and building of suspense entice the viewer to unravel the mystery along with the protagonist. Unfortunately the revelation doesn't quite live up to the buildup leaving the viewer more than a little dissatisfied. Despite the letdown I still recommend this movie on the strength of the performances and on the fact that is a rare hybrid of the science fiction and thriller genres. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Nice patient delivery and good ending even if it leaves unsatisfactory questions","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"51 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spencer Armacost and Alex Streck are on a mission in orbit to repair a sataleitte when NASA loses touch with them for two minutes.  After this two minutes the pair are recovered and return to earth.  However Alex dies of heart failure soon after return and his wife, Natalie, kills herself.  Soon Spencer's wife Jillian falls pregnant with twins and they move to New York for Spencer to take up a job with a military aerospace firm.  However Jillian begins to have doubts that Spencer hasn't been changed by his experience &#150; doubts that are backed up by NASA scientist Sherman Reese.Playing like a cross between Rosemary's Baby and Contact, this film attracted me to it on the strength that Johnny Depp was in the lead.  The plot is interesting as I quite enjoy sci-fi when it is done well, although it maybe doesn't deliver everything you'd expect in terms of thrills.  It has a nice slow patient build up throughout the film, we are invited to be unsure if Jillian is losing it or if she's catching on to the reality of her situation.  A great performance by Joe Morton helps this uncertainty as he plays a NASA rep who may be unhinged as much as he is informed.The director uses various tricks to help keep the film feeling tight.  Shots flash quickly around the illustrate the panic and confusion in Jillian's head, the camera spins around some key confrontations to make the movement draw out pace etc, but for the most part he has a lowkey tension playing constantly which, for me, worked better than big shocks and scares.  The `truth' is revealed a little too early, leaving the film with it's wad blown with still 20 minutes to go, and the climatic confrontation would have worked better with a rant that explains everything in terms of `why' and `who' &#150; but the actual conclusion is pretty cool and maybe it's better we're left wondering.Depp is OK in the lead but not his best work.  He only has to walk round looking menacing and talking with the Texan accent and that's it!  Theron is much better and she portrays Jillian so well that the audience aren't sure if she's crazy or not.  Her gradual descent is well done and helped by the director.  Morton is excellent in what amounts to little more than a cameo and the rest of the cast are pretty good.Overall this is not a perfect film and is really a bit of a hybrid of genres, but it works pretty well.  The slow build up of tension works well, even if it bails out before it should.  The ending may be slightly unsatisfying but there's no denying it is a brave attempt.  I enjoyed it even if I felt like a bigger ending was in order. "},{"Title":"Average at best; better than some....","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say, I always enjoy Johnny Depp's work. He is a chameleon; an actor who can take literally any role, who can step outside the boundaries of typecasting. And, his performance in this film is in no way weaker than any other character; it is merely a role that not many are likely to recall when asked about him. The film builds decently enough. Depp and Theron play a married couple, and a significant element of stress begins to grow on Theron following Depp's events during an orbital assignment given to his character.I also like Charlize Theron; my one nitpick is how she seems to always find her way into these 'tormented woman' roles, like in the Devil's Advocate. Her skills are not necessarily hindered by this repetitiveness; I just find it a redundancy she needs to work beyond. Those of you watching this film for a horror-themed thriller are going to be mostly put off. This film really does not rely to such an extent the horror mechanisms; rather it builds the tension through a number of strictly dialogue scenes, using the plot to intrigue rather than scare tactics.The ending - quite literally, the last twenty minutes, is the only place you're likely to see what may be called horror. I will not give away what happens here; you have to watch it and see. All I will say is that the ending left me anticipating more. That said, my overall opinion is this movie is satisfactory at best, not a true stand out in the annals of cinema history, but certainly not one of the poorest examples of the profession.  "},{"Title":"When her astronaut husband starts acting strangely, his wife freaks out and does almost nothing.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronaut's Cowardly, Whimpering Wife. A bland title, a very atypically bland Johnny Depp, and a story that is too obvious and annoying. A certain Ravich wrote/directed this unimpressive little mediocrity, and I'd be surprised if this guy is going to be making any more movies of a similar type of budget any time in the next couple of decades. What we have here is predictable situations, sudden appearances, a mysterious loss of electricity (which turns out to be nothing to do with aliens - duh!), Theron behaving like an idiot and a coward, and just generally things happening in the last moment that prevent Theron and the suffering viewer from finally finding out the bleedin' obvious namely, that Depp is an alien. What is apparent to even the most brain-dead viewer, very early on, is guarded as a top-secret surprise by a director who thinks that he is the only one who saw/read dozens of similar movies/novels/comics about aliens taking over human bodies. One of the more ludicrous scenes is when Theron refuses to listen to the black ex-NASA guy; I mean, there she was wondering all the time what the hell is wrong with Depp, and when finally someone approaches her with potential answers to the Depp riddle that preoccupy her so, she decides not to listen to him. Duh. She is constantly crying, worrying, sweating with anxiety, but never really does anything intelligent to fight the alien beast. She is therefore annoying. And it's oh-so convenient of Ravich to make Theron have a mental-patient past, so that - very conveniently - no one will believe her when she expresses any kind of misgivings about Depp and his intentions. It's like the kid or the drunk whom no one believes when they see an alien UFO. What a brilliant plot device! It's straight out of the Idiot's Guide To Making Lousy Movies With Awfully Annoying Dumb Cliché Plot Points. Depp is neither menacing nor interesting; he is simply bland, and this is his worst role yet. Plus, I don't see why he has to talk like he just left a Tennessee farmhouse for the first time since his Maw and Paw brought him to this world. Apart from the obvious annoying things that I mentioned, the film somehow manages to be continuously irritating, and I can't quite put my finger on what it is that makes this film almost icky; perhaps it's Depp, or perhaps it's just bad direction - something intagible. The ending is one big nothing; she kills Depp, and the alien enters her. How brilliant! And then we are shown Theron some years later - finally with some hair on her head - with the evil alien twins going to school, while listening to alien sounds on their walk-mans. Big deal. Casting Charlize The(mo)ron, who once infamously said how much she enjoyed Budapest when in Turkey, is ideal for this dumb movie.If this movie could talk, it would say that Budapest was in Turkey. "},{"Title":"Inside Every Man The Hidden Monster!!","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadIs this the same Charlize Theron from Monster, Prometheus and Reindeer Games? You know, superwoman, who shows men who's boss? The movie's premise that an energy being, that is as alien to us as energy is to matter, could live inside of a human body, parasitically, makes TRON look realistic. The biggest flaw is the eternal boredom in a putatively scary movie. This is followed by a woman who continues in the relationship apparently needing either the Deity to tell her to get the hell out of there or see the water tentacle come out of him. The latter you will have to wait the entire length of this incredibly boring movie. Yes, I concur with the above great reviewers, this really is a cheap rip off of Polanski's Rosemary's Baby with just enough changes to escape a lawsuit. Spencer is so obviously not himself, from the moment she is reunited with him, the viewer will get progressively more and more irritated with her stupidity and impotence. Then his partner buys it, his wife tells Charlize the truth, before electrocuting herself, does she run then? Nope, she stays with him. More and more disturbing things happen and are done to Theron but she continues to, insanely, stay with him.The movie has perhaps one scary scene, Nan's murder, Charlize's friend, but that is really not terribly intense, frankly. If you get this expecting Rosemary's Baby, forget it, this idiot couldn't polish Polanski's shoes he sucks as a director. There is such lack of verisimilitude in Charlize's character. She suspects Spencer's boss; yet, she goes to Baldy's wife for the abortion pills? After Spencer discovers this, gee, where could he have found it out from? She still stays with him. This is the core of why people hate the movie and it dropped like an anvil. Her stupidity is matched only by her cowardice, at the end, pulling her feet up and dooming the entire world because she is such a stupid, clueless, dependent, cowardly fool. This is your heroine? How the actress who did Monster could portray such a weak woman who ends up, theoretically, destroying the world because she is afraid of going through with it and pulls her feet up? My theory is that the feminist Theron liked the character because she is tortured and set upon by the evil male Spencer. He is so cruel, rapes her, kills her friend and then annihilates and possesses her body at the end. Well, sorry Charlize, audiences just will not identify with the world's most clueless, retarded, cowardly heroine. Look, I am open to other interpretations, try to find one where a feminist actress that plays strong female role models, like the new Mad Max, chose the most pathetic wife in the history of films. I am sorry the only logical explanation is to delineate the horrors visited upon this sweet, clueless idiot by this evil, cruel man. Whatever the ideology, this is the most boring horror movie you will ever endure. Frankly, nothing much happens until the end of the movie. Three quarters of the movie is Spencer acting creepy, with her growing suspicions that a Down's Syndrome patient would have known within fifteen minutes and caught the next plane to Montana. Creepy music does not substitute for actual scares and a script. Frankly, she may have made some ideological points for her cause but she did real damage to her career taking this role. The premise itself is not clever the idea that an energy being could live both in the vacuum of space and possess a human body, I found utterly absurd. It really is just an idiot's remake of Rosemary's Baby; he changes it just enough to get away with it. Can you tell he is not Roman Polanski? "}{"Title":"Slow burn to ignition; very light payload.","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spencer Armacost, played by Johnny Depp, and a fellow astronaut are lost outside their space shuttle for two minutes. NASA is alarmed and bring the men back. One dies and the other causes suspicion about his actions. Armacost's lovely wife (Charlize Theron)becomes pregnant; expecting twins. But something is strange, something is amiss. This is a slow ride to an abrupt, teaser of a thriller ending. Depp and Theron have both turned in better performances elsewhere. The little sister, played by Clea DuVall, showed the most emotion. Joe Morton and Blair Brown were also featured. This had the potential, but missed the target on splash down. "},{"Title":"Annoying pile of s**t....","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay so yes I think Johnny Depp is a pretty good actor, though no one could have pulled off this role because the script stinks...  My problem with Mr. Depp here is why in the world would he take this role?  It must have looked pretty different to start with or he was blackmailed or something...Several of the other reviewers here have said that the cinematography of the Astronauts Wife was its one saving grace, and the camera work was not bad, but I felt it did not suit the film itself and so it just irritated me.The script, the script, the script... What a colossal waste of time..  There were SO SO many holes in the story - and it was all put together terribly...  I can not even really get into the script due to the anger and annoyance I feel at wasting my time watching one of the worst films of the year..  It doesn't make any sense!  Why is it a big deal that these two twins are going to fly this dumb plane?  Because they are eeevvviiilll??  So what.  What was the conspiracy?  Why would NASA cover it up?  Why did the first astronaut to die, die?  And why when he died did that alien not burst out of him the way it did when Johnny Depp died?  What was with the sister - especially when she was killed?  That was so stupid.  And what about the pulse thing?  Why was Johnny always feeling her pulse?  Sorry but he wasn't scary and she was just wishy washy.  There was no backbone to the film at all - the filmakers just threw some creepy sounding ideas together and seemed to hope it would all come out okay in the end.As for Charlize Theron, I thought she was pretty blah and I didn't like looking at her, though I didn't think she was awful, however the script could have just been hiding the fact that she can't act at all. Garbage.  Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Someone said Plan 9 From Outer Space had met it's match. I disagree. Plan 9 may have lacked a plot, had worse acting, a lower budget, worst in class special effects, etc., but at least Plan 9 From Outer Space was pathetic in a hilarious way. This movie was just plain pathetic. Very predicable, a weak plot supported by poor scripting, performance done way below the capabilities of the actors, and I'm not sure whether or not there was a director on the set. Maybe he wasn't feeling well and spent most of his time in the john. I watched this while taking a break from cleaning the garage. I should have kept working. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Worst Critics ever?","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this movie which is 14 years old and I've never heard of it maybe because of the 5.1 score on IMDb. I have never EVER been more in disagreement with this site. This is not a 5/10 rated movie should be much closer to 7/10 don't know what people are thinking to be honest. The actors in it should alone be worth a 7. and i must say they did not disappoint at all so i don't know why people vote it 5. that was all i had to say but have to write 10 lines. Well Worth a watch if u haven't allrdy. im just filling out space now. gogo watch it. very hard to write 10 lines about something i could write in 1 line critics are WRONG! this is at least 7/10 in my opinion i have watched movies with 8+ that was worse then this so. "},{"Title":"Good acting, entertaining story, better than expected","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Before watching this movie, I was slightly put off by the other reviews.. I thought it was perhaps one of those movies that you can either love or hate but no one fully understands it.. but no.. it isn't the most brilliant movie ever, but it's good! the story is a bit simple, but entertaining enough! Makes you tense like any thriller should, makes you wait what turns out. Some compare it to Rosemary's baby but from the space, although I think I know where this comparison comes from, I strongly disagree. And I need to add that Astronaut's Wife in my opinion is a far more entertaining movie to watch than Rosemary's baby. Overall pleasant way to spend your time.. Just don't expect a masterpiece and you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Thriller","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm not usually into sci-fies, and I'll admit I only wanted to watch this one because of Johnny Depp, I actually liked this one. I happen to believe that there is life outside of Earth and this movie personified what I believe. I don't think that aliens are ugly, menacing green martians...I mean, what is an alien anyway? What does it look like? How do we know that they don't look like us? When it is revealed towards the end that Johnny was an alien, it made me think about aliens inhabiting our own bodies. How do we know that there isn't an alien inside us every time we do something completely out of character? Scientists and other people think that they HAVE to figure out the truth about aliens in their need to control everything on Earth and OUTSIDE Earth. But the truth is, we don't know for sure and that's why I liked this movie. It showed us a different take on aliens. The acting is excellent,and although the ending was pretty weak, it was still a good movie. "},{"Title":"Confusing to say the least","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First of all I never thought Depp was different from before going to space. Any husband watching his hysterical wife would be  different . The death of Depp ( or was it murder ) too was hysterical. And was Jilian never questioned about his death ? Suddenly she was married to someone else with suspiciously looking twins ( heading to the space )? This movie was neither actual nor sci/fiction. Good acting but rubbish movie. Left a lot unanswered, and no way could these questions be answered, e.g. was her sister murdered or did she just imagine it? Depp is awfully good looking.But there was nothing else to watch so it had to do for late night lonely watching. Would not recommend to anyone, although it's been on many times on British TV. "},{"Title":"Pineapples!*","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *During the scene where the rocket launches in The Astronaut's Wife it cuts from stock footage of a space launch to a very artificial shot of the Earth accompanied by a several children's voices shouting the word pineapples. It turns out to be a transition to a classroom full of schoolchildren naming fruit from around the country to tie in with Johnny Depp calling Charlize Theron a peach. This is the most unintentionally funny and memorable part of the entire film.This movie was made in 1999 when Charlize Theron's acting career was starting to takeoff and Jonny Depp's was still coming out of a deep freeze. Together they are the Armacosts, he is a southern sounding pilot turned astronaut and she is the mild mannered school teacher and of course The Astronaut's Wife. They have the exact same haircut. Jillian Armacost likes to watch Penny Serenade with her husband to get in the mood. Oh, and she has a sister. Now you know everything about the lead characters that a person who watched the movie would know.As anyone who watched the preview that played constantly on TV in the summer of 1999 will remember, the plot concerns Johnny Depp coming back from a space shuttle mission infected with an alien parasite and nobody believes in and impregnates Charlize Theron with alien twins who watches a video tape of Joe Morton saying he may have been killed by Depp. In the trailer it took about a minute to tell, but in the movie some of these things are supposed to be a surprise. The result is a very boring drawn out suspense during which we are supposed to keep guessing whether Depp is or isn't infected with an alien parasite. Just like with Double Jeopardy (also 1999) the trailer blew all the plot twists so there's no reason to watch the movie.I only watched because I'm terminally curious and as usually I got what I paid for. The story is (as was it was popular to point out at the time) as rip-off of Rosemary's Baby (minus the funny satanic cult) as was Theron's much better 1997 thriller The Devil's Advocate (with funny satanists). The idea of impending motherhood never really seems concrete just like the change in Depp's character doesn't either. The trailer hyped up the idea that Jillian is the only one who notices a change in her husband upon his return but in the actual film there isn't a change to notice. Depp's character is underwritten, hardly 2 dimensional. He's the same until Theron suddenly accuses him of being different. The idea that Depp is an astronaut is equally abstract as the only space footage is a dream sequence and as far as I remember they didn't even spend the money to show him in a space suit.Rand Ravich is a weak writer at best and his directing in this film thoroughly justifies it being his only feature length movie. Ravich posed one interesting visual idea with Theron standing in front of a screen showing a video from Depp's landing shuttle after the space accident. It would have been worthy of Nicolas Roeg if it hadn't been ruined by clumsy cutting. In keeping with this all the photography is slapdash and the color is universally hideous. I think the only reason anyone called it stylish is because the apartment where the Armacosts live is a sterile glass lined set that few of us could actually afford to live in and that none of us are obsessive enough to keep clean.You can skip this one without feeling at all bad about it. The only reason there are two stars instead of one is because I laughed when the kids said pineapples. "},{"Title":"Move over Plan 9...","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"26 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Move over Plan 9 From Outer Space. You've got company.This movie is simply atrocious. In fact, comparing it to Plan 9... is actually an insult to the memory of Ed Wood. Unlike Wood's movies, this isn't even enjoyable on a so bad it's good basis. The Astronaut's Wife is just so bad it's bad.Johnny Depp, in the biggest mistake of his life, plays the too, too perfect astronaut husband of Charlize Theron. Depp never utters one line of sincere dialogue in the entire movie. Instead he wanders around like a zombie stopping every once in a while to say something oh so romantic to his wife.Theron fares even worse. One moment she is playing the whimpering wife; the next she is barking out orders. (Then take me to someone who can! is one of the worst lines of dialogue I have ever heard.) It would be nice to blame all of Theron's ineptness in this movie to bad writing and directing, but I fear there is another reason. Behind that incredible beauty is a woman who simply doesn't know how to act.I could go on blasting this movie, but why bother? Just remember this fair warning Next time you're in the video store and you see this movie on the shelf, don't be fooled. You may really like science fiction, you may love Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron, but leave this turkey on the shelf. Let it slowly decompose and go back to wherever it came from. "},{"Title":"A Great Sci-Fi Horror Film","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" And I will say it again A Great Sci-Fi Horror Film. Extremely creepy and suspenseful! When I first saw the film I had not a clue as to what is was about - no idea of the story plot. I thought it was maybe a romantic type of a science fiction film because of the film title - maybe a romantic drama about an astronaut and his wife. Well, in a way it is but not exactly as I was thinking - it was so much better than I had in mind! The movie keep me in suspense throughout the film... and I was shocked at the ending! If you like alien type of films mixed with thrilling horror then you might like this movie.9/10 "}{"Title":"An underrated effort, very reminiscent of Rosemary's Baby.","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Astronaut's wife is nowhere near as bad as its reputation suggests. In fact I honestly found it to be engrossing, while being deliberately slow-paced. It really does echo Rosemary's baby throughout. It's almost as if the filmmakers were heavily influenced by it, and wanted to make a tribute to it of sorts. The eerie atmosphere definitely helps things, as there was more than one occasion I felt creeped out. Astronaut's Wife relies on messing with your mind, and making you think. It really is a movie that requires at least a couple of viewings in my opinion, to fully appreciate it. Some people accused of Johnny Depp of being too low-key here, I respectfully disagree. I thought he handled the part beautifully and was very creepy. I think many people hate this movie is because of the deliberate slow pace, and that it tried to be something different. Rosemary's Baby was hailed as a classic, but not without a fair amount of controversy in between. Astronaut's Wife's criticism was much harsher, but in the same mold.Performances. Johnny Depp is perfectly low-key here. He garnered a lot of criticism for his portrayal, but he was great in my opinion. He gave me the willies on more than one occasion. Charlize Theron is excellent in her role. She carried the film very well, and had a perfect chemistry with Depp. We aren't sure if she's crazy or not, and that was a tough feat to pull off. Joe Morton is suitably creepy and mysterious in his role. Clea DuVall is rather wooden and unlikable in her role.Bottom line. It is far from perfect, but I still quite enjoyed it. Accept its deliberate pace and put your brain on thinking mode. I dislike the hatred this film gets.Recommended7/10 "},{"Title":"Yawn zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose Johnny Depp had hois reasons for starring in this movie.Perhaps the script looked interesting when he first read it, perhaps it was because he was along side Charlize Theron. What ever the reason i bet he regreted it after watching the finished article. This movie is just awful. It is depressing, boring and a complete waste of time. The story is dull and the acting is lousy. The most annoying thing is that the wife played by Charlize Theron pouts and cry's her way depressingly through this and it feels like you are living for and hour and a half with a woman suffering from severe PMT. If i was the Husband i would have walked out on the bitch a long time before the aliens got hold of me.  Who ever decided to make this movies should be the next person on the shuttle and left at the space station for 2 years with no entertainment so he can see how bad it is for us to watch this rubbish. 2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Uhhh....Did I miss something?","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now I can sit here and say that this movie was OK because it was entertaining, but I didnt find it entertaining at all.  Was there a point to this movie?  If there was, it was missed.  I could not seem to take this movie seriously at all.  I was fortunate to see it in a special sneak preview, and only one person out of my group of 15 liked it.  Now, I have disagreed with people on movies before, but I was not that one person.  I could not stand this movie. Half way through the movie, I wanted to leave. This is not the fault of the actors.  Hell, Johnny Depp is an awesome actor, but even he could not bring life to a tasteless, bland charecter like the one that he was given.  I found the ending to be typical and cliche, and the story itself was nothing new. Do yourself a favor, and see something else. But this is only my opinion. "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential with Good Cast","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There are 3 main problems with this movie 1) the director was too intent on making a dark, alien abduction/Rosemary's baby film, 2) the soundtrack also was so dark that it didn't really leave any doubt about what was going on, and 3) the ending was as typical as they come in thrillers.The material, and the general story are full of possibilities that are simply abandoned in favor of the obvious and predictable. The script tells us that Jillian (Charlize Theron) has experienced serious mental/emotional problems in her past. This element of the story could have kept us in doubt through the whole film Is her husband now an alien, or is it all her delusional mind at work? Yet, the ominous soundtrack never leaves us in doubt this is not a case of possible mental breakdown - it is an alien movie. Nor does Johnny Depp's emotionless and increasingly ominous delivery of lines (emphasized, to be sure, by the music) leave any doubt after a short time. Pity that the director didn't employ more ambiguous, less atmospheric music and more light (this is a very dark film), and direct Depp in a more ambiguous, less ominous delivery of his lines (of which Depp, one of my favorite actors of all time, is more than capable). A less heavy-handed approach by the director would have kept us wondering whether to believe Jillian's suspicions or to be suspicious of her, ourselves. The end, is likewise pregnant (excuse the pun) with possibilities, yet the writers and director settled for the same old-same old that we have seen countless times. Please - no sequel! "},{"Title":"She's looking good, Houston....","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" .....and her performance can best be described as enigmatic. So she's lying there while her hubby is doing the wild thing.Darling, did you notice how my hair's just like Mia Farrow's in Rosemary's whatsit?UuUunGh...UUUnGGH...can't talk now. UuuNNgh...alien babies mean more work. For some reason I have to push harder...UUuUUuRGHHH!!!!! Oh God, I think it's twins. So I have to work at it twice as hard now. I think my back's going. I'm getting whiplash. Argh..UnnGhhhh... Alien baby, Alien baby into yoooooooooooooooouuuuuuuu!Darling, I think we need to get that Furby out of there first, hmmmm?Are they lying down? Or up against a wall? On the ceiling? Hard to tell with all this arty camerawork making us dizzy. It's a case for Scully and Mulder. Do you notice how they keep repeating each other's names in that series? But Mulder, but Scully, but Mulder, but Scully...And it's even worse with their bosses. Then it's AGENT Scully, AGENT Mulder all the time. They all know who each other are so why don't they just TALK to each other for a change? And where are Sullied and Moldy when you need them, like to show up and explain the plot of this film? Why, when you're an alien in a distant galaxy whose waited so long for an opportune moment to travel the speed of light or thought or whatever to earth, Would you build a spacecraft that *BONEHEAD SCIENCE BREAK* can't go to other planets because you would need to travel the speed of light and you can't do that because the faster you go, the heavier your ship gets and the more fuel you'd need to propel you forward. In fact, you'd need an infinite amount of energy to reach light speed which is impossible. Having twin pilots wouldn't make the ship go any faster. So what were these kinky ET's planning? Were they hoping that their offspring would just have a nice day out zipping around earth with a high ma wave and then go home for tea? It's a long way to send your kids just to be earth bound pilots. But then their extra-terrestrial father is a bit of redneck. I mean, the last thing I'd expect a visitor to this planet to say is First I killed the husband, then the sister, then I ****ed his wife. I thought they were susposed to say something a little bit more...well, profound. Or a bit more spacey. Not I'm really getting off hurting you, earth b**ch. I think this alien has issues. He needs councelling, not electrocution. He's a sexist space pig. And why didn't he just zap into her in the first place instead of wasting all that time stalking her? Why wait until the bath overflows, Mulder? Or is it Scully? And that NASA guy. Monitoring changes in astronaut's physical health is not usually a sackable offence, it's fundamental to their whole program and they're very thorough and conscientious about it. Agent Scully? Mulder, Scully, Mulder, Scully, Mulder. I'm not used to seeing you both without your clothes on. And answer me this. Why should we watch an almost self-confessed watered down rip off of 'Rosemary's Baby', when we can just watch the original. The truth is out there. Just give me two minutes.Oh yes, of course it's only jealousy. We'd all like to be directors and make films like this. Only not crap. "},{"Title":"X-Files...no!, Aliens...no!, 6th sense...no!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Johnny Depp & Charlize Theron mixed with A little bit of X-Files, a bit of Aliens and a bit of 6th sense, and results...When the movie ends you'll be saying And....., Who......What.......?  "},{"Title":"dull and boring","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is one of the most dull and boring movies ever.  i kept looking at my watch thinking this movie must be over 3 hours long.  it isn't, thankfully.  in my opinion there is nothing redeemable about this flick.  none of the characters are likeable.  there is little character development. what little special effects there are, don't happen until the end of the movie.  and they too are dull.  don't waste your time on this flick at all.  don't even read the book or rent the video.  they should start fining people in hollywood for ripping people off. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie a lot.  True, I only watched because of Johnny, but I still thought it was great.","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Firstly, I am always amazed with Johnny's role in any film. I love how he can be an icy killer like this, or Willy Wonka or Captain Jack, and pull them all off brilliantly. For instance, in this film, many complain that he didn't change like he was supposed to and that it took no effort on his part except lurking about and using an accent. It would seem to me that these people weren't paying attention. First, we don't have a lot to go on as for the attitude of before Spencer. So maybe those people didn't remember the first few minutes of the film, when we see the couple being playful in bed, watch as he thoughtfully calls his wife from space, and listen to Jillian's sister comment on what a seemingly perfect guy he is. When he comes back, he is quite different. He is icy, not adorable, even if he pulls it off in a sexy way. Even when he is playful, he seems to have to gather his script for it, such as when he is creepily behind the refrigerator and then suddenly becomes his old self. His eyes are extremely different, as they get harsher throughout the movie. Some also complain that the violent sex need not be shown, but I think it's kind of important. First, it again shows contrast between before and after. Second, after his dirty (and extremely sexy, I thought, especially since it's Depp) musings to Jillian about her importance, it gives a clue to his real motives, as once things progress he seems to forget about her thoughts on the matter at all.I thought Charlize Theron was great. She skillfully pulled off this wife's horrible downspiral as she realizes the truth about her life. I thought it was a brilliant portrayal.I love the odd camera angles that show what they need to. Especially during the violent sex. Helped me bear it. Also the subway scene, it was a great display of what her mental state was.I'm still somewhat confused over the importance of the planes and the twins and such, but I bet if I watched it a few more times I'd understand better.I really liked the end. Throughout the whole thing I was like she'll kill herself and then what does she do? I thought was brilliant until the alien jumped bodies. I just don't understand how that works, although I suppose it could have to do with the electricity and the water.So, yeah, I think it was great. Its full potential was not met, obviously. I think with a few slight differences it could have been a classic. "},{"Title":"Run away from the theatre.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucked.    Run away as fast as you can. If this movie was any worse I might have killed myself as I was watching.  Charlize Theron is not even naked in it. "},{"Title":"In space, nobody can hear you snore...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just thinking about this world-class DUD is making me sleepy...but before I pass out completely, I feel obligated to let all of you fellow cinema-buffs out there know that Mr. Depp also starred in another highly un-entertaining, non-thrilling movie called The Ninth Gate. Avoid both these movies like the plague...I bet either one of these major-league mediocrities could put a speed freak to sleep in no time at all. "}{"Title":"Can I rate this movie -1000000000000 ???? DANG-IT!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read the back side of the case, and thought, well, let's give it a try. I always like this good ol' aliens trying to take over.Turns out my amazement, that nothing actually happens at all. In the end you don't know what or who they are, or what they want, how they will achieve it, anything!!!!They attempt to build up tension, but basically all they did was annoy me with some way below standard plot that makes the aliens all-powerful, impossible to recognize, understand or anything!CRAP. The most exiting part is where Depp practically rapes his wife, but that is so CRAP. I don't like that kind of stuff at all!It has been said before, and I will say it again You can tell the story by reading the back side of the box, and adding the simple line that's it.There ain't nothing more to it.Don't bother watching it. I rather spend my time honking the horn in traffic jams! "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE SUCKED!!!!!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was the most horrible movie I have ever seen in my life! It was so boring and it dragged on forever and the end even sucked horribly.  I don't know what johny depp was thinking when he agreed to be a star in this movie. This movie was a disappointment and only worth seeing if you want to go to sleep or waste money! "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby's Horrible Space Clone.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronaut's Wife (1999) Dir Rand Ravich / Cast Charlize Theron, Johnny Depp, Clea DuVall, Joe Morton, Nick Cassavetes Basically Rosemary's Baby from space without suspense. A space flight returns two astronauts unconscious. One of them eventually dies while attending a party and his wife electrocutes herself in the bathtub. Johnny Depp plays the astronaut and Charlize Theron plays his wife. After savage love making she becomes pregnant with twins. Joe Morton plays a former employee of the space station who attempts to warn Theron of what really took place. Theron is required to act suspicious until she gives birth to E.T and discover that her husband is a refugee from Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Director Rand Ravich does his best to rip off Rosemary's Baby with Theron even getting a Mia Farrow haircut. Depp is in the John Cassavetes role where he is required to creep up and startle Theron at every opportunity. Joe Morton tackles the Maurice Evans role where he attempts a warning. Clea DuVall plays the ill fate sister whose biggest problem isn't her fate, but the reality that her career came down to this. Since this film seems to be ripping off Rosemary's Baby then I strongly recommend that film as oppose to this scare lacking piece of guck. Boring snore fest about as suspenseful as a commercial for laundry detergent. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"15 years after the movie came out","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have come to appreciate a good sci-fi that does not hurt your eyes with 2 hours of CGI and high speed rapid fire images at the cost of a decent story.This is a wonderful role of non-weirdness for Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron has a wonderful presences in every role that she takes on. I cannot wait to see her in Fury Road.There are also many well acted secondary roles, including Joe Morton and Clea Duvall and Blair Brown.I love good science fiction and that is what this is. It hearkens back to the science fiction writers that I grew up with, like Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke and Robert A. Heinlein. With so much to choose from these days online, in the theater, on TV and decades of science fiction in the media, this is a good one to burn a couple of hours with, like a good book, a cup of coffee and a pack of smokes, when I did smoke. "},{"Title":"The Astronaut's Wife has a great foreboding feel that keeps you guessing until the end.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After an explosion in space and subsequent two-minute radio-out period, two astronauts return home to their wives. Slightly it's revealed that they're not the same as they were. A pair of shuttle astronauts leave their spacecraft to repair a satellite. There's an explosion. NASA loses contact for two minutes, but the both are rescued and safely returned to Earth. Eventually it becomes evident that neither of the astronauts is quite the same. I quite liked this film. It certainly was different to what I had expected. The thing that stands out the most in The Astronaut's Wife is its absolutely astounding directing. The imagery is beautiful, and all locations are shot in an eerie, cold atmosphere that gives the movie a very tense and foreboding feel. "},{"Title":"Good acting for such a flimsy premise","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When you finish watching this movie, you might ask, So what? And that's the only proper response to this film. The acting was good,the suspense was built--but the plot, well, that leaved something to be desired. In fact, the entire premise of the plot was flimsy in the extreme. The notion that a, presumably advanced, alien life-form would go to all that trouble just to achieve that particular goal, is laughable. "},{"Title":"not all that bad","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The consensus of opinion here led me to expect a dog, but I found myself interested and engaged, even if it rather quickly became apparent what was going on. I agree with those who saw the echoes of Rosemary's Baby here; if the makers of the movie wished to avoid those associations they should have selected a hairstyle for Miss Theron that was not such a spitting double of Mia Farrow's in that flick. Altogether, not a bad sci-fi thriller, though.   "},{"Title":"To the point","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ah...where was the plot?  Talk about weak!   I only enjoyed this movie visually.  Yes, visually.   Nice to look at.  No plot.  None. Maybe if it had had a plot... Did I mention, there is no plot? "},{"Title":"Something a little different","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The great appeal of this film is its brilliant production and photography. The innovative camera work and creative lighting produce a dark undercurrent of dread throughout. The plot is a predictable science fiction standard. But it is terribly well done. I could have done without the graphic bonking. But I guess that (and car chases) are now standard Hollywood requirements. Two bonking scenes. But no car chase.   "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've been looking at the user comments for this movie and I can't believe what I'm seeing.  I can't see how anyone would not like this movie.  It may move a little slow in places, but the trick is to let yourself get lost in the spectacular visuals.  Great character development; the director does an excellent job of hinting that the wife character may be crazy.  Also we see the wife's internal struggle with choosing if she wants to believe it or not.  This movie is unconventional, original, and like nothing I've ever seen before, which is a problem for some people who are use to a movie that explains everything, ties up all the loose ends, and has a fairy tale ending.  If you see this movie, take time ot explore the visual imagery and get into the characters.  An excellent movie. "}{"Title":"A Misunderstood Film","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a disappoinment because it takes a slightly intruguing idea and screws it up. Astronauts Spencer Armacost (Depp) and Alex Streck (Casavettes) are repairing a satellite when they lose contact with Earth for two minutes. When they return, the men are not the same, and Armacost's wife Jillian (Theron) wonders if her husband is the same man.   This movies tries to be a stylish thriller, and it succeeds in some parts, but it is inaccessible to the general viewing public. It is not however, a turkey. The ending let me down...it was almost predictable.   Johnny Depp is a servicable actor (he was fantastic in Ed Wood) but here his talents are wasted. The film's saving grace is Charlize Theron, who appears in almost every scene. What an incredibly beautiful and talented actress! "},{"Title":"It's not a bad movie . . .","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, it's not a bad movie no matter what people may say about it. Of course, people have their opinions and I know this is just mine, but it is not bad! At all!First, let me just add that I think, and I'm sure most people that aren't obsessed with horror movies and bad acting will agree with me, that Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron do a wonderful job. He is very creepy as Spencer a.k.a The Alien, and she is great as his wife Jillian. People say that it is disgusting how she chooses the same kind of movies to star in (a.i. The Devil's Advocate which by the way I think she was also fabulous in!) So, the one problem is not the acting, or something else bad you might have heard the dialogue. Nope, it was something else.If you haven't seen it, you have probably heard that it has no suspense and non-entertaining. That is simply not true. I have to say that there is something missing from it. The one thing that could have made it much more suspenseful . . . is if we didn't know that he was an alien. I know, I know, if they didn't tell us about the alien, the preview would be about 10 seconds long, but just think about it . . . for those of you who have seen it They could have just told us about something being wrong with Spencer, instead of saying he was taken over by aliens, don't you agree. And showing him confess the entire thing to his wife about how he was not of the human species and that his alien children were infecting her uterus. That is all that is wrong with this movie. Not really any surprises- Well, except the ending . . . but I won't give that away! So, if you don't mind knowing most of the movie before actually seeing it, this movie is for you. I did however figure out why advertisers tell you a lot of the story in just the preview for it . . . it's telling you that there is something surprising at the end. Just try it out with any of the previews that do that, and you'll see that I'm right. For example (yes, I know) Titanic. They pretty much tell you in the preview what happens, but then, of course, poor 'ol Leo froze into a 'cube. So you see, they'll never give away everything!Before I finish up, I just want to say, that as a woman, I was really offended by the sex scene that was in this movie. It was more like rape if you ask me. I just didn't like it at all, and the only reason I wouldn't fast-forward through that part, is because I'm an enormous Johnny Depp fan!So, anyway, go and see it if you haven't, you will probably enjoy it! "},{"Title":"lost in space for 2 mins.","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Johnny Depp was again does not disappoint, he seems to be getting better and better with every role. Charlize Theron is sexy and very beautiful and is great in her distressed female routine. On a mission in outer space 2 shuttle Astronaut's go outside the craft I believe to do some routine manintence and they briefly lose touch with Houston for about 2 mins. what happened during those 2 minutes we are not sure of,, so the men come back home to earth, to their families,, one of the men immediately get sick and he is put into quarantine, our main character however seems unaffected, till later on his wife seems to notice that he is acting differently, sorta like he is not the same person, well as time goes by she get's pregnant, and at the urging of other astronauts she starts to investigate,, she thinks something inside her is growing, and it's not human she believes., excellent thriller with great acting.. "},{"Title":"Lowkey sci-fi","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A nice mix of ideas from sources such as The Quatermass Experiment & Out of the Unknown - The Conterfeit Man. The editing and audio/music bears resemblance to Mothman Prophecies, and helps to create a surreal dreamy mood throughout the film. It is very well executed. The story is solid and could easily be reused in other variations. It explores the short moments where astronauts lose contact to Earth. What happens during those few seconds? What _could_ happen during those few seconds? If something extraordinary happened, then what? These themes are explored in this movie.The pregnancy theme seems lifted from Rosemary's Baby and doesn't work out too well. The chemistry between the two lead actors, is somewhat of a letdown. The movie caters to both sexes, as well as sci-fi fans and casual movie audiences. "},{"Title":"A reasonably good movie, well acted","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronaut's Wife isn't perfect, but many of the comments posted about it are a bit over the top. The film does have a number of strengths, including subtle and interesting performances by Depp and Theron, particularly in the first half. Some people have complained about the sex scene, but it's actually one of the most well conceived and edited scenes in the movie, both disturbing and erotic, and effective in conveying the twist in Spencer's relationship with Jillian, the moment when things start to go really wrong. It's actually one of the strongest scenes in the film, and I'm curious why it's stirred up such animosity. I think it may be because some viewers feel strongly that sex doesn't belong in this kind of movie. But just because a film has the word astronaut in the title doesn't mean it's for kiddies. Objections to the violence in the movie are a little odd too; there is some, but it's mild compared to most Hollywood films.The second half of the movie does get a little tedious and predictable (but still has some very strong performances in spots, like Theron's when her character is considering aborting the presumably alien fetuses). Jillian's reactions to her sister's death come across as a little odd... she dreams about her sister's murder, sees her body, then still seems surprised a while later to see blood on her husband's hands. The ending does feel contrived and weak, both the alien entering Theron's body, and the (silly) tacked-on ending with the evil kids going off on the bus. (It feels a bit like a committee got hold of it and reconfigured the ending, making the whole thing feel a bit contrived and silly.) So there are some problems, and the ending does cheapen and weaken the movie. Still in all I'd give it seven stars out of ten, for the strengths of the lead actors' performances. "},{"Title":"Stylish modern day Rosemary's Baby","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** ***SPOILERS***It's quite difficult to write about the story in this movie without putting in spoilers. What I will say is, it does leave you guessing right up until the finale as to whether she is right about it all or just crazy.I would like to say is how good the main leads are. Charlize Theron gives a similar performance to the one in Devil's Advocate, which in many ways is a similar movie. She plays the semi-depressed, slightly dysfunctional if intelligent woman very well. The way her character doesn't cope with life in New York has a sort of Lost in Translation feel, in the way she feels alienated and alone. But as often is the case Johnny Depp stole the show with his performance as a caring husband which develops (in his wife's eyes), to be this cold maybe even cruel man with whom she has nothing in common. It's good to see and compare how Commander Armacost is the same actor as Captain Jack Sparrow from Pirates of the Caribbean. Depp does have such a repertoire of acting styles and has in my opinion been convincing in every movie of his I've seen.This film has many parallels with Rosemary's Baby, which is a great movie too. I don't think this movie will be remembered in the halls of fame as Rosemary's Baby will but it is still a good film and worth more than the 4.7 rating on IMDb at the time I made this post. If I were to be negative I would have to say that the film could have been more disturbing and a little darker. The performances though kind of stole the show and so in some ways that detracted from the tension, a strange negative/positive comment I suppose.The film is quite slow in building up the tension so those that have seen some of the great Asian movies like Kairo will be fine but those that need a movie to be in their face from minute 1 will perhaps lose interest. What it does do well is leave you to make your own conclusions about certain facts. This is another thing that films don't always do these days, or Hollywood ones at least. I like that approach, in the end you may still not have all the answers. Maybe that makes you watch a film a second time? I don't think I will see this again, it's not that good but I was left pondering some of the information after it was over.I'd say it was deserving of the 7/10 I gave it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea for this film sounded very promising, it was directed well and was quite suspenseful at times. Yet, it kept building up for some kind of a great resolution that never came. Certain things were totally unreasonable and remained so. Overall, with a few changes to the script, it had the potential to be much much better. 6/10 "},{"Title":"If you love Sci-Fi & haven't seen Rosemary's baby, then consider this","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to be honest on it. I rated this movie 7/10 because it is slightly on the sci-fi genre and I happen to like sci-fi movies a lot. Ok, I would have given it 6/10 were it a horror movie, since the plot is neatly ripped off from Rosemary's Baby. The modernization of RB would not be a bad idea, but placing the movie to sci-fi genre was probably more than adequate for this thriller. It was worth watching, gave some food for thought, yet failed to thrill at any point. I kind of liked the end of the story a bit more than average thriller. + I'd be inclined to give a movie bonus points for not having an idiotic car chase scene like 99% of thriller genre movies ) "},{"Title":"Left me speechless","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoilers...Shocked was I to see The Astronaut's Wife with such a low rating. Iunderstand some viewers not liking the ambiguous and potentiallydepressing ending. I even understand some viewers not likingCharleze Theron's performance, although the role is perfect forher. And I can even sympathize with those who saw the obviousparallels to Devil's Advocate and Rosemary's Baby (with someEvent Horizon and Stir of Echoes for good measure).But I cannot understand people saying this movie was terrible. Wehave here excellent directing, making use of a wide array ofcamera angles and tricks that are put together wonderfully. Wehave excellent acting at the hands of Johnny Depp, who proveswith every movie his mastery of the art, and Theron isn't that badeither, because it's not as if she needs too much depth, and ifnothing else, she doesn't detract from the movie. We have anexcellent score that matches the movie well and features somefun choral parts.Some have criticized the movie's pacing-too slow at thebeginning. Are you serious? No one should ever take points awayfor having a slow beginning, because Psycho is rated the No. 1thriller of all time, and have you seen how slowly Hitchcock buildsthe suspense? Granted, Wife is no Psycho, but it is an excellentpsychological thriller that builds suspense and tensionlittle-by-little until a terrific sci-fi climax that both reveals themenace and avoids being corny. The ending was something I didn't expect, and it left mespeechless (although I'm one that gets thoroughly caught up inmovies and spares little energy in trying to figure out potential plottwists before they happen). Visually stunning and a treat to watch,Astronaut's Wife deserves much higher than a 4.x. Give that ratingto something more deserving, like Crouching Tiger, HiddenDragon.10/10 "},{"Title":"Well done Scott Terek for your excellent review","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well done Mr. Scott Terek! After watching The Astronaut's Wife belatedly from DVD last night(it was not released theatrically here in Turkey), I looked through all the user's comments as well as external reviews and discovered in horror that no single person except him (and that includes some of the most notable American critics) understood what this film is really all about namely tension and style, as he has correctly analyzed and revealed in detail in his excellent review in August 1999. It is so sad that nowadays most cinemagoers prefer in-your-face special effects over slow buildup of terror and tension. To hell with all other IMDB users in this case this film was an excellent example of those seemingly long-forgotten cinematic devices and for me at least, as much of a thrill ride and as much fun as the overrated The Sixth Sense. From the first minute of the film to the last one of it -and for me this includes the end credits as well since George S. Clinton's cue for those credits so wonderfully maintained the mood of the main film- I was having pleasant shivers all over my spine and felt an extended satisfaction after the film ended. All those camera angles, the moody lighting, the eerie score and sound effects and the production design which seemingly so much irritated most of the public came together to a create a great horror atmosphere I came to be missing so much in the last few years. Those comparing the film with Rosemary's Baby and degrading it in the final analysis clearly are not aware that that horror benchmark was also a stylistic exercise of its time, and in this case one which was conceived by a very young and ambitious European filmmaker who was determined to teach a lesson or two to Hollywood filmmakers of that era. I also fully agree with Mr. Terek's comments regarding Charlize Theron's performance. Wake up everybody, this is a clearly talented young actress who also radiates warmth and beauty every single moment she's on screen in every film she's in. Unfortunately, this seems to be a fatal mistake in contemporary Hollywood where most young actresses' physical appearances are artificially moulded into perfect shape. I can only assume that Miss Theron has drawn the envy of most of the Hollywood population for being able to look so gorgeous naturally as well as for landing key parts in highly commercial features, with the additional bonuses of being totally down-to-earth, accessible and talented. It's a shame that such discrimination and illogical criticism could still be directed to an aspiring young actress in our time for just being beautiful. Charlize Theron is totally believable in every single frame of this film and deserves much bigger praise than that. On the other hand, the only minor fault of the film is certainly Johnny Depp's performance but every great actor has the right to make mistakes from time to time.  "}{"Title":"Good entertaining.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie 'cause I got too late to the cinema that day and couldn't see The Sixth Sense. It is not a deep movie, but it's a nice sci-fi thriller for just being a little frightened for a while and have fun. Charlize Therion it's nice although I didn't like her haircut, and Johnny Depp it's a much better actor than this. "},{"Title":"A film I actually enjoyed.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I guess the first time I heard of this film was when I was doing a search on Allen Daviau on IMDB.  I saw that his next film would be The Astronaut's Wife.  I jumped for joy.  Here was the man who did some stunning work on Steven Spielberg's ET and Empire of the Sun.(Note  Allen Daviau should have won the Oscar for Empire of the Sun.....)  Anyway a year has passed.  What did I think of the film.  I actually enjoyed it.  I knew all the critics panned it, but I decided to go see it.  Now then, if you expect this film to be some kind of SFX extravaganza, you're wrong.  There are hardly any special effects in the film(except towards the end....but I don't want to give away the ending.......).  This is a film that strives more on story than effects.  Anyway, I thought the film grew kinda slow towards the middle, but soon it picked up, as pieces to the puzzle of what happened to Johnny Depp's character started to fall into place.  Allen Daviau's work on the film was great.  I loved the subway sequence in the film.  I thought that was beautifuly photographed.  Anyway, once the film gets toward its ending, that's when I got excited.   I wouldn't mind seeing this film again on video in the near future.  It did have its flaws, but in the end, it delivered its story and I walked out of the theatre happy, knowing I got my money's worth.   "},{"Title":"A surprising, visual spectacle","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to be honest here I did not expect to like this movie.  Largely this was based on the fact that every nationally published reviewer I read stated that THEY expected not to like the film because it was not screened for the press.Once again I learn not to listen to the press.Is The Astronaut's Wife a shoe-in for an Oscar?  No.  Is it a groundbreaking new film?  No.  What it is is a very visually stunning glimpse into two characters masterfully portrayed by Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron.Johnny Depp has recently been acknowledged as what he is arguably the best character actor of his generation. Charlize Theron again shines as the wife who slowly allows herself to realize that something is terribly, terribly wrong with what is going on (see The Devil's Advocate).  Both actors feed of the others talent and energy to give us, the viewers, a singularly unique look into the lives of two people turned upside-down.However the real star here is the director, Rand Ravich.  This first-time director has been accused by some of creating a film that is 95% setup and 5% payoff.  I disagree.  I will agree that the film is a slow-burn, but allow yourself to be lost in the images and the careful way that Ravich frames every scene.  Without ruining any of the plot, pay particular attention to the love scene where the camera takes the audience literally from side to side of the couple.  From a purely visual standpoint, The Astronaut's Wife is a winner. "},{"Title":"Watchable sci-fi drama.","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronaut's Wife tells the tale of Jillian Armacost (Charlize Theron) & her husband Commander Spencer Armacost (Johnny Depp) who live in Florida & are very happy together, happy that is until one fateful day when Jillian hears on the news that an incident in space has happened involving her husband & fellow astronaut Alex Streck (Nick Cassavetes) who were out of radio contact with Earth for two minutes. Reassured & taken to hospital by NASA representative Sherman Reese (Joe Morton) both men seem fine & are soon discharged, however Jillian notices a change in Spencer as he seems different somehow. Spencer then accepts a job in New York with Mclaren out of the blue so they both move out there but not before Alex suddenly dies & his wife Natalie (Donna Murphy) commits suicide. Shortly after arriving in New York Jillian discovers that she is pregnant with twins but still has an uneasy feeling about Spencer which gets worse when Reese turns up to tell her that Spencer is not who he says, that Natalie was pregnant with twins when she committed suicide & that he has proof that the two minutes when Earth lost contact with Spencer something sinister happened up there...Written & directed by Rand Ravich I thought The Astronaut's Wife was a decent sci-fi drama. The script is pretty slow going at times & when you break it down very little actually happens but it has one thing going for it, it grips & engages the viewer. We, the audience that is, know something is not quite right with Spencer & the film manages to build the tension up so you want to know what & keep watching to find out, it has that slight hook that grabs you & draws you into the film. The story is told almost exclusively from the point of view of Jillian, in fact this is a pretty much one person film as almost all the running time focuses on Jillian, her thoughts & feelings which helps you relate to her. If your looking for aliens, death & lots of special effects then The Astronaut's Wife definitely isn't for you but if you want something character driven with a sci-fi angle then this may be just what you've been looking for. I must say now that I didn't like the ending that much, it didn't seem to make any sense to me. The final few minutes just doesn't explain anything, were deeply unsatisfying & they left me scratching my head somewhat. Overall I thought the time spent watching was worth it but it's far from the most exciting sci-fi film ever, just imagine the Species (1995 - 2004) series of films but without the action, gore, nudity, aliens or excitement but keep the impregnation theme, which is similar to Rosemarys Baby (1968) as well, & you'll have some idea of what The Astronaut's Wife is like.Director Ravich does a good job & the film looks nice & has a style about it. There's one or two effective moments in here, the scene set in a toy store was well done as are one or two other scenes. Forget about any elaborate special effects or alien creatures as there aren't any here which may disappoint potential viewers, it did me. Ravich seems to shy away from making an out & out sci-fi/horror film & as such The Astronaut's Wife comes across as a psychological thriller most of the time, there aren't any scares, shocks or gore in it anyway. The sex scene between Theron & Depp is as tame as they come, it's filmed from the waist up & neither seem take any of their clothes off!With a supposed budget of about $34,000,000 I have to ask where all the money went, I just can't see The Astronaut's Wife costing 34 big ones. There are no big special effects scenes & a small cast. Personally I would have liked to have seen a bit more on screen for that sort of cash. The acting was OK, neither Theron or Depp were not yet at the height of their fame when they made this.The Astronaut's Wife was a decent enough film to watch if you stick with it but it hardly set the pulse racing. I have to be honest & say that I expected a bit more, some proper horror & sci-fi which it all but fails to deliver. Definitely worth a watch but don't expect anything brilliant. "},{"Title":"Certainly underrated","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After checking the rating for this movie, I prepared myself for a boring and dull movie, but instead found quite the opposite. The best side of the movie was actors (Jonny Depp and Charlize Theron) who really made the movie alive. The story wasn't bad either, with slowly building up pressure and having nice little twitches and ending as well. If you like psychological movie with some Sci-Fi in it, then you wont be disappointed. Only thing I found little bit annoying about this movie was, that at some points the storyline was scrolled forward too roughly. My overall rating is 8 out of 10 and recommend it to all who like to see Jonny Depp in action in a fine movie. "},{"Title":"Well, I Liked This Movie.","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is visually and mentally stimulating. One needs only to have a very vivid imagination and the ability to enjoy the multifaceted ability of Johnny Depp, which some comment on him being 'wooden' or 'his worst acting yet' or 'not a bad boy', is a good movie. I was able to relate, to a degree, to Johnny's character, for I dated a guy who was very much like Commander Spencer Armacost. Additionally, it was very easy then to understand Charlize Theron's character, Jillian Armacost. That is why I liked this movie....I could relate to the two major characters.A few things left me (and perhaps others) in the dark1) The outer space shots did not make much sense. Just a little more information might have helped us understand the alien. It not clear why it (or they) is trying to take over earth. Is it for taking over the earth or the space program or both.2) Captain Alex Streck, Nick Cassavetes, is also taken over by an alien in space. Though it is not quite understood why he went through such physical trauma and Spencer did not. 3) Joe Morton, who plays Sherman Reese, the NASA Representative, does an okay job playing his character. Again, this movie does not explain, to any degree of satisfaction, what Mr. Reese knows.4) The character of Nan, Jillian's sister, seems to have no reason for being in the movie. Except a useless filler used in detergents?5) I found it interesting that an old radio, in the Armacost's apartment was used as the main 'stereo' system.....I could go on abit about the details....but no need to be that picky.Bravo on the cinematography, to an extent! The best edited scene, in my opinion, is when Spencer kisses Jillian at the company party in New York. They are against a wall..the camera tilts, until we see the characters lying prone and we see them on their bed, at home of course. Very well done. It made me dizzy in the theater.If you can get into the main characters and put yourself in the right mindset for this movie, it will be an interesting view. But, if you are looking for a BIG SCARE this is not the film. The fear is very subtle.  "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Creepy film. Beautifully photographed, with very evocative images, conveying moods and impressions very well.It's not for you if you expect a lot of action, because it's more in the horror-suspense, happens in your head tradition.Although the ending was a bit weak, this one will haunt me a long time.  "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A few somewhat interesting surprises in this one...  Astronaut Spencer and wife Jillian are expecting twins.  Jillian soon realizes that she's part of an intergallactic plot, and that her unborn babies are actually superintelligent extraterrestrials.  The DVD states that this film is a parody of Rosemary's Baby and, understandably, the viewer will recognize the occassional nods to Ira Levin's novel and Roman Polanski's film.   "},{"Title":"Not so bad at all","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie on video tape without knowing anything about it. I didn't even know that it existed before I watched it, and therefore I did not have any expectations. In my opinion this movie is not so bad at all. The idea is not new and the story reveals many similarities to Rosemary's Baby, but I really have no idea, why it has been compared to Plan 9 from outer space; I've seen many worse sci-fi-movies. I guess the trailers for the movie may have built up wrong expectations.*** SPOILER BEGINS *** The story is about a psychically unstabile young woman (Jillian), who's husband Spencer is - guess what - an astronaut. After an accident during a routine mission, Spencer's partner Alex dies unexpectedly and his pregnant wife commits suicide. Spencer seems altered, too. He quits his NASA job and takes his wife to New York, where he joins in an obscure company, although being an astronaut had always been his dream.After a party he brutally impregnats Jillian and soon she begins to feel that something's wrong. First she doubts her own psychical constitution, but after a medical doctor from the NASA contacts her, it becomes more and more obvious that her husband has been infected some kind of extraterrestrial organism - and she carries his extraterrestrial breed inside her body. *** SPOILER ENDS ***The movie focuses on the wife's point of view and it makes absolutely no attempt to be a classical sci-fi-shocker. It tries to build up excitement in a subtile way, and this attempt is quite successful. The behaviour of the protagonists is much more consistent than many other comments let you suggest (I've read them after watching the movie).Unfortunately the end comes very suddenly and I must confess that I was not absolutely satisfied by the last scenes.Nevertheless I'd give the movie 6 or 7 points. It's far above average from my point of view. "},{"Title":"Well done sci-fi in the classic sense.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really good movie.  POSSIBLE SPOILER BELOW... be WARNED!!!The story and development is classic sci-fi. Not a lot of high-tech looking effects, so if you're into that this film may seem to be lacking.  It delves more on the psychological level as viewed by the development of the two main characters who are husband and wife, focusing on the wife.I was also very impressed visually by the camera work of this movie. It was often unique and helped propel the story forward.The acting was very well done, very believable.  The only flaw that prevented me from giving it a ten was my own personal feelings of not exactly seeing Johnny Depp, as a person, as an Astronaut.  Otherwise his performance was strong and never dropped away or strayed me away from believing the story.   And the ending was unique and I was not expecting it. Though what happened did make me happy as it continues a style of story-telling that I can appreciate.My only warning **SPOILER** would be that if you watch this and you are pregnant, or there is a pregnant woman planning on watching it, be aware that this movie includes situations where unborn babies are put into dire and life-threatening situations, and some die. This could be very unsettling for some women.  I was pregnant when I went to see another movie, SEVEN, and although I enjoyed it, I cried a lot at the end and had nightmares for a week.  I believe it was because of hormones and my sensative nature, so be warned if you plan on seeing this movie, The Astronaut's Wife, that these situations do arise.  "}{"Title":"Not as terrible as some make it out to be","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can admit that I went into this movie thinking I would dislike it --  By looking over these user comments, how could I not?  However,  I was actually surprised as I found myself enjoying the slow paced suspense and the beautiful atmosphere.I am definitely not a big sci-fi fan, so perhaps that influences my opinion.  I can look back at my thoughts of many sci-fi flicks, and I know I tend to enjoy the more atmospheric, narrative pictures better than the in-your-face special effects blockbusters.I disagree with many of the other people here who left comments, because I feel this movie is definitely worth viewing.  However, if you are looking for a lot of explosions and fancy alien makeup and special effects, look somewhere else.The only thing I can really say I wanted more from was the ending.  Not only did it leave a terrible taste in my mouth, it also left me confused and a bit unsatisfied.  The plans of these other-worldly creatures were never explained to us.  Sequel, perhaps? "},{"Title":"Unoriginal story but great filmmaking","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film without much in the way of expectations.  I am not a big sci-fi fan and even less of a horror fan, I was prepared to be underwhelmed.  In fact, I was extremely impressed, not with the story, but with the filmmaking, particularly the direction by Rand Ravich.The story was a patchwork of a lot of different worn out sci-fi themes.  There was the alien takes over the human theme, the alien dwells among us theme and of course, the evil baby gestating in the good and pure mother theme.  Suffice it to say that this wasn't fresh material.  But let's be honest; how many stories are really fresh material?  Why are we suckers for the same old romantic comedy storylines again and again and yet we expect that sci-fi must be completely novel to be good?What is outstanding about this film is the suspense.  I haven't seen a film that was so effective as a suspense film in quite some time.  It was effective because of daring use of the camera by Ravich that visually left me begging for relief in scene after scene.  Actually, if there is any criticism of this film it is the fact that the suspense was too well done.  It wears the viewer out without sufficient mental rest stops.Ravich's use of extreme close ups, wide angle shots, rapid camera movements, odd perspectives, and tight sets produces a sense of relentless suspense that made me want jump into the screen and yell at the characters.  For some, this was probably overwhelming and tedious.  It seems that viewers today want pace, novelty and surprises.  Yes, we knew Spencer (Johnny Depp) was now an alien.  Yes, we knew that Jillian (Charlize Theron) had alien babies growing inside her.  What we didn't know was what she was going to do about it and what he was going to do about her.  So I thought the story was ultimately effective in achieving its goal...thrilling suspense.What this film lacked was a hideous monster and a lot of blood and gore.  This is why it wasn't popular in my opinion because these are staples of today's mass market viewer.  This is the very reason I thought it was excellent because it produced fear and anticipation, not by what was seen, but by what was unseen.From an acting perspective, this was a shining moment for Charlize Theron.  This was a very demanding film for a female lead and she handled it like a pro.  Her part demanded a full range of emotions from sweet adoring wife to the terror of a caged animal and she delivered the most complete performance I've seen from her to date.  As a matter of fact, Theron so controlled the screen that Johnny Depp didn't really have much to do except give the occasional menacing look.I'm going to buck the tide with this one and give it an 8/10.  This film was about style.  It failed to deliver the obvious and this elusiveness made it unique among all the weird science fiction rip-them-to-shreds hack movies that jam the video store shelves.  And that's what I liked most about it. "},{"Title":"The end of the world, slowly","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Reminiscent of Rosemary's Baby, but still good.The major technical flaw is the incursion of the alien signal into the two astronauts.  Its not well explained and the little explanation there is, makes little sense.The wife's character also seems inconsistent in several places.  Women know their husbands VERY well and small behavior changes are obvious to them.  Yet when she is offered evidence of what might have happened she is afraid, not curious, and shuns the meeting.  Naturally this changes as the story unfolds. Her attempt to kill her husband is set up like a suicide attempt (to fool us, the audience), but badly backfires on her and the aliens triumph - for a change. "},{"Title":"Watchable suspense movie","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Astronaut's Wife starring a somewhat stale Charlize Theron and Johnny Depp is quite different in its attempt to thrill the audience than other mainstream suspense/thriller movies. It's very suspenseful in parts (too few though) but severely lacking in dialogue and good acting in others. It's hard to judge this film because for long periods at a time you are either being bored by it or being thrilled by it. This is mainly due to the screenplay which seemed to have been written  without much thought and due to the acting which centers around Charlize Theron. She is new to big roles such as this and it seemed to take a while for her to get into as it appeared that she was rather uncomfortable in some scenes. However, for the last hour or so she was quite good as she allowed the audience to sympathize with her and hold hope for her character.      Overall, I thought this was too long for the quite limited storyline but the story was interesting enough to watch through and not be bored by the end. "},{"Title":"Pretty darn good movie","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Went in expecting to waste away six dollars, however with the intelligence in the screen writing coupled with the events in the movie that could possibly in real life happen, I left the theater with chills and content. Johnny Dep played his role excellent, and the other cast of characters came across as real people. Overall a great movie. "},{"Title":"Waste of a good cast","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I saw that this movie was rated only 4.8 despite such a strong cast, I was surprised. Now I know why it rates so low. The dialogue is confusing and aimless, and the director loves bizarre camera angles and movements that only serve to distract, rather than to illuminate or reveal.The pacing is far too slow. It's been going 40 minutes, and I still don't know what it's about. If I hadn't read the blurb I wouldn't know that Johnny Depp was supposed to be somehow different now that he's back. The movie hasn't made that point yet. And it never will, as far as I'm concerned. It hasn't held my attention and now I'm writing this comment instead.Purposeless writing and obtrusive, gimmicky direction waste a competent cast and, for all I know, a clever story. "},{"Title":"*shudder*","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed watching this movie as I pride myself on the fact that I watch almost every movie with an open mind and also that I look beyond the actors and directors and found the deep and chilling plot.Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron work well together in this film and I felt that the plot was intricate and understandable at the same time. The director does well to combine special effects, unique angles with the cameras used and a phsycologically chilling plot that will leave every astronaut's spouse with doubts of their partner's next mission.Johnny Depp creates a beautiful villain and is subtle with the Actions of Spencer Armacost so as to slowly release information for the audience but not to give away the whole story. Charlize Theron took the leading role with depth and flare and provides the audience with a spectacular character to empathise with and at the same time has their own doubts about.I felt the ending was, to say the least, unusual and could have perhaps been better. However, I felt it worked because it is, after all, a Sci-fi thriller and as far as anybody knows-however stupid it may seem- it could always happen that way. No one knows... "},{"Title":"CREEPY!!!!","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Charlize Theron continues her pat hand in the manner of Devil's Advocate with this spine-tingling thriller where all is not what you think--or even what you thought you might think.  Once again playing the fragile and loyal wife, this time against the deadpan Johnny Depp in one his spookiest roles to date, Theron delivers dramatic twists and turns that will leave viewers feeling they just got off an adults only roller coaster.For his part Depp is dead on, performing his role as a provider yet becoming increasingly distant as if he were still stuck outside his orbiter in outer space.  What happened out there?  Nobody, even NASA, seems to know--or at least wants to tell.Director Rand Ravich of Candyman fame uses taut editing, mind blowing sound effects, and extreme close up camera angles to keep the suspense taut to the very end.  And then the unexpected ending will leave you guessing even more. This is a great date flick when you want to grab on to your honey!While both Theron and Depp were to go on to even bigger roles, this one was overlooked as a near classic in the science fiction category.  Ten of ten. "},{"Title":"Poetic, interesting drama","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Astronaut's Wife was battered with no end of bad reviews from critics upon its release, so when I popped this into the tape recorder I wasn't expecting much. I had some hope because of the cast - leading man Johnny Depp in particular had always impressed me - but I certainly wasn't expecting a movie as genuinely thrilling and moving as The Astronaut's Wife turned out to be.No doubt The Astronaut's Wife was received so poorly because its audience went in expecting something completely different to what it got - most probably because of bad or incorrect publicity on the Studio's part. I myself knew nothing at all about the plot of the film before watching it, and knew only that it starred Mr. Depp and a woman who looked remarkably like Anne Heche in the brief television promotions. And perhaps this is the best way to enter into The Astronaut's Wife, for anybody going into it with prior expectations will receive a movie far removed from what they had anticipated. For this reason alone, I will try not to reveal too much about The Astronaut's Wife - in order to stop myself from spoiling it for you.The thing that stands out the most in The Astronaut's Wife is its absolutely astounding directing. The imagery is beautiful, and all locations are shot in an eerie, cold atmosphere that gives the movie a very tense and foreboding feel. Like many movies, the directing helps to deepen the complex and involving script, and builds a very compelling ambience. For a horror film, The Astronaut's Wife is an incredibly intimate movie, with many close-ups of lips, hands and eyes that not only just bring the viewer closer to the characters but also helps them to understand their feelings of frustration, pain or pleasure. This was a very clever tool that director/writer Rand Ravich used numerous times throughout the film in order to up the suspense.The Astronaut's Wife begins feeling very much like a classic episode of The X-Files (though minus Mulder and Scully, obviously), but as gradually layers are added to the characters, and a number of extremely grisly moments occur, things begin to get very sinister. Charlize Theron as the seemingly-paranoid Jillian is slightly wooden to begin with, but she seems to relax as the movie gathers speed, and the viewer becomes almost one with her. In scenes of horror, we feel her horror; in scenes of pain, we feel her pain. Not many actors can accomplish this relationship between the character and the audience, but Theron pulled it off expertly. It comes as a slight - but welcome - shock that although Depp's character is the central reason for the story, the actor himself is rarely on screen for more than a couple of minutes at a time. In truth, The Astronaut's Wife is Charlize Theron's movie, and she handles the role as lead extremely well - there isn't a dull moment in the movie no matter what is happening.Another aspect that separates The Astronaut's Wife from all the other alien-possession films that have come and gone through the years is the fact that it is a very human tale. Writer Rand Ravich has wisely noted that the plot of aliens infiltrate the human race has been done to death what with films such as Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Independence Day etc, and here he delivers a movie that is much more about the human characters and whether or not they are truly to be trusted, rather than the alien invasion that may or may not be a reality.The final forty minutes of The Astronaut's Wife are solid with tension, and when the end credits finally rolled I found myself heaving a great sigh to dispell the remaining tension. The climactic confrontation is one that left me wondering all the way through what on Earth (no pun intended!) was going to happen, and the outcome is one that is shocking.VERDICT There are a phenomenal amount of alien-possession movies out there, but none are quite so poetic, inspiring or brilliantly-directed as this rare gem of a film. The cast members are all excellent - there are some nice cameos filled by Clea DuVall and Joe Morton - and there is a great twist to the end. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby meets The Devil's Advocate","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Charlize is made up to look like Mia Farrow, but cannot come close to the vulnerable waif of Polanski's masterpiece. And the director has none of the skills of Polanski, in fact, since we have no pale failures, it appears that he didn't even recognize some Polanski tricks.What's interesting about this project is Johhny. I find him fascinating though I admit following him around is often a trial. He takes a lot of risks with his choices of roles. He takes some chances in how he commits to the role. He commits pretty heavily here. He's not a Sean Penn, but it is interesting to watch him try.Incidentally, he reinforces an interesting stereotype. Movies are never about life, they are about other movies, But life is often about movies for instance it is well known that gangsters don't feel like gangsters unless they affect some film cliches.Same with astronauts. Chuck Yeager was a good &#145;ol boy with a Texas drawl. Coincidentally, early in the Apollo program, the center was moved to the irrational location of Houston Texas because of Lyndon Johnson. As a result of these two things, every astronaut and astronaut wannabee since then has taken on a Texas accent. For instance, today on any American airline when the pilot begins the approach for landing, they annouce we have begun our dee'-sent (on Houston-based Continental you'll hear dee' siyent), because that's what Yaeger said and how he said it.Depp knows he's under the control of a director who can only see a small part of what he does, So with all that extra space, he pokes fun at this stereotype. Fun. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst films of the 90's. Everything about the film was simply horrific. The acting was bad, the story line was ridiculous and the movie was enough to put the worst insomniac to sleep. The story is about a couple of astronauts that die in space and become possessed by an alien life force. They return to earth with this life force within them, and start killing people. I only wish they would have begun with the crew that wrote and produced this film. "},{"Title":"Shocking, don't waste your money","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The trailer made the movie look promising, and the first 10-20 minutes of the film were interesting.  However, it rapidly degenerated into a yawnfest.  The film jumped around from scene to scene, there was little or no character development apart from the lead roles, the aliens were almost non-existent and the ending was disappointing to say the least.As the credits rolled, you could hear everyone in the cinema give dramatic 'thank god that's over' sighs of relief as they walked out.Don't waste your money.  "},{"Title":"A really underrated movie which deserves a second look","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An astronaut goes in space where he almost dies. After he comes back on Earth to his wife he's not the same man...or is he still a man. Yes, when you first read it it does sound kind of simple. But believe me this movie is more than it appears to be. Have you watched Rosemary's Baby. I think that movie is Rosemary's Baby of the 90's. The directing is really good. The quick shots the slow motion, it's just really well used. The acting was not the greatest, but it came really close. Charlize Theron is just so beautiful and charismatic you can't help it but you feel so sorry for her, for what she's going through. Johnny Depp is a wonderful actor. He's so convincing as the wonderful husband and later as the evil and cruel...um..alien if you may call it.He just owns the screen and keeps you glued to it for the whole movie. The movie itself is all about subtlety, all about the little thing you have to pay attention to fully understand the movie. "},{"Title":"A Total Disaster","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Every now and then you watch a movie and wonder how could anyone have been so stupid as to produce, direct or act in a movie that sucks so badly!?! Enter the Astronaut's Wife. By far, this is one of the worst films that I have ever seen. The story was ridiculous, the acting was painful and the directing was weak at best.The movie is about a couple of Astronaut's who die while in space. When the ship comes back to earth, an alien lifeform has overtaken their bodies and randomly starts killing people. I could bore you with other details, but I'll cut to the chase. This movie was HORRIBLE!!! Nothing worked. Not the script, the acting, the musical score, the effects, the directing, the cinematography, NOTHING! Honestly, this film should be studied for how not to produce a movie. It's that bad. Depp should be ashamed of himself for acting in this one.-- DP. "},{"Title":"Sucked","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When the best part in the movie is when the main character is about to commit suicide, THEN you know that the movie SUCKED. This movie was definitely one of the worst Charlize Theron has ever been in along with Johnny Depp. The idea & plot was a good idea, but the writers just didn't know how to develop the story. So basically, don't waste your money on this movie. "},{"Title":"Astronaut Horror","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Johnny Depp stars as astronaut Spencer Armacost who goes up into space with a fellow astronaut. The two lose contact for two minutes. Depp's loving wife Jillian (Theron) begins to notice a change in both men. There are some odd occurrences in the other marriage. The Armacosts are transferred to New York. Jillian finds out she is pregnant after a very hot and heavy night. Things seem to be looking up but some questions are left unanswered. What really happened in those two minutes? That is what Jillian Armacost wants to know. A film that could have been much better. Depp and Theron are great as always but the film just does not live up to expectations. A science fiction thriller that is okay but does not have much to offer. "},{"Title":"Totally Tense Truly Horrifying Horror Show&#x85;Relentless Suspense...Underrated","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's a Theory Why Everyone on the Planet Hated This One. At Least Everyone On This Planet. It's Got Two Popular and Attractive Actors Playing a Very Unlikeable Pretty Boy Astronaut That is Abusive to His Beautiful, Trophy Wife That is in a State of Panic and Depression Through Most of the Film.Not Going to Sit Well with the Popcorn Crowd. Especially Couples Who Came for Some Cheap Scares and Silly Sci-Fi. This is Nothing of the Sort. It is a Relentlessly Downbeat, Creepy, Scary Time At the Movies.The Suspense is Unbearable at Times and There is Virtually No Relief. This is a Horror Show and Most of it is Horrifying and Grates on a Psychological and Emotional Level that is Distinctively Disturbing. It Will Remind Some of Polanski's Rosemary's Baby (1968) and it is Similar in Tone, to The Devil's Advocate (1997) Without the Humor.If You Can Take It, This is Quite an Onslaught of Unordinary Chills. It is a Cousin to the X-Files, a Popular TV-Show from the Decade, but More Unsettling, Kinda Like Millennium, an X-Files Cousin of Its Own, an Underrated and Definitely Downbeat TV-Show from Chris Carter and the X-Files Team that Lasted Three Seasons.This is an Underrated, Well Mounted Movie that is Worth a Watch If You Can Stand the Tension. "},{"Title":"slow countdown to weak ignition","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jillian (Charlize Theron) is a teacher and her husband Spencer Armacost (Johnny Depp) is an astronaut. Something goes wrong in his mission. He wakes up from his coma as a changed man. His fellow crewman Alex Streck has a disturbing episode and dies. Alex's wife commits suicide. Spencer leaves NASA for the private sector. Jillian feels lost and then she gets pregnant with twins. NASA Representative Sherman Reese (Joe Morton) comes to her with dire warnings.It's a really slow really long countdown. The drama has no bite. The movie has no tension. It turns into Rosemary's Baby midway through but this is nowhere near the classic horror. Johnny Depp doesn't have the menace. It's missing the paranoia. It's never in doubt about Spencer. The climax is less than climatic. It's a mostly weak film. "},{"Title":"You've Already Seen It.","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There's a little something for everyone in this tale of an astronaut, Johnny Depp, who has a blackout in space, comes home slightly different, and impregnates his wife, Charline Theron, and gives her two twins made of plasma or something.The general idea -- a brief unconscious period in space -- was done at least twice in the original Twilight Zone series, and both were an improvement over this ill-constructed and derivative junk, despite the lavish budget and rather good performances by the principals.Let's see. The Astronaut's Wife is almost a remake of Rosemary's Baby. It's not nearly as well done because it includes some bits of business that are nothing but hoary clichés. Not they don't work. It's always shocking when a woman is alone, shivering with fright, in a dark room, and a hand reaches in from off screen and touches her shoulder, accompanied by a sting on the sound track. Clichés are usually effective. That's why they've become clichés.Turning from Rosemary's Baby, with the alien things growing inside her, we can see the heavy hand of The Omen. If you remember the crazy priest who tried to warn Gregory Peck about the plot and was pinned to the earth for his troubles, we have an extremely nervous and deranged black guy who plain disappears while trying to get his warning across.The ending -- in which Therone finally does her fake husband in, and he dissolves amid shrieks and a loud spasm of electronic noise -- has the electronic organisms, if that's the word, zipping into Theron herself, through her blue eyes. That's from The Exorcist. Naturally, following the model of its forebears, the movie leaves open the door to a sequel, which I pray will never be committed to celluloid.I sat all the way through it just to make sure I'd gotten the ending right.This was written and directed by Rand Ravich. What writer Ravich had not already turned into a commercially oriented horror mess, director Ravich manages. He must have been weaned on television commercials because suddenly, and without purpose, we get enormous close ups of eyeballs and lips, especially Theron's lips. Don't get me wrong. Her lips are, well, inviting and her philtrum is exquisite. But it's all very much like a commercial for a brokerage house.See it if you must. "},{"Title":"Everything was awkward","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie had a lot of the common Hollywood formulas that would make any movie successful a lot of sex, violence and death, attractive actors, even the magic Negro (Google it).However, it was lacking tremendously in certain areas. The acting was deplorable. I was shocked when I found out that Johnny Depp was commander Spencer. The storyline was awkward and the sex scenes were super awkward. The only positive thing I have to point out was the camera work. The soundtrack was strange too. They could have done so much better, but I could tell this was a relatively low budget film. Not anything I'll be looking at again. "}{"Title":"The Astronaut's Wife","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I found this story riveting. Well worth watching; of course I am a fan of him and his cutting edge rolls. You soon catch on something is wrong. I will not spoil it for you; but keep strict attention and be your own detective on what's not right.The actors are well fitted for the roles and I think proper attention was given to picking them for the roles. It was made in 1999 and they are all younger.I cannot say there was never a moment when you are not enthralled with the story as it unwinds.Being not only a Depp fan and also a buff on science fiction and horror flicks I picked this one to watch out of a dozen offered.Depp is a character actor in the purist sense. This means he learns and adapts to his role.Remember to add this flick to your bucket list to watch. "},{"Title":"A decent thriller and mystery mix","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie opens up quite slowly, showing the background quite well but not really building up for the main conflict's happening time. So the main conflict's happening of an explosion in space and the two minute radio silence doesn't really come as strong as it's intended to be. The story goes on well enough, building it's mystery elements well by revealing bit by bit of Spencer's peculiarity. Yet again, the finale conflict doesn't come strong. But I do like the twist at the end, opening up chances for future sequels or sort. Charlize Theron nailed almost all of the scenes well. She didn't perform well enough for me on the scenes where she was about to take the pills. But she did get into character well, as Johnny Depp did. He really can get into character well, although I should say that there's not much room for him due to the screenplay is not being detailed enough about his character. "},{"Title":"Move on, sister, move on . . .","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I sat on this movie for about two weeks without commenting on it. I liked so much of this film but I hated it in an equal amount. This is a movie that I can neither recommend but can't dissuade you from either.The story is pretty good. An astronaut named Spencer (Johnny Depp) and his partner trapped in space after an explosion and for a short time contact is lost. Depp's wife (the captivating Chareze Theron) waits for what seems like an eternity for information. Turns out he is alive but in a coma. He wakes up, gets out of the hospital and he and Jillian go home.But something isn't right about him. He just seems odd. Jillian sees him carrying on conversations with strangers and then brushing off her inquiries.In a movie like this it is almost impossible to get around the tired old plot device of having someone who works for an agency trying to get information out while his life is in danger. In this case he is played by Joe Morton as one of those sweaty, breathless guys who says things like 'I don't have much time'. I liked it better when Spencer's behavior was mystery that was slowly developing. I like to figure things out like this for myself, I don't like them explained.Jillian digs deeper and finds that the secret is buried in her own body. I liked Theron's performance as a woman who gradually begins to realize the gravity of her own situation. She is one of the rare actresses who can panic very well. I liked this character and hoped the movie wouldn't cop out on me. I did not however like Johnny Depp's performance. He comes off as one of those cold villains that speaks in a soft menacing voice and we are never given the opportunity to wonder if he is himself or if it's all in Jillian's head.The movie loses it's nerve in the last half hour. I found the ending to be confusing and trapped itself in tired old clichés with a special effects light and laser show that I have seen over and over and over.What I appreciated about 'The Astronaut's Wife' was the way that the is allowed tension build, at least for a while. There are just as many thing wrong with the movie as there are right. I wish that I could lean one way or another but this movie has me at a loss. I'm in the middle here and so is my rating Rating **1/2 (of four) "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From about half way through, where the film should have been more and more exciting, it felt more and more like a drama about an abused wife. There were gaps in the story, or at least I saw them as gaps. There were story bits which didn't make much sense to me. I can't decide if the acting was bad or just the lines/story. In a thriller or sci-fi in general, you are expected to see things which are not exactly realistic. But when they get to point where they become strong plot points which don't make any sense, then the game is lost.At least the ending was cool, not perfect, but cool.With small changes here and there, the movie could have been much better, but it's not.I give it a 6 out of 10 because it had some good moments (including great acting by the supporting cast) and I believe the heart of the makers was at the right place. "},{"Title":"Something happened up there....","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A space shuttle in orbit to repair a damaged satellite is forced to return to Earth after NASA loses contact with astronauts Spencer Armacost and Alex Streck for two minutes. Both were outside the spacecraft when this occurred. While Armacost seems to be unaffected, Streck has a much harder time recovering from whatever happened to them. Over time, Armacost's wife begins to note subtle changes in him. Egged on by a former NASA employee, she begins to believe that her husband is something else. And she is expecting his twins....Considering that the two leads are now two of the biggest stars in the world, they were still pretty big in 1999, but this is a really weird film for them to be in.If this was made today, it'd be on the SyFy channel, or made by asylum pictures. There was no need to spend 75 million on this, as its nothing more than Rosemary's Baby meets Science Fiction.But there is this glossy sheen over the film that you cannot help but admire, and Depp and Theron are good, despite the dodgy script and convoluted narrative.But fear not, if you get confused, Joe Morton pops up every now and again to explain to everyone what is going on.But any fool could tell that Depp isn't right, and despite a quite good second act (thanks to Morton), the initial set up is silly and the final scene just ruins the whole film.Do yourself a favour, if you see this, turn it off right after she puts her feet back in the water, and miss the final kick in the nethers... "},{"Title":"An intriguing premise but a windbag of a movie","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Have you seen 'Rosemary's Baby'? Do you remember Charlize Theron's character in 'Devil's Advocate'? Then you've already seen this movie.Johnny Depp is an astronaut whose craft loses contact with Earth for two minutes. When he returns and his wife Theron falls pregnant, it becomes clear that something strange happened during those two minutes... Sound good? It's not. Writer/director Rand Ravich tells his po-faced story in bizarre stops and starts, attempting a slow burn with underdeveloped scenes but blurting out the blanks with a Deep Throat character and a needlessly explicit flashback. Surely Theron's history of mental illness could have been played on a little more rather than the movie bluntly confirming what the predictable plot has already led us to suspect; the water-logged ending would be far more interesting if we still don't know whether or not she's right. Bland, obvious and very, very dull. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think the reason I didn't get into this film was the story, I just wasn't interested in how the story would be resolved. I will say it was very subtle in the way it gradually showed something had changed about Johnny Depp and his other colleague's character while up in space. Although I couldn't stop myself from watching till the end I just didn't care about the characters and I can't put my figure on exactly why the story didn't appeal to me.I will say that Charlize Theron and Johnny Depp's performances were brilliant, they were both compelling to watch but something in the film let them down. It was just an average film and I don't think I would see it again. "},{"Title":"Cross between X-files and Rosemary's baby is genuinely creepy... ..","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Astronaut Depp has mysterious accident on a space repair mission - and on return to earth, strange and unpleasant things occur as he reunites with his increasingly suffering wife Theron...Slow to kick in and establish exactly what kind of movie it is, but when it does, I'm hooked Genuinely straight and creepy paranoia thriller comes off as a sort of cross between The X-files and Rosemary's baby... that admittedly barely touches credibility, but hey - did Rosemary's... ever, to be good as well? If this had been made as an early Twilight Zone-episode, it probably would've been a series classic! Nice colorful cinematography and reliable performances adds to its uncomfortable, seeping mood.6 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"The Hairstyle of Charlize Theron, The Secret of Tommy Lee Jones !, and The Fact About Actual Alien worked in This Movie !","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK !..You know it, as I know it, as Johnny Depp knows it, and maybe as the newcomer Miss. Theron knows it, so let's tell it to the ones who aren't knowing it at all  It's a popcorn movie...In the shape of a mysterious sci-fi which's trying to say something about a dark electronic future as well as humans. Though we've seen all of that before ! The thrill, the way of invasion, the next frigid inhuman race.. Bla Bla Bla. Actually this movie succeeded only at making such a little thrilling time and maybe that was its exclusive aim. However, at the end you'd feel as disappointed as me simply because nothing was new or even that clever ! It's completely a pastime with old repeated message, and yes, I don't oppose having some nice time but it would be a problem if you finished the movie and the only things which could live longer in your mind from it are  the hairstyle of (Charlize Theron), her sensibility, and the stupidity of the whole thing also ! If you want to know exactly the value of this movie just look at Depp's performance; that wicked great actor refers to it here all the time by his indifferently low tone. You can read it in his eyes all along being uncomfortable in a way which's clearly there, saying the unspoken fact just like (Tommy Lee Jones) whenever he's in a movie he doesn't quite love  He doesn't act that much at all, masks that insouciant cold face, and makes what Hollywood wants mostly  The Popcorn ! Yet they &#x96; the actors - do it ..To be present, to cash some money..Whatever. (Depp) also said here by his tepid acting - meaning it or not - that Hollywood is cold whereas it's capable of transforming the actors into these daft creatures, or by making spiritless projects like this. Hence the real evil aliens would be the producers of those movies ! "},{"Title":"Decently made but without any tastes","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I do think that Johnny Depp is a very good actor, even one of the best of his generation and Charlize Theron is for most of the time amazing, too, so you would think that the encounter of such actors would bring you an unforgettable moment of cinema? You're wrong! Jonny Depp is far from being amazing here, he even fails to deliver an average performance with his character's palette of expression limited to a cold face and a once in a while smile. Charlize pretty much play the samecharacter than in the Devil's advocate but seems even more insecure andweeps for most part of the picture. Concerning the storyline, the pace of the film is so slow that you will find yourself falling asleep after a couple of minutes. So why a 6? Because cinematographically speaking, it has no plot hole and descent shots. In a word it is decently made but without any tastes. "}{"Title":"Space Children","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Outer space Rosemary's Baby-like shocker that holds together pretty well until the final few minutes when you would expect the movie to deliver the goods and only end up getting a second-rate and very confusing, or a complete let-down, surprise ending. Being sent into orbit on the space shuttle astronauts Spencer Armacost and Alex Streck, Jhonny Depp & Nick Cassavetes, are almost killed as their repairing the shuttle while in space. Being cut off for over two minutes, from the main NASA monitoring station in Huston, it was at first assumed that the two were killed in an explosion outside the shuttle. Later it was confirmed that both Spencer and Alex were all right and the shuttle mission was aborted with the two astronauts brought back to earth. Something happened up there to the two spacemen that was to come very very close to home, their wives, when they returned.Both of the astronauts wives Jillian & Natalie, Charlize Theron & Donna Murphy, at first don't notice any change in their husbands, Spencer & Alex, appearances or conduct only that their horny as hell. At the first possible chance the returning astronauts had had they, at least in the scene between Spencer and Jillian,pounced upon their wives like wild animals in heat and brutally make love to them as if they haven't seen or touched their wives , or any other woman, in years!It's later at an out-door party that Alex, after having a fight with Natalie, goes berserk and collapses and dies from a massive heart-attack. Later Natalie despondent over her husbands sudden death commits suicide by electrocuting herself in the bathtub while both Spencer and Jillian are there at her home visiting and trying to comfort her over her tragic loss.Moving to New York City Spencer gets a job working for Jackson McLaren's, Tom Noonan, aerospace company and things just couldn't be better for the happy young couple. It's when Jillian gets pregnant and is later told that she's to give birth to twins by her physician Dr. Patraba,Samantha Eggar, that strange things start to happen to her. This all leads Jillian to believe that the person that she's married to, Spencer Armacost, isn't the man that she thinks he is in fact he isn't a man at all!The movie quickly moves to from where Jillian has absolutely no suspicion of her husbands sinister plans for her and her future children to where she's terrified at just the very sight of him. Being contacted by former NASA insider Sherman Reese,Tom Morton,Jillian is told that her husband is not human and that his body and mind were taken over by some unknown and unseen alien force while he and Alex were in outer space! A force that's anything but friendly towards her or any one else on earth.Jillian thinking at first that Reese is some kind of nut still can't dismiss the shocking and personal information that Reese knows about her being pregnant with twins. Reese also knew that Natalie was also pregnant at the time of her suicide, that was kept from the public, and she also was to give birth to twins; how on earth could Reese have known all this unless he was telling the truth? Reese trying to get all the secret and shocking information about Specer to Jillian, before he feels that he'd be silenced forever, information that proves that Spencer's not who she thinks he is from top-secret NASA documents ,that Reese smuggled out before he was fired from his job. All of Reese's efforts come to a crashing end when he's intercepted by Spencer at a local New York City subway station where the drop, or pick up, by Jillian was supposed to take place and is never seen and heard from again with Spencer, instead of the out of sight and hidden Jillian, taking off with his briefcase.Getting a key from Reese in the mail it leads Jillian to a storage building where he kept as a back up, something he learned from working at NASA, information about the truth of Spencer's origins. Jillian now more then ever is convinced that her husband is not only not of this earth but later when Jillian finds out that her sister Nan, Clea Duvall, who was last seen at her and Spencer's apartment was missing she suspected that her once sweet kind and loving husband is a murderer as well.The movie looked like it was going to be a better then average thriller but fizzled at the end with a very convoluted final that destroyed all the tension that was building up in the film. Your left wondering what exactly the ending was all about with a complete turn around, as well as new hairdo, in what Jillian was actually trying to achieve in stopping her husband and his offspring's the evil space twins from gaining a foothold, so that they can later take control, of the US NASA space program. "},{"Title":"Shame about this one","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bless their hearts - they all tried but a really lame ending and some bad editing ruined what was a genuine attempt at a classic horror. Well acted, with the exception of a Charlize monologue that was a ridiculously long exercise in exposition (and should have been cut), the film was creating a good mood until somebody got the bright idea to bring in some CG and blow it all to pieces.It's really the post-production that killed this movie. I imagine that the actors were really disappointed with how it came out, because it must have appeared to be an incredibly appealing script. If you're a fan of either of the leads, it's worth seeing because you will love them more for their efforts. If not, give it a pass - it will just leave you feeling cranky because you don't get your cookie at the end. "},{"Title":"*sigh* Yet another sci-fi botch-up!","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ol' Hollywood makes another mess of the 'science' fiction genre. The fun, creepy premise of a cute young married woman getting' preggo by an astronaut husband who, after routine Shuttle repair mission, is NOT what he seems ... well, how can you go wrong? Ha.Well, first, you cast a thirtyish actor as a thirtyish astronaut. I didn't know NASA selected greenhorns and then let them fly right-seat--let alone go EVA! (Hey, Neil one giant leap Armstrong was 38 when he walked on the Moon; Buzz Aldrin, 39; Alan Shepard was 47!).Then you name the Shuttle 'Victory'. Nice, gung-ho, jingoist touch, that. Guess you gotta call it 'Victory', though, 'cause the Shuttle's got lasers and photon torpedoes, right? (Note to Hollywood writers horror films are made more creepy when they come on realistically. Use real Shuttle names--if you're allowed.) I guess I'm supposed to suspend my disbelief, but a parasitic alien which crosses the gulf of space and then selects as hosts two astronauts who just happen to be outside their spacecraft, and then alters them physically in two minutes ... nooooo, that's not 'science' fiction. That's a plot with a garage-sized hole.Finally, we see poor, frightened, alien-impregnated Gillian confronting her not-husband and exorcising the alien thing which took him over. Turns out it's like, wow, this big, squealing sheet of mucus. Then it's HER turn to be visited. So she's gonna zap the gooey alien, but leave its spawn gestating away inside her? Jeesh, Gillian! So the alien waits until astronaut Spencer went into orbit and got outside, gloms him, jumps poor Spencer's wife, then gloms Gillian anyway? Jeesh, alien! Jeesh, Hollywood! It seems there's a hybridization of _Alien_, Star Wars_, and _2001_ taking place in a lot of current 'science' fiction films. It's as if even a stab at scientific accuracy would somehow compromise the film. No, it wouldn't. A malevolent twist on reality is far more effective horror, I think.And ... dump the glitzy, rich-folk settings! The silly soundtrack music! The stylized hospitals! The overblown characters! Quit trying to be hip, current, and flashy. Better yet, stop beating the audience over the head with your excesses.Growf. Until the next Hollywood sci-fi goof-up ... "},{"Title":"Film Tactics in The Astronaut's Wife","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In The Astronaut's Wife, photography elements are used to increase the intensity of the film because unsettling camera angles are used and because aggressive and vibrant colors are present. In addition, a close-up on a radio meant trouble.I rented this movie because I had never seen it before and have watched it once.In this movie, the wife of an astronaut deals with suspicions of her husband after he is involved in an unusual event while in space.Several camera angles that are known for their ability to unsettle the audience were used throughout this movie. During one scene where Spencer is acting aggressively towards his wife they used a shot of him looking directly up from beneath him. It was pretty much the opposite of a bird's eye view. It took a while for me to get used to seeing the image being filmed from that angle and focused on Spencer. The use of this angle made him seem even more creepy and overpowering. There is also an extreme low angle of Spencer's wife, Jillian, while she was digging in the refrigerator. The odd camera angle was almost a piece of foreshadowing because you sensed that something was going to happen. The next thing we know is that her husband shows up. There was an oblique angle of the hand rail of the stairs leading to the subway. At that time Jillian was hiding from Spencer below the rail and his hand was reaching towards it. The use of this angle increased the amount of suspense in this particular situation. Near the end of the film, Jillian is attempting to electrocute herself in a suicide attempt. Spencer shows up and tries to manipulate her. We get a bird's eye view of the scene as he gets electrocuted and killed.The use of the colors red and orange were tools of foreshadowing. Jillian was cutting carrots when she cuts her finger. She starts to clean it up when she sees the story of a problem that happened in space that involved her husband. Sherman Reese was the only person that was willing to look into the possibility that something may have affected the astronauts while they were in space. His red hat gave us the clue that something bad was going to happen to him. It is later implied that Spencer kills him. One night, Jillian wakes from a dream in which Spencer is harming her sister. She wakes shaken but convinced that it was just a dream and there was no chance that there was even the slightest possibility that it could be reality. Jillian notices that Spencer's hands are red when he gets home that night. She realizes that he has indeed done something to harm her sister. She got the vision from the unborn twins that she was carrying.Early in the movie it gets stated that radios are the ways for the extra terrestrials to communicate with each other. At a party there was a shot of a radio and the next thing we know a scream is heard and somebody has just committed suicide. There are several close-ups on a radio in Spencer and Jillian's house. This is foreshadowing that a situation similar to that is going to happen soon.Beware the odd camera angles. "},{"Title":"Acting not to blame","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Although I enjoyed the acting in this film, The story was not very well thought out. the plot was not only dragged out, but also confusing. Many promising themes remained under developed, and the script contained believable but boring dialog. On the other hand the casting was perfect. Johnny Depp once again proved how talented and diverse he can be, and Charlize Theron truly put her best dramatic foot forward, not to mention the rest of the wonderful cast. Unfortunately, due to poor script and directing, the film fell short of what the casting promised. If you have to pay any more than two dollars and fifty cents to see this film, don't even bother. If you absolutely must watch this film, be prepared for tired, repetitive dialog, unfulfilled themes, and an ending that offers no closure. "},{"Title":"To confused as to what it wants to be.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screenwriter RAND RAVICH makes his leap from writing to directing with this some what confusing jumbled mess of a movie, that at first starts as a Sci-Fi, Suspense film, then winds up going the route of a drama, paranoia & a whole lot of other genres, that pretty much harms the film. JOHNNY DEPP stars as SPENCER ARMACOST, an astronaut who along with his partner, has a weird dangerous encounter in space, surviving the ordeal, his wife & he decides to have children a short while later, but after his wife gets pregnant, she realizes her husband acts a bit to strange. Moving from the warm winds of Calafornia to Manhatten in the winter, she starts to feel very paranoid, people give her weird looks & her husband is starting to act...well not like her husband, soon she comes to the shocking realization that her husband is not her husband! but rather a nasty alien (Not the gooey hideous type that hides under human skin mind you) that has taken over her husband & has plans to have her give birth to his children who will totally annihilate man's reign on earth, can she kill this thing that's pretending to be her husband? or will she give birth to creatures that will wipe out & take control of our world in the future? While the plot was interesting & the actors good, ASTRONAUT'S WIFE over all failed to entertain, part of the problem stems from the script itself, which like I said above in my review, is really a whole mess of genres that winds up, messing things up rather than helping them, there's no real surprises & the film has nothing remotely memorable happening in it & while the special effects are fine (Visually, I mean not blood, guts & slime) they sadly don't add anything to this film that would make me want to recommend it, fans of CHARLEZE THERON & JOHNNY DEPP, may want to see this, but this ain't one of their best efforts. Orignally Director Ravich was going to shoot this fast & extremely cheap, but Newline showed interest in it & after giving it a somewhat bigger budget than Ravich had originally planned on ($60 million alone for prints & advertising costs!) we wound up with this. A failed experiment that neither chills nor is suspenseful. Ravich originally conceived the idea after he adopted a comic book & wrote a screenplay for a film based on it, that never got made, he had been trying to come up with a good scary villain & came up with this idea of an Astronaut's body being corrupted from a force from somewhere else (To bad the film never wound up as interesting or as scary as he intended it to be).** stars "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby Meets Sphere","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When a space mission goes suddenly wrong, the wives of the astronauts are concerned for their husbands' safety, but are relieved when they return safely to earth. However, they become apprehensive when their husbands act strangely, but all seems well when Jillian Armacost, the wife of the commander, becomes pregnant. But is all well, or is there something very wrong? I was given this movie on DVD as a gift. I probably would not have watched it otherwise. That being said, I was mildly interested by this movie. The plot was a little thin, and is reminiscent of both Sphere (which was mildly entertaining but not great) and Rosemary's Baby (which was a true classic). Overall I give this movie a 5/10. I found it worth spending an evening watching, but would not really want to spend a lot of money to watch it.Johnny Depp is great as Commander Armacost. Not being a big Johnny Depp fan, I have to admit that I have been quite impressed by his acting ability and scope in a variety of movies. He is very convincing in this one. The rest of the acting is also alright&#151;I have no complaints.I don't find the story all that convincing, nor does the movie as a whole hold together that well. As a science fiction movie, it is mediocre at best. As a horror movie, it is bad. And as a thriller, it is depressingly predictable. But despite this failure at being any one of several genres, it is an okay movie for entertainment value.Not a great movie, but okay to watch if a friend has rented it on video. "},{"Title":"An Astronauts Wife","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronauts wife is a story of Spencer Armacost (Johnny Depp) who is a pilot for NASA. Spencer's relationship with his wife Jillian (Charlize Theron) and his life are normal, until he returns home from a life threating mission. The Astronauts Wife showed aspects of suspense and scenarios to keep the guess work going, but overall it didn't impress me. It is a little slow and the story doesn't drive towards what happened throughout the course of Spencer's mission. I expected more shocks and twists, acting on Depps part was well done, he is becoming to evil sided but he suits that role!. This film had potential but lost it in the bulk of the story. Pros Well acted, aspects of suspense, realistic and originalCons lacking in the bulk, slow, and not what it could have been. "},{"Title":"Oddly Not Up To Par","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Unfortunately for The Astronaut's Wife, the potential makings of a great horror/sci-fi/mystery/thriller became more of a long, drawn out I don't really know what kind of movie this is. As the DVD case label says, this is a thriller. But as advertised and as the trailer suggests, all of the action is already captured on the previews before one even sees the movie. This thriller with a sci-fi element tossed in is more of a slow moving horror movie or psychological thriller with Johnny Depp doing a decent job of acting here. The edge and tension is maintained in the far or deep background, but the pacing and the various genre elements don't gel in this movie. The movie might have been better served if the whole sci fi scenario had been a red-herring. Six out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Given this plot, should have been better.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Being a part of that majority who would never miss a sci-fi thriller starring Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron, one evening I found myself abandoning all my schedule sitting in front of the TV to watch... well, this sounds interesting... The Astronaut's Wife! Too pity I didn't look for this title earlier in IMDb. So my expectations were in full bloom.What did I get? Over 2 hours of boring incomprehensible gibberish so complex I had to try hard to concentrate on the conversations in the end. The plot was good, no doubt, with a bit of Omen and a tinge of Rosemary's Baby packaged within concepts of evil Aliens. The scenario was intended to be suspenseful, but there's no suspense. In the middle I often told myself Ah here comes the thrill. But my bad, where was I after all?It's not that the actors were bad. Theron was in particular very good as the title lead. Depp does his usual magic. A little bland, but that's how the character is. The major flaw was perhaps in directing or the screenwriters thought they're writing an art film. Filmmakers of sci-fi should probably research more on the mentality of the target audience. Or what makes Spielberg different? "}{"Title":"Could be developed better but","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film play about the fear of unknow, helped by a Amazing and STUNNING Cinematography by Allen Daviau ASC,one of reason why worth be watching! The story could be developed better but is an example how sci-fi could be see from a more intimistic and human side,without too much special effects...like was the oldiest sci fi movie,and that was a great effort. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not scary","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's a fairly given fact that anything Jonny Depp appears in is at least good. Well this one doesn't deviate from that - Depp plays one of his more sinister roles to date, and appears, perhaps, more like himself, in appearance. He's an astronaut whose mission went wrong somehow, and on return to earth begins to be just slightly different to before. Charlize Theron does a half decent job of playing the confused wife, who can't understand why her life is starting to feel surreal and wrong. Without giving too much of the plot away, it's a decent enough attempt at sci-fi without ever really having any charm. While the story is well told, you never really care about any of the characters, because the emotion isn't properly conveyed. Depp's the best thing in this, but even he doesn't have one of his better days, really. Joe Morton puts in a hackneyed performance as the official in charge of the affair, for whom things go slightly awol. The ending pretty much ruins it, as being far too contrived and a little bit cheesy, never mind melodramatic.But disregarding its faults it'll keep you entertained.  "},{"Title":"Good thriller, not much of a sci-fi movie","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the first 10 minutes you realize that this ain't drama, and the whole movie has this Outerlimits -spirit which plays with ideas like what if.., but it hesitates to answer them. Charlize Theron does a great performance and so does Johnny Depp. Nice to see Depp to transform into a scary character, because he does it well.Althou it was a good thriller, it lacks much. One is the plot. You wish to see more, but seems like they wanted you to figure out the rest. Rand Ravich, the director, seems to have a background on horror movies - this shows in Astronaut's Wife in positive way.Overall quite ok movie, worth of watching. "},{"Title":"Ultimately disappointing, a good premise wasted","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ultimately disappointing, a good premise wasted. I thought Depp and Theron played their roles well, but their roles just weren't that good. While there was a certain amount of exposition near the end, there was an opportunity to make a great sci-fi flick, but the filmmakers passed on it to make it just a backdrop to a psychological thriller. It generated a fair amount of suspense, so it isn't a complete waste of time. Check it out on cable, maybe, but don't waste any money. Grade C- "},{"Title":"Oh, Really Boring...","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one the was highly recommended by a co-worker, so I went out and bought it.  I had never heard of it before, so I was looking forward to spending a saturday night watching a nice, creepy, science fiction movie. WRONG!!  What really happened is that I lost my $20 I put on this crap, and was bored to tears watching patiently for this yawner to develop into something of a movie.  God, watching this was painful.  Not scarey or creepy at all.  Please, don't make the same mistake I made, stay the hell away from this one. "},{"Title":"Truly chilling.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine the face of terror is the one you love. Now, this is a film that makes you think. If you a fan of sci-fi movies, see this. If you are a fan of horror, see this. If you are a fan of dramas, see this. If you don't like movies, see this! Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron star as a happily married couple whose lives are changed forever when Spencer Armacost (Depp) is stranded in space for two minutes without contact to anyone. To everyone else, he was the same. To his wife, he was not.THE ASTRONAUT'S WIFE is another one of those films where the bad guy is the one person you don't want it to be. Only this film has sci-fi in it. That is the only minor setback. If you like these types of movies, then I suggest you see WHAT LIES BENEATH and ROSEMARY'S BABY.THE ASTRONAUT'S WIFE gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"THANK YOU RAND RAVICH!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  That's right!  I would like to thank the braindead, so-called  writer/director who created this piece of extra-terrestrial crap.  Why, you may ask.  Because Ravich has given this aspiring screenwriter plagued by self-doubt, the confidence to think that he might just make it.  I mean come on, if there are screenwriters out there who can take an interesting concept with the potential of being a great, suspenseful, scary thriller and then turn it into a mind-numbingly boring collection of slow-paced, insignificant scenes of dialogue that insult viewers by leading nowhere but to another insignificant scene of dialogue, than there's no reason any why young hopeful can't make it in the creatively hollow hollywood........................... "},{"Title":"Houston we have a problem","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoiler...I was watching this movie the other night out of sheer boredom, and it seems like it was missing some critical elements. For one, when Johnny Depp's character was abducted during a space walk, who and what did it, and why did they do it? Without the who, when, why, where and how, how is it possible for a movie to hold together?May be NASA's next mission is to remove all copies of The Astronauts Wife from this planet and to send it into N'syncrious orbit with Lance Bass.    "},{"Title":"Another Point of View","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I agree that this movie has a lot of eye candy in terms of cinematography.About the actors, I think Johnny Depp did not do to badly on this one. The truth is we only get a glimpse of his character's personality in the first few minutes. Even then, it was someone preparing to leave his wife to go to outer space. Perhaps his character was trying to hold it together for his overly sensitive (and perhaps neurotic) wife. *Spoilers*After his character was erased and replaced by the alien, the irritation made plenty of sense. The alien had a mission, and keeping the astronaut's wife happy was not on the laundry list. Having twin baby pilots and getting the plane made were the goals which were met.Theron I think was an okay choice for the character. This was a young couple and Theron's character was a young, inexperienced, fragile woman placed in extraordinary circumstances. Clinging to her supportive husband (whom she would have no way of knowing no longer exists) trying to please him and stand by him. After being warned by the other astronaut's wive and a ex-staff member of NASA, she begins to wake up, but it is too late. She is naive, fragile, and powerless. It is clear even in the end that she was in a lose-lose situation.Although it was not the most riveting, spellbinding movie in the world, it is okay to watch and I think I got the point. "},{"Title":"copycat of The Devil's Advocate...not as good though","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie gets better in the second part. The first part is too slow and lacks tension (or maybe it just doesn't reach the viewer). Mr Depp doesn't come to his full force and Ms Theron is ok, but no more than that. Overall, it's a bit of a weak extract of The Devil's Advocate. Where's Mr Pacino in this one? "}{"Title":"What was the point?","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After my husband and I watched this film, all we could think was what was the point of THAT movie? I don't mind if a plot is slow, as long as the storyline, script, and characters are interesting, which was not the case with The Astronaut's Wife. The good cinematography didn't carry this film.I was not entertained and would not recommend the film********** D- "},{"Title":"Aliens soft-core.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought there was no need for this movie. Johnny Depp must have been on vacation when his agent approved of this role for him. Ugh! This movie drags the audience along for the first half without letting us know what is going on. I hope this doesn't damage Depp's career.  "},{"Title":"Strange and Odd","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok I dont have much to say about this movie except it was the strangest movie I have seen in a long time. The only thing I like about this movie is that Johnny Depp is in it and he is very hot in this movie, even though he dies. Strange movie, I wouldnt reccomend it. I give it a 4/10 "},{"Title":"interesting to watch...","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not really what I had expected. I mean, I hadn't thought about it for a long time until I saw it recently and checked it out. Charlize Theron and Johnny Depp play a couple who move to New York after Depp's character is stranded in space for two minutes on a standard operation procedure. Now, I do agree with many of the reviewers that Charlize wasn't a strong enough lead in the film, but it makes up for it with the tension. The atmosphere in this movie is really tight and dark, very suspicious and suspenseful. Depp is a very good actor, with the character of a man who can jump from one personality to another between films. This makes his performance very enjoyable. It's an interesting watch, something for a night alone, or perhaps a movie study. "},{"Title":"stinkeroo","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i never thought i would find a movie as bad as Wild Wild Westwell there is and it is this one....can someone tell me what it was about????and Charlize Theron ===== how did you end up in this hunk of junk?  "},{"Title":"Some very good points do not make up for a bad story and slowness.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK folks, you will see by the comments below and the low point rating that this is not a great movie. The ending leaves you drained, with a yukky feeling. And it is so slooooow, with little action or events that move along, especially in the first half or so.BUT WAIT! There are some redeeming features that may interest you enough to view this flick. The cinematography is superb check out the camera angles, close-ups, lighting. The acting and script are excellent. Charlize Theron is beautiful, and you may be one of the many Johnny Dep fans.  "},{"Title":"What is expected?","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie just for something to waist time with and this is a small lead in. 2 astronauts go into space to fix a satellite and for a 2-minute period all transmissions with the crew are lost. In that brief 2 minutes something changes the lives of the 2 astronauts and their wives. Suspicions arise about the mysterious 2 minutes as well as the obvious change that Charlize Theron (character wife of Johnny Depp) sees in her husband. `The Astronauts Wife' was an odd movie, not to the point of extreme oddity that makes the movie so weird it is intriguing. This movie was odd to the point of losing interest in the flick up until the 2nd half of the show. At that point you want to know if the movie ends the way you think it will. It was interesting to see Johnny Depp on the darker side of the spectrum.  "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie never really got too slow, which was good, because the plot wasn't too original.  Minor suspense here and there kept me going, although i just didn't dig charlize theron's haircut.  I gave it a 6, maybe even a 7, i'll have to check my vote history, but it wasn't a bad flick. "},{"Title":"Not sure what to say...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  and I think that is the whole problem with this movie.SPOILER BEGINS************************* The plot itself is somewhat interesting. I bought the idea of an alien lifeform being contained like a thought or a band of information. That is new and different, but at the end of the movie you kind of sit back and go Huh?. I mean what is the point of coming here? To build a plane that can 'turn off' communications from the sky? So they can do what? No development here on that one. I suppose that it could be considered spooky to some but not to me. The acting is so-so too. I mean you have some real talent in Depp and Joe Morton (I have not seen anything mind blowing from Theron), and they are both kind of non-committal characters. It is acceptable from Depp because he is supposed to be playing a guy who is an alien pretending to be normal. No biggie. Joe Morton is a guy who everyone thinks is crazy because he freaking acts like a crazy person. He has all this important information for Theron and can't seem to stop acting like a psycho and just tell her what's going on. And Theron does a good job acting just like she did in The Devil's Advocate - like a woman who's husband has changed and it's messing with her sanity. This role the second time around is nothing to write home about. The direction and camera work is really interesting in parts but then overdone in others. It adds to a spooky feeling at times but unfortunately there is not enough *spook* to keep the feeling going. SPOILER ENDS******************************It seems there was a lack focus surrounding this whole picture. I hadn't heard about this movie or read a single review before I saw it. I saw this movie with no idea of what I was going to get, and the worst thing I can say about this movie is that I came out of it with no idea of what I got. It is not as horrible as some people feel it is, but I don't recommend it and I feel safe in saying Don't bother seeing it. You will save yourself a couple of hours and a couple of dollars and isn't that what we all want ) "},{"Title":"Potential, but a Tragic End - Contains Spoiler","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Astronaut's Wife started with a lot of potential, telling the story of a woman who suspects her unborn baby is not what it seems. Halfway through the movie, very little has been said in so much time.What disappointed me the most was the ending (STOP reading here if you have yet to see it), rather than be daringly original and have Jillian on the brink of insanity, they deliver a conclusion containing exactly what we suspected. Alien twins. Wow. It would have been a classic if it was all in her head. After watching the film, I kept asking myself why the film makers even bothered.It could have been a good movie if it wasn't so predictable. "}{"Title":"Very tiresome","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an interesting concept that could have been so much better.  Depp, an astronaut, is invaded by an alien life force while lost in a 2 minute window in space.There were immense possibilities to this, but it became a standard Hollywood story of demonisation that was as predictable as it was over long by the end.Theron does well and is gorgeous, but Depp fails to achieve the heights of some of his other recent work.Definitely worth a miss, average at very best. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This review goes against 2 of my self imposed restrictions. 1st I try to stick with the if you don't have something good to say, don't say anything and I will get the 2nd one out of the way (spoiler)****Spoiler****Spoiler****This movie is bad on so many levels I don't know where to start.Ok, I will fight through it... What a waste of good actors with Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron to work with. Johhny Depp has been great in his choices think Sleepy Hollow or Blow Edward Scissor Hands etc. I seriously enjoy his work. Jury is still out so far on Ms. Theron.This movie fails a very basic need for this type of film and that is to be suspenseful, creepy, scary etc. in any way. The only creepy thing was the sex scene and knowing I paid full price to see this!  This movie really could have good in the right hands-2ND problem this is not well thought out.  Aliens made of energy/light have been waiting a long time for the chance to jump into a body (or two) and do Very Bad Things here on earth. For some reason this seems to involve ummn twins (man that is so creepy) and building an airplane so they can fly around in and do alien things in some way. I am sitting here looking at the last sentence or so and this sounds as crazy and silly as it was when watched this flick. This movie darn near caused me pain it was so poorly...well, it seems pointless to keep picking on this movie. Stay home, save the rental fee and get your sci-fi from a number of better TV shows that are free. Maybe this can be packaged with Supernova for a night of bad cinema. Now that is very, very scary stuff.I would rate this 1.5 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Well worth a watch!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I note that there are some intensely negative reviews on this number. Personally, I enjoyed the film.  POSSIBLE SPOILER COMING UP. The 'transmission' scenario was unqiue, the direction creative and the ending was not cliche. SPOILER ENDS.Some moments in the film felt GATTACA-esque (a film I really digged). Overall I consider it well above-average compared to a lot of other tired sci-fi that we're seeing these days.  "},{"Title":"Could be better...","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am not sure, what was that put me off with this movie. I like Johny Depp, the central idea is rather good (although not original), but neither the script, nor the acting, nor the rythm was what it should be. Both Depp and Charlize Theron act as if they are bored (especially Depp -but that must be bad directing), Joe Morton, although good in the supporting role of a NASA exec who knows what is going on, is not enough and all the rest of the cast just walk on and off camera being just part of the set. With a couple of really good actors, this could be a good theater play, but for 109 minutes on the silver screen it is tiring. Still, it is not boring and I already know some people who actually liked it very much -one more proof that it takes all kinds.   "},{"Title":"Not a great film in any sense, The Astronaut's Wife is entertaining in the sense that you feel you are being led up to an excellent climax, but when it is eventually reached, it is disappointing and retrospe","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Unfortunately, Charlize Theron has reached the point where she can't really play roles like the disturbed wife because she just comes off as annoying. She was good in The Devil's Advocate (in almost exactly the same role as she played in The Astronaut's Wife), but that was probably just because every other element of that film was so well done. I just can't become interested in watching her do these whiny crying scenes anymore.However, Johnny Depp delivered an excellent performance as the newly disturbed husband, even though the character himself was shallow and ultimately uninteresting. Despite this mediocrity in terms of Depp's character development, his creepy performance made it fun to watch.SPOILERS My biggest problem with this movie is that it builds up and builds up and builds up and then just stops. And it was even a good story up until the last 30 minutes or so. The blackout in space, the strange behavior of the two astronauts, Depp's sudden and mysterious promotion, the whole thing with the twins, it was all coming together so well. But then, you get the same old crap that you always get with movies like these. The wife starts to suspect, husband starts to get subtly aggressive and threatening, wife inexplicably wants to do the traditional `right thing,' husband doesn't like it and ultimately gets killed, wife goes on to find her perfect man. Come on, whose idea was it to slap this awful ending on to what could otherwise have been a great film? I don't mind Charlize wanting to do the thing that is traditionally accepted by society (the backwards religious community, anyway - the only people likely to complain, had it been done differently), but I was just completely put off when she seemed to fall in love with these alien babies. She KNEW something was horribly wrong, yet she just HAS to have these kids. And what does she get? Two creepy twins (collectively of Big Daddy fame) who resemble the kids from The Village of the Damned.This is not a good message to give to our society. Basically what they are saying here is that even if you find out that you are pregnant with the offspring of an other-worldly species intent on world domination, you should still have the baby (or babies). Yes, abortion is THAT wrong. This is just ridiculous nonsense, and is one of the main points where the film really went horribly wrong. It's almost worth watching just for Johnny Depp's fascinating performance, but be advised that it is ultimately a very disappointing movie.  "},{"Title":"Mia Farrow did it better...","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   About halfway into the movie, I started to get an inkling that I'd seen this before.  Then I realized that I had; anyone else ever see Rosemary's Baby?  Some things seemed awfully familiar...   In any case, Astronaut's Wife doesn't cut it.  Aggravatingly slow, little pay-off in the end, and an annoying ending (*spoilers*).  The end seems chopped off, like there was something more to it.  And the audience still doesn't understand what invaded Johnny Depp's body and why.   Glad I spent the $3 to rent this instead of the $8.50 in theaters, or else I'd have been really ticked off. "},{"Title":"Needed a better beginning.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've read a few of the paper critiques for this film and they all seem to agree that the ending leaves you mightily unsatisfied.  I wouldn't have minded this ending so much if we could've got a bit more involved at the start.  The crux of the advertising campaign read in 2 minutes, their lives will change forever  but the problem is that we never really get to SEE this crucial 2 minutes.  When the wife is told 'they were out of radio contact for 2 minutes  and she starts jumping around angrily, I was left thinking 'is 2 minutes really that bad?'  Maybe if she had been talking to the husband or had been witnessing them outside and had been there for the 2 minutes, we the audience could've got a real sense of the isolation and shear helplessness of their situation.  There's the usual lack of time to really get to know the couple before he leaves.  On his return he doesn't really seem that different.  It also has an extremely linear storyline. She has doubts almost immediately upon their return, they are confirmed, and she spends the rest of the film convinced something is terribly wrong.  You're wondering if at the end we're going to find out it's all in her head but there's no ambiguity whatsoever.  Weird things happen, she suspects the worst and is absolutely right.  It is very similar in theme to Rosemary's Baby, a film I really admire and I kept wondering how this film would've looked if Roman Polanksi had directed it. For a first time director I just thought more care would've gone into this very good idea.  "},{"Title":"Spacy pacing","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThe Astronaut's Wife has an intriguing,original idea which propelled me to watch it.Unfortunately,maybe because of a fault on the scriptwriters part,it is executed in a slumberous,uninvolving fashion.It was clever and well thought of to have Depp and his co star's charecter get lost in outer space for 2 minutes,and to never really even begin to know until the end what happened in those crucial moments,but while this propelled the film,the human drama back on earth derailed it.The cliched,dozily handled expressions of terror and concern on people's faces descended into farce.The part played by the guy who played Miles Dyson in Terminator 2 was the most hammily over the top piece of acting I've seen since Kenneth Branagh transformed himself into Victor Frankenstein.While not playing his part poorly,the script seemed to leave a lot out for Depp to do.I never understood why his wife ,played by the catchingly attractive Charlize Theron,was getting so spooked about in the first place,all he really did was creep up on her on times when she was trying to satisfy her own paranoia.It also made little sense to me why impregnating just one person with the alien spawn would work when it would,on that basis,take centuries for the aliens to conquer earth if that was their mission,during which time it might have destroyed.While this movie boasts some stunning fast camera visuals (one in outer space,the other on an underground train),it is further marred by the most blurry,video soundtrack in ages.** "},{"Title":"lack of concrete plot, just nifty atmosphere","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this movie, one cannot help the feeling that what we've seen is all there is. Questions as to why there are twins or why Johnny Depp's character is obsessed with building a plane are unanswered.  You can also guess who dies in the story.  We also have a Dr. Ruth-like doctor (what in the heck?!).  I also got annoyed at the bad guys see everything element (just like Arlington Road) here when Joe Morton and Charlize Theron were supposed to meet.  If he's busy trying to build the plane, why is he just about everywhere in New York?  I guess the problem is that the story just focuses on the character title only.  However, there's so many other things going on in the story, and we really want to know why, we are just supposed to accept it.  Duh.The verdict 2.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Space tale told on Earth just misses mark","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spencer (Johnny Depp) is a super-cool astronaut with a cute blonde wife, Jillian (Charlize Theron). On a routine shuttle mission, something happens to Spencer. (Ever notice how nothing ever happens on the non-routine missions?) When he returns to Earth, he just doesn't seem like the same ol' Spencer that Jilllian knows and loves. What's an astronaut's wife to do? This is one of those muddled mysteries that takes its sweet time getting to the actual mystery part - it more or less hints around things, and you know from the get-go that something happened to Spencer up there, but it takes the movie forever and a day to get into any specifics. Even so, the story's intriguing enough that you want to stick with it to see what DID happen to ol' Spencer. And you have to give some credit to the leads in this one, too. Depp could have played this one completely over the top, hamming it up, stealing each scene, and he didn't. He underplayed the role of Spencer wonderfully, and was matched in effort by Theron, who, by the same token, eschews the normal paranoid damsel in distress in favor for the subtle approach. All of which is nice, but the plot just isn't strong enough for that approach. It's like a song - if you go heavy on the instruments, that is, with complex melodies, then you have to compensate with stronger vocals. Otherwise you have all of your components too quiet, with none able to take over the song. Same with movies. Can't have your characters underplaying and your script weak - then the whole movie's damaged. Bottom line It's a solid movie, but it doesn't quite live up to its potential. "}{"Title":"DVD for sale","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A cheesy outerspace oriented rip-off of Rosemary's Baby. The sets on this film must have cost $4 each. The space shuttle scene is done well, but the rest of the film is very lackluster. I didn't expect much from the film. Lo and behold. "},{"Title":"The Wrong Stuff","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Someone should put this movie in a rocket and fire it into space.  It's 1/2 Invasion of the Body Snatchers (done poorly) and 1/2 Rosemary's Baby (done even worse), and all confusing.  I'm a big sci-fi fan, but Starship Troopers looks like Citizen Kane next to this trash.  The only thing scarier than this movie is the thought of a sequel. "},{"Title":"Surely Invasion of the Body Snatchers is better","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea of people who become strange 'cos of alien force or energy or whatelse is not new this is the main reason i didn't like this movie. Then, i think that the first 50 minutes could be summerized in 20... too many boring situations and so that the only way to make the movie not definitely ugly is its final (even if not original). If you wanna see a great thriller/horror movie, take a look to Invasion of the Body Snatchers... "},{"Title":"Bit of a fizzler","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I won't waste too much of your time, but really, ... DON'T BOTHER. I had heard fairly ordinary reviews for The Astronaut's Wife, but one of the local critics in the paper gave it a pretty good wrap up. And he was nearly right. The first half of the film was quite interesting, and gave you a reason to sit through the rest of the film. But, mediocrity and stupididt came along again, and ruined the remainder. If you're after a bit of intelligent thinking of outer-space happenings, go back to Kubrick's 2001, or something like that. "},{"Title":"no pay","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie builds up promising, good actors etc. In my humble opinion (really) the movie didn't live up to it's initial promises. I even found the clue and the wrap-up pretty cheap. I don't really mind being left in the dark, but then I prefer being left completely in the dark. "},{"Title":"Interesting set-up, terrible payoff...","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rather enjoyed The Astronaut's Wife for its atmosphere, mood, great camerawork and Charlize Theron's performance; however, Johnny Depp didn't have anything interesting to bring to the picture and the ending was complete and utter bulls**t. I still give it three stars because it had such a great feel for build-up and suspense and Charlize Theron was incredible. If the ending was as powerful as the rest of the film, it would have made it into my top ten of the year.  "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was hoping this movie was going to be good, but it wasn't.  I think it could've been way better.  It was kind of slow, but it kept me watching, and at the end is where I REALLY felt that the movie was retarded.  I'm not going to give anything away, but it's just like the average ending these days.  Charlize Theron was pretty good in it though.  If it wasn't so slow and kind of lost my interest through it, and if the ending was better, I think this movie could've been actually good.  But since it's not, I think I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"TWIN DEPPS","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Charlize TheronÕs husband is probably an alien (a spooky Johnny Depp with a Southern twang); she herself experiences more than a few extreme psychological swings (note especially the rapid cutting during a subway sequence at the height of her paranoia) while ex-NASA zany and John Sayles veteran Joe Morton tries to warn her that her gestating twins are not of this world.  Concerned sis Clea Duvall (THE FACULTY) has a scary face.  A little too stylish and dreamy, but decent sci-fi for chicks, with lots of wrenching emotional scenes (even a clip from PENNY SERENADE).  This is Miss TheronÕs moment. "},{"Title":"Better as an Outer Limits episode","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This would be better as an Outer Limits episode. I saw this at a drive inn double feature. The first flick was Universal Soldier The Return. which also sucked. Both films left me regreting the three hours I wasted. Not worth the $2.50 per film per person I payed. "},{"Title":"Potential not realized.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a movie that had great potential but it ended up being slow and an anti-climax.  The story was good and the acting was well done but it just had too many dead spots.  I was expecting at least more action and thrill if not more special effects; it didn't happen.  Depp's acting was perfect and I love his performances but I'll hope for better in SLEEPY HOLLOW.  If you haven't seen it then I would wait for the video.  It was ok but not worth the price of a theatre ticket. "}{"Title":"A movie of wonders","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Overall a very good movie.  I seen Johnny Depp and Theron before, but never like this.  It was a pain hearkening movie, and kind of slow.  But nary a moment that it was very scary.  I liked special effects at the end.  They were very exciting and made me laugh somtimes.  Somtimes I think it were not so scary, but then I change my mind.  Maybe it were better if it was a musical.  You should go see it.  But don't see it in movie theater, just as a friend of someone who rent it at rental place. "},{"Title":"No need to rush off to see this one...","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For each of us, certain things will draw us to a movie,, I am reviewing mine after being pulled in by Johnny Depp's name. We see little of his character, which certainly was not his best work by far.  Although the title focuses on the 'wife', the character is oh so flat, and the acting by Armacost, well this lady shows her inexperience again in this film. So boring are the first 40 min that people were leaving,, and there was but a handful to start with .. a bad omen.. so save yourself the trouble and wait for this one to hit video .. if at all.. The ending which was the only saving grace, was short and choppy. I would be kind at giving this one 4 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Mediocre thriller that never gets off the ground","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is more aptly titled The Astronaut's Wife's Baby because it's essentially recycled and updated material from Roman Polanski's vastly superior 1969 classic thriller, Rosemary's Baby.  Even Charlize Theron's short blond hair-do is identical to Mia Farrow's. Properly paced this feature would boil down to a solid Outer Limits episode and have more impact.Part of the problem is casting Charlize Theron in the role of the title character, Jillian. She is asked to supply the wide ranging display of raw emotion necessary to convey the torment of a fragile woman who slowly discovers she's going crazy, only to find she may not be. The nuance of the kind of controlled schizophrenia required isn't in her acting arsenal. Yet. She is, however, beautiful and much more at home early on as the school teaching wife of national hero and astronaut, Spencer (Johnny Depp).  As their lives begin to crumble its evident a slightly older actress with more life (and acting) experiences would have been a better choice.Two astronauts on a routine mission to repair an orbiting satellite lose contact with mission control for two minutes because of a mysterious explosion. What happened during those two minutes is, of course, crucial when our recently returned heros begin acting in ways their wives notice as different but can't quite put a finger on. One of the astronauts dies suddenly of a stroke and his wife soon commits suicide. Spencer quits the space program and he and Jillian move to New York where a high paying job in the aerospace industry awaits (They like having a national hero on the letterhead.). Before the paint dries on the walls of their posh New York apartment Jillian finds herself pregnant and Spencer a far cry form the aw shucks fly-boy he used to be. Joe Morton as a paranoid NASA agent claiming stolen evidence of what may have happened during those two minutes and Clea DuVall as Jillian's worried sister round out the cast. First time director Rand Ravich along with cinematographer Allen Daviau (E.T) have given The Astronaut's Wife some very clever camera  work. Scenes depicting paranoia, claustrophobia and just about any psychological condition ending in  --ia are effective. Most films employing these visual devices (extreme close-ups, inventive camera angles, slow motion, etc.) only manage to draw attention to themselves and away from the continuity of the film. Not so in The Astronaut's Wife, it's one of the few reasons to recommend this movie.Ravich, who also wrote the screenplay (as well as Candyman ll Farewell to the Flesh) leads us through a painstakingly slowly paced, if passable, thriller but the real disappointment is his ending. It's an ambiguous mess that when finally over -- and quickly forgotten -- leaves one nagging question What was that all about?   "},{"Title":"Finally, a new idea!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jonny Depp...what can I say.  This man can act!  His southern accent was perfect for the entire movie except the time he got angry and raised his voice.  He carried 21 Jump Street, but this movie was a team effort.Charlize Theron, was very good.However, Joe Morton made this movie work.  He introduced the latest new idea since Star Trek.  And I thought the idea behind Matrix (harvesting humans) and 13th Floor (not knowing whether you are in a real or virtual world). The Astronaut's Wife suggests that we... oh well you'll just have to see the movie.The movie is very fast pasted.  However, it it were any slower I would have been bored.The director seemed to choose not to show more action and details in order to help us believe that the Wife was crazy.I believe the director made the wrong choice and cost this movie at least one point. "},{"Title":"Very slow....but Charllize looks great.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I knew absolutely nothing about this film before I saw it other than the fact that Charlize Theron was in it. While she looks absolutely fabulous through most of the movie, and her acting, I thought, was one of the best things in the film, overall it was slow and not very involving.In the later stages of the film after she becomes pregnant Charlize Theron's face becomes very puffy and not too attractive. Reminded me of her role in the The Devil's Advocate. I wonder how they did that to her face? Then there is one scene where she and Johnny Depp are making love and there is a closeup of his hand caressing her face. I couldn't believe that he had dirty, ragged fingernails. C'mon Johnny....you can afford a manicure.As others have mentioned there was zero chemistry between Theron and Depp. In fact, he is pretty wooden throughout the whole film. Despite other comments to the contrary, I thought Theron was not only well cast in this role, but did a terrific acting job. But for me, the entire mood of the film from start to finish is very unsettling. I never felt comfortable watching it. But the menace that is an underlying factor throughout the film is very subtle....probably too subtle. For me the film would have had a lot more zip if it had been a little more in my face. The cinematography is outstanding with some very creative camera-work. The cinematographer loved close ups up Charlize Theron's lips. Not a bad subject in my view. The apartment the couple live in after they move to New York is incredible. I would say the rent on something like that would be about ten or fifteen grand a month. Frankly, for me, other than the opportunity to view Ms. Theron, who I feel is the most appealing actress working today, the film was largely a waste of time and the ending was a let down.  "},{"Title":"An Interesting,Long Road to A Dull End(Some plot put forth here!!Read with caution!)","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As A Huge Fan of Science Fiction,I must Disavow seeing this Movie.Why? The overall plot is lacking here to say the least! If an Alien Intellegent Being can travel Light years in a moment of time,Why would they need to impregnate a human woman?This is never explained. The ending Lagged BigTime...Charlize is Great!! Depp is shallow. See it For the cuteness of Theron,otherwise Forget it!! "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby in Space","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Astronaut's Wife started out interesting, but then simply turned into Rosemary's Baby with the father being an alien instead of the devil. The audience is constantly being blasted with deafening sound design, too (probably because the film had no tension without it).  I found it very hard to believe that this famous astronaut (Depp) would have such terrible grammar (a lot of ain'ts).  On the positive...the performances, cinematography and music are all very good.  If I hadn't been sitting in the middle of the row, I would have walked out. "},{"Title":"Charlize Theron is brilliant","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Astronaut's Wife, The By Dean KishA psychological thriller set within the US Space Program. Will this thriller be full of dead space or be a blast off? First time director Rand Ravich brings us the story of an astronaut's wife who becomes involved in a paranoia scare when her husband is involved in a freak accident in space. When he returns she becomes frightened that her unborn baby is an alien. This film stars Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron as the couple victimized by this outer space incident. What does draw you in is the torment in the eyes of Theron, who's beauty and scope are magic in this role. She does a lot of paranoia angst throughout the whole film which can only be compared to the classic brilliance felt in `Rosemary's Baby'. Theron does need to be recognized as an actress and not just another beautiful person found by Hollywood. Another impressive aspect is the paranoia shots which come when the camera focuses on an eye or a mouth. These angles and zooms accent the depth the paranoia is going. Which begs us to wonder if this is all induced paranoia brought on by her unplanned pregnancy and her shadowy hospitalized background. Maybe it should have been. What is actually disturbing is how mundane Depp is as the possessed astronaut who not for one moment is ominous or frightening. Is this the same actor who has given us such twisted and plagued characters Ed Wood and Edward Scissorhands? What we get here is a zombie. I guess I will have to wait for this fall's `Sleepy Hollow' to see the real Depp. The great end payoff  is what is so evidently absent in this. Can you think back and remember the bone-chilling ending of Rosemary's Baby? I know it made me squirm. And that is exactly what Rand Ravich's screenplay lacks as we witness an over-stuffed `Twilight Zone' episode or an `X-Files' sequel. I kept wondering where are Mulder and Scully since there wasn't an introduction by Rod Serling. This film should have been a study on paranoia which would have made the movie believable and original. If you plan on seeing this film please remember when you leave the brilliance of `Charlize Theron'. (2.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"Out Of Orbit","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Charlize Theron stars as Jillian Armacost, loving wife of Commander Spencer Armacost(Johnny Depp), NASA astronaut. On a routine mission to repair a satellite in space, Spencer is struck by an unclassifiable lifeform and loses contact with Earth for two minutes. Upon returning, the astronaut remembers nothing, quits NASA, and takes his newly impregnated wife to New York to take a executive job as a jet designer. Sensing something odd in her husband, Jillian tries to figure out what happened in the two missing minutes and why the twins she carries inside her are so important to her mysterious spouse.In his directorial debut, Rand Ravich has created a film with parts greater than the whole. Working with his own script, the film is a very curious mixture of setup and intrigue. At around 100 minutes, the film is about 95% setup, 5% payoff. It builds very slowly, often annoyingly so. You can sense the creepy feeling that I'm sure Mr. Ravich was hoping for. With acclaimed cinematographer Allen Daviau (E.T) at his side, Ravich comes up with a very interesting approach to filming this complex script. There are a multitude of great shots to be seen, many a lot more creative than the film itself. Often, I enjoyed looking at Astronaut's Wife more that I did listening to it.What this material needed was a stronger female lead. Charlize Theron has proven time and again that she's just not experienced enough for some of the roles she takes. Wife needs an actor that can bring a rainbow of complex emotions to the table. Ms. Theron cannot do this. She's not old enough, and she hasn't the experience. I'm also a bit miffed that Theron chose this project so soon after the miserable Devil's Advocate. The two films are similar in more ways than one and Theron is the weakest link in both. She's just not proven, I don't care how beautiful she is.Johnny Depp has the easier role. Playing with a thick southern accent, Mr. Depp isn't too compelling as the strange invader. He's such a talent, a real actor, but after 1998's Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas I fear Mr. Depp has lost his way. Wife asks Johnny Depp to play suave menace. All he seems to be doing is bored aggravation. It's not his best performance. Stranger still, but pleasingly so, is Clea DuVall in a small role as Jillian's sister. After The Faculty and She's All That, Ms. DuVall finally plays a role that suits her age. She's got style and talent to burn and Wife is a good sign that promise will be kept.When the film is over, you might ask yourself What was all that?. It's tough to shake that nagging feeling that Astronaut's Wife doesn't add up to much. While to literalize the menace for the climax of the film would be a waste of time, the film ends on a much more troubling ambiguous note. I'm all for letting the audience make their own decisions about the deeper meaning of scenes in films, but Astronaut's Wife would have been better served had the film paid more attention to the story than the visuals. Too much of the movie's more nuanced moments are left to actors that cannot translate the power through their limited means.The best way to enjoy Astronaut's Wife is to lower your expectations when entering the theater. Consider this review a signal flare. New Line Cinema will try as hard as they can to sell this is something more accessible than it really is.  This is bound to disappoint many who enter the theater expecting excitement and chills.  It isn't a bad film, just a curiously empty creation that doesn't gel the way other films of the same cloth do so easily. A thriller without the thrills, a suspense flick without the suspense. ------------- 5  "},{"Title":"Watched for stars, disappointing ending. But great for Depp fans","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bought the movie recently I will admit for Johnny Depp, it has great visuals, great acting and a great cast. Visually pleasing and very gripping storyline, my heart was pounding at times. Storyline had a lot more potential than it ended, but I think it's open to enterpritation, I can say it's worth a watch and generally wasn't a bad film at all. All I can say really is a quick short lived disappointing ending, but worth a watch for any Johnny Depp fans. Different side to Johnnys usual portrayed characters which was great to see a different side to him. All in all I'd give the movie a 7/10. Reasons being I would have liked to have had a better ending, it seemed too short for my liking. Had a lot more potential and storyline was a little confusing with the ending ending the way it did "}{"Title":"The Cast Is Good; The Story Is Lacking","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron heading up the cast I was ready for a pretty good ride with this. I like both Depp and Theron. She, especially, is one of my favourites. In this both were cast a little bit against character, which made things even more interesting in some ways. Depp wasn't his usual quirky character that we've come to associate with him through his many collaborations with director Tim Burton. Working here with a director other than Burton, Depp's character is more serious and has more depth (and Depp actually reminded me a little bit of Matthew McConaughey in this); Spencer Armacost is mysterious rather than quirky. As Spencer's wife Jillian, Theron breaks away from her usual strong woman persona and plays a much more vulnerable character who gradually realizes that she's caught up in something out of her control. Both Depp and Theron were quite good, although perhaps the best (if limited) performance in the movie was from Joe Morton as Sherman Reese, a NASA official who figures out the mystery that's going on here, but who no one takes seriously. His limited performance in his later encounters with Jillian as he tries to explain to her what's happening was actually riveting.The story has Spencer as an astronaut who survives some type of accident in space but was completely out of touch with NASA for two minutes. He returns to earth and everything seems normal. The question is - what happened during those two minutes? Neither Spencer nor his partner Alex (Nick Cassavetes) will talk about it. The story and the mystery unfold slowly (frankly, too slowly for my liking.) There's really very little to hold your attention through most of the first hour or so of this. Just vague hints of something being not quite right - but maybe Spencer just has a bad case of PTSD from his experience. There are surprises. Alex's unexpected death and his wife's totally unexpected suicide afterward add to the growing feeling that something's not right. Reese's re-introduction as the ex-NASA employee trying to warn Jillian probably represents the high point of the movie. The mystery (although we kind of suspected all along) is revealed and then it's a matter of seeing how it turns out. There's a spurt of energy and drama after that one hour mark as the movie picks up steam. Somehow, though, that dissipated rather quickly. The ending was - to me at least - unsatisfying; the last scene left too much up in the air.Basically, the performances are good, and there's a fair bit of potential in the story, and I appreciated seeing Depp and Theron in what were - for them - unconventional roles. The story was lacking though. It needed more meat, and it needed more tying up at the end. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby Meets It Came from Outer Space","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well, I'm giving The Astronaut's Wife a 5 but I'm not happy about it. I'm doing it because I think Charlize Theron and Johnny Depp make a sexy couple, and if it hadn't been for them, you could have seen this as a USA channel made for TV movie. This film not only BOMBED at the box office, but even with video rentals, it still hasn't made back what it cost to make the film.Depp plays an astronaut named Spencer who, along with his partner, are lost in space for two minutes when they are out of contact with the ground. Depp's partner dies a violent death once back on earth, and his wife commits suicide. I can't believe a huge Broadway star like Donna Murphy put whatever that thing was, a radio (I think) between her legs - did she think no one would see this? Anyway, there's Charlize with this Mia hairdo - then Spencer makes love to her and he's so rough, it hurts ... Well, you can take it from there. You don't even have to watch the rest of the film.Depp apparently uses the images of certain people sometimes to help him with a role - I think his image here is the King himself. Clean shaven, a little more filled out than we're used to, and with those smoldering eyes and that twang in his voice, Depp is to die for. But he really doesn't do much. The acting burden is on Charlize, who looks exquisite (lots of closeups of her lips) and acts her role very well, creating a sympathetic character. But one who, alas, you already know too much about if you've ever seen Rosemary's Baby. Nine years later, these actors have gone on to bigger and better things. Remember the next time you see one of them in a movie - they paid their dues. "},{"Title":"Certainly No Masterpiece, But....","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The premise for this film was certainly not outstanding, but at least intriguing. The story COULD have been better but it's obvious they didn't put much effort into it. A guy goes into outer space and has a two minute window where nobody really knows what happened and he comes back to earth a little bit off. But after the initial set up, the movie really took a nose dive and just tailed off the rest of the way. I am a big fan of Johnny Depp and Cherlize Theron has her moments as well, but these roles required absolutely no depth on their part.I have to admit, however, that the movie still had me in its grip. The mood and building suspense kept my eyes glued to the screen wanting to see what happened next and in that sense, the movie succeeded at least with me. That's why I gave it a higher rating than most. But there were just so many question marks and absurdities towards the end that I just left the movie shaking my head in a mix of confusion and disappointment. Like whatever happened to Mr. Reese? Was he killed? And why? And how/why did the alien(?) leave Depp's body and enter Theron's? And were they evil children? What was this supposed diabolical plan that was inferred but never explained? Entertained, but majorly disappointed. Depp and Theron deserve better treatment with their roles. I rate movies purely on how entertained I am while watching, so I gave this a 6 because I was entertained. But if I were to rate this one purely on sensibility and story telling it would have been a 2 or 3 at best. "},{"Title":"Lackluster, typical, genre movie.","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie had the right atmosphere and certainly the right actors to make this a good genre movie, only problem is, nothing ever happens in this movie! The movie is clearly a thriller but the movie does never gets tense and lacks in good thriller moments.The movie has a good and tense mysterious atmosphere at first but the movie does nothing further to exploit this after its opening. For too long nothing really happens in the movie, also because the husband in fact really isn't acting that weird and suspicious as before the accident in space. Certainly not enough to become afraid of him and not even the ending of the movie can really change this.The reason that this movie also doesn't work is because the motivations aren't clear. It makes the entire story and movie feel rather pointless and makes it unclear. Also when the wife learns that her husband is possibly an alien, she doesn't investigate but she is in constant denial. Is it tense and interesting to watch a character who is in constant denial? Of course it's not. Not even for a paranoid kind of atmosphere also because we as the viewer already know that something happened and went wrong with the husband. It all makes the movie quite ridicules to watch, though it's definitely a professionally made movie with some good acting in it.We get to see Johnny Depp in a role and movie we normally wouldn't see him play. It seemed like Johnny wanted to play a villain for a change. He does this will and his acting deserved a better script to go with it. Charlize Theron also shows her skills, in a movie before her real years of fame and awards. There also are some good supporting actors in some much smaller roles, such as Clea DuVall, Gary Grubbs, Joe Morton and actor turned director Nick Cassavetes.The movie is a typical genre movie and I was happy and satisfied enough to give this movie an 6 out of 10 rating but then came the ending. What an horrible and totally weak ending it was! It downgraded the movie and even made it more ridicules than it already was.No wonder Rand Ravich never directed or wrote a theatrical movie ever since.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"What!!!!","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Could have been so much better. Was OK till the end and it just didn't explain anything about why this plane was being built, why the twins were going to be flying it. Why did one astronaut die and the other live. Why they kept saying he's inside me. Johnny Depp played his part well although all the way through it felt like the directors wanted Ray Leota to play his part. He sounded exactly like Ray and even looked like him. As for Charlize Theron, did she think it was a sequel to The Devil's Advocate, her character was the same. Should have had someone else play the part, would have been better. At the end of the film i found it a complete waste of time. A disappointment as the description was good, had good potential but was ruined by bad directing and lack of explanation. "},{"Title":"Mediocre ending blemishes an otherwise good picture","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ASTRONAUT'S WIFE, THE (1999) *** (D Rand Ravich) - Fine acting and camerawork; Johnny Depp is outstanding as a would-be alien husband, impregnating beautiful wife Charlize Theron with twins. A typically mediocre ending blemishes an otherwise good movie. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby?  Yup (and why not?)","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS Viewers have noted similarities between this film and Rosemary's Baby. Well, duh--it is essentially a remake, but with the threat of aliens rather than devils. All of the cast is good, and it is especially amusing to see Joe Morton after his crack up.  Perhaps too much effort is made to explain the aliens' purpose, especially since that purpose doesn't make a whole lot of sense. And without all those entertaining old people from Rosemary's Baby, we breathe a great sigh of relief when earthy Blair Brown shows up--this is a very underpopulated movie. But what this film is about is what Rosemary's Baby was about justifiable female paranoia. Here The Astronaut's Wife succeeds, and in very nineties terms. The minor flaws (such as our not feeling the wife's isolation very intensely, since we haven't seen her as anything BUT isolated) don't matter much. But where it misses out is on two counts It replaces the everyday qualities that gave Polanski's masterpiece its subversive punch with an arid elegance. And it makes the husband a victim rather than a betrayer, thus removing some of the original plot's feminist underpinnings. Johnny Depp may not always score with his choices, but they are invariably interesting. This film, with its strong performances and striking visual qualities, is certainly worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Not surprising.. too bad","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not a very good one indeed. The story is somehow not exciting at all. We are not shown what happened to the two guys up the space very clearly. only some part is good and well done.Only things to admired is the well performance of both leading actor and actress. The rest do not seems as promising at all. "},{"Title":"Charlize looking good in plotless movie","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is yet another run around the block of American paranoia about being taken over by aliens - an irony indeed for a nation that would never have existed in anything like its present form except for aliens. It is also ironic, as well as intriguing, to have the astronaut hero played, not by some all-American standard, in the mould of the Toms, Hanks and Cruise, but by weirdo Johnny Depp, who some might think really had been landed from a flying saucer.However, that's about as far as the irony goes, and the plot goes little further. After encountering some mysterious force out in deep space, Depp and his colleague - or their doppelgangers - return to take up their lives. Depp's double is is the more lucky as he has the delectable Charlize Theron to cozy up to; so it's no hardship at all to achieve her impregnation, as presumably intended by the alien powers that be. (I don't think any of this needs a SPOILER warning; it's all obvious from the start.)It is then a question of filling in space and time until the birth or abortion of the little monster, and here the movie's producers and director, Rand Ravich, made a happy decision. Having lost the plot, they decided to spend quite a bit of the budget on modernist furnishings for the Depp/Theron New York apartment, and on outfits for the delicious Charlize. This ploy works, and together with some genuinely interesting camerawork, not forgetting the delightful Charlize, we end up with a visually interesting movie. Ravich's directorial feature debut should have been better, but is no disaster.    "},{"Title":"CRASH LANDING","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is an okay effort, if you don't take it too seriously. The ending is a bit of a let-down, but you stick with it up until then.There are nods towards Rosemary's Baby  WHY?? And Depp is obviously going through the motions on auto-pilot. Don't rush to the video store, but catch it on satellite if you've got not much on. "}{"Title":"interesting idea but dull!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  look, i'm not a sci-fi fan, but i do enjoy a good thriller and i can appreciate a good movie. The Astronaut's Wife is not a bad movie, it's just incredibly dull. An astronaut (Johnny Depp) goes up to space and when he comes back down, strange things go on and his wife starts wondering if this is really her husband? This could have been good, it's well made and also quite well acted, but nothing ever happens until the last 5 or 10 minutes. Spend your well earned cash on watching something else! "},{"Title":"One of the two worst movies ever made.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is simply awful.  The performances were the worst.  And did you notice in the beginning of the movie where the guy says come with me, and it seems like she's refusing, but then she says, Then take me to someone who can,?  This might seem like a line that a heroine uses, but the setup makes nauseating.  Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron are the biggest actors in the movie.  They also give the worst performances.  And as for Johnny Depp's so called country accent, I haven't seen a worse accent from a good actor since Christina Ricci in 200 Cigarettes.  I was hoping that this would be a wake up call to people who are thinking of making clicheic space thrillers, but then I saw Mission to Mars.HELLO! out of **** "},{"Title":"Looks nice, but fails in the horrorscare department.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A great story, and very nicely shot with great lighting and a nicely active camera. It's an interesting story too, and Charlize Theron is so believable in character, and gorgeous! Johnny Depp does manage to unnerve you superbly in this role, yet his accent did nothing but annoy me throughout.The story didn't seem to make enough of the accessories to the plot, for instance the missing two minutes in space, the noises on the radio. These sidelines could have done so much to make the story creepier, yet they were brushed aside. Even the new job, although seeming highly relevant, is made nothing of.The ending. Well, it seemed like a rushed one, and a bit of an anti-climax. I'll say no more.Not too bad for some easy entertainment, there's a couple of bits that are quite good, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"needed some work *SPOILERS*","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I agree with a lot of what I've read here 95% buildup, 5% payoff, the abrupt switch of husband from nice, social guy to evil alien husband half way through, and not a whole lot of tension. However (MAJOR SPOILER) my wife and I both spotted something pretty ridiculous about the ending that has not yet been mentioned. So, OK, here this unknown, alien creature has slipped into Cameron Diaz's body. OK. So.....what about the two dead bodies in the house?? Her dead sister and her dead husband are rather hard to explain away. How did this woman avoid being in prison for the rest of her life (or avoid the death penalty) instead of hanging out in suburbia with a new husband in the final scene? We've all seen an entire movie based on people, innocent or guilty, being found with dead bodies in their house. So what did she do with them? Bury them? Eat them? Didn't anyone in town notice they were missing? And how in the world would she have explained the entire house flooded with water to the police? A burglar turned on all the faucets because......hmmmm....ummmm....er...can I see my attorney?I didn't actually hate this movie, I've certainly seen movies far more annoying. But I wouldn't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Think Rosemarys baby, with Johnny Depp in space, and braindead.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In one of the most blatant ripoffs I have seen in a while, this movie moved me into tears.  Awful movie that only succeeds in reminding me that there is a reason that you get movies for free from Blockbuster if you work there (I was when this came out), cause maybe they do realize the immense amount of c**p that comes out today (no they don't, they need some incentive to keep you there).  Mr. Depp, one of my favorite actors, must have needed some cash.  Made me want to throw the tape across the room and out the window. Bad script, Charlize Theron (one of the worst actress's ever), and evil babies from space that want to fly jet planes.  This movie is a mess.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I rented The Astronaut's Wife I was convinced it was going to be pure trash, mainly because I had read so many bad reviews and because of the 4.7 average here at IMDb. Then again, I had also seen the trailer quite a few times and that made the film look very interesting. So, I ended up renting it despite all the reviews (and hey, as a true film fan I really don't care what other people say, I like to form my own opinions about films).The trailer definitely promised too much, and the negative reviews were too negative. I actually thought that the film was quite interesting, although it could have been more suspenseful. The acting was okay, but the production design (ultra modern, it seems) created a distance between me as a viewer and the characters. With such cold production design, how am I able to see the warmth in Charlize Theron's character? If the makers of the film tried to set her warmth off against the cold design it didn't work. While the p.d. worked for Depp's character it certainly let Theron's down.However, in the end I quite liked the film, even though it is very far from a masterpiece and the ending certainly wasn't great. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Not what it could have been","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The feeling I came away with from The Astronaut's Wife is that it simply isn't what it could have been.  A good plot premise and fair acting from the cast is let down by poor script, dreadful special effects, and one of the most painful endings written solely to cater for a sequel that I've yet seen!  The end result is a movie that is a total disappointment - the best I can say for it is that it will fill an evening if you can find nothing better to do.  It should have been so much more... "},{"Title":"Should have been a twilight zone episode","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the movie is spent marking time until the ending scene. If this had been a 1/2 hour twilight zone episode, I would rate it an 8 because the gist of the story is interesting enough to justify spending 30 minutes watching. "},{"Title":"Quite good.","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I actually enjoyed this film. Someone mentioned that it's 95% setup and 5% payoff. Well, that's what I liked about it. In fact, I could have done without the 5% payoff. We are told that *something* happened to the astronaut while he was in space. As long as this event is left unexplained, the audience is kept in the dark as to how the story will evolve. This is a blissful state of ignorance. It's the same kind of Sci-Fi as 2001, A Space Odyssey. Not in terms of the plot, but how the space is used solely to grasp the mystery and the incomprehensible and bring it to the screen. When it's revealed what actually happened to the astronaut, the movie becomes weaker, but doesn't fall apart completely. "},{"Title":"Long, boring non-thriller.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie I have seen over and over and continues to hold a complete lack of inspiration for me.Charlize Theron made much better of a similar role in 'Devil's Advocate, The (1997)' and as a villain, Johnny Depp is about as menacing as a carrot.Interminable Dross -- 2/10 "}{"Title":"The shortest way to go from bored to irritated","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A couple of astronauts is fixing a satellite in outer space. Suddenly all communication with the base on earth is broken. Two minutes later the communication is back online and the astronauts are taken back to earth. Once they get back on earth one of them starts acting quite strangely and drops dead. The other doesn't start to act very strangely until his wife discovers she is pregnant, basically much too late.And so ends the summary because the rest of this awful movie can be derived easily. It's after all a very basic SF monster movie which has taken the worst scenes of some of the best SF monster movies ever made (Alien, Species) and the worst scenes from the worst SF monster movies ever made (Virus etc..). In short it starts to be boring, and ends irritating. "},{"Title":"Awful! Do not watch!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So far, the worst movie I've seen in 1999. The basic premise behind the movie is very interesting, and a great sci-fi novel and movie can be made of it. This movie was not it.This movie moved in jerks. It started interestingly enough but just sat there, boring the audience. It went nowhere fast and did progressed like a snail in a strong head wind.I wasn't the only one. I could hear couples in the audience, each blaming the other for making them watch this movie.I wanted to ask for my money back.  "},{"Title":"Long, slow, boring","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Textbook example of how NOT to do a horror film.  Take a decent premise (is her husband possessed by a monster from outer space?), slow it down as much as possible, instruct EVERYBODY to act like they're on Valium, throw in a lot of artsy camera shots like it's an art film, and give us one of the worst endings in cinema history and you've got one of the lousiest horror films ever!  This film will (hopefully) be soon forgotten.  Go see I Married a Monster from Outer Space instead. "},{"Title":"Houston, we have a problem...","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie definitely did not live up to it's potential.  This could have been one heck of a scary movie. However, I kept waiting and waiting for the plot to progress...and it just hopelessly fizzled out.  My fiance, my friend and I came up with a better ending on the car ride home from the movie theater than the one the movie had. Who test screened this movie?!? The saving grace (the only reason I didn't waste $8.50) was the cinematography.  There was some excellent camera work.  Like I said before, it definitely didn't live up to it's potential. "},{"Title":"A big disappointment. More like a schmaltzy made-for-TV movie","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was portrayed in previews as being something clever and intriguing, maybe even really creepy and scary, but it was a real letdown and came across like a very long, drawn out, slow-moving soap opera. "},{"Title":"Out of this world movie runs out of air.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronaut's Wife two astronauts (Johnny Depp and Nick Cassavetes)are attacked while on a space walk and the experience changes them -literally. To get a feel for this movie, you need to take bits and pieces from Species, Fallen, and the Omen, then put them on a shelf until the concoction goes bad. The plot (if you can call it that) wanders aimlessly until it makes a vain attempt to tie up everything at the end of the movie, but by then you simply do not care.Depp has breathed life in to some amazing characters; Donnie Brasco, Ed Wood, Don Juan DeMarco (my guilty favorite) to name a few. Unfortunately he's also had roles in messes like Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and this one (maybe he needs a new agent?). As for Charlize Theron, who demonstrated nascent talent in Two Days in The Valley, and The Devil's Advocate her abilities are completely wasted in the one dimensional character she's saddled with here. Miss it. "},{"Title":"Very slow","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film was very slow in evolving, providing too many questions and few answers.  Theron once again played the helpless wife, at least this time her husband could act. The film never really explains exactly what occured, which left me unsatisfied and tired.  Neat camera shots, but a poor piece of work. "},{"Title":"really bad, holes in story, no actor chemistry","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was absolutely terrible.  The script was utter trash.  Most of the lines that were supposed to be intense and/or creepy were outright laughable.  The story had huge gaping holes in it, they never tell you the hows and the whys of what you are seeing.  No time is given to develop Johnny Depp's character, so when he goes through the change you can't tell because you don't know what he was like before.  Charlize gives a decent performance, but i still feel that she was miss cast. She never seems to get the emotion quite right.  Johnny and Charlize have absolutely NO on screen chemistry.   The only thing i liked was the direction, i have to say there were some very cool shots in this film.    "},{"Title":"Pray for Rosemary's Babies in Orbit","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron star as courageous NASA astronaut Spencer Armacost and his beautiful schoolteacher wife Jillian, a seemingly perfect couple whose lives are momentarily shattered when Spencer's mission mysteriously loses contact with Earth for two minutes. But neither Spencer nor Jillian know that those 120 seconds of terror will ultimately threaten their sanity, their future and their lives in this heart stopping psychological thriller the critics call, 'One scary edge-of-the-seat nightmare', according to the film's official synopsis.Everything you see about this movie gives away the story; the trailer makes the plot obvious, and every other critic compares it to Rosemary's Baby (1968). Indeed, it is an updated version of Roman Polanski's classic, with Aliens substituted for Satan - the old devil has clearly been replaced as top villain, after his 1960s-1970s heyday. Although nothing is outlined, anyone with rudimentary knowledge about plotting will figure out what's happening in The Astronaut's Wife; its flaw is that it takes no real risks. Even the swipe has been done.Ms. Theron is the lead. She and Mr. Depp look great (eyebrow and hair color are perfect), but Theron only has a couple of scenes approaching the level of Mia Farrow's characterization in Rosemary's Baby. She looks almost too good during her pregnancy, whereas Ms. Farrow looked more and more sickly. Director Rand Ravich shows promise more as a director than writer. Allen Daviau's photography is excellent. The film is so derivative it dims the impact of some excellent supporting performances, led by a dazzling Joe Morton (as Sherman Reese).The moronic ending should be chopped off and sent to deleted scenes hell... before that, the film's strengths outweigh its weaknesses. ******* The Astronaut's Wife (8/27/99) Rand Ravich ~ Charlize Theron, Johnny Depp, Joe Morton "},{"Title":"Learn some basic physics, for Pete's sake","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Any kid that ever bought a battery knows that if you don't have a circuit the current doesn't flow. Depp was standing in water that was flowing past a radio sitting in a steel sink. Juice goes into radio and out through sink, Depp remains unscathed - there's nowhere for juice entering him to flow to, so it leaves him alone. Charlize with her probably wet hands was in a much more dangerous position. Yet he gets fried, she doesn't.Lack of attention to primary-school physics is a plain insult. Compare with Frequency where at least a circuit is established, even though all it would probably have done was given the evil cop a bit of a tingle, since his shoe soles didn't get time to soak through (and might have been rubber).Apart from that, this film is half Rosemary's Baby and half a BBC thing from the 60s called The Big Pull (q.v. http//imdb.com/title/tt0057735/), quote A deadly alien force is brought to Earth by a US astronaut after a space orbit through the Van Allen belt**. Like the guy said, half of it's good and half original, unfortunately that which is good is not original and that which is original is not good. It needs Depp & Theron to rise above abysmal - I enjoyed watching them. Imagine it with Kurt Russel and Helen Hunt... Yawn.** Hey, *real* science! Wow! How many TV viewers nowadays have heard of the Van Allen belts? "}{"Title":"Beautiful Vision, Great Elements, All Destroyed By A Clichéd And Unimaginative Ending.","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Even with the awful, idiotic ending, this film rates well among genre fans. However, the individual elements themselves are not enough to carry this through the lackluster ending this work offers.If one can ignore the ending, and ultimately, one cannot, this work was in possession of all the elements to make this a beautiful classic work of horror. The suspense is tense, the story is well timed, the performances are totally believable - idiosyncratic, but believable, and the direction was exemplary.It flows well, entertains and compels the viewer to emotionally invest in the characters. It just cannot hold up to its own momentum and seems to fold in on itself at the very end, which is a real shame because otherwise, this was a great film.It rates a 7.8/10 even with the awful ending. It could have rated a 9 or higher from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a drama not a sci-fi, I watched it thinking the latter but was not disappointed(in the end) when it was the former. Jonny Depp was as adept as usual and the gorgeous girl well..gorgeousAfter watching 35mins of this film I got real bored, so I looked it up here at IMDb while the film was still playing and discovered a 4.8 rating. I was about to switch it off when I thought i'll check out the comments, after seeing a good review I decided to give it a chance, it slowly picked up and became quite intense I was not disappointed to have checked here for reviews first before giving up.Give it a chance and you too will be awaiting a sequel "},{"Title":"I've seen better.","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I should have just rented this, but it was on sale for seven dollars at the local Tower Records. After watching it, I can see why. I adore both Depp and Theron's acting but even they could not salvage this crappy script. Way too much is left up for questioning. The movie starts with Jillian and Spencer lying in bed for 5 minutes or so talking about his upcoming mission then they start making out. Then Jillian keeps saying Spencer is different.OK we'll take your word on it honey cause we have know way of knowing. We're left to assume that he wasn't distant, controlling and scary. I adore Depp and I think he was scarier in this than in Secret Window. It did keep my adrenaline pumping for a while but I believe that was due more to the two leads than the script. The end also left a lot of questions unanswered but I won't spoil it.  "},{"Title":"A blatant rip-off","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a blatant rip-off of Nigel Kneale's The Quatermass Experiment, which started life as a 1950s BBC TV serial and ended up as Hammer Films' first feature. Unfortunately, the makers of this film did not have any of Nigel Kneale's story-telling skills. The pace is painfully slow with far too much dialogue-heavy exposition at the start. There is the usual gratuitous sex scene and the whole thing plods on to its conclusion without making any impression other than disappointment. If Hollywood wants to do a remake of this tale, then lets have Professor Quatermass, the hapless Victor Caroon and the rest of the original characters back, together with a good screenwriter, a good director, an editor with a sense of pace and full credit to the originator of the story - Nigel Kneale!   "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby lives","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is generally a depressing movie.  There were virtually no surprises. A monster movie where the monster wins.  The heroine shows absolutely no class.  The bad guy could read her mind except at the end.  Very poor. "},{"Title":"Strange and eerie","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I quite liked this film.  It certainly was different to what I had expected. but this proved to be a good thing.  It is very slow building, but at the same time I found it really captivating.  The plot unravels quite slowly, and in time what is unexplained to begin with soon becomes clearer.  Its not so much the acting in this film that make it good, its more the cinematography and the feel and flavour the director gave to the film.  There are some parts which after the film has ended still seem to be unexplained, or clearly don't make sense.  Unfortunately they have paved the way for a sequel- although I think that would be a very bad idea. Not that much actually happens in The Astronauts Wife, but what it may lacks in story (being what is actually explained), it makes up for in atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"Taking Up Space","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Astronaut's Wife is far and away the worst movie I've seen this year. Aside from actually nothing of interest actually happening in the movie, we have to put up with the incredibly annoying camera work.  I can only guess that director Ravich was at the top of his class in film school, and that's how this stinker got green-lighted.  Every single scene is in some architecturally interesting room so that Ravich can shoot from different angles.  The main characters even live in one of those impossibly expensive New York City apartments that we've come to expect from over-produced films.Theron is adequate in the lead role, but Johnny Depp is stiff as a board and seems to wish he was anywhere else than filming this movie.  I know I felt like I wanted to be anywhere but in this theater. "},{"Title":"You'll have more fun at the Dentist","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you loved Sphere or Lost in Space this movie's for you. Johnny Depp has finally gone Hollywood in this sad and poorly acted drama. It's not sexy, scary, or interesting. Be prepared for two hours of boredom without any payoff. Not even recommended as a rental. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste your Time or Money on this Loser","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What an awful film.  The plot is as weak and thin as water.  I was horribly disappointed.  While the attraction for movie goers is beautiful Charlize Theron and Handsome Johnny Depp, little else is impressive.  I felt as if the movie would never end.  The alien plot is never fully revealed.  While movies that allow one to imagine an ending are usually enjoyable, this one is a complete abomination.  DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME!!!  DO NOT SEE THIS FILM ON HBO or RENTAL!! There is only one film that my wife and I have seen lately that was worse---THE Avengers.  Please take this good advice and see Sixth Sense instead. "},{"Title":"Interesting, well acted thriller","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ** BEEP! SPOILERS HEREIN! CONSIDER YOURSELF WARNED! **Jillian Armacost (Theron) lives happily in warm and nice Florida. She teaches second-graders and her husband Spencer (Depp) is an astronaut with NASA. Shortly thereafter Spencer is sent up to repair a satellite. But something goes wrong during the mission. An explosion occurs and ground control loses contact with the two astronauts (Spencer and one Capt. Streck) for two minutes. However, contact is restored and the astronauts recovered. Medical test ensue, Spencer seems fine enough but Streck is worse. He seems to recover however, but acts strangely and shortly afterwards dies from an heart attack. And then his late wife commits suicide. Spencer quits at NASA and takes a job in New York with an arms-manufacturer. So the couple leaves Florida and goes to New York and everything seems fine. The job pays (extremely) well, and Jillian soon gets pregnant with twins. But then a former co-worker from NASA turns up. He has been fired and acts very nervously, and claims he has very disturbing information about what happened in space. Jillian starts to lose her grip on reality, who and what should she trust?This was an very interesting thriller. Well directed with good attention to details (there are some central themes to pay attention to during the movie). The story is great, there are several really intense scenes, for example when Jillian consider (tries to) to abort her babies. Even the ending, which seems to be a little disputed is good in my opinion. A little different but very nice. The performances by Depp and Theron are tremendous. Their characters are very different but I think both actors capture the essence and portray that very well. Combined, the acting and and the story kept me on the edge throughout the entire movie.8/10 "}{"Title":"Modern-day Rosemary's Baby sans suspense and horror","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a modern-day interpreatation of Rosemary's Baby a physchological thriller from the 1960's, except it's not as good. Much of the suspense is too drawn-out and the climax is weak and without intensity. Many who see this film will find it bland and like many others before it.For two such outstanding actors, Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron, I felt that their performances lacked the emotion needed to play such dramatic roles. In comparison to Rosemary's Baby, Theron doesn't appear to possess the fear or trepidation that her character needs. I encourage people to view this film if only to appreciate Rosemary's Baby for being a film that combined suspense, mystery, and horror into an ingenious masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would rather watch animals be put to death than watch this movie again.  That's saying something since I'm such an animal nut.  But this movie is sooooooooooooooo bad.  Literally nothing happens.  It's about a single idea, which isn't a filmic idea.  It's more suited to a novel or short story, not a movie!I guess I shouldn't be surprised since it stars that air headed failed drummer Johnny Depp.  This guy's is more bombs than TNT.  Charlie Sheen scratches his head and wonders how this guy continues to get work.  Most of his movies flop.  Don't believe me?  Check out this movie's grosses, as well as Nick of Time, and a whole slew of others.  This guy is not an A list actor.  Strictly B list. "},{"Title":"Kept waiting for it to suck...then it did","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I did not mind this movie during the first half-hour. It was slow moving but I assumed that the payoff would be worthwhile. Then it slowly got going, then it got stupid and then it got really stupid.  So now I know why all the bad reviews exist. Its not the fault of the actors who give it all they have.  Charlize has tears in her eyes for the entire second half, while Johnny's character inexplicably turns evil, and the transformation is not at all subtle.Since I got bored, I started thinking about the actors in the cast and realized the supporting cast has (somewhat) similar credits on their resume.  It was great to see Samantha Eggar again and kind of funny that she plays an obstetrician.  She had a difficult birth, to say the least, in David Cronenberg's The Brood.  Blair Brown suffered through William Hurt in Altered States, Clea Duvall battled aliens in The Faculty and Joe Morton in T2...well, you know what he does.  Are these in-jokes, like Charlize's haircut resembling Mia Farrow's in Rosemary's Baby? And Johnny sounding a lot like Elvis?  Who knows, but if this movie was half as good as the ones I mentioned, I'd be the first to say it was needlessly panned.  But the bad reviews are justified.  "},{"Title":"I Loved It! Honestly!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First let me say, if users had not spoiled the suspense for me by giving away what happens in this film, I would have been thoroughly taken in by the thriller.  So thanks a lot everyone for that.  But regardless of missing out on the anticipation of the reveal of what is really going on, I still loved this film.What can I say? After reading all of the negative reviews listed here, I am at a loss.  I guess I should have known, as most of the films I have rented due to rave reviews have sorely disappointed me.  But don't get me started there. I guess my heart beats to a different drum.First of all this is the Director's Film.  What a visual, emotional feast. They say a picture is worth a thousand words and Ravich's film is an outstanding example of this.  For example the close up of the beautiful slender fingers of Charleze Theron's fingers gently touching the rattling glass of the window as her husband's spacecraft blasts from the launch pad. This film was artistic shots end to end.  Rich colors, beauty, unusual angles and camera movements, and always intense emotion seeping from the picture you are viewing.I have no problem with either of the stars acting, I thought Theron was excellent and stunning throughout.  Depp was fine, a little off and cold, but his character was off and cold. The two of them made a beautiful team of leading lady and man.The script was well written.  Intelligent and realistic.  And for those that complained that it was just a rehash of other sci-fi hits, I beg to differ. There is a concept that is explained (for those who were still paying attention) that was the basis for all that was happening. That concept was new and original in my experience of science fiction movie viewing.  There was definite similarities to other films, but the foundation was a frightening new thought.The complaints about unanswered questions - I found enough answers to questions for the film to be satisfying in that area.  I had no trouble following right down the line. And a sequel (in my book) is a fantastic idea and very possible the way things were left.As for the ending.  I found the very last scene to this film to be anti-climactic to the scene just prior which was outstanding and the real punch to the end of the film.  It was unexpected, frightening and excellently done.  The very last scene was just a wrap up scene which I personally would have done slightly differently, but I certainly wouldn't dis it the way others have.My only real complaint was the scene that shows the 2 missing minutes in space.  It was washed out colors and unimaginitively done as though some amature put it together in a last minute rush to help out the real artists that put together the rest of the film.As an artistic, suspense - not action - genre science fiction film I would recommend this one very highly. "},{"Title":"the rise and....fall of  our decade","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I own this movie and have to say that it is the worst Johnny movie I have ever seen. The trailer makes it look cool, but the ending is very mediocre and has no sense of self-worth. I mean, the babies in the end weren't even aliens but Commander Spencer Armacost was turned into something of the unnatural. This movie was complete rubbish from start to finish and I am disappointed due to the incredible acting in this movie. Johnny Depp is a great actor and even though he's played oddball parts before, none like Armacost, who in turn is the worst movie character ever created. I mean, come on, who really foretold that all the movie would lead to nothing. We watched all of this good action and sci fi, yet at the end, viewers question what the point of all that was. As you can see, even Johnny Depp, could not save this movie from its altered fate. "},{"Title":"Great! Matrix status.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is not very often that I can throughly enjoy a movie from beginning to end. This movie was excellent. Charlize and Johnny were perfect!!!! The story was very original and it left me stringing along in all the right places. I am going to recommend this one to every true movie watcher that comes along. "},{"Title":"Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron cannot even salvage this script.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had avoided The Astronaut's Wife because I had not heard anything good about it. However, it came on network TV and, with nothing else more pressing, we watched it. I wasn't expecting much, and I got even less. Depp plays one of two astronauts in space who for two minutes lose contact with NASA. When they return home, something is different. Those close to them sense it. However, there is some story about his wife (Theron) conceiving twins, and the ending, when the twins are a few years old, didn't make particular sense. The movie is slow and the script marginal, with various indirect references to unknown things. I certainly could never recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Film Recommendation","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Film Recommendation The Astronaut's Wife I am a very loyal fan of Johnny Depp. I love his acting style and the characters that he portrays. Even if I don't like the movie, I always take pleasure in watching his talents on the big screen. If you enjoy captivating acting skills, I would definitely recommend this film.I have seen many movies that contain actors trying to scare the audience either with their presence alone, or with over-the-top, contrived acting. Of those, many of them have failed miserably. Johnny Depp's performance in The Astronaut's Wife was one of most convincingly psychotic acting jobs I have seen in a great while.This was my first and only time watching this movie.At the beginning of the film, it's easy to fall in love with the loving, blonde, soft-spoken Spencer Armacost. What's not to love? He's adorable and he's an astronaut! His personality and the loved that he showed for his wife was enough to make any woman swoon. I was captivated even further when the prospect of his death was presented. After he returns safely to Earth, we again meet the adorable, devoted astronaut husband I was tempted to fall in love once again; but something was just not right.Along with the audience, Spencer's loving wife realizes that there is something wrong with her husband. As she grows more suspicious, it seems like Spencer's presence becomes more and more prevalent. He is always lurking around the corners and appearing in the most random places. Johnny Depp's face is one of the most frightening aspects of his character. He has lost the innocence and the love that he had before he left for space. His face becomes gaunt and emotionless and he is easily stricken with anger. By simply looking at him, I get the chills.Johnny Depp's character stole my heart towards the beginning. By doing so, I was affected throughout the duration of the movie. It's a very powerful tool to get the audience psychologically involved and then take advantage of them and toy with their emotions.Beware of a pretty face. "},{"Title":"Dull, Slow and Uneventful","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronaut's Wife is the proof that not every big budget Hollywood movie is supposed to be successful. What a shame that such great actors like Johhny Depp and Charlize Theron have been wasted. If we look at the bright side, without them this film could have been a torture. I found the movie quite dull and slow. It doesn't give us a clue how Commender Spencer Armacost is like before his journey to space. Automatically, the audience thinks that he is a loving husband, devoted to his wife and job. Fair enough, we don't need to go through deep character analysis. What we see is a disconnection from the earth for only twelve seconds!! It sounds interesting but doesn't give a push to the film. It takes a new step when one of the astronauts die a few months after the incident. Now Com. Spencer is the only witness what has happened back in there. His wife Jillian starts to get worried as he starts acting in a weird way. But soon after everything is normal again as she gets pregnant for twins. But is Commender Armacost really want this babies to start family with his wife or to start breeding of new species.? Jillian has to find out what has happened to her husband in that twelve seconds. More she is curious, more people are killed. At the end of the film, we have a classic ending, good against bad which stands somewhere between sci-fi and horror. Of course, good wins as usual and film credits start by not saying but implying that we all have spent two hours for nothing. Such a shame that the director has everything to make this work. Budget, stars, could-have-been a decent storyline. Unfortunately, he ant make it work. At least not for me. * out of ***** "},{"Title":"If only I hadn't already seen Devil's Advocate...","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Wow. If I shut my eyes, I would swear that was Matthew McConaughey. Johnny Depp is excellent at finding inspiration for roles and making it apparent to us, but in this case, I was disappointed. While he was eerie, his voice and accent really reminded me of The Wedding Planner so I couldn't really take him seriously, and much as I like Matthew McConaughey, I get really tired of his accent. So, I was tired of listening to Johnny early in the game.And the visual didn't help either. I also love Val Kilmer &#150; anyone remember how cool he looked in sunglasses in Top Gun? Well, if you don't, he looked like Johnny Depp's character in sunglasses. Too much identification with current and overused characters.But wait, it didn't end there. Charlize Theron &#150; Devil's Advocate wife Revisited? An almost identical performance in an almost identical role. I don't like it when an actor invades a role and similarities between roles exist due to the actors themselves, and this is what I felt happened with Theron's character.In terms of the film, I couldn't figure out the time frame. I know it was the shuttle, etc., but the dress of Natalie Streck seemed so '60s or early '70s. Then fast forward to a modern haircut on Theron and that apt in NY, but with an old radio that transformed into a pretty good sound system at one point. The radio that Natalie had was very '50s &#150; it all seemed off in time. Finally, when at the end, Theron has on a '70s brown wig and looks right out of the '50s, again. I am in my 5th decade so it isn't as if I hadn't been there when we landed on the moon and saw how the astronauts' wives used to look.Redeemingly, though, the movie had a dark, artsy feel, and if I hadn't seen Devil's Advocate, I may have actually enjoyed it. I liked the ending, although I think that Theron could have looked as menacingly as she did after she was invaded, but she seemed her old self a little bit and that was disappointing. The twins were great, however, and I hope that there will be sequel but without the unfortunate title of The Astronaut's Wife II. I would like to see what happens with the twins, how they will work together, and how the aircraft they will build will hurt humanity. That would be interesting. The twins could almost make good comic book antiheroes (or heroes thanks to her pre-invasion genes!). "}{"Title":"where was the Hound of the Baskervilles?","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The performances of Theron Depp, and Morton are fine, and they deserve top credit for their valiant work in this mish-mash. Ravich seems to be the one most responsible, writing and directing. What ever did he think he was doing? The IMDb page on goofs says a lot, commenting on such carelessness as the trip to Washington Square that starts at night and ends in broad daylight. Who was in charge here anyway? The pace of this would-be sci-fi thriller is so s-l-o-w. And finally, what about all those strange sets, particularly the huge and dark apartment where the astronaut and his wife live. astronaut A Manhattan apartment that large costs a lot, more than this ex-astronaut could afford. And then there were all those long corridors looking more significant than they were. Just like the movie itself! "},{"Title":"Not a good movie.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Astronaut's Wife is one of the few lowlights I've seen in Johnny Depp's movie career. It seems like Depp always chooses good roles and his acting always makes the movies he's in better. Unfortunately, that was not the case in this movie.The storyline was slow and unimpressive from the beginning. It was very uneventful until the last few minutes, at which point it really wasn't enough to make up for the rest of the movie. The whole story wasn't really that great, either. They had the potential to do something interesting with the ideas they had, but they just didn't do it. The movie just went by painfully slow, with very little being added to the situation. There was one big revelation about who Spencer actually was, and that was the only main twist. It was a pretty obvious twist, too. The sex scene was also a little disturbing and it didn't need to be as rough as it was. All that did was hurt the movie.I decided to give it three stars because although the actors had nothing to work with, they did a decent job. They deserve a little credit. "},{"Title":"Southern Depp With Aliens","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Spencer Armacost (Johnny Depp) is one of the top astronauts working at NASA. When contact is lost on a routine space mission, something happens that changes Armacost and endangers our planet.The Astronaut's Wife as the title suggests is really about Spencer's wife, Jillian Armacost (Charlize Theron). Her character is reminiscent of her role as Mary Ann Lomax in The Devil's Advocate. She is supportive of her husband but begins (ironically) to suffer all sorts of afflictions as a result of his job. It takes a bit to get used to Depp with a southern accent and to see Theron in one of her early more subdued roles (especially after you've seen The Italian Job).The film brings a simple alien abduction/possession plot in, which sadly seems to drag out until the end. I think the director was still trying to keep the audience second guessing, but this works to no avail as the film's direction is pretty basic and easy to figure out. I won't spoil anything other than to say the ending isn't a happy one and is rather hokey to boot. Clea Du Vall makes a few brief appearances as Jillian's sister, Nan. 3/10 "},{"Title":"sex scene","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I know a lot of you guys think that the sex scene was just.. too out there, violent, and a little horrifying of a thing for our fine- looking Johnny to do, and I don't blame you all to think that. But it does kind of explain why the sex would be the way it was, because I'm sure before, Spencer wouldn't have been that violent, but he had this alien in him and he's evil and all. So it fits. What I'm saying is that the sex scene was merely just a way of proof towards the difference in how the character had changed, that's all. but I'm sure that what an expert or something similar would say about it, is that from the director's point of view, it was just a way to spice it up a bit and to show how different an alien can change a guy. not much more to say than that. I enjoyed the movie though! )  "},{"Title":"my comments are positive coz it's a wkd film","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  well i thought this film was wicked. it's creepy, jumpy, sexy, happy, sad, funny and has johnny depp in it, with a really cute accent! i found it cool with a strange but interesting idea for the plot. i was entertained all the way through, with something for all the family...except little ones. anyway, johnny depp is gorgeous so you could at least watch it for his sexy evil looks and unbuttoned shirt....  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You can see the writer writing.  The first thing that struck me was how unnatural, unoriginal, and uninteresting the dialogue was.  It was very unnatural for the wives to be so upset about the few minutes of no contact since their husbands were safe by the time they learned of it.  There was no real reason to go on and on about it except that the writer felt the need to put focus on it.  The concept could have worked without such heavy-handedness.So while the writer felt the need to hit us over the head with the simplest of concepts, he did not feel obliged to even hint at just what this movie was about.  I still don't know what the antagonist's purpose was or why it didn't choose a simpler path to achieve whatever its goal was.  I don't know what this movie was about in any sense, text or subtext.  I just didn't come away with anything but disappointment.  Not disappointment caused by character or story, but by the lack thereof.   "},{"Title":"This movie is BAD!!!!!!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie for 3 reasons only...1 jonny depp..2charlie therzon..3 it managed somehow to find its way on to my movie channel!!! what is going on? why do people want to make and watch pooh like this!!!! the actors must have had nothing to do for a few weeks and decided to kill a bit of time making this kak!!! all i can say is....this movie is bad!!!!! "},{"Title":"no direction","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie's only weakness is its lack of direction. At the end you feel like, what was the point? It does have some good aspects. The director portrayed what he wanted to portray some interesting visuals, an overall creepy surreal feeling throughout the movie, although slow moving. The lead actors were pretty good, but the stand out performance was by Joe Morton,playing Sherman, a NASA representative. This actor was brilliant in his protrayal of a nervous, on the edge, NASA representative with the most important information concerning the plot of the film. This actor is notable for some very brilliant smaller roles in movies such as, Terminator 2 and Speed. Check it out. You might like it you might not. All in all a watchable, at least once, scifi thriller.   "},{"Title":"Almost completely unwatchable","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not only was this film unoriginal and predictable it was also terminally slow and uneventful. This is nearly 2 hours of nothing! I really ought to bill the producers for my time. Now Depp and Theron are usually capable actors and they are tolerable here, but they have absolutely nothing to work with. I was longing for the end after about 30 mins. My vote 3/10 "},{"Title":"Very boring!!!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie The Astronaut's Wife was one of the most boring and dumb movies I have ever seen! I had to see this movie TWICE in order to understand the plot! At times it seems there was no chemistry between Charlize Theron and Johnny Depp.Overall the direction, plot, score, sfx were bland. If you have not seen this movie yet, DON'T!! Do not waist your time. You will be bored to death!!! "}{"Title":"Johnny Depp shouldn't have done this.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Seen The Devil's Advocate? Charlize Theron plays the same character. Let's see, she and her husband move to New York from Florida and she starts to wonder if she's going nuts because her husband is acting funny... only this time it's her sister who visits instead of her mother in law, and he's an astronaut instead of a lawyer. Yawn.I am a big Johnny Depp fan, and I usually expect great things from him. This isn't one of them. He's basically just a stoic guy with a southern accent in this, who starts to act aggressively toward his wife. I don't know if it's just the script or if he didn't work on developing the character enough, but there just isn't a lot of complexity to this character for him to work with.This could very easily be a short film, as in 20 minutes long, but instead it drags on and on. I get it, she's scared. I get it, something happened to the two astronauts when they were out of contact for two minutes. I was not emotionally involved by the end and I just kept watching out of curiosity... as in, OK, how is this dog going to end, what's the big secret about what happened up there and why he's acting so strangely? Big disappointment, I wish I had just given up 30 minutes in and done something entertaining with my time. "},{"Title":"I feel a dull, throbbing pain in the back of my head","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's like watching minimalist theatre, with no costumes or sets - all nicely lit and framed, but nothing to look at - except that the bareness of such stage productions is usually offset by energetic performances.  The lethargic actors here CONTRIBUTE to the newly-built house look.  No doubt Johnny Depp walked through the film like a zombie because, in a sense, he was playing one.  What's Charlize Theron's excuse?  She plays someone who appears to care almost as little what happens to her as I did.The screen is so ugly and bare that I found it painful to look at, in the way that boredom can sometimes be painful.  I'm sure they were trying to be artistic.  Take that scene where Joe Morton is explaining his theory to Theron - the camera suddenly goes crazy, and we get shaky, split-second shots of his hands, the back of his overcoat, his ... I forget what, I wasn't taking notes.  It was meant to show, no doubt, that he was coming across as a bit of a loon.  But how can we tell, when we never got a good look at him?And as a side note, why can't this perennial character, The Guy Who Figures It All Out, ever talk coherently when he needs to convey his ideas to someone else?  It would save us all so much trouble.Vague spoiler ahead ...  The twist ending is more shock than surprise, and more schlock than shock.  (It's another grim-for-the-sake-of-being-grim ending.  A less despairing conclusion would have made more dramatic sense.)  I know it can be okay for a film not to explain itself, but it should at least provide us with the materials out of which an explanation could be constructed.  WHY, exactly, does the alien thing want to ... well, do anything it does...?  Come on, give us a hint.P.S.  Amazing site, this IMDb.  I find that one of the characters I'd forgotten about is played by Samantha Eggar.  I liked her a good deal as the heroine in William Wyler's excellent 1965 thriller The Collector; she was also the voice of Hercules's mother in Disney's under-appreciated (certainly much-better-than-this) Hercules.  I would NEVER have guessed it was the same woman. "},{"Title":"Wow.  A thriller with NO thrills.  Whoopee.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Lord only knows why, but there are more awesomely talented people working on this odd little turkey than you can say grace over.  Great cast.  The director can brag that he hired fine people like Blair Brown and Samantha Eggar and gave them absolutely nothing to do.  That's something to tell your kids about later.  Tremendous photography.  Location shooting and obviously expensive sets and costumes.There was everything a great movie needs except a script.  There are lots of shots of people staring at each other.  For some reason an am/fm radio in the main characters' apartment gets lots and lots of close-ups.  This is probably because the director realizes that there's nothing going on, so he's trying to obscure that fact.Worse yet, it's a remake.  At least that's what the IMDB tells us- of ROSEMARY'S BABY.  There have only been about a hundred movies 'inspired' by Polanski's film.  Heck, I think that in the 1970's the Italians made about seventy-five, and there were all those movies made for tv.So here it is, a thriller with no thrills, a suspense film with no suspense.  And the producers were surprised when audiences stayed away in droves.  Boy, how stupid do those people think we are, anyway? "},{"Title":"My Uneducated Opinion","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **MAY CONTAIN IMPLIED SPOILERS**First, I must comment on what a horrible performance Theron turned in here.  Usually, I just try to enjoy movies without analyzing them, but she completely ruined the experience for me. Otherwise a slow movie with a few plotholes.  I believe pure water doesn't conduct electricity unless it has some form of electrolyte like salt or chlorine in it, which tapwater does not, but I'm probably wrong on that.This movie could have carried some intensity if not for the ending.  For me, that is the part that turned the entire thing into another piece of garbage.  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal Rubbish","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film promises a lot but delivers nothing. Astronauts go into space and come back different.....could have the potential for an excellent story and based upon reality yet instead its a feeble attempt at Rosemarys Baby for the year 2000.....even the lead actress looks like the original Rosemary! Both leads in this film are completely mis-cast......from the moment the film opens they give the impression they despise rather than love each other.....and the way the female lead is portrayed looks every inch a repressed lesbian..... The sets, lighting and camera work are all good......but what I would like to know is how can film-makers get away with spending so much money on such drivel??  "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby makes Contact...","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film owes a great debt to both of the films mentioned above.  The review by Brian Orndorf hits many of the main issues, and he's right when he notes that viewers are left wondering, Why wasn't this a better film? Anyway, it is beautifully shot, has an interesting premise, a startling conclusion, but not a lot else.  Mostly, though, it has Joe Morton, one of America's best character actors.  He is excellent here (as usual), and his work with John Sayles means he always brings something extra to all of his characters.  (My favorite line of his was, ALWAYS have a backup.)  And there is one excellent scene, about 20 minutes before the conclusion, that makes for one of the best space shots ever.Anyway, coulda shoulda woulda been better.  A 4. "},{"Title":"rather boring","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was going 2 b a good movie, well, it wasnt that good. Depp gives 1 of his worst performances yet, even though, it could b scary. Theron is cute but doesnt do much. Their is little suspense. the only good thing here is the twisted ending. besides that, dont buy it, see it if u have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"And the point of this film was?","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Up until the last few minutes, I thought the movie was pretty good.  And then...the ending hit me in the head like an asteroid, and made me dizzy. I was thinking, okay, what the hell happened here?  I mean come on!  This film seemed to have no purpose, kind of like a Celine Dion video.  If the directors intent was to make you think, well he did.  It made me think that the budget ran out at the end of production.   "},{"Title":"unintentionally comical","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having heard this was an awful film, I decided to rent it for a few laughs. In that respect, I wasn't disappointed.  The plot simply lacks in a comical manner, there are a couple of humourous death scenes, and Theron, seemingly cast for her looks rather than acting ability, is laughable in the most suspenseful moments.  Depp, normally a highly skilled actor, is far from the menacing role demanded to keep the suspense running.  However, for those who say his acting has gone completely downhill since the mid-'90's, I highly suggest Sleepy Hollow, the breathtaking work of my personal favourite director Tim Burton.  The only factors which unfortunately? prevent The Astronaut's Wife from becoming a complete laughfest like a campy old horror film are the cinematography and some suspenseful moments in the last few minutes of the film.  The former is good, but not as wonderful as in the aforementioned Sleepy Hollow.  The latter is broken up by bad acting and disappointment in the end after a large amount of fairly promising build-up. Near the finish, one suspects a profound Sixth Sense-esque revelation. What the viewer gets is an unfrightening, shallow end which leaves no thought-provoking questions in its sheer stupidity.  Don't see this movie expecting a suspenseful thriller; if you do see it, watch it without a serious attitude.  You may get a few laughs. "},{"Title":"unintentionally comical","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having heard this was an awful film, I decided to rent it for a few laughs. In that respect, I wasn't disappointed.  The plot simply lacks in a comical manner, there are a couple of humourous death scenes, and Theron, seemingly cast for her looks rather than acting ability, is laughable in the most suspenseful moments.  Depp, normally a highly skilled actor, is far from the menacing role demanded to keep the suspense running.  However, for those who say his acting has gone completely downhill since the mid-'90's, I highly suggest Sleepy Hollow, the breathtaking work of my personal favourite director Tim Burton.  The only factors which unfortunately? prevent The Astronaut's Wife from becoming a complete laughfest like a campy old horror film are the cinematography and some suspenseful moments in the last few minutes of the film.  The former is good, but not as wonderful as in the aforementioned Sleepy Hollow.  The latter is broken up by bad acting and disappointment in the end after a large amount of fairly promising build-up. Near the finish, one suspects a profound Sixth Sense-esque revelation. What the viewer gets is an unfrightening, shallow end which leaves no thought-provoking questions in its sheer stupidity.  Don't see this movie expecting a suspenseful thriller; if you do see it, watch it without a serious attitude.  You may get a few laughs. "}{"Title":"Fascinating idea, sluggish pace (** out of ****)","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's a sad fact, but also a very true one, that a high concept idea doesn't always equate to an entertaining movie. Such is the case with The Astronaut's Wife, a thriller with a lot of ambition and interesting ideas, but sunk by a lazy script and slow buildup. This movie is bizarrely paced, and builds its suspense so slowly that some people will eventually stop caring and just give up. After a nice start, The Astronaut's Wife takes an inordinate amount of time developing material that should have been covered more quickly with at least 20 minutes trimmed off the total length. Also, not only does the film take too long, but it shadows itself in ambiguity for most of the time as well. Thrillers of this sort should include a few small twists and turns to keep the story flowing and the audience interested, and while there are some here, they're entirely predictable.There are other glaring flaws as well. Like I mentioned earlier, the script is lazy. Really, I could have taken a count of how many times Spencer said to Jillian, Everything's gonna be just fine. Gee, how many times have we heard that one? There are a few potentially powerful scenes (such as the one where Jill contemplates taking the birth control pills), but they're far too over-the-top to work like they should. Really, Charlize Theron could probably handle some of these scenes by underplaying them, but nowadays, a lot of directors just love to heap on the melodrama, and thus ruin the impact.Speaking of the acting, most of it is actually decent. Johnny Depp still manages to create a credible persona despite the script handicap. The same goes for Charlize Theron most of the time, and in fact, these two perform well together despite some awkward scenes. The always-reliable Joe Morton tries to make things a little more energetic, but sadly, he is underused. It's nice to see so many actors pushing hard to cover up holes in a script, but I'm not sure anyone can fully accomplish that here.Finally, to wrap things up, the conclusion is absurd. We apparently get a grand, revealing shock during the climax, but this is misguided since I could see it coming from about halfway into the movie. For most of the movie, I managed to sit through the proceedings patiently, but the final scene left me thinking yeah...right. I won't mind if anyone calls me biased for what I'm about to say, but ambiguous endings are perhaps the biggest cheat in all of film history. While there are some in which this approach works to some degree (Ronin and The Devil's Advocate, the latter of which is clearly one of this film's inspirations), that's because those two movies were highly entertaining throughout. This one is marginal at best.  "},{"Title":"A good B movie idea - Poorly executed","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had read some of the poor reviews for this film prior to watching it so I knew what to expect.  This film has a really good (though far from original) plot involving two astronauts whose bodies are taken over while on a space mission.  The aliens (occupying the bodies of the astronauts) return to earth and proceed to impregnate their wives with alien sperm. The women both become pregnant with twins, who are expected to become pilots for an alien designed spacecraft (This was all only vaguely explained in the movie).  The wives, of course, do not know this initially.  The movie is really quite similar in many ways to Rosemary's baby in that the alien occupied astronauts are protective of their host wives who were chosen to have their offspring.  It also takes place in New York to add to the similarities.  The real problem with this movie is that the the sense of menace is not sufficiently built up in the three quarters of the movie.  When Johnny Depp returns from space, he does not seem any different then when he left. Towards the end of the film, he finally starts showing his colors, but there should have been some signs early on.  It is almost as if the Director forgot to tell Mr. Depp that he was supposed to be an alien, and then noticed the problem after it was too late. In summary,  I could not recommend this film, even as a video rental.  It lacks an adequate build up in suspense, and the rational behind the aliens motives was not fully explained in the film.   "},{"Title":"Forget about it","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, dear Roger Ebert said all that can be said in a positive note about this film (I love Ebert and his very young enthusiasm as well as his great compassion). There is nothing in this movie that you have not seen in a hundred vampire movies already. Johnny Depp is as dry as ever, the sets are great, the story is lousy. I would suggest Hollywood to stop making movies about space misteries. It seems that human imagination has run dry about that subject.   "},{"Title":"The main subject was neglected.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this movie on a preview before the actual premiere in the cinemas. The movie was pretty much as I expected (or rather pretty less). Actually the only good things were the main characters played by Depp and the beauty from Devils Advocate. The plot was already known half-way the movie (it was an easy guess), the director didn't make any suspense/thriller of it and the main reason why people go to this movie (the alien & its mission) was neglected tremendously. And above all, it didn't have a happy end, but more like a funny joke... so, there could be a sequel, but let's hope NOT! "},{"Title":"Huge Dud!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What happened in those two minutes?  Well, I'll tell you - I was asleep!  I knew the reviews were bad before seeing this movie (thanks to IMDB) but I went ahead anyway.  Next time, I'll  be sure to heed the words of my fellow reviewers more carefully.  To review this film in detail would simply be a waste of time.What a TURKEY! "},{"Title":"SEEK A DIVORCE FROM THIS MOVIE IMMEDIATELY!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A terrible waste of time and money.There is nothing interesting about the characters in the movie nor is there anything scarrey about them.I mean seriously Johnny Depp seems to as clueless as we are about the story and Chalize Theron is completely wasted!The only thing remotely engaging about this film is the Production Design.That is it folks...a very cheap rip-off of Rosmery's Baby meets Species meets really bad imagination equals The Astronauts Wife. "},{"Title":"A big fat mess","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Warning Does contain spoilersI've always thought that every shot in a film is supposed to further the story or at least have relevance to the plot.  I've always believed that a film is supposed to be looked over by executives with scrutiny before they decide to invest $50 million dollars into it.  And, call me crazy, but I thought a film that tried to say it was scary was supposed have a few scenes that made you jump.  But hey, that's just me.  Maybe Rand Ravich has a really hot wife and he let the producers sleep with her or something because that is the only reason that this film could have gotten made because this is a mess from beginning to end.  Johnny Depp plays an astronaut that is a perfect husband and has a perfect record and is liked by everyone.  He and his partner are on a routine mission to repair a satellite or something and then NASA loses contact with them for two mintues.  When they regain contact, the men are rushed back to Earth and then they spend a few days in the hospital.  They eventually get out and all symptoms seem to be back to normal.  Then at a party, the other astronaut dies of what looks to be a heart attack or a seizure.  Then Depp and Theron move to New York for a job.  Theron starts to notice that things are perhaps not normal with her husband and she gets nervous and soon finds out that she is right.  That is all I will say about the plot because if you decide to see this film, first of all, I pity you, secondly, that is all you need to know because what you witness in the film is boredom, improbability, a thin plot disguised as something more by convolution and frustration.  You will be frustrated with many things.  Let's break them down for you, shall we?First.  When Theron starts to discover that her husband has changed, there is no logical reason for her to do so.  What triggers it is one night of drunken, aggressive sex.  She thinks that it is not like her husband to have rough sex with her.  But when he is talking to her at first, she is loving it.  She is moaning and biting her lip and getting right into it.  It's only when she wakes up that she starts to think bad things.  But are you going to tell me that the script writer was stupid enough to say that this is the first sign that she noticed with her husband, aggressive sex, when they were drunk no less.  That is thin.  Then she notices that her husband starts listening to a radio that they have and just by coincidence so did the other astronaut that died.  This radio is from the 1930's and it has to be in the film because it is not as creepy if someone is listening to aliens on a Sony walkman.  So it just so happens that both families have an affinity for the same radio from the 30's.  And that is it.  That is all she has to go on.  There are no real personality changes, no mean streak, no nothing.  She just decides that her husband has changed because the script calls for her to feel that way.  But that is small compared to what is next.The logic in this film is so funny when it comes to why the aliens attacked the two astronauts in the first place.  If they can travel great distances to get inside of someone only to have them impregnate someone else for the sole purpose of having twins so they can fly a plane that will knock out all of our technology, why not just take that last step and go to earth yourself and kill everyone, or at least infiltrate people on earth and bypass the 20 years it is going to take for these twins to grow old enough to fly the plane.  If you don't understand this last paragraph don't worry, I don't understand the logic in the film either.  It is so silly and so stupid that it made many people walk out of the theater laughing.  The there is the part when aliens come out of one astronaut but not the other.  For no particular reason.  There is also parts when Depp shows up in places that he had no business knowing about.  Then there is the sister.  She had no real role or need to be in this film.  She never believes her sister about anything but then all of a sudden she shows up at the house one day and says, for no particular reason,  Hey what did you do with my sister?   There are many other parts of this film that can be dissected, but I'll try to refrain or I'll end up writing a book on what is wrong with this film.  And there are people that have pointed out other faults already, so read other reviews in here.  Just know that I think this is one of the poorest thought out films that I have seen in some time.  Rand Ravich may be a talented guy but he does not show it in this film.  His writing and direction left me aching to leave the theater, and that is the truth.  The Astronaut's Wife is a terrible waste of time, so if you see it, don't say I didn't warn you.  "},{"Title":"Could Have Been","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie primarily to see Johnny Depp, whom I have found to be a superb character actor (Gilbert Grape, Donnie Brasco,  Don Juan DeMarco, Sam in Benny and Joon and others are uniquely crafted and memorable).  While I could recognize his craftsmanship as Spencer Armacost, I did not always get him, rarely liked him, experienced him as tentative, and felt he was overshadowed by the actress in the title role.  I found Charlize Theron stunning, a rare beauty, and a solid actress, though I did not always get her, either.  Since the plot was faulty, I found that giving my attention to the characters was a far better strategy than being frustrated with the inadequacies of the script.  Some of the camera work was a bit strange and strained -- while it didn't quite make me dizzy, I was overly distracted by it.  Come to think of it, perhaps that is simply a technique to distract the audience so that we will not notice that it is not a very good flick.  The only two people in the audience who were scared by this would-be thriller sat behind my companion and me.  It made me laugh (quietly, of course, as I feel each of us is entitled to have our own unique experience) that they could shriek at such inane actions.  I haven't decided if the movie was fast or slow for me, but of one thing I am certain, it is NOT  a thriller and it could have been.  Ah yes, that's it, this movie could have been very good "},{"Title":"I feel asleep","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How in God's name can they make a movie sooo bad?  What a waste of my time and life.  Read the other people's comments because they are right on target. There were a couple of people that like it. The only thing I have to say to those people is that you need to get a gun and end it because it's people like you that lie to the rest of us to see discusting movies like this one. DON'T SEE THIS SO CALLED MOVIE!!!  IT SUCKS LIKE NO OTHER MOVIE I HAVE SEEN IN A LONG LONG TIME.   "},{"Title":"we have a loser!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another movie that my girlfriend dragged me to that turned out to be really, really bad. It was so bad that people in the audience were laughing at it. I don't really understand what this movie was attempting to be. A horror film, a sci-fi flik? The plot was a joke, Theron was way out of her league, and Depp was pretty bland, if not annoying. How this stuff gets on the screen, who knows, but at least I got to see some good previews before it started. No, I have to say I didn't like this movie.  "}{"Title":"Houston we DEFINITELY have a problem!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What happens if you cross ROSEMARY'S BABY with ALIEN, THE OMEN, THE RIGHT STUFF and EYES WIDE SHUT? You would get a very strange hybrid thriller, sci-fi, demonic, sex drama called THE ASTRONAUT'S WIFE. It stars Charlize Theron in the title role with Johnny Depp as the Astronaut. The story begins when Rocket Boy Depp is about to go up on a NASA mission and is leaving his very sexy wife Theron behind. Quicker than you can say Houston, we have a problem Depp and his partner are lost in space for a total of two minutes. They are retrieved and brought back to Earth. What happened during that two minutes is the mystery that this film is about. All appears to be well, but because of the eerie music, the brooding, moody lighting and weird camera angles we know better. The mystery that takes ninety minutes to unwind but I feel certain that all of you will have it figured out much sooner than that. Although this film has a few thrills a lovely performance from Theron, who by the way is quite easy on the eyes, an interesting turn by Joe Morton in a supporting role, it left me as cold as EYES WIDE SHUT did earlier this summer. A's W has a similar feel as EWS in its strange look, so if you liked that one, you may enjoy the ASTRONAUT'S WIFE. All in all I wish I had passed the shuttle and taken the bus. "},{"Title":"Bad is an understatement","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Every once in a while, a movie comes along that gives you renewed faith in the medium, and makes you wish every movie were that good. And, every once in a while, along comes a film that makes you want to track down every print and destroy it, to save future viewers from the misery that you suffered.The Astronaut's Wife fits neatly into category 2. Rather than try to describe the wretched pain that is this movie, I'll ask you to picture a movie where the female lead has no range, the male lead is slumming, and the director seems to have watched Taxi Driver 15 times and only learned that there is a film device called slow-motion.This movie is so bad, it makes Batman and Robin look like The Godfather.  "},{"Title":"So very, very, very, very bad","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unbelievably bad. Melodramatic script and terrible, terrible inappropriate directing. Just astounding how truly awful this movie is. Unwatchable.Perhaps Johnny Depp thought this could be another DEVIL'S ADVOCATE or something. That is the only reason I could comprehend his presence in the film. So very bad. So very, very, very bad.  "},{"Title":"Stay Away","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just got out of Astronaut's Wife and feel a responsibility to all movie viewers.  Do NOT see this movie.  You will feel cheated and even angry that such a movie was allowed to see release.  The most interesting part of this movie was the scenery behind the actors.  There is some wonderful use of light and montage.  The parts are definitely greater than the whole.  But they do not justify two hours of foreboding pauses and empty emoting.  This movie lacks drive.  Nothing moves it forward. Each scene is vertical in that it dwells over a character's feelings or inner life without anything happening to allow the audience to care.Don't see this movie.  OR,  go see this movie and warn others. "},{"Title":"Wait for the video","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although I have seen worse movies (Knock Off, The Avengers), The Astronaut's Wife is a very boring movie.  The plot takes too long to develop, and the characters are not very interesting.About the best thing I can say for this movie is that it didn't have the annoying scream from the preview.  "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby Rip Off","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw The Astronaut's Wife. It was very disappointing. No suspense, no good acting, weak plot. The whole movie is a Rosemary's Baby rip off. Polanski's movie is a lot better, watch this instead. Disappointing. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Cosmic stink-bomb.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a long, dull movie which rips off numerous other horror movies.It is kind of a cross between The Devil's Advocate and Rosemary's Baby. Those were pretty good movies, however, and this one stinks. Johnny Dep comes home from space different. He is somehow evil. His wife knows something isn't right. The they decide to move from Florida to New York, which is evil (just like moving from Florida to New York is evil in Devil's Advocate). Then she gets pregnant. That is also evil. In fact, Mr. Depp is an alien, and his wife is carrying his alien child. Big surprise. There is a moderately good sex scene in this movie, but it isn't worth renting in my book. "},{"Title":"Worst film I've ever seen.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Somebody asked me what the worst film I've ever seen was. I considered Blood Sucking Freaks and Supergirl, but after wracking my brains for days I decided it was The Astronaut's Wife.What a waste of Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron. A boring script with a laughable ending, The Astronaut's Wife is a waste of so much studio money (and the viewer's time) that in makes an Ed Wood film seem well-paced and clever. Come to think of it, before renting (or, horror of horrors--BUYING) this movie, watch an Ed Wood movie. --THEN, watch The Astronaut's Wife and tell me which one has less entertainment value.I just know I'm gonna get stuck on a desert island like Tom Hanks in 'Castaway'--but the only things that will wash up on shore will be a working solar-powered TV/DVD player and a copy of this movie. I have that kind of luck. "},{"Title":"What a piece of garbage.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Incredibly stupid story, incredibly bad female lead actress, uninspired and lazy Johnny Depp, paired with a lousy production team and annoying clipping. This is the worst movie I have seen this year. I'd rather see The Out-of-Towners 10 times in a row while having teeth pulled than see this again.We meet an astronaut and his wife. He has had an accident in space, and has a bit of a strange behavior when he returns. Why? Well, he has apparently had an alien encounter in space, and... Well, if you are into masochism, go find out. My advice is not to try to find out however. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally bad movie... Depp at his worst","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I usually prefer to praise movies, rather than criticise, but I can't help it about this one.First, thanks to this movie, I found out how much I dislike Johny Depp and his faceless appearance. He is good and interesting only in movies that had good directors (and even there his partners steal the show). And in badly directed and badly scripted movies he can't do anything at all.The director is so bad that he doesn't even know how to work with actors, instead he just lets them do their things expecting them to pull the script out. As a result, the black NASA guy overacts and improvises a lot, Charlize Theron does too much in her role of scared whiny wife, and Johnny Depp does nothing at all, except twisting his jaw and twirling his eyebrows once in a while. But you can't really blame them as they probably had no idea what their characters were about and where the director wanted movie to go to.And there was really nothing to work with as the story is shallow, the dialogs are childish and the characters are unappealing (or the actors made them so). Other aspects of director work are bad too camera movement is often illogical, changing pace all the time. Some scenes are too slow, other are too fast and overedited. Introducing alien CGI at the end of the movie is  damaging to the mood of the film.It could have been such a nice horror movie with every possible intelligent underline there is. A sci-fi story about mankind trying to deal with something beyond comprehension, a metaphor on alienation and abuse among married couples, even a psycho drama about a mentally ill character (the wife) who doesn't know where her illusions end and the reality begins. The movie opened all those themes but deals effectively with none. It's not even intriguing enough to provoke the viewer to draw his own conclusions.The only conclusion I drew from the movie is (bad joke ahead) don't play with electricity near water. "}{"Title":"Snooore","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is plagued by some serious problems. 1st and foremost, this movie has an identity crisis. Its has the plot to potentially make a great sci-fi thriller but instead the script develops into a mystery/psychological thriller. All the ideas behind Depp's mysterious transformation and Theron's children are left unanswered. 2nd, the movie is BORING. Depp and Theron give good performances but they end up saying and doing the same things over and over again. You've changed, No I haven't You're different No I'm not, etc, etc. For a movie with soo much potential depth nothing ever gets said or done. This obviously makes for a very slow moving film. I had high hopes when first turned on this movie but as it progressed I became more and more irritated at how nothing is ever developed. 4/10 (if it weren't for Depp and Theron I would have given it a 1).  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz...","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sci-fi and thriller, my two favorite categories in the world. The combination of these is often a no-loose situation for me personally.However The Astronaut's Wife... oh how sad.. a great concept, extremely beautifully made, two wonderful lead actors (Depp & Theron, two of the greatest of their generation and sex), but man... oh man did this turn into one boring journey down wannabe-great-lane...If I was to see it again I would most surely...zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ.... "},{"Title":"Worse than AWFUL.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All around this was a disappointment. It never is clear why she has a quizzical look on her face. And she needs further acting classes. Theron so far has little talent. Her grimaces are always the same. Depp is a let down. What's Eating Gilbert Grape and Donnie Brasco reveal his abilities. Perhaps it is the whole film that needs re-writing. There are a few chilling moments but I kept rooting for the bad guy. This was not time well spent. I wish there were a way to show negative numbers. I would have chosen -10, really, really awful.  "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Great film. Intelligent, beautiful, good suspense. Enjoyed the references to Rosemary's Baby. Loved seeing Theron get all stressed looking, when she started the movie so beautiful. Great movie for Hitchcock lovers. The only thing I would've changed was making the husband's character not seem guilty. If the viewer was kept wondering, longer, whether the wife was nuts or really onto something, it would've been even cooler.I don't get why some reviewers say the movie didn't make sense.9/10. "},{"Title":"Chilling!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Best Everything, it's too touching to have any negative issues. The Worst The non existence of other movies like this one.Spencer and Jillian Armacost are a beloved couple, he is the astronaut of the title and she is an elementary school teacher. Spencer goes on a routine mission to repair a satellite. On this mission NASA looses contact with the astronauts for two minutes when no one knows what happened. Spencer comes back and communicates to his wife that he resigned from NASA and a better offer was made, as a jet designer in a New York enterprise. They move to NYC, Jillian becomes pregnant of twins, but Spencer keeps acting weird ever since the day he came from the mysterious mission. Jillian becomes worried and tries to figure out what is going on with his husband and why the twins she carries inside are so important to him.Writer/Director Rand Ravich develops and directs his own material in a very peculiar way, described by some as slow and boring, and by others as strong and chilling. I have to say that I totally agree with the second one. To be honest, I have never heard of Mr. Ravich before  and I've also heard some mixed reviews about this movie, and finding the premise and the actors very good, I decided to buy this movie. After almost two hours I could say that I was completely overwhelmed. The movie may not be completely original but in his genre is the greatest one alongside The Devil's Advocate, also starring Charlize Theron (it seems that Ms. Theron really knows what works to choose). There were some really lame attempts in these past few years to approach this issue but as I said they were just lame, but here, everything was done and choose carefully. The plot is well elaborated the directing is also very competent and the atmosphere was very well achieved and we also felt that creepy feeling sometimes that I'm sure Mr. Ravich was hoping for also thanks to the technical part, the stunning cinematography, and no less stunning production design, the `on-time' editing and so on, and on. If you look carefully after seeing it the movie fulfills every rule that a good thriller or horror film should, a good atmosphere, a threatening environment and a nice twist at the end, and that's precisely the end that makes the movie so great, the twist is awesome although you may have been thinking of it sometime before, but the very last scene is completely unpredictable, reminding all those great horror movies that end the same way. I believe that I can't recommend this film any more than I already did, so moviegoers, relax because this is one of those well crafted movies you don't see very much anymore. 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Didn't like","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't a fan of this movie at all. I thought it was boring, pointless, and took forever just to prove how stupid it was. The only redeeming value was that the acting was good (Charlize never performs badly and Johnny Depp plays a good creep probably because he's like that in real life would be my guess). But even the acting couldn't save this one. The plot was somewhat original but it didn't really do anything with it and instead it just wallowed in stupidity. I think this movie intended to be just a tribute to those famous ones in the past but it did a bad job regardless. Just making a good movie would have more than sufficed in its place, to say the least. Some parts were so unbelievable that it lost effectiveness while it wasn't even halfway through. This movie could have definitely been something but it fell short on almost every front. It had the good cast, a decent idea, and the right kind of mindset but in the end it didn't work.Final InciteMovies I would've killed myself if I paid for a ticket to see this!DVD Purchase Even though it's down to $5.50 at Wal-Mart I'd still steer clear.Rental Resist!  "},{"Title":"Electrocute me for seeing this thing!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really hope the central actors got paid well... Why else would they hurt their resumes with this definite piece of dribble? I would pay good money to see the director of The Astronaut's Wife fry in an electrical accident of some sort (hopefully, in his own kitchen while cooking a steak bought with my money after seeing his film).  Then again, I've already wasted good money renting his pathetic film on DVD, so I guess I will just not return the DVD, but instead, fry it in an electrical accident on my kitchen stove.  Please don't do yourself a disservice and view this film!1/10 stars for sure "},{"Title":"Not sure what to make of this","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I give this a 7, which is recommendation to see, but I feel I am being generous. I only say that because I like Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron and am impressed by their range. Depp appears to be just going through the motions in the beginning, but becomes more of what I expect towards the end. Charlize is good throughout and really did some damn fine acting towards the end. The ending was crap as far as I was concerned. I guess that is what you expect from sci-fi, but I just didn't like it. Joe Morton did a good job as the NASA engineer who discovered that something was wrong. Watch for the acting, not the story. "},{"Title":"You can't go wrong with this utterly absorbing thriller...if you skip the final 5 minutes.","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with The Astronaut's Wife is the same problem that plagues many well-made thrillers when the set-up is so good, the ending will more often than not turn out to be somewhat unfulfilling. That's the case here, too. The rest of the movie, however, is an absorbing, at times terrific sci-fi thriller. Rand Ravich's direction is inventive (notice the sex scene) and unconventional; he has a knack for finding the little detail that matters in almost every scene and then drawing your attention to it (though he does succumb to some regrettable false scares). Johnny Depp is disappointingly bland and unmenacing as the astronaut, but Charlize Theron is utterly captivating as his wife; of course with such breathtaking beauty it's easy for her to capture the camera's attention, but she's also expressive enough to hold it. You simply can't take your eyes off her - which is a good thing too, since she appears in practically every scene of the film!    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Good Acting- Terrible Film (Spoiler Warning)","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Despite the performances of both Theron and Depp this movie was pretty bad, it was for the most part, boring and when it wasn't boring it was depressing.The final straw that made me feel I was absolutely cheated by watching it to the end to see what happens, was the awful ending itself.Talk about cheating the viewer out of any satisfaction at all.I cant for the life of me figure out why the script writers thought that having Jilian become the very thing she was trying to destroy by becoming possessed by the alien being would be a good thing for the movie.Jilians masterstroke of setting up the water to pour in behind Spencer from the bath as he thought he was carefully avoiding the puddle from the sink was totally undone when she pulled her feet out of the water and was taken over. Also those creepy little kids of hers at the end was enough to want you to throw something at the TV.One to put on the never to watch list unless you enjoy feeling totally cheated at the end of a movie. "}{"Title":"Ruins the term Psycological Thriller","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When a movie is grossly low on plot, a tactic is to develop sympathetic characters, backstories, etc. to enhance the interest of the film. This film is horrifically low on plot, and they decide to bore you to death clumsily trying to develop a love story between two unlikable characters with totally superfluous supporting cast. I hated everyone in this film on a deeply personal level. They made me want to eliminate them all myself, from the lame friendship between Depp and his co-astronaut and his pukey wife, to the pukey sister of the equally pukey and whiney Theron. I am actually getting upset just writing this review. The other reason the producers of this turkey owe me 2 hours of my life back plus an apology is that on the box it is dubbed a psychological thriller. Sounds good, right? No, it is not, as I don't consider a psychological thriller a movie where you simply wait around for something to happen and nothing ever does until the last 2 minutes of the film. If that is the case then sitting at my desk in my office all day is a psycological thriller-mind numbingly dull and maddening. You guys involved in this movie are jerks for foisting this turd upon an innocent public. "},{"Title":"Very Poor","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 26 / 100 (on first view) People seem to hold Jonny Depp in overly high regard. I can't unfortunately. I'm not denying he's a good actor, but people generally talk about him like if he's in something, it's brilliant. This is a good example.I rated this 26 on first view, that usually means I'm even more critical on second viewing, but I doubt there'll be a second time for this.It's everything I hate about the human subconscious really. This desire to be scared in a safe manor in the comfort of a cinema seat with a box of toffee popcorn and a car waiting in the car park to get one safely home. This nurturing of the Thanatos Complex.I missed the first half hour but this might have been a good thing. The female actor who's name I've no wish to know was perfect for a film of this calibre / genre. Perfect as in appalling, like the genre. I can imagine it was marketed as a thriller but it's trying to be a horror so I'd label it a horror and leave it on those shelves. A sci-fi horror. (If I'd have seen that I wouldn't have bothered watching it) It was off to a head start within the first five minutes and had me thinking see this is good, straight away it's got me thinking, what happened in space of course you never get to see really. But gradually the optimism faded.I can't help but see the parallels between what happens In this film and anti-natal depression and wonder if that's what this films really all about. I've experienced post-natal depression and the similarities portrayed in the film were harrowing, albeit with some 'far-out' story-lines to keep the film deceptive.I wouldn't have reviewed this, but wanted to see if anyone else had spotted this sub-plot. Maybe I'm imagining it.It could have been superb I think. "},{"Title":"Terrible sci-fi reworking of Rosemary's Baby","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you've seen ROSEMARY'S BABY, don't watch this film. If you haven't seen ROSEMARY'S BABY, still don't watch this film. For THE ASTRONAUT'S WIFE is one of the worst Hollywood movies I've seen in a good while, a silly, extraordinarily clichéd and terribly over-obvious exercise in supposed paranoia, mystery and ultimately, horror. It's one of those films where the director only has this one film on his C.V., and from the very beginning it's clear he's totally out of his depth.Charlize Theron is cast in the Mia Farrow role &#x96; and made up to look just like her &#x96; but proves to be nowhere near as talented. It doesn't help that her character is bland and dull, but Theron herself must take a lot of the blame for creating such an unsympathetic heroine. Her acting is terrible, and it's near impossible to reconcile this boring, wooden actress with the lady who won an Oscar for playing a serial killer in MONSTER.The oh-so-slow story involves Johnny Depp going 'missing' in space for a couple of minutes &#x96; and returning to Earth a changed man. Of course, it takes his supposedly loving wife a full hour and a half for her to realise this, at which point the ending arrives. It's fair to say that anybody familiar at all with this type of film will be easily able to guess what's going to happen at the end &#x96; and sure enough, I was right.Depp himself appears to be sleepwalking through his part. You can see why he was drawn to the role &#x96; it's another chance for him to be weird and clinical &#x96; but there's absolutely nothing of interest from him throughout the movie and as a supposedly scary character he's a total failure. The only decent turn comes from the underrated Joe Morton, who bags the few interesting segments in the entire film (and they don't even bother giving him a send-off). Samantha Eggar and Tom Noonan get bit parts while the intensely irritating Clea DuVall bags a meatier role. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Tripe & Drival - Disgraceful Waste of Good Talent","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this for the 1st time last night - I've seen it on the movie rentals shelf for years but never brought myself to rent it. I know better then to go against my better judgment, but I had only 30 minutes to pick out movies and race home because supper was still in the oven. Sighhhhh..... I'll try to never be in such a hurry again. This reminded me of a modern version of Rosemary's Baby, and just as dense. Charlize Theron, however, did a far better job of acting then did Mia Farrow, whom I never considered to be an actress of any significance. Her acting was the only plus to this movie. Johnny certainly couldn't pull it off. With the less then educated script, and stupid remarks of him living there and pointing to his wife's gut, truly left much to be desired. Then of course the completely brainless ending with evil triumphing over good, is always the sludge on top of the sh_ _ cake. Don't waste your time on this. There are far better movies out there that can capture your interests. "},{"Title":"One or two good points.......and a mass of bad ones","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie first came to my attention when I found myself doing a lot of astronaut/spouse scenes and I wanted to study other actors doing it. The store didn't have the movie at the time of the scene but when I came across a used copy, cheap, the other week, I picked it up. As far as my need of it in the past, it is probably just as well I couldn't find it then.The backgrounds are wonderful, the costuming is good, and the suspense, in the surroundings but not the characters, is decent.Other than that, though, it's not that great of a movie. It keeps a person watching, but after wards, one wonders where the quality control was. One wonders what they were watching for, what they were hoping for.There are small points that stretch the believability, such as a picture of a B-58, F/A-18's at an Air Force base, bad runway design, and a SAC patch. They aren't necessarily errors but one is left with the feeling that the person who put them in the movie was assuming that no one in the audience would know the difference.A medium point or two such as having a room full of people who know how to handle emergencies in space but are absolutely paralyzed with mishaps that happen on the ground.Then there is a big item.....those two minutes. For two minutes, no one knows what is going on, but then, everything is 'fine. Yet, in those two minutes, so many things are happening on Earth that for such to happen, they would have to be moving in the wink of an eye.As far as the acting goes, it's not there. Neither Depp or Theron carry the audience; one really doesn't care what happens to them. Morton puts on a good show, though; one can feel the loss in him, both in his character and having been associated with this movie.The movie does have one high point, a subject, that is believable, however. Women talking about their pregnancies and Theron in anguish as she stands on the cliff about forcing a miscarriage or not. In the latter case, the lines might have been terrible but her anguish was believable. Perhaps not moving but believable.If there is a sequel, there was nothing in this movie that would make me even faintly interested to see it.It's not a movie I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was under the impression THE ASTRONAUT`S WIFE was going to be a cross between THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT  and ROSEMARY`S BABY but strictly speaking it`s not , it`s more of a talkie drama . There are sci-fi elements involved like you might find in the rather dismal OUTER LIMITS series from the 1990s but that`s not the main plot . In several places this feels more like a  Woman who doesn`t want a baby by her husband  type of plot that you see in many TVMs , so be warned that if you`re expecting a science fiction horror film like I was you`re going to be very disappointed .On a technical front THE ASTRONAUT`S WIFE isn`t a total failure because the editing and cinematography are very much above average , though the acting is very wooden and Johnny Depp is not bad guy material , and as I said there`s very little that will appeal to someone expecting a few frights  "},{"Title":"Duh...","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The camera-work is technically good. The lighting is good. The sets are good.OK now the bad news - and it *is* bad! Rarely has a movie that I have watched - this one on DVD - promised little and delivered much less. Wooden, unbelievable acting. Predictable, plodding plot. Nonsense science - the wife was invited to watch the shuttle re-entry and the thing landed ten seconds after the burn, for example.There was one scene that seemed briefly to herald a bit more meat the wife meets the NASA renegade at the top of a tube stairwell before he's ushered away by the (ex)astronaut. There was some genuine tension for a couple of minutes - really the only bit of real cinema in the whole sorry mess of a movie.My DVD goes off to the charity shop tomorrow it would be today, but it's Sunday! "},{"Title":"The Astronaut's Wife","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I heard about this I thought it was going to be some kind of melodrama thing, where the astronaut goes away, is thought to be dead, and comes back changed and that, one out of the three thoughts was close, but I was going to watch for the two stars. Basically NASA Commander Spencer Armacost (Johnny Depp), along with Captain Alex Streck (Nick Cassavetes), are assigned to a mission in space. But an explosion causes the loss of contact for two minutes on Earth, forcing the shuttle to brought back to Earth, and worrying Spencer's wife Jillian (Charlize Theron) that something might have happened to her husband. Alex dies from a stroke from whatever happened in the moment of loss of communication, and his wife Natalie (Donna Murphy) commits suicide with a powered radio in the shower, but the other astronaut seems fine after recovery. Spencer retires from NASA, and he and Jillian try to get back to normal, but she starts to take note of small changes in her husband's personality and mannerisms, such as when they make love. Not long after the love making, she finds out that she is pregnant with twins, but her suspicions make her question him about what happened in the two minutes of no contact, but he hardly says anything. Former NASA representative Sherman Reese (Joe Morton) gets in touch with Jillian, and he tells her that the man who has returned to Earth is not her husband, she only slowly believes when she finds out Natalie was pregnant with twins too. Despite Spencer supposedly killing Sherman, she does see the video tape intended for her where he explains that Spencer, and Alex when he was alive, were possessed by extra-terrestrial forces. Spencer then kills Jillian's sister Nan (Clea DuVall), and not long Jillian threatens suicide, also using a live radio and water for electrocution, but he comes in and they have a proper confrontation. Spencer indeed reveals that he is possessed by something alien, but Jillian makes it so that he is the one electrocuted to death, in the end, the twins were born and have grown, she has remarried, but she may be the one possessed now. Also starring Samantha Eggar as Dr. Patraba, Gary Grubbs as NASA Director, Blair Brown as Shelly McLaren and Tom Noonan as Jackson McLaren. I completely agree with the critics, Depp deserves a much better film than this, he was daft to accept, as was Theron copying his role from The Devil's Advocate, and it is pretty much another Rosemary's Baby, using an alien premise, the female lead even has Mia Farrow's hair, it is a dull story, it isn't scary, and it isn't original, a ridiculous science-fiction psychological thriller. Adequate! "}]