[{"Title":"Biased, yes, but solid and never boring","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Is it objective?  No.  Is it informative?  Yes.  Is is accurate?  Only as accurate as those talked to.  Is it an interesting film?  Without a doubt. This should have been called Trying To Make 'Kurt & Courtney, because he never succeeds in making a decent look at their relationship but rather an intriguing look at his struggle to get the whole thing off the ground.  He ran into a lot of trouble via Courtney Love and of course threw in his feelings toward her quite obviously in the film.  Fans of Kurt may respect it, fans of Courtney are likely to despise it.  I admit I am more a fan of Kurt than I could ever be of Courtney, he just seems a hell of a lot more real to me and she has scared me, long before this film made, with all the image make-overs and lame self-promoting publicity stunts.  So I had no problem watching her get ripped into in this documentary.  But a warning to hardcore HOLE fans, you may get extremely frustrated!Like it or hate it, it won't bore you! "},{"Title":"You'll be on the edge of your seat....","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" ....waiting to see if Ms Courtney punches out director/interviewer Nick Broomfield. Whether or not there is any truth to the vague rumours that the Queen of Grunge killed the King, Kurt and Courtney is a riveting exercise in docu-propaganda. Broomfield doesn't do a good job of hiding his disdain for Courtney, but neither does anyone else on screen. Father Hank Harrison hates her, ex boyfriends hate her, Kurt's friends think she was the master manipulator...and El Duce (killed one short month after the interview in this film by a passing freight train!!) says she offered him money to kill Kurt.  Why? Who knows. The only  well adjusted person in this film is Kurt's aunt, and she thinks it was suicide. Whatever your personal feelings, this is a fascinating film.  "},{"Title":"Smells like rivalry","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I heard somewhere that Courtney Love tried like the dickens to get this little documentary banned. If there is no truth to it, why would she care so much? Makes you think...Nick Bloomfield interviews people a courtroom wouldn't consider reliable witnesses- El Duce, for one- a singer who was one bizarre addict himself. He claims Love offered him $50,000 to kill Cobain. Looking at this guy, you automatically rely on his testimony like your local weather report. Still, it is very interesting that weeks after this interview, El Duce was found dead on the railroad tracks by his home. An investigor who was at Cobain's suicide scene claims Cobain had way too much heroin in his system to be coherent enough to pull a trigger on himself with any accuracy. Cobain's Aunt claims the whole conspiracy theory is a load of bunk, and she feels Kurt had suicidal tendencies as well as addictions. Yet most of the people interviewed agree that Courtney was a vindictive slag, jealous of Cobain's success and tried to hitch her wagon to Nirvana's rising star (memories of Courtney and Kurt on the cover of the now defunked Sassy magazine, with Courtney trying to portray herself has the Nancy Spungen of the '90's comes to mind). I've never been a big Love or Hole fan, mainly because I don't think Love is that talented a musician or singer. I feel she has what they call delusions of grandure, which is why this documentary, for as shaky as the evidence presented is, makes me wonder if it isn't the naked truth. "},{"Title":"The Plan Nine From Outer Space of Documentaries","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" About halfway through this documentary I suddenly realized that the film may, in fact, have been a mockumentary. Consider the following* The director/interviewer kept saying to the audience I wanted to play such-and-such a song by Kurt/Nirvana, but the record label wouldn't give me permission, so here is another song by some band you've never heard of * The complete ineptitude of the celebrity stalkers, whose digital camera runs out of battery power just as they get close to the studio that Courtney Love is recording in... and later are so nervous at an official function (where they are pretending to be the media) that they actually fail to ask Courtney Love the required questions.* The appearance of El Duce and his band The Mentors singing songs about sex slaves while dressed in leather executioner's gear - and then discovering that HE'S the guy who claims Courtney Love asked him to knock off Kurt.* In-depth Interviews with drug addicts and other low-life who claim to have met Kurt.* Courtney Love's father interpreting certain Nirvana lyrics as being a reference to LSD (a questionable complaint coming from someone who used to work as a roadie for the Grateful Dead).* The interviewer/director getting up at an official ACLU function and speaking directly AFTER Courtney Love's speech. (didn't anyone actually notice?) As all these things came together, I honestly felt that the documentary was SO bad that it could not be anything else but deliberate. Armed with the theory that this was actually a mockumentary I was surprised to learn from a cursory internet search that the film is actually a real attempt at a documentary.Given the complete disaster that this documentary is, the only film that it could therefore be compared to is Ed Wood's Plan Nine From Outer Space. The aimlessness and ineptitude of the documentary is so pronounced that it actually becomes quite entertaining after a while. As soon as El Duce and The Mentors came into the equation I was almost howling on the floor laughing. The conspiracies surrounding Cobain's death should have been treated seriously - but they are examined in such a way as to almost be an insult to those who made the conspiracies up, let alone the memory of Cobain.Neither Dave Grohl nor Krist Novoselic (the other two members of Nirvana) are interviewed or even seen throughout the film. Other major figures, such as Kurt's immediate family, the band's manager and other record company execs are also missing from the film. Instead we are treated to a cavalcade of background figures (most of whom are drug addicts) who claim to have met and influenced Cobain way before he was a star and who all, for some reason, think that it is possible that Kurt had been murdered.Actual important leads - such as evidence that Kurt's credit card was used a few days after his death - are mentioned but never followed up and are eventually forgotten in favour of tracking down the mysterious (and ultimately hilarious) El Duce and spending time with clueless celebrity stalkers who spend more time on camera talking about what they do rather than actually doing anything.In summary, the documentary itself is far more entertaining than the subject it purports to be investigating - but entertaining only because of its chaotic and misguided interviewer who interviews all the wrong people and investigates all the wrong theories. It is about as compelling as driving past a flaming car wreck that had run over and killed a circus clown. "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Not being particularly interested in either Kurt or Courtney, I was surprised how director Nick Broomfield managed to attract me to his film. His unique style gets us involved with the story that no one really knows where it's going. Not even the director himself. This may prove frustrating to those who have become accustomed to polished and hollywoodized type of film making, or those who are looking for a clear angle. To me however, it was a wonderful gallery of many slices of real life from director's own challenges to one of the best documentary film endings I've ever seen.Hats off to Nick Broomfield for his uncompromising style and bravery. "},{"Title":"A little speculative...","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Nick Broomfield tries to clarify that absurd theory that says that Kurt Cobain was murdered. No one would actually believe that Kurt was killed because it is quite clear that his addiction and his depression killed him.Anyway, Broomfield lets everyone to make their point, all those that defend the conspiration theory. But let me tell you, some of them, just like Courtney Love's father or that grotesque guy called The Duce are not reliable sources precisely.Maybe Nick goes too far accusing Courtney. I mean, she's not Mother Theresa, but she isn't the root of all evil either. She's nothing but an arrogant and eccentric rockstar... just like most of people there in Hollywood.Otherwise, Who killed Kurt...? has valious moments for all the fans of Kurt early recordings, interviews with some of his relatives and childhood friends...*My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"Hard to Tell Where the Truth Is","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Kurt & Courtney (1998) *** (out of 4) Nick Broomfield's controversial documentary on the suicide of Kurt Cobain and the conspiracy theories around whether or not Courtney Love had him murdered. This is an incredibly strange documentary that has witnesses that no lawyer in the world would put on the stand but at the same time there's no question that the film will keep you glued to what you're watching. It's hard to say how much truth is found in this documentary or if everything here is nothing more that cruel gossip but I must say that it's rather obvious that Broomfield hates Love. There are a lot of problems with this documentary with the main one being Broomfield's attacks on Love at every chance he gets. It's clear he wants to know whether or not Love killed Cobain but I think there are quite a few cheap shots taken at her. The director is constantly saying how he wanted to use certain music but Love wouldn't allow it. Well, duh. Any music rights owner isn't going to let you freely use something so considering this film ran out of backers it's clear that they wouldn't have had the money to buy the music even if they were for sale. There's an episode at the end when the director could have asked her a question but didn't and instead gets on a stage and does it in public. Another cheap shot. With that said, the murder conspiracy is just something hard to wrap your brain around. Even if it was true, the witnesses here are cracked out heroin addicts so it's really hard to take what they say as the truth. You could argue that Kurt and Courtney were a part of this crowd, which I guess would be fair but I do wonder what motive some of these people had. It's clear that Love's father hates his daughter so his motives are certain. Others claim that they're terrified of Love yet they come out and say she murdered Kurt. No matter what your opinion on the truth is, it's hard to take any real evidence out of this documentary. "},{"Title":"Another great Broomfield documentary","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Nick Broomfield is a great documentary filmmaker - his pics on Heidi Fleiss & Aileen Wuoronos are especially effective.  He was criticized for this film being too one-sided and featuring himself too much.  But, as you watch the film, you realize he really had no choice because, everyone (especially people who are pro-Courtney) is terrified of suffering the wrath of Courtney (who is, no matter who you hear from, obviously a violent psychotic) if they speak out in Nick's film.  This leaves only people with nothing to lose (addicts, losers, and disgruntled ex-employees) to interview.  Thus, most of the footage consists of Broomfield desperately trying to glean ANY information on his chosen subject.  What we learn we learn by reading between the lines.  For instance, the very fact that Love put pressure on his financers from the very beginning of his filming speaks volumes.  If Broomfield didn't set out to lambast her at the start, she certainly helped change his mind quickly.  The film does little to clear up the decidedly murky circumstances of Cobain's death (though the guy seemed to be a walking suicidal time-bomb).  What it does prove is that Love basically got her claws into Kurt, chewed him up, spit him out, and got his millions - all in a span of about three years!  And it's all worth it to see Broomfield call an auditorium full of hypocrites - the ACLU - on the carpet for allowing Love, who regularly makes death threats to journalists, to be their spokesperson for free speech.  "},{"Title":"pile of sh**","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This 'documentary' made me angry.  I didn't bother seeing it when it came out as it got such bad reviews. I saw it on tv a coupla weeks ago and wasn't expecting much but got even less. I give it minus infinity out of 10.  The moment Dick Broomfield appeared on screen, I wanted to punch him, and I'm not a violent person. I would say he was slimy, but that kind of implies deviousness and he's not intellegent enough to be devious. What was the point of this 'documentary'?  Huh Dick?  You wanted to make an easy buck out of the Kurt/Courtney story without knowing anything about anything or having any intellegent questions, any new info (or any info at all), any correct info, or any personal scope or objective whatsoever.Please excuse my rantings, but it is all too fresh in my memory.  To give a few examples of why u don't want to see this, here's what some of the scenes are like* 2 minutes of road, shot from inside a car driving to KC's old house, to a background tape of some guy K used to know's current band.  When he gets to the house he says 'This is Kurts' old house' and drives off again.  We get no background info or commentry during these overlong shots.  It is a just a house. It is not interesting.*Dick walks into a lottery state building that KC used to live OPPOSITE, for godsake.  The woman at front desk says 'get out' and calls security. End scene.  What were they gonna ask these people anyway? How could he get away with putting this kinda stuff in the film? Did they forget to edit it? Oh, hang on, if they edited out the bad bits, it wouldn't even exist.*A scene of Dick meeting with 'stalkerazzi' to try and get a glimpe of CL. They do not get to talk to her, she walks past, and you see a shot of them fidgeting like pathetic school boys saying 'You ask her', 'No, you' etc. They are pathetic beyond words.*The only intellegable interviewee is one of KC's aunts, but she irritated me too much.  CL's dad is a d***, who (can u believe) actually implies she could have had something to do with plotting to murder KC.  He also uses the opportunity to plug his book. All others willing to talk were mostly people who knew the couple vaguely, or knew someone who knew them vaguely..The only scene I liked, was of Dick on the phone to his sponsers, telling him they were cutting of his funding.  Haha.Do not watch unless you want to make yourself really angry "},{"Title":"Who funded this thing?","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Thus is basically, a guy and his camcorder tooling around Seattle and Aberdeen interviewing people who were either irrelevant or had a personal bias against Courtney Love.  Apparently he took Ms. Love's resistance to his project very personally, because instead of finding other sources, such as interviewing former Nirvana bandmates Chris Novoselic and David Grohl, or even Chad Channing and Jason Everman who were with the group in its formative years.  Most people he talked to barely new Kurt. Instead he focused on portraying Courtney Love as the villain, tossing out wild accusations about her with almost virtually no evidence (or effort), and the testimony of the clearly biased or the unreliable.I can't believe this documentary was funded, distributed, or worst of all watched by me.  This movie was billed as the film Courtney Love doesn't want you to see, maybe she's a film critic.  "}{"Title":"A sad loss that no murder will repair","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" A very strange documentary about the death of Kurt Cobain. Is it a suicide as announced or is it a murder as suspected and asserted by several people and is Courtney the origin of this murder? Quite a few question that are not that easy to answer and actually the documentary does not get to no answer, no final answer and it is maybe better like that. What would it bring into the picture if these hypotheses were true? Nothing. The loss of Kurt Cobain will not be repaired by a police investigation and then a trial. No matter how strange this death was one thing seems to be sure Kurt Cobain was being pushed into some extreme depression by the castrating and controlling obsession of his wife Courtney. She did get a huge profit out of this death but that could have been a good motivation but it is in no way a proof or a piece of hard evidence. So let's cry and lament and let's hope what Kurt Cobain left behind will be stronger than the loss of his future.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"This film is a total waste of time, and any more ink spilled about it and its director is truly futile.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  What a disappointment. I sincerely hope that filmmaker Broomfield meant this as a parody, because there is no other way this picture works. For anyone who thinks that perhaps this was the filmmakers intent, to ridicule his subject, try to imagine what this film would be like if Michael Moore was the director.  With the exception of Kurt's aunt, all the people interviewed are pathetic. None of them shed any light on the subject, they only merely establish themselves and the filmmaker as dismal and sad. And if that is not bad enough, they are so uninteresting. I really had a hard time paying attention to this movie and am so grateful I saw it on cable and not for $12 in an art house. Broomfield slams Love every chance he gets, which is about as easy and un-amusing as shooting fish in a barrel. He also elevates Kurt nearly presenting him as a 1990s Buddy Holly, a tortured talented young musician struck down in a great rock and roll death scene. Maybe its too early to say, but Kurt Cobain was no Buddy Holly.  As the end mercifully approaches, we are teased into thinking there will be a pay-off. The filmmakers have invaded an ACLU event where Love will be a presenter. After already establishing Love is not interested in protecting the First Amendment, courtesy of threatening phone messages to journalists left by her and Cobain, Broomfield has a chance to confront her on her hypocrisy. But they don't, they instead loose the nerve because it seems, Love sends out some sort of evil hypnotic vibe that makes even the most cynical of investigators roll over like junkie off a curb.This film is a total waste of time, and any more ink spilled about it and its director is truly futile. If you are interested in poorly made movies about why NASA faked the moon landings, where Elvis is hiding out or how Israeli military intelligence murdered Princess Diana, then you would probably enjoy this film.   "},{"Title":"whatever","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Sleazy, silly, typically lowbrow documentary from typically lowbrow documentary filmmaker Nick Broomfield probes Kurt Cobain's suicide (murder?) and widow Courtney Love's subsequent rise to rock/Hollywood stardom. Never less than fascinating, but similar to flipping through a National Enquirer. The ink stays on your fingers and afterward all you can think about is washing it off. Broomfield is a scuzzy English tabloid documentarian obsessed with white-trash America. His best trait is his aggressive interview technique, and the way his films seem to descend on a spiral. As he neglects to get the truth from his interview subjects he returns to them again and again, his questions and manner growing more and more relentless. It's fun to watch but also annoying and unnerving. Like watching someone slowly drill a hole through metal. I hope I'm never subjected to his process.Culturally and geographically, this film is like looking at a graveyard. The grunge scene (Seattle in particular) seems to have died along with Cobain. What a thriving mecca it once was. The brief concert clips of Seattle bands post-Nirvana are just depressing. At one point the lead singer in some Nirvana wannabe group attacks a fan with his microphone and screams obsceneties at him and it comes off as pathetic and listless. What a boring, dried-up scene Seattle has become. And who are these losers Broomfield trots out in front of his camera. Someone named Ami who says she had the same dealer as Cobain and Love and calls Love a harpy. Maybe she is but who cares. Who in the world IS this Ami and why are we listening to her. She could be lying about knowing them. Later, there's someone else (they don't even say her name) who says she worked for Cobain and Love as a nanny for a month. The woman looks so wasted on drugs if Cobain and Love were dumb enough to hire her as a nanny they deserved to be slandered in a documentary.The absurdity reaches its nadir with the introduction of El Duce, and truly a sadder specimen you will not likely see outside of a mental hospital or jail. I flat out refuse to believe anyone would offer this guy 50 grand to snuff anyone because he looks like he could hardly make it to the mailbox. The only really reliable people are Love's father (who's just plain odd), Cobain's former friend and the guy who supplied him with the shotgun (he's so doped up he can't follow Broomfield's questions) and Cobain's aunt (who's the only sane person in the entire film).Amazingly, the one who ends up looking good is Love. This was during one of her together periods so she looks great in the few clips we see of her. Certainly better than anyone else in the movie. And a lot more coherent (with the exception of her scary voice-mail threats). A sad movie, finally. Doubtful that Love killed him. Too much speculation. A straight documentary on Cobain would have been much more interesting. The few clips we get of him are the best things in the film "},{"Title":"The Great Comedy of 1998","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I think that this is a very sad movie.  It should have been called Jerry Springer Casting Session with Two Scenes of Courtney Love.  Like how bored was Nick Broomfield?  I think that he is obsessed with Courtney because he was acting like a stalker and following her around.  I wish she would have gotten ahold of him.  He totally wussed out several times when he could have talked to her and maybe gotten a real answer for his banal and cliched crapumentary.  Instead he just interviewed weirdo after weirdo.  He has nothing better to do than trash Courtney Love and blame her for everything. I think it was very funny to watch all the overdramatic people he found for this movie.  It was like Waiting For Guffman Part 2  except Kurt & Courney was not intended to be funny and suprisingly no one in the movie worked at a Dairy Queen.  He acts like he is horrified of Courtney and we should all be afraid fo her.  I think the movie clearly showed that she just wants to put the past in the past and move on with her life without some idiots following her around picketing about her dead husband.  "},{"Title":"Let It Go!","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" This was an excellent film, however, as usual, we have people pointing the finger immediately at Courtney Love. Let it go! The film proved to me, if anything, that Courtney wasn't responsible, since both Nick and Kurt's Aunt. Mary both arrived at the conclusion that the conspiracy theories weren't true. If the Police, or FBI, or whatever, believed Courtney was reponsible, she would have been tried, and prosecuted accordingly years ago. This idea that she paid the authorities off is ridiculous! The film also shows one of Kurt's best friends, Dylan Carlson, saying that if he thought Courtney, or anyone, was responsible for Kurt's death, he would have them killed years before the movie was released. That's Kurt's best friend, and his own Aunt who don't believe there was any conspiracy surrounding Kurt's death. People who were obsessed by Kurt don't want to believe that he killed himself, and that's the only reason why people blame Courtney. Let it go, and let Kurt rest in peace. "},{"Title":"An attempt to turn gossip and rumors into a conspiracy theory...pure balderdash","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Director Nick Broomfield makes a feeble attempt to retrace the troubled childhoods of grunge rock stars and one-time married couple Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love, but his 'investigative' work uncovering possible murder scenarios in Cobain's shotgun-induced suicide chews up the bulk of this threadbare documentary. Shorn of Nirvana's music due to Love's swift legal action, the film sounds just as hollow as all the inherent melodrama plays out, with Love's estranged biological father, Cobain's aunt, and a bankrupt private investigator Broomfield's only real attractions. There's also a quick, ridiculous interview with pseudo-rocker El Duce, who claims that Love offered him 50 G's to blow Kurt's head off (El Duce himself later dies in a mysterious accident--more conspiracy theories!). It's a hapless, hopeless piece of work, with guerrilla filmmaking tactics that make Michael Moore's documentaries look like Scorsese by comparison. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"This?","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This, THIS utter piece of junk, slapped together and lacking anything close to coherence, this was supposed to blow the lid off of some conspiracy about Cobain's death?  I cannot believe anybody gives credence to something this lacking in any evidence, real interviews, or some semblance of anything above tabloid schlock.  Okay, actually, tabloids do much better work.Here's what they've dug up.- family members who don't like Courtney (and who she doesn't like), who haven't seen her in years, using Courtney's fame to aggrandize themselves and make a lot of baseless charges.  Both her father and stepfather think she killed Kurt; of course, neither has spoken to her in a decade.  Her stepdad actually pulls a poem out that she wrote when she was maybe 14 and says that it's proof that even then she was going to kill a rich husband.- friends and supposed friends who tell self-conflicting stories about Kurt being suicidal, Kurt not being suicidal, Courtney being a harpy, Courtney being a good partner for Kurt.- The infamous El Duce (of the Mentors) interview, where he does back up his claim that Courtney offered him $50,000 to kill Kurt.  His specifics aren't anything more than what could be pulled from any newspaper story on Kurt.  His death shortly thereafter looks less like a Courtney-orchestrated hit than the inevitable death of a doomed nihilist (see G.G. Allin).- Paparrazzi who are supposed to be so smooth and jump Courtney to ask her questions, but who are so inept that the battery on their camera runs out while they film themselves buying soda outside her studio.  Then they catch her at the ACLU dinner and ask her wimpy little questions about her new record and get all giggly, and are too overwhelmed at the moment to ask her any questions of importance.  - The private investigator hired by Courtney to find Curt who now believes that she had him killed, but who has nothing supporting his claim, only vaguely polished reasons why Curt could not possibly have been able to kill himself.  Which are then easily refuted.- Numerous interviews with either stoned or simply stupid acquaintances whose concept of answering an open-ended question is by saying, Yeah................yeah man, I think so.  The surprise final interview with the Cobains' nanny is scintillating we learn she had to leave because she hated it up there; that Kurt was a loving father, but Courtney wouldn't let him love Francis Bean as much as he wanted; that Curt seemed really unhappy and wanted to get away.  That's it, that's the big insight from someone who was on the inside.  Wow, brilliant work there. In the end the movie makes no claims at all, which is for the best since there's really nothing but a lot of 3rd hand chatter and noise.  The filmmaker asks no real questions, does no real research, does no real editing and makes no real claims.    The musical choices are bland, drab, and perfectly fit the endless blank-wall pallor of the film (except the live bands add a little flavor).   The only real info is very clear evidence that Courtney is probably a relentless bitch that few people probably liked before she got rich and that nobody likes now, although many people fear her.  Then again, is that really news to anybody?  The movie is more about the attempts to stop the movie from being made, but given what he accomplished while he was working Courtney need not have feared it so much.  I understand that he lost financial backing, but even if he had a million dollars it doesn't look like he was capable of using it to get any any information justifying the expense.  There's not one interview with Nirvana, no people who knew the couple at the end of his life (well, nobody who can speak in more than vague, spaced out phrases), no ex-handlers, no Evan Dando, no Eric, no nothing.  Since I'm an information junkie I have never before actually said yeah, pull the funding on that documentary, but there's a first time for everything.Someone in an earlier review said they couldn't understand why Nick Broomfield's work is unavailable in the US.  Well, I think I can answer that question. "},{"Title":"Conspiracy Theories Abound - K&C's Music & Substance Missing - Poppycock!","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" So far I'm about half way through and I must say that this could have been a good film. As it is, its okay, but it misses the mark in several ways. He interviews people that you could meet at the mall or a flea market, no one important really. Maybe someone of import was at an industry party - where the producer would never be invited. I doubt he meets Courtney Love at all, she seems to be against this. There is NO music (so far) by Nirvana, or even Kurt (save some stuff he recorded at like 2 & 15 years old at his aunt's house). A doc about Kurt with no music by Kurt? Oh well. Even the band the producer goes to see who supposedly were influenced by Nirvana sounded like Misfits! Oh no.Also, he interviews some people who you think might have something important to say - but then, he can't put what they said in the film! What?! He sights British law issues (as he films for the BBC, or says he does) for some of the prohibition and for others he just leaves things out! Like the music. If this doesn't turn around considerably, I'd have to say miss this. If I ever do finish watching this and it turns into something good, I'll let you know. Although without any music by Kurt or Courtney, I seriously doubt it. * (of 5) at the half.Well, I saw the rest of the film. So the whole second half is pretty basic. He re-interviews Kurt's aunt and there's a guy who may have been hired to do something to Kurt, but (surprise!) his accusations couldn't be added to the film due to British libel laws. Oh well. He out accuses Courtney's dad of being a rotten father when its obvious that the man had been to hell and back with the woman. His main concern at that time was his granddaughter, and that she have a safe environment to grow up in. The doc's producer tells us he doesn't believe the conspiracies - that Love had anything to do with Cobain's death. Take that for what its worth. Given this, the later scene at an ACLU dinner doesn't make much sense. Courtney is shown to be capable of anything - the nanny that worked for the couple in Kurt's final weeks was obviously scared to say much on camera. He plays some tape of Courtney threatening the author of a tell all book, and its not a soft or veiled threat. This all culminates at the ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union) awards dinner where Love is a presenter and speaker. Before she takes the stage, the extreme celebrity stalker, who had been in a scene earlier in the film saying he'd do anything to show Courtney's true colors - that he'd walk right up to her and ask if she killed Kurt or something, is at the ACLU function. He gets Love right on camera with the mic in her face! So this extreme stalker - who's partner in that early scene wouldn't even appear on camera without a mask! they are crazy guys - finally asks her a question for the producer of the film. Is it, did you have anything to do with your husband's death? Is it, did you threaten and/or assault journalists and writers? NO! He asks about a song he overheard when they went to her studio (where he was supposed to confront her and didn't!) and if she has any new members in her band! Extreme! Finally, the producer of the documentary, actually shows some real balls! After Courtney speaks, he gets on stage and basically calls the ACLU members gathered that they are hypocrites because they have a speaker who gives a speech about the importance of freedom of the press, while having intimidated, threatened and assaulted that very same press for writing and saying things about her that she didn't like. He does actually ask Love a question, and her answer is interesting. At the very end we DO get an original song. Unfortunately its by Kurt's aunt Mary, singing at a school where she is giving a talk about the horrors of drugs and addiction using Kurt as example. A very good message - I'm just not sure we needed to go through 90 minutes to get it. "},{"Title":"Unbearably skewed","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Honestly, this is a review of the first 30 minutes. Because that's how long I lasted before turning it off.What promises to be an interesting documentary, quickly turned into a repetition of Courtney is evil statements. Mentioning one time that there's no Nirvana music because she owns the rights and wouldn't approve is OK. Doing it time and time again, combined with seemingly only looking for people who have bad things to say about her becomes boring rapidly.I'm not a fan of Courtney Love at all, but seeing this documentary's unashamed skewed look at the whole thing is unbearable. "},{"Title":"Biases Aside","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" The damning evidence, pointed one way or the other, is not to be found in Bloomfields' Kurt & Courtney. There is no smoking gun contained in the last few frames or words. I believe this film maker had honestly set out to dig to the bottom of the supposed scandal, perhaps even moreso excited about the prospect of finding this intangible truth when many attempts fell through in the past. At this, he does appear biased at first; his initial questions have a tendency to steer his interviewee toward some desirable response, but as the film progresses and his attitude and convictions sway, you find that he wasn't trying to force an answer but rather he is quite graceless at interviewing. Half of the time I wanted to yell at him to stop interrupting. The backdrop of the film is Courtney, not just in her important link to the story but in the climate she distantly molded before the filming even began. In some obscure legal context, she tightens the screws from an affiliated production co. on Bloomfields project and ultimately has them cut off. Needless to say, she has a tendency to pick on little guys (shown in the film) and intimidate/threaten similar journalists who show interest in getting near the same subject at hand. The film, and all of the evidence within, becomes about Courtney. Insinuations about her past in relation to how she handled Kurt poses some interesting perspectives on a possible agenda she had been harboring. Not to mention her violent disposition (rolled in to her constant death threats to various journalists and people they reached), and the near-smoking gun of a half-assed confession from El Duce on the subject of being approached with the kill contract. A lot of it is incriminating, none of it evidence. But Bloomfields project, truncated as it feels, was not at a loss for purpose. Despite a lack of forensic proof, and the shaky testimony of peoples involved, Bloomfield carves out a clear and infallible MOTIVE for the murder of Kurt Cobain, and that is perhaps this movies achievement. It is worth it to watch and judge for yourself. "}{"Title":"Sincere investigative reporting","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" I liked the documentary and Broomfleid's investigative style of this film. He seems to be sincere in his attempts to see if there is anything behind the conspiracy theories regarding Kurt Cobain's death. I think it would have been in Courtney's best interest to cooperate with his investigative reporting and at the end when she is seen supporting journalism's freedom of speech when she herself threatened and discouraged free speech only makes her look baaaad and hypocritical.The draw back is that Broomflied seems to only be able to interview drug addicts and weirdos that seem to know little of what was going on in Kurt's life. The only person he interviews that is credible is Courtney's father but he seems to have a grudge himself and leaves the viewer wondering how much he knew about Kurt's personal life. The best interviews are with Kurt's aunt and it is here that we get to see a side of Kurt that I think we will be grateful for having. "},{"Title":"very disturbing movie","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Despite the fact that it's difficult to tell if any level of objective journalism was met in this movie, it's both entertaining and startling.  The best parts of the movie are those that feature Kurt's Aunt Mary who is obviously the reason why he went into music in the first place. Courtney comes off badly but that's mostly because of the efforts to which she went to stop this flick.  The scenes with her father are so chilling and awful that it would be easy to understand and forgive her for almost anything she did after she left home. It's a shame she refused to cooperate with the filmmakers who are, for the most part, sympathetic.I kept wondering what happened to the band -- why weren't Krist Novoselic and Dave Grohl interviewed for this movie?  Or did Courtney get to them, too? "},{"Title":"If you don't expect answers from this doc, your viewing experience will be just fine","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" I went into this wondering what I was gonna see. I chose not to watch this for years just for the simple fact that the conspiracy theory hung so large over it. To my surprise Nick Broomfield just goes through this doc with him and a mic and talks to people Kurt knew. He doesn't believe the conspiracy theory he just wants to explore the idea of it. You have to remember that when this was made it was only 3 years after his death so it was still a fresh topic.I've been a fan of this band since its inception...so say 20 years. I've read everything that needs to be read about it and I can say for certainty that this was no murder for hire and or a conspiracy to kill Kurt Cobain. This was a sad tale of a guy from a broken lower middle class home who happen to have some issues and his pressure release was his music. If you don't believe this then rewind this movie and watch everyone the director talks to. I mean with the exception of Kurt's first girlfriend the rest were obvious dope addicts. So if this doesn't give you an idea of the friends he hung out with then I'm writing this to the wrong crowd. This guy was no straight lace buttoned down rock star. He had a bad marriage to another drug addict, he hated fame and drugs were getting the best of him. Pile that on top of the issues he already had and..well...you know the end result.I don't believe that Courtney Love had anything to do with this. I mean I believe some of the things that were said in this doc about her and what she might of said but to me she's a loud mouth more than anything else. Most normally don't go ahead with what they talk/threaten. If you need proof of this...look at her life now. Tragedy.This doc has more rare footage than any others I've seen on this topic. More friends and an actual family member interview. It was exciting to see and hear.If you want closure on this subject, read Heavier than Heaven and watch this doc...I think your conclusion will be the same as mine. "},{"Title":"Don't forget, this is a documentary!","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Omg, i will probably be the last person who has ever said a word about this documentary. That's something i realized just then , when i began writing. I don't know just what 2 think about the subliminal message in this film. Do they want us 2 think Kurt Cobain was killed? (that was my first idea when i heard he was dead, and accidentally the murderer was the same as the one the film ) So in a way it has fed my hunger for satisfaction, especially when i try to get anything online with Ms love, like an e-mail address or a site of her band where i can contact her and... well really, just to ask her if it's true. I may be easily influenced by a movie but when she doesn't react, it looks like murder 2 me. I think it was a great documentary, if not the best if have ever seen.greets Rich "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever!","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie I have ever seen. I was watching it with my mother and we laughed out loud throughout the entire film. If it set out to make Courtney look like the biggest bitch ever well maybe it succeeded to some people. But this film actually made me sympathize with Courtney. What a crazy father she had. And all the liars in this film. Tom Grant is an idiot who was a loser Private Detective that Courtney found out of the yellow pages and he's broke so now he's trying to make money off of a dead man. El Duce is hysterical and it's no surprise he ended up dead by some train tracks. And anyway all those lame claims Grant made proves nothing. And anyway I saw the recent Dateline special and it debunked all those theories so face it I know you want a reason to hate and blame Courtney Love, but the man killed himself okay. Okay they had this little girl who claimed to be a nanny at first this lady said she worked for Kurt and Courtney for months and then the girl says she quit for a week. She was probably just some dumb Nirvana fan. And then they show this girl who is obsessed with Courtney and tries a little too hard to look like her. She claims to have photos of Kurt and Courtney doing drugs together but then she tries to make as much excuses as possible as to why she can't get to them. Kurts best friend Dylan is nothing but a junkie though atleast he didn't say anything lame about the conspiracies. Kurts Aunt Mary seemed lovely. The messages of Kurt and Courtney threatening journalists my mother and I had no problem with that since if we had to put up with the s***  Kurt and Courtney did from the press, having their child taken away, we would be paranoid too if we were in their position.But the funniest part was when they show up at the free speech event to approach Courtney. Just when the guy gets the opportunity to finally ask her some questions he just asks Courtney some dumb questions about her band and she answers very nicely -looking pretty I might add, but then this was through her movie star phase-and then when she goes away he starts giggling like a little fan. Starts saying how he was overwhelmed by her beauty. And then Broomfield bumrushed the stage and gets escorted off. So what if Courtney threatens journalists? It seemed as if Nick were more obsessed with Courtney preventing his film from getting distributed than Kurt Cobain. This was the most ridiculous piece of filmwork I have ever seen. Anyone who believes these people and the conspiracies needs to grow up and get a life. Kurt killed himself, face it! "},{"Title":"Very strong documentary","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I thought this was a very brave, strong documentary. It doesn´t say either that Courtney is guiltly or not guilty. It just documents like a documentary is supposed to. It paints a picture of a very grim underworld of psychological terror and drug abuse. I do think it lacks compassion for Courtney though (maybe I´m wrong about this) - I just think Broomsfield lacks compassion for the psychological problems Courtney must be experiencing because of her childhood, drug abuse and problems with her father. Such a person should not be critized. She should be supported and helped and loved. In a way, Broomsfield does that in a kind of strange way. Anyway, what could he do? How do you protect a man from himself? like one of Elvis´ bodyguards says. Courtney Love should definitely be protected from herself.   "},{"Title":"hehe a very funny doc","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  water coming out of my eyes watching this. although kind of sad, the people are still extremely strange that's what made me laugh.btw someone mentioned journalism should be objective. in other words, BORING. an objective journalist isn't worth much. sure he can be on the news or something but a good journalist makes stories that will arouse conversation. "},{"Title":"A perfect example of losing objectivity","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I had to get this film when I heard that he had interviewed El Duce.  It's not a very good documentary but it clearly shows what can happen when the film maker gets a bit p****d off.  You can almost see the cloud drifting over the entire process.  He gets desperate once his funding is pulled... trying to connect things which really don't.   El Duce's death, the nanny, Courtney's wish to meet Mr. Stipe... it gets pretty silly.  I'm no fan of money grubbing, back-stabbing, claw-your-way-to-the-top, image-conscious people, but it doesn't quite add up to evil murderess. "},{"Title":"Good movie that gets off-track","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I am a huge Kurt and Courtney fan so all those conspiracy theories piss me off.  But I actually really liked this movie even if it got off-track and meandered.  It gives us all this speculation (mostly biased against Courtney due to Nick Broomfield's obvious disdain for her) but Nick himself doesn't believe she killed him.  At the end Nick is more pissed about Courtney's persecution of journalists and this film.  He offers us an assortment of junkies and freaks (like he always does) who claim ties to the famous couples.  They mostly think Kurt was a sad guy and Courtney was a controlling bitch- but that much is obvious to the public and we don't really need people to confirm that.If you're looking for true insight into the lives of the two rock stars listen to their music  Kurt signs in All Apologies I'm married / I'm buried.  While Courtney signs in Doll Parts I love him so much / It just turns to hateBroomfield hasn't resolved anything- he has in fact confused the issue further- but he has made a fascinating and compelling portrait of two rock stars the agressor and the dominated one who couldn't handle it.  For all its flaws the movie is unique and a must-see. "},{"Title":"Huh?  Wha?  Movie?","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I didn't get it.  I was amazed at how incredibly uncredable every witness was.  I kept hoping for some clarity, but it never came.  I thought it was very convienent that the videocam ran out of batteries during attempted ambush #1.  I was also amazed that both the stalkeratzie and the documneter shamelessly bailed like frightened kids when facing Courtney, thus missing the opportunity to ask questions which had been posed during the film. Especially after early in the film it was pointed out lawyers wouldn't let her speak to the crew.  (Gee, wonder why?)I did find the interviews interesting, especially some of the stuff about early Kurt.  I also liked seeing how the research was done, even if it failed to shed any light.On another note, I felt rather dirty after thinking that I had watched this hoping to learn learn about K&C and instead getting dragging into the murder stuff.  Admittedly, I could have left, but didn't.  Shame on me. "}{"Title":"Very interesting theories....","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I started watching this film wanting to find out more about a great songwriter, I got alot more than that however. It seems that everytime someone dies a conspiracy theory arises from the ashes and sometimes convinces us all. This film has some very interesting theories on Courtney Love's involvement in her husband's death. Some of the way through this film I was completely convinced. Then I realized that Love's father hated his daughter and was a very greedy man. Watch closely as the film makers pull up to talk to Love's father in a nice car and he says Nice car.....to bad I won't see any of it. Greed. The one thing I think is so sad about being rich and famous is that when you die they miss you for 2 days and then they wonder who gets the money. I thought the film was very interesting, but they could have done a film on some of these other people in this film and it would have been quite fascinating. Weird people out there. "},{"Title":"A pathetic, embarrassing piece of excrement.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  The most horrid, inept, irresponsible, miserable excuse for a documentary that I've ever had the misfortune to waste 90 minutes on. This film was so bad that I'm amazed it stuck to the film, let alone got released.The director/interviewer wanders around aimlessly with a camera, digs up what appears to be anybody with even the most tenuous of connections to Kurt and/or Courtney, and lets them ramble on at length.  None of these people seem to be able to provide any real insight into Kurt & Courtney's relationship, and more than a few of them appear to completely lack any credibility whatsoever.  Hank Harrison and Tom Grant in particular come off as shameful weasels trying to make a couple of fast bucks off of whatever controversy they can manage to fuel, and it's downright embarrassing to watch.The sheer ineptitude displayed throughout is mind-boggling - the 60 Minutes-style ambush interview of Courtney they attempt, only to have the camcorder batteries run out just before they sneak in (they apparently had plenty of juice to film them rehearsing the ambush and getting drinks out of a vending machine beforehand, though!); watching first the tabloid guy and then the director completely lose their nerve on the two occasions they actually manage to speak to Courtney on camera (at an ACLU benefit dinner); etc.  It's almost as if they scraped together every scrap of film they had and just released it.Avoid this one.  Watching a test pattern for an hour and a half would be more informative.  "},{"Title":"not altogether satisfying yet still intriguing","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Those looking for definitive answers about the death of Cobain won't find them here. But for anyone interested in the process of news gathering, you will find that here in abundance.The movie is really about information sources -- who can you trust and who's full of crap? Unfortunately for Courtney, her no comment doesn't look good here, especially when the director confronts her (in a scene that harkens to Roger and Me). Kurt and Courtney may not resolve all the questions about the sad life and death of Kurt Cobain, but it makes you think hard about whether these questions could possibly be answered. "},{"Title":"A lot of viewers are missing the point with this one...","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I think a lot of the viewers are missing the point here. Nick Broomfield is not your standard, boring documentary filmmaker. Anyone who has seen his previous works about Heidi Fleiss and Aileen Wurnos would understand that. Broomfield, who doesn't have a ton of money to make these films (he seems to have a crew of two, including himself), picks subjects which have a purposefully surreal tone a female serial killer; an upper-middle class madam; and now an underground punk rock star and alleged murderess.The journey of Kurt and Courtney takes you up and down some very strange corners which most documentary filmmakers would be too terrified to touch. The fact that Courtney's lawyers were successful in getting MTV to cut off their end of funding is well-displayed here -- how many documentaries would show us backstage info like that?Whether or not you believe in Ms. Love's part in Cobain's death, I would definitely recommend this. My vote  9/10. "},{"Title":"This wasn't a documentary about Kurt and Courtney, it was a documentary about making a documentary about Kurt and Courtney!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I'm sitting there the whole time thinking that it's not edited very well and that it isn't put together well in general, and then I realize that it's because the guy tried to tell the truth and got his funding cut. There is not one person in the whole documentary that seems credible at all. No new answers and not really any new questions except the main one - how did this guy get a peice of crap like this released. "},{"Title":"This movie was good or bad, depending on how you looked at it.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Why this film was badAs a film that seemed like it was going to shed some light on the death of Kurt Cobain, it failed miserably.  Nothing new about that subject appeared.Why I liked itAlmost everyone in this film seemed like a cartoon character ... if I didn't know this was a documentary, I would have thought this was a parody of one. *Almost* everyone seemed incredibly ridiculous  El Duce (the man apparently approached by Love to kill Cobain), ex-groupies, the nanny, Love's ex-lover, and the paparazzi who appear from time to time (especially the one with ridiculous mask over his head to protect his identity).  Even Nick Broomfield, the director of the film, seems like a little bit strange ... this almost seems like a documentary that would take place in the world of one of David Lynch's films.  In this respect, it is entertaining, and funny. "},{"Title":"someone doesn't like women","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" poor nick broomfeld, don't know why, but i think it's safe to say this man has more than a few issues with women. just look at what his films have explored, heidi fleiss, dominatrices, courtney love (this movie was clearly about her, and not him), aileen wurous. each of these documentaries deal with the idea of women who violate societal norms regarding appropriate behavior. in short, they are all aggressive women that broomfeld apparently derives pleasure from punishing for their strength. ultimately i am not angered by the subversive sexism i see broomfeld promoting, rather i feel sadness. anyone so driven by a need to undermine women must exist in a world of fear. fear disproportionate to reality, but which is expressed thru film. "},{"Title":"horrible waste of time, not recommended","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" This film was terrible. I like Cobain, its a shame he's dead but he killed himself, a lot of junkies kill themselves. Nobody in this film who says anything you don't know already has any credibility. I did not get swept away by the Courtney Love bashing, including by her estranged and repulsive father. The Il duce appears to be the local village idiot and there are interviews with many other nobody's and junkies. Courtney Loves failed rocker ex boyfriend is hilarious and a complete pathetic buffoon. This filmmaker is kind of a Micheal Moore / Martin Bashear wannabee who's sole apparent motivation in this film is revenge on love for using her influence to remove his funding. "},{"Title":"Amateur Documnetary with big names","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" I have to say this movie which apparently is some kind of documentary is total rubbish. First of all there is no Nirvana music, so right off the bat you know its not a legit documentary on Kurt and Courtney, but then you think well maybe I will get the real dirt they don't want you to know. Well they have a murder conspiracy from some dude who wears a gimp mask and a down on his luck private eye who drives some 70's oldsmobile boat around and meets people at the Ramada! Damn if that doesn't sound swanky, and legit. This dude Broomfield interviews basically anybody off the street, he doesn't even know if these people know Kurt or Courtney, the best interviews are from a high school girlfriend and his church lady aunt. Its seriously pathetic, and it not worth your time at all. Trust me on this, if a filmmaker cant verify that the people they are interviewing actually knew or have even met the subject, then you probably shouldn't have your work distributed. Damn shame this bastard is making money off Kurts pour soul and its painfully obvious that he knows aboslutley nothing about Kurts music or what made Kurt a special artist. "},{"Title":"what a joke-umentary","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  From the crap about how this bloomfield guy has stage fright to the bitter father and ex-boyfriend, this some of the worst propaganda I've ever sat through. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this review b/c I've already wasted enough of my life watching this biased view that the director delivers.  But, I feel others should be warned.I'm not that much of a Courtney Love fan, so the constant reminder of Courtney said that I can't include Nirvana's music.  And, now all I can do is talk to a bunch of friends that think I'm wrong about Courtney. doesn't really bother me.  I wish I could say that I gained a lot of information that I didn't already remember from the media when it all happened, unless you wanted to know that you'll be kicked out of a lottery house if you walk in taping.  If you want to watch see something with some actual content, seek elsewhere.  Consider yourself warned.Sorry to all the fans!  Maybe someone will someday do Kurt and Courtney justice, or maybe I haven't been introduced to it. "}{"Title":"absolutely hilarious","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This documentary is so bad that it is one the most funny movies I've seen in years.  The subject is somber, but between the inept director and the cast of supporting characters he is trying to interview this movie will have you in tears.  The sad thing is that this documentary was not meant to be funny, but don't eat to much before watching it. "},{"Title":"terrible almost beyond belief","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  The only remotely interesting thing about this film is that it ostensibly examines the lives of two interesting people, Cobain and Love. However, the real subject of the documentary is the director himself, who parades in front of the camera, trying (unsuccessfully) to act clever and intrepid. He admits up front that his investigation followed no particular pattern or strategy, and it shows. An absurd technical mishap and interviews with completely unreliable and uninteresting people round off this ridiculous excuse for a documentary.  "},{"Title":"Misguided & poorly researched!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  All in all a thoroughly disappointing waste of time!  For anyone with any knowledge of the subject matter, this film is sure to anger you. Completely misguided! "},{"Title":"How not to make a documentary","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This movie should be shown to film students to show them how not to make a documentary! Badly shot, lousy sound, terrible interviewing technique. Worst of all, Broomfield has no idea what his film is about - he meanders aimlessly around Seattle talking to some of the most loathsome people ever committed to celluloid, unable to decide whether he is chronicling Kurt Cobain's childhood and the genesis of a rock star, trying to show that Cobain was murdered, demonising Courtney Love or campaigning for his right to free speech.As his legal and financial resources ran dry, Broomfield should have given up and hopped on the next plane back to Britain rather than cobbling together this hotch-potch piece of character assassination which doesn't even attempt to put across any valid point of view or delve remotely deeply into the topics he broaches.  "},{"Title":"Face it, grunge is dead","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  For such a controversial effort, this film does not have much bite.  The director's point of view is so unfocused, he himself admits he does not know where he is going with his reporting.The conspiracy theorists interviewed here come off as fringe dwellers at best, and unreliable at worst.  The film eventually turns into a rock and roll version of Roger and Me, as Courtney Love is half heartedly tracked down to answer questions about Cobain.Grunge, just a form of punk, was on its way out when Cobain killed himself. The pathetic hangers-on that he left behind can do nothing but trash each other and continue to relive those heady days through obvious substance abuse.The only sympathetic subject here is Cobain's Aunt Mary, who plays tapes of Cobain's toddler rantings as well as who recorded some of his early songs. She is the only person here who seems to have any affection for this troubled man.  She reminds us that Kurt was like everyone else, just a kid who wanted to be a star.The cutesy direction gets old, the camera runs as the crew approaches the subjects' houses.  At one point, the filmmakers are thrown out of a building in a sequence put in just to show how intrepid the documentarians are. However, the best scene involves the director crashing an ACLU banquet, and watching this celebration of liberalism and free speech get up in arms over someone trying to exercise their rights.The film had over forty instances of profanity, some onstage violence, nudity in an underground music video, and tons of frank talk about substance abuse, all of which illustrates how very empty many of these peoples' lives are.  Kurt & Courtney rarely dips below the surface, and I give it a 3. "},{"Title":"Absolute Blasphemy!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This was a horrid piece of trash. It was the most worthless, vile, documentary I have ever had the displeasure of viewing. For God's sake, El Duce was in it! I remember watching him on Jerry Springer, talking about how he loved to rape and sodomize his fans. But, getting back to the cheap s*#t that now passes as cinema, I must say that it had zero redeeming qualities. I personally despise all of the morons who say, Courtney did it!. I mean, get a life. This should have been burned before it hit theaters. Something this repulsive and foul doesn't deserve a shelf life. Praise Courtney for getting it pulled. Lord knows someone had to.  "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I was on my first trip to the States when Cobain killed himself. I remember a profound sense of sadness at the time. It was the first time that a celebrity's death had ever had an effect on me. I hired this only because of interest in Cobain and Nirvana and I was expecting a standard documentary. I had not heard of the conspiracy theories surrounding his death so the subject matter, an investigation into these reports, was a pleasant surprise for me. A nice little murder doccie. For much of the film I was absorbed. The characters, the lifestyle, the rock scene at the time, pre- and post- fame were fascinating. Rabid rock animal, El Duce, Love's spiteful father, the paparazzo who chickens out; they were both repellent and humorous. The only weaknesses were the lack of interviews with Nirvana members and, crucially no Nirvana music (although Love apparently refused to give the filmakers the rights to these, which isn't surprising when one considers the hatchet job they did on her).Then came the real disappoinment; the anti-climatic ending. No real light was shed on Cobain's death, no yay or nay on was it murder or suicide. Despite the weaknesses I'd still recommend it for anyone with an interest in the rock scene circa 1990. "},{"Title":"What the Hell was this film about ?","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Such a huge dissapointment, and a real waste of what could havebeen an  interesting subject. This feels like it was made for aschool project, lacking direction and focus. Broomfield even saysin his voice over at one point that he doesn't have a catch for thestory. It rambles, and only takes shape (and gained its publicity)after Courtney Love tried to get it stopped. How ironic.The camerawork is shaky, and the picture surprisingly bad. I havea tiny DV camera that produces a better picture than this. Why arethere so many shots of cars drving, and people walking up stairs,and all manner of things that should never have made it out of theediting room.A variety of drugged up losers are trawled out to say provocativethings, without anything being substantiatied in the slightest. ElDuce (?) changes his story depending on what Broomfieldprompts him with, and the rest of the interviewers seem likerejects from Jerry Springer.So bad.I won't go on... "},{"Title":"A sad truth or some sad lies","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" This movie is a must watch for anyone who would like to believe that Kurt was killed by a wife who just loved him for his money. As a Nirvana and a Kurt Cobain fan i'd like to believe that Kurt Killed himself over his own choosing. This movie as sad as it is offers some sad info that is hard to turn down. Nick Broomfield does bring a solid case to the table about reason's Courtney may have wanted Kurt dead. With interviews with Courtney's hateful dad and the Cobains old nanny it is easy to get taken along by this movie. This movie is a great but watch but it is easy to forget the great music Kurt Cobain made and focus on the situation surrounding his death. This movie is not how Kurt Cobain should be remembered. He should be remembered for the great person he was and the beautiful, timeless music he created. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Terrible","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I've walked by this title several times and always passed on it. Tonight I watched it, and I have to say I am repulsed by the makers of this film and feel badly for Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love, as well as for their family and friends.I don't know what this film was attempting to accomplish, but it disregarded any notion of humanity that, evidentally, is not shared. The only reason I gave it a 2 was for the recordings of Cobain as a toddler. Other than that, after watching this, I don't blame him for wanting out. I can't quite make my review to ten lines because all I have to say is shame on anyone who thinks that this documentary is guiltless entertainment, or even a celebration of the life of a dead musician.  "}{"Title":"Broomfield Is Underrated","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" As a hopeless britfreak/anglophile, I am a fan of documentarian Nick Broomfield. However, I have only seen three of his films. For some reason, the majority of his films don't seem to be available for rent.I enjoyed Kurt & Courtney. The film's hype seemed to laughably imply that 'Courtney did it'!in regards to Kurt's demise. Okay, she does have a slight anger management problem, but that's beside the point.The implication seemed to be that she hired someone to off Kurt. But, the film goes off in other directions, and outshines the sensationalistic hype.The low key Broomfield gently and intelligently guides his subjects; they let down their guard; they humorously reveal themselves and their versions of the truth. At times, Broomfield's films make one feel like a rubbernecker perusing a car accident; like a TV viewer watching America's Most Shocking Videos; sometimes we just cannot help ourselves. Kurt's tragic life and personal demons are revealed, as are Courtney's. Family, friends, and people in the Seattle grunge music scene are interviewed. A murder plot of sorts is investigated. Courtney's antagonism towards mainstream media is explored.I found Kurt & Courtney to be fascinating and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Who killed Kurt?","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Nick Broomfield made Kurt and Courtney (1998) which is a documentary about Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love.Kurt Donald Cobain was born 20 February 1967 and died 5 April 1994.In Seattle a legendary grunge band called Nirvana was born.Kurt was the singer, Dave Grohl was the drummer and Krist Novoselic was the Bassist.That band had many hits such as Smells Like Teen Spirit.The band has been dead for seven years and it still has fans all over the world.Dave Grohl is the singer of Foo Fighters nowadays and Krist Novoselic is in a band called Sweet 75.Courtney Love was born 9 July 1965.She is in a punk band called Hole and she's also doing very well as an actress.Kurt and Courtney got married 24 February 1992.Kurt's death was officially ruled as suicide but that's not what everybody thinks.This documentary tries to make us believe that Kurt was murdered.That's what also happened to Elvis Presley. In some point they said Elvis was also murdered too.I can't recall anyone saying Kurt lives though but God knows how many times I have heard that Elvis lives.Sure he does.This documentary tries to convince us that it was Courtney who killed Kurt.Nick goes with his camera man to people who knew Kurt and Courtney with his annoying questions to ask what do they think about the possible murder of Kurt Cobain.Even Courtney's father Hank Harrison says her daughter killed Kurt.This El Duce character claims that Courtney paid him to kill Kurt.Soon after the interview of El Duce he got killed in a railway accident.But what is the truth?There have been all kind of conspiracy theories around just like in the case John F. Kennedy.Who knows.But this documentary was quite interesting.It didn't bore me in anyway.Maybe it works better on you if you're interested in Kurt Cobain and all the stuff related to him.This documentary makes you wonder was it a suicide or was Kurt murdered.And if so was it Courtney who did it or someone else.I don't know the answer but there are people out there who do.  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst, most insulting movie I*ve ever seen","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This movie actually made me physically ill.  Some of the things these stalkerazzi film makers said and did was absolutely without dignity. Their sources of information were extremely biased, and it painted a completely one-sided view of Kurt Cobain*s death, which I very strongly believe was a SUICIDE!  I believe journalism, which includes documentaries, should be objective and neutral, and this was clearly not. I really advise you not see this movie.   "},{"Title":"This movie is the best!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  All I would like to say is that this documentary is one of the best documentaries about Kurt Cobain, Nirvana, or Grunge music. One of the reasons that it is so good is probably because it's indie. Another reason is that Nirvana is one of the best rock bands ever. However, there is no doubt in my mind, that Nirvana is the #1 alternative rock band of all time. It would be impossible(not to mention insulting) to make a book, movie, or record about grunge music, alternative music, music, or the 1990s without including, or even mentioning, Nirvana. I love myself better than you/ I know it's wrong/ so what should I do. thankyouverymuch "},{"Title":"A great depiction of Kurt Cobain's life and death","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I watched this movie on DVD recently not really knowing what to expect. As a huge Nirvana fan since my teenage years, I knew I had to watch it, and I'm glad I did. It is a documentary that opens your eyes so much of what Kurt had to go through, and how he reached the top only to lose it all. I had suspicions about his death, whether it was suicide or not. This film brings to light the facts that do raise questions about his suicide, and some sources were good while others were a joke. I still just flat out do not know after watching the movie if he was murdered. The most powerful part of this is how Courtney Love's true colors shine through. She, at her own fault by refusing interviews and information, is seen as a venomous, instable, manipulating, bitch. And in my opinion SHE IS. Like the nanny stated in the film, if she didnt have something do with the murder of Kurt, then she drove him to murder himself. Excellent style by director, interviewer Nick Broomfield. A must see for every Nirvana fan (and Hole/ Courtney Love  fan for that matter)!! "},{"Title":"A new breed of documentary","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This is not a conventional documentary, but it's not a conventional subject. The world of Kurt & Courtney is a complex and tragic place, where dynamic personalities vie to present their image in the best possible light. After all, rock 'n' roll is nothing if not image.Nick Broomfield is a pioneer in a new form of documentary. Any pretense at objectivity is thrown out the window, and this is perhaps a more honest approach than the way many other documentaries are presented (Waco The Rule of Engagement comes to mind). By taking us through the reporting process, Broomfield shows us how agonizing it is to attempt to discover THE TRUTH, which is always a subjective matter anyway.Some complain that his technique is poor filmmaking, but by showing the interview process (instead of editing things down to easily digested sound bites) we can come to our on conclusions whether to believe the source's statement. In life, there are no easy answers, and Broomfield shows this by butting interview against interview, presenting each person's conflicting point of view. We are allowed to see that each person has their own agenda, and their presentation of THE FACTS is designed to further their own goals.Anyone who's ever listened closely to Nirvana's music knows that Kurt Cobain was a tortured soul, full of insecurities. A lonely man crying out for attention, and when he achieves more fame than he could have ever have hoped for, his own self-doubt prevented him from enjoying it, turning success into a nightmare. Courtney on the other hand, merely saw Kurt as the means to get her the fame she wanted. She was able to latch on to Cobain's rising star, fully aware of what the effect it was having on him. Broomfield shows that while Courtney didn't pull the trigger (or hire someone to pull it), she threw gasoline on the flames that led to Kurt's burnout. "},{"Title":"A must-see documentary for all Nirvana fans.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"    I think Nick Bloomfield did an excellent job with this documentary!  It told the truth about what type of evil person Courtney Love really is.  In fact, Courtney almost pulled the plug on this project because of that.   I also really liked Kurt's aunt.  She was a very nice lady and she was the one who got Kurt into music to begin with!   It also focused on Kurt's past, life, and some of his relationships.     El Duce in this really gave me the creeps!  I believe Courtney is one of those women who are Black Widow Spiders but she'll get hers one day!  Kurt Cobain was a wonderful musician and his music will live on forever and ever more!  Long live Kurt Cobain and Nirvana!!!!! "},{"Title":"A hard to ignore documentary.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  So, it's not the best done documentary.  I take it for what it it is and i think Broomfield did a decent job. Slick production does not always enter my mind when watching movies, especially when it's interesting. You know the story and this will not give you solid answers but it will surely make you think. Whether Kurt Cobain's death was suicide or murder will always be conjecture.This documentary is almost surreal, mainly due to the characters involved. They almost seem to be hypnotized. One thing is for sure, Love was manipulative to the n'th degree. Cobain's death still has a shroud of mystery and Love's reluctance to talk doesn't help matters any.I'm glad there are people like Nick Broomfield out there doing these type of documentaries...someone needs too! "},{"Title":"Strangest Documentary I've ever seen","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  The subject matter of the film was very interesting to me. I've always been a huge fan of Nirvana, and like most of the popular punk bands fans, I've always been curious about Kurt's death.The first 45 minutes or so.. are all very interesting, and really get you thinking. Then after the El Duce interview.. Broomfield does a strange thing.. he seems to try to disprove everything he's spent the whole documentary proving, and makes you wonder why he ran some of the footage in the film.  Since Nick never really states what he truly thinks happened, you must think hard about the evidence he presents and reach your own conclusion.. like i have. I'd tell you what i think... but, well.. you'll just have to watch and find out what you think.I think it's well worth seeing, and I definitely enjoyed the interview with Kurt's aunt, as well as the old footage of Mr. Cobain. Any fan of either Nirvana, Hole, or just alternative music should check it out.  "},{"Title":"Courtney Love is an idiot.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I just saw this film today, and do not quite know what to think of it. Granted, it was a documentary so the production values were allowed to be a bit low.  However, I don't think it was wound quite tight enough and ended sort of unconvincingly, without really shedding any new light on the subject.  I realize Broomfield lost a lot of funding, but...All the film really did for me was take me back to the anti-Courtney side. I can never know how she treated Kurt and if she did control him and whatever, but to get up and preach free speech and then refuse to give any Nirvana songs to the movie and threaten Sundance with legal action if they showed it, it's like...shut the f**k up, you no-talent singer, wannabe actress.  My favorite moment was when Broomfield finally got the balls to go onstage and berate her at the ACLA (is that right?) ceremony and take her down.I just wish he had had more money and access to Cobain's material.That El Duce guy was screwed.  35 years old?!?!  "}{"Title":"Courtney Victim or Villain?","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I saw Courtney Love and her band Hole perform in Vancouver, during the 1995 Lollapalooza tour.  She was strung out and one of her hands was bandaged from a fight she had on the tour the day before.Her performance was more of a freak show than anything else. We were waiting for her to self destruct.Instead she rose like a phoenix and transformed herself into a glamour queen. Don't be misled by her transformation.In this documentry she is portrayed as a seriously deranged person. She had a lot of help. Her father for one.Perhaps Nancy Reagan was right after all?Just say no.Don't hurt me Courtney. "},{"Title":"Only For The Hardcore Dedicated Nirvana Fan Need Apply","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Much has been said about the powder keg relationship of Kurt Cobain,the singer/songwriter/guitarist of the Seattle based band, Nirvana,and his off again,on again relationship with wife,Courtney Love (from the band,Hole). It's obvious they were toxic for one another (both were hardcore Heroin users). Nick Broomfield tried to craft a documentary film about what may have happened to cause the death of Kurt, but for whatever reasons,Courtney seemed to want this film banished forever. She (Courtney)goes out of her way to monkey wrench this film project from frame one (she denied the use of any & all of Kurt's music with Nirvana,and even denied use of any film or video clips of Nirvana,leaving only A.P.I. press release photographs available,plus Courtney seemed to get to the interview subjects to say as little as possible). What we are basically left with is a spite project (Broomfield used as much usable footage,sans music & video footage)to cobble together a basically empty film that says pretty much nothing worth the 95 minute running time of this film). It's your time (but don't say I didn't warn you). Rated 'R' by the MPAA,this film has raunchy language & testimony of some of the more sordid details of Cobain's life & death. "},{"Title":"Kurt & Courtney","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" How did Kurt Cobain really die? asks the cover of my DVD swanky. The reality does look like this After the 90 minutes of this documentary, you won't be more suited to answer this question, because everything you get to see are conspiracy theories, brought up by people who I would not consider as being very trustworthy. Many of the interview partners were obviously under the influence of drugs or had personal feuds with Courtney Love in the past (father, ex-boyfriend). When at the end director Nick Broomfield goes on the stage of an award ceremony for freedom of the press to denounce Courtney (with a probably justifiable accusation), I only saw the completion of his way of self-satisfaction and whining about Courtney. And Am I the only one who finds it a little bit funny that Broomfield acts, as if he wants to make an even reappraising of Cobain's death? But The film has at least a certain level of entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Courtney loved Kurt","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Courtney loved Kurt.  Kurt was a JUNKIE.  He was a good musician, but he was still an addict. When he killed himself, he didn't care for Courtney or Frances Bean.  Courtney lived through it. Kurt was selfish and mean for killing himself. Courtney was good taking care of both frances and Kuert.  Courtney helped him to go to rehab. The movie should've been called Courtney and Kurt! "},{"Title":"Riveting viewing, in spite of the murder conspiracy nonsense.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" First of all, Kurt Cobain and Courtney Lovestein were both morons. Pure and simple. This is not a documentary about visionaries but rather about two (or more) jaded rock junkies, both having serious mental problems, the one major difference being that one of them had actual musical talent, while the other was merely a groupie-turned-bad-singer. Courtney managed to prevent this documentary from being released for several years (if I'm not mistaken) and has probably successfully hampered its distribution later on. The reason for this is two-fold in K&C she is (in)directly being accused or at least suspected of murdering Kurt (through whomever), but even more galling to her must be the way the film portrays her character; she is presented as an ugly woman from a dysfunctional family, suffering greatly from an inferiority complex which had driven her in her entire life to succeed, thereby trying to prove that she was worthy. She is portrayed as mean-spirited, hypocritical, stupid, envious, primitive, untrustworthy etc. I, for one, tend to think that is a pretty fair assessment. The fact that Kelly Osbourne once described Love as the most intelligent person I ever met should pretty much confirm this rather than dispute it...As for Kurt, I followed the rise and fall of Nirvana from late 1991 onwards, and was immediately struck by the totally phony disinterest the three of them supposedly had for their sudden fame. They wanted everyone to believe that they were too cool and artistic, i.e. not shallow enough to enjoy their new-found status as rock gods. This fake image was something that pervaded much of the grunge scene. Nothing could have been further from the truth, least of all in Kurt's case. 13 years after his death, a lot of the less-than-flattering truths about him are rising to the surface. Apparently, he had dreamed about becoming a rock star half his life, a typical attention-seeker, his ambition probably fueled - like Love - by an immense sense of non-worth. Kurt loved money and was very interested how much Nirvana was selling hence how much money would be going into his own pockets. Grunge music was a major scam, at least from the non-music side of it. No-one who cares only about the music and the higher ideals (that's a laugh) signs to a major record-label and then proceeds to make videos for MTV. Steven Sutherland, a British music journalist, has described Cobain as a hypocrite and a generally very unlikable guy. Sure, his life is a sad story - at least his childhood and mental disease - but this is also a guy who not only got along with a trash-floozy like Love, not only dated her (which is bad enough), but actually MARRIED her! That must speak volumes both about his character and his intelligence. Plus, he had an enormous ego. Just like Bono or Michael Stipe, he hid behind a phony facade, while raking in millions, all the while being the man of the people. Only mental disease distinguished him from the above-mentioned posers. Broomfield's documentary includes a segment in which Kurt threatens a journalist just because she dared write a critical piece about his darling comrade-junkie-in-arms, Love.As for Nick Broomfield, this man doesn't make documentaries that can be taken at face value. He is very far from being a manipulator, propagandist, and liar of the Michael Moore sort, but he isn't exactly naive either. His film about the (very guilty) female serial-killer Aileen Wournos takes an astoundingly biased pro-Wournos stand, and this fact alone must make one question his objectivity. The other film he made I saw was the one about Heidi Fleiss, the Hollywood Madam. That was a fascinating film and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoyed K&C.Apart from the immense struggle for fame which characterized both blonde junkies, another central theme is the mystery regarding Kurt's death. Courtney? Broomfield really lays it on thick, hoping his movie would make a solid enough case for a murder rather than suicide, which was supposed to give the movie great notoriety hence make Nick a very rich man. Of course, he doesn't go too far with the accusations for legal reasons. There would have been no problem with Nick's ambition, except for the simple fact that it should be more than obvious to anyone that it really was suicide. Il Duce, a fascinating singer/hobo, tells how Courtney offered him 50,000 dollars to clip Kurt. Testimony is only as reliable as its source. The fact that he died only months after giving the interview for this film does not prove anything.The film also features Kurt's good friend and drug-dealer, the singer from Earth, a stoner rock band. The way this guy looks and talks is fascinating. Another highlight is when the hypocrisy of Hollywood is exposed at the end of the movie when Nick invades some pathetic PC gala dinner with Courtney - of all people - as one of its main speakers.As far as Kurt's death goes, it has nothing to do with either fame or the even more ludicrous notion that he killed himself because he supposedly sold out musically. But it has a lot to do with his manic-depression (which can often end in suicide), his drug use - which was a major part of his life BEFORE he hit it big with Nirvana, and last but not least genetics; he had a history of suicides in his family. Besides, does Courtney seem bright enough to pull off a murder of a famous person, a murder so perfect that it would fool all those detectives and forensic experts? Forget it.There is an aspect of Kurt's death that is very tragic, but that never gets mentioned, and this is the fact that his death lead to the creation of the Foo Fighters. Now, THAT is a damn shame... "},{"Title":"I can't believe I watched the whole thing","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Origami sums things up pretty nicely (see below)--those were pretty much the same thoughts I was thinking as I watched. This was a pretty poor excuse for a documentary, with the interviewer asking all kinds of leading questions (i.e. So, did Kurt have a fascination with fetuses? after looking at a painting of a fetus surrounded by stark, skeletal trees that Cobain gave to a former girlfriend) of a strange assortment of drugged-out losers. A highlight is when the film crew walks into the entryway of the state lottery building, because, reportedly, Kurt used to shoot a pellet gun at the windows there. Ooh! some controversy! The receptionist promptly tells them to get out and calls for security. One of the scarier individuals is El Duce, lead singer of The Mentors, who claims to have been offered $50,000 by Courtney Love to kill Kurt. If anyone deserved to be hit by a train, it was this guy. One thing that does come through quite clearly is that Courtney is a pretty scary person, willing to do whatever it takes to stifle any negative publicity and further her career. The only person with any real credibility is Kurt's aunt, who seems to be one of the few people who really cared about him and is honestly sad that he's gone. A pretty sad attempt at stirring up some dirt on a sad story. "},{"Title":"Fascinating documentary, much underrated","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I am amazed at the overall negativity and ridicule in the reviews of this documentary. It deserves so much more praise than that.Being a huge Nirvana fan, I never believed the nutcase murder theories until I saw Kurt & Courtney. Then I found out about her family, her friends, her former employees, among others all pointing the finger at Courtney. Everything from the psychotic teenage scribblings declaring her future plans to use her lover and then kill him, right down to amazingly coincidental and mysterious death of El Duce shortly after the Nick Bromfield interview - this is fascinating stuff. If that wasn't enough as it is, we get a good insight into the surroundings Kurt grew up in, his friends, and his former lovers. The only things this really lacks is a much needed interview with Courtney (which she declined).8/10 "},{"Title":"If you love KURT learn COURTNEY","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Kurt Cobain was the most influential rock star of the 1990s. Within the two years that Nirvana had reached it's peak fame, the youth trembled with a new wave of interest in life. A new rebellion. And a new source of income for future widow Courtney Love. If you love Nirvana, and love Kurt more particularly, this film should be your first step in discovering what REALLY happened with Kurt Cobain's death. It was not a suicide, and evidence upon evidence will put silence to the cynics who simply want the past to stay in the past.Courtney Love is NO innocent. I mean, I'm reviewing a film so I cannot reveal my true feelings about Courtney, but before watching this I had read articles upon articles on what Courtney did to Kurt during their years together and how INSANE she was when she dated Smashing Pumpkins singer Billy Corgan. Look, just watch this movie. The filmmaker has an honest interest on uncovering exactly what happened to Kurt Cobain.It's hard to describe the spine tingling feelings this film causes.Just WATCH it. "},{"Title":"We'll never know...","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" I did love this movie and it kept my interest throughout but I thought the most interesting thing was how so many people are so afraid of Courtney Love! lol She is, after all, just white trash with a violent streak. Unfortunately, she is now white trash with money, which is the worst combination. If she did arrange a hit on Cobain, we'll never know but this film does raise some interesting questions and seems to have very credible sources of information, especially the nanny and the private detective Love hired. The suicide note is very interesting, also, with what looks like four lines added on by someone else (guess who)?! In any case, Broomfield did a great job, I thought, despite all the obstacles Love's people tried to put in his way.Sadly, after seeing this and seeing what a puppet Kurt Cobain was to his wife's manipulations, I've lost a lot of respect for the guy. I don't think he was especially talented but it's such a shame how he ended up. He was a doormat for Courtney and that is the saddest thing. This movie does a good job of showing Love for what she really is, too--and it ain't pretty. "},{"Title":"Anyone interested in Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love should see this","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" This is a disturbing documentary, but definitely worth seeing. A lot of the characters are strange and freaky, but then the lifestyle of the Cobains was strange and freaky. Some people say the oddballs interviewed in this movie have no credibility, but I disagree. I don't think they have the brains to make up the stuff they say happened.I think the El Duce character was telling the truth. It's a little TOO coincidental that he was killed in an accident shortly after making his claim that Courtney Love offered to pay him to kill Kurt.Kurt is shown briefly in the movie and seems heartbreakingly sweet.But this movie mainly concentrates on Courtney Love. And she comes across as mentally unbalanced, deceitful, capable of anything. She's a horror story. One of the people interviewed who knew both Kurt and Courtney said she thought he killed himself to get away from her. I'd buy that! At one point, Love's father is interviewed. He said he hadn't spoken to Courtney lately, but her mother had. He said Courtney had told her that she was getting married. Who to, he's asked. Edward Norton, he replied. I know Love and Edward Norton used to date. What the hell was HE thinking? Courtney Love did NOT want this movie to be released and tried to prevent it from happening. It's easy to understand why; it portrays her honestly. And she does NOT want people to know what a monster she really is.Rent it! "}{"Title":"Wasn't a suicide","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" One night that I couldn't sleep I turn on the TV and I came across this documentary and watch until the end and I have to say I was very shocked, I mean what more need the system to -pu Courtney Love behind bars. After watching this I was convinced that it was impossible for him to comet suicide just because, he was to drugged to do it. The justice just doesn't exists, how after all this proves shes still free, Courtney Love is a drug addict psycho that kill his husband, but shes famous and wealthy, and she owe all she have to Kurt.Coutney Love kill Kurt Cobain, if you don't believe me, watch this documentary. "},{"Title":"The Films of Nick Broomfield.","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Kurt & Courtney (1998) was a documentary that Nick Broomfield and on again/ off again collaborator Joan Churchill made. They were looking into the suicide of Kurt Cobain and searching for what might or my or may not have happened. What they found made the case even more confusing (or maybe not). The intrepid Nick Broomfield and Joan Churchill travel throughout the seedy parts of the American west coast looking for answers and interviewing those who knew Kurt and Courtney and their relatives. People's interviews contradict each others and they pose more questions than actual answers. What really happened?People like El Duce and one of Courtney's ex-boyfriends are among the many who are interviewed. A private investigator and Courtney's estranged father is questioned as well. An interesting look into the lives of pop music'most oddest couple as well as a search for the truth. Broomfield and Churchill find out for themselves that the truth is definitely stranger than fiction...times ten. After watching this film I get the feeling that not even Mr. Broomfield knows anything more than he already knew. Overall it's a fascinating movie because we get a look at the side of Courtney Love that she has completely tried to forget and a human side to grunge's most famous junkie.Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"Courtney killed Kurt!!!!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  This film is a good film because it helps you learn the truth aboutwhat happend to Kurt. Every one say that he killed himself....wrong.All the fact add up people, Kurt my have been depressed, or evensuicidel but he never killed him self, even his suicide note showsthat. His note was written in different hand writting, and who handwriting does it match? Courtney Love thats who. And as we alsoknow Kurt was f**ked up on so much drugs his body would havebeen unable to move let alone pull a shotgun trigger with his toe(that being the only way he could have put it to his head) Wake uppeople, we all know what happend, we need to let everyone knowwhat really happend to KurtWATCH THIS MOVIE YOU LEARN THE TRUTH ABOUT KURT  COBAINS DEATH. "},{"Title":"Must See","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I swear, this movie flies so much in the face of conventional wisdom on this subject, I thought it was a spoof. I'm forever reminding people to not take film too seriously or as accepted fact. So I'm tempering my acceptance of this...BUT. This is actual interviews, phone calls, footage of Courtney Love. I hate to be repetitive, but if you watch this it is so counter to how Hollywood portrays this woman, you will think it too absurd to be a true documentary. I am reeling from this. You hear much talk especially these days about the evils of the Hollywood establishment, the ACLU and the rest of those jerks. Unless you just deny what's shown in this film, you will see how incredibly accurate the perception is. If you are a Nirvana fan, deep down you have harbored resentment towards this talent less woman, who parlayed her husbands suicide? into an amazing multi media career. Watch this film and draw your own conclusions. I hope the day is soon coming when the great factory of propaganda out west, is at long last revealed and more importantly - Rejected. "},{"Title":"what a bee-yotch","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  whether or not you believe that Kurt Cobain was killed by Courtney Love or committed suicide, this flick shows CL to be even more of a vicious, hypocritical golddigger than you probably suspected. And the footage with El Duce kicks ass.For more on the Kurt/Courtney story, listen to Primus' song, Coattails Of A Dead Man.  It MIGHT not be about CL, but you can see how it would fit pretty well.It's also interesting to see how ferociously Courtney attacks people who say or write things that she doesn't like, and then is chosen to present an ACLU award for freedom of speech. She's a seriously deranged psycho-bitch. That's really all this movie is good for. The testimonies of the interviewees are laughable, and I don't really care whether or not (the highly overrated) Kurt Cobain killed himself or if his wife did it.  "},{"Title":"funny, intriguing, frightening","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  this is a good and intriguing documentary. I especially like the way people in this film are shown. there are many interesting characters and many funny scenes, although broomfield is annoying sometimes. there are also some frightening aspects to this film, because it shows what happens when some ambitious b***h gets an opportunity to become wealthy.  "},{"Title":"Do your research","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Having done a lot of research before watching this documentary, particularly on Kurt's death, I was almost convinced that Courtney had someone kill him -the suicide letter is NOT a suicide letter and someone has added the last 3 lines.- Anyways, Kurt was in a good phase at that point of his life he just wanted to leave Courtney and Nirvana. There's a lot of clues supporting the fact that this was a murder and not a suicide, BUT the movie only shed light to a couple of them + wasted a lot of time interviewing random ppl, that had nothing to do with the whole thing, like Amy. Also, the director presents this medical evidence that someone can take double the doses that Kurt did, and still stand on one leg!!!that's ridiculous!! the doses was 3 times the lethal doses, and the evidence he presents has to do with swallowing methadone, and not injecting heroine! all in all, i would say that the movie doesn't have a clear view on anything. It just left me feeling depressed and sad that the Kobain case is and will always be closed, and Courtney is not and never will be where she deserves IN JAIL!! "},{"Title":"Yes Courtney is EVIL","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I watched this film on satellite the other day. I have to say it came at an opportune time after the release of the lost Nirvana track, you know you're right After watching this odd,low budget movie I came to 2 conclusions. 1) Courtney Love is truly an evil, vindictive woman. 2) Kurt isnt a hero, he was kind of a loser. The footage of Courtney especially at the ACLU awards is surreal. Her father's disgust and rage is also bizarre. Critics of this movie have correctly pointed out that there were plenty of people other than the fringe group shown in the film, that the filmaker could have talked to in order to get a balanced perspective. The babysitter, Kurt's female( who is lying about the photos) heroin buddy and the Stalkeratzi guys turn the proceedings into a farce. None of these people are believable. You get the impression that they were all actors. The final part of the film that disturbed me was the phone threat that Kurt made to the British writer. If that is true, it really desanctifies Kurt as the gentle saint he was characterized as. In fact you start to see kurt for what he really was, A screwed up, pathetic figure, racked by stomach pain, addicted to drugs and incapable of dealing with celebrity. Sad...very sad. "},{"Title":"Documentary of a rock god","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Kurt is a rock and roll icon. It was only natural to make a documentary on his life, and tragic death. This film sheds some light on the mysteries of Kurt D. Cobain. It helps to get the point across that Courtney Love (whom I have a great deal of distaste for, in fact, I loathe her) is not Little Miss Perfect like her new image would presume. This film really helps in dealing with the facts that Cobain's death may not have been suicide after all. If you like Nirvana, or Kurt, or (Heaven Forbid) Courtney, watch this movie.               -If you like Hole or Courtney, watch this movie, it may change your mind.... "},{"Title":"I know less after seeing this than before","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  An interesting documentary that probes the lives of Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love. Broomfield manages to dig some oddballs out of the woodwork, which is fascinating. But a couple of token reliable sources would've lent the film credibility. The film seems to build up to a confrontation with THE Courtney Love, but when he finally confronts her, his questions are rather tame and anti-climatic.  "}{"Title":"They Know Not What it Means...","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Part of the reason Kurt Cobain killed himself was because he hated himself and his fans. Frankly, I can't blame him. Those same fans have continued to misunderstand not only his music, but also his suicide. Here we have the documentary equivalent of the Salem witch trials. It's an absolute shambles. Testimony from a dopey 'hitman' who wandered mindlessly to his own death? Testimony from Courtney's demented vindictive father? Oh well then, case closed!  It's both laughable and depressing that so many hardcore Nirvana fans (fundamentalist Kurtians you might call them) really believe that this shows Courtney Love up as a 'lying mad evil bitch', or whatever they're calling her this week ('bitch' usually comes into it somewhere. Back in Salem, they'd probably have said 'harridan'). If anyone's true colors have been shown up by this film, it's theirs. They are exactly the kind of people Kurt despised. Dumb, misogynist crowd followers. And I guess they're so desperate to hate that nasty, ugly shouting woman that they've made this movie their flimsy bible. Smell like mean spirit... "},{"Title":"Its a good doco","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I think people misunderstand the reason for why the film has the style that it does. It's not coz he is inept at all, he just uses a method which is really transparent and shows all the production processes. i think it is really good to do it this way, it lays everything out in the open and is very honest. I also thought it was great when he got up in front of the free speech convention and unveiled Courtney Loves BS, and they're own. I think its a good film. "},{"Title":"This had nothing to do with what you think........","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  Kurt and Courtney tells the sad story of the suicide of Kurdt Cobain in 1994. From the word go the film seems to take a negative stance on Cobain's easy-to-hate widow Courtney Love. The film is only partially informative in that most of the people interviewed are either biased against Love, or barely know Kurdt Cobain, or both. Where are interviews with members of Nirvana? His mother and father? His sister? Love herself? The only interviewee that seems realistically affected by this is with Kurt's aunt. Possibly if the filmmaker had gotten a more balanced view of the events leading up to Cobain's death, he wouldn't have had the project crushed and pressured to death by love. still it's worth a view if you like nirvana. And you have to laugh at all the hangers on trying to milk fifteen minutes of fame from a dead rock icon. "},{"Title":"The life and death of the last rock star","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":" Due to being a fan of Nirvana and very interested in the death of Kurt Cobain.When i saw the trailer to the film.I hoped it would go deeper into Cobains life,then the Cobain bio Hearvier then heaven.That i feel put to many guises down as fact The storyOn April 8th 1994,the body of Generation X spokesmenand Nirvana leader Kurt Cobain was found.The ruling was suicide,due to black tar Heroin and a gun shot to the head.The film tries to find out, by asking former friends and workers of Cobain and Love,if Cobains wife Courtney Love (who he was going to divorce due to her cheating on him,if he had lived.)Killed her husband. View on the filmSadly i feel that the film about half an hour in,stops looking at the music and turns into a battle against Love.This is what i feel breaks the film apart.Some of the many problems of the film is that no one from Geffen or the other two Nirvana membersKrist Noverselick and Dave Grohl (Grohl is in a long-term court battle with Love about ownership of Nirvana music.) are not involved with the film.Broomfield also decides to leave the real (possible) evidence that someone killed Cobain(Cobain had used his credit card a few hours before he died for a flight.)How ever,the film (for me) could have made an interesting case that most rock stars die very young (BrianRolling StonesJones,Jimi Hendrix,Janis Joplin,JimThe DoorsMorrison and Cobain all died at age 27.)and the (perhaps)the flaws the the person has,is perhaps one of the things that makes there music more interesting and stronger? Instead Broomfield goes for a very thin conspiracy,that is filed with cartoon characters! .The film shows that Cobain had a lot of demons (a life-long depression,very suicidal,was very terrified about all the fame,due to not being prepeared for it,a massive drug problem.)and the Love helped Cobain (wrongly)see the only way out was suicide. Final view on the filmAn interesting,but very flawed film about a major music icon.The shows there is no definitive film/book on Nirvana/Cobain. "},{"Title":"Kurt Cobain was trash","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Crime, Music","Review":"  I think that Rush Limbaugh said it best Kurt Cobain was human garbage that about says it all don't you think? I cannot believe how many people cried and wrung their hands when he killed himself. Its like Shakespere said much ado about nothing. In Cobains case make that a great big nothing because that is exactly what he was! Thats also what Courntey Love is. I cannot believe she still took drugs when she was pregnant. This film presents a lot of interesting theories and its a pleasant way to waste two hours, but who gives a damn really. As far as I'm concerned Kurt Cobain did the world a great service. "}]