[{"Title":"Phantasm's End?","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After taking the series too far in the direction of horror-hokum, Don Coscarelli pushes Phantasm IV further into sci-fi than any previous film but brings back the narcoleptic approach the first that II and III were sorely without. In doing so, Phantasm IV becomes the most atmospheric and haunting one yet. Just don't expect long scenes of exposition or plot-details being unsubtly wrapped up, the mystery of the Tall Man is too strong to ever fully end.As you should remember, at the end of Phantasm III Mike disappeared into the darkness after the Tall Man did some kind of unnecessary brain surgery on him and Reggie was literally left hanging after being pinned to the wall by a dozen killer spheres. Well you can relax, the Tall Man knows that killing Reggie will achieve nothing and focuses on catching Mike, who has a plan to draw him out into the open by hiding in the desert. Reggie closely follows, driving through loads of deserted towns already pillaged by the Tall Man. And the ghost of Jodie (now looking like the identical twin brother of Stellan Skarsgard) comes back to offer some suspicious advice.It's all very, very minimalist and reminds me a lot of the Myst video games in regards to the overwhelming sense of abandonment and isolation, the journal-keeping, the doorways to other worlds, the stark silence of desert landscapes and the weird contraptions. The true identity of the Tall Man is finally revealed but the forces behind him are still kept in the dark. The answers are hinted at rather than announced and the dialogue sparse without being empty.Another cool thing about this sequel are the many eerie and haunting (and haunted?) locations such as a lonely beach, spooky rock formations, a lifeless Wilshire Boulevard (the biggest street in LA) and barren salt flats that give it such an otherworldly and supernatural feel that the typical mausoleums and old graveyards of II and III didn't.Again the Tall Man steals the show from Reggie, who is putting up a harder fight to make it his movie. Both are great characters who shrug off the typical characteristics of villain and hero and become people who you can REALLY root for. Yes, you can side with the Tall Man! It's a shame that Angus Scrimm has never really gotten any huge recognition outside of the cult-horror circles as his approach to the character is very unique and he takes his acting very seriously. Since Don Coscarelli shot so much unused footage for the original Phantasm film he incorporates some of it into the story, thus heightening the already warped space-time continuum the Phantasm universe exists in. As a result of this the ending may seem annoyingly ambiguous but can be interpreted in so many different ways. Since Coscarelli is busy with other projects right now it seems unlikely that the long-rumored Phantasm's End will happen any time soon. But when you enjoy a series of films so much do you really want to see it end? The non-closure of Phantasm IV keeps the story alive after the credits roll instead of finishing it for good. Which is how I would prefer it. If you watch it with company, this tends to lead to much discussion afterwards, something more straight-forward horror films don't. I've always thought that if you wish to tackle something outlandish and imaginative that you must have an equally as strong counter-imagination to fully take it in and comprehend. If you prefer films like Bridget Jones and turn your nose up to Lost Highway then your probably best steering away from the Phantasm series. If you're better than that then you're in for one helluva crazy ride. "},{"Title":"What the.......?","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favorite series of movies. The other day, my wife, and I found ourselves watching all four 'Phantasms'. Unlike the 'Friday, the 13th' series, they all tried to be different, but at the same time be true to the concept. Even in the first movie, you walked away (in my case drove away since I saw it at a drive-in) saying to a point, what happened here? Didn't Reggie get killed, and Jody survive? That I think is part of the mystique of these movies. You find yourself discussing with your family, and friends what happened here. Hey, it came many times at at Christmas, and Thanksgiving at my house for quite a few years, NO KIDDING!This one, I liked, but I'm a little disappointed with it. As I'm typing this up, I have the first one playing, and I still don't quite get IV. For one thing, the idea of explaining why the tall man doesn't die because he comes from different dimensions. Like 'Dr. Who', he travels through time, and space can appear at any time, or place. Okay, I'll buy that. But, why is he so hell-bent on capturing Mike? Does he have some kind of vendetta against Mike, and Jody's family? As Jody said in III,seeing is easy, understanding takes a little more time. I'm getting a headache trying to understand. There must have been a ton of stuff on the cutting room floor, or someone found a great actor to play Mike from 1979, because a lot of this one bounces back to the first one as they try to tie all of this together.I understand, unlike 'Star Wars', the complete story was not written out ahead of time, it was made up as it went as it went along. Don Coscarelli is good on keeping us guessing, and I see there one more coming, and judging by the title, this will be the last one, so PLEASE Mr. Coscarelli, If this is the last one, finish it up with style, don't keep me guessing!!!! "},{"Title":"Best sequel in the series","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What makes this series so consistent is the fact that the same writer/director, Don Coscarelli, is responsible for all four entries. Some phans prefer the second film for its tendency to lean more toward being an action film, while others like the cartoonish, over-the-top aspects of the third entry. Personally, I think this one (IV) is the best sequel. I love the fact that it is more in the moody, psychological vein of the original, which is by far the best in the series in my opinion. IV uses some beautiful locations- a rocky beach, a desert with intricate rock formations, and a completely unpopulated downtown Los Angeles (I'm assuming that's what city it is). These serve as really interesting backdrops for Mike, Reggie, Jody and the Tall Man (all the original actors returned, too). All this is beautifully shot by D.P. Chris Chomyn, who did a great job. The plot is not completely clear, but also not complex. The Tall Man is after Mike with the intent to turn him into another Tall Man sort-of undertaker. Meanwhile there's a subplot where Reggie encounters a beautiful female on the road (as he does in both other sequels). The dialogue is sparse and much of the meaning is implied. One of the most impressive things about the film is the way they were able to incorporate so much unused footage from the original (19 years earlier) into the story. Despite the time difference, the new film and the old footage work together perfectly, and that is a really cool thing to behold. The film actually ends with a flashback- a poignant and subtle scene that is unlike the endings of the other three movies, leaving the series with what could be a perfect close. But if Coscarelli and Co. want to come back and do another one, what Phantasm phan is gonna dispute it?! Not me!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A horror movie that is fourth in a series should be terrible.  This one actually stands on its own as a good movie, though perhaps not great as fourth in the series.As other users have commented, this movie does not answer questions about the Phantasm series.  It shows a little background on the tall man, and that's it.On the other hand, looking at it as a stand-alone-movie, it works!  It has very coherent and often beautiful art direction.  There are very few characters (I assume to save money), but that works.  It keeps the movie from bogging down in goofy dialogue and laughable characters like Phantasm III.The movie actually gets rather artful at times.  Just observe the desert scenes with the field of metal rods to see what I mean.  The Tall Man doesn't seem too threatening in this one.  He come across much more as a constant pressure instead of an acute danger.The individual characters aren't really developed any more than the previous films.  They are reaching archetypal roles of heros, seekers, fighters, etc.This is not a slasher film.  It almost is not a horror movie.  Oddly enough, it is almost stepping out of its low-brow beginnings (except for the breast scene in the hotel) and nearly reaching art movie status.  I would love to see Phantasm V taken further in this vein.  Unfortunately, I think this is the last of the series. Enjoy it if you can find it! "},{"Title":"Highly impressive sequel effort","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm IV Oblivion is a more than qualified conclusion to the series.**SPOILERS**Fleeing through the country, Mike, (A. Michael Baldwin) finds that The Tall Man, (Angus Scrimm) has implanted a Silver Sphere into his skull to turn him into one of the minions he controls, while his friend Reggie, (Reggie Bannister) is held captive. Following the spirit of his trapped brother Jody, (Bill Thornbury) out to Death Valley, they all meet together to determine what's going on. Realizing that the Tall Man had plans for them from the very beginning in his quest to take over the world, they manage to find the secret of who The Tall Man really is, using his time-travel equipment to venture into the past to see who he really was in the past life. As they gather more about the Tall Man, he realizes that they're going against his plans, forcing him to unleash the full force of his demons against them in an effort to stop them fry ruining his plans for world domination.The Good News This here was one of the more impressive entries in the series. One thing it has going for it is the really big and grandiose action scenes in the film. What helps it the most is that the majority of the scenes are largely familiar stuff of the series. There's a spectacular car flip and rescue, two exploding vehicles, some aggressive jumping dwarfs and a silver-sphere attack, the last of which occurs after the inevitable attempt by one to get off with the equally inevitable girl picked up en route. These are all great to witness, giving the film some life it may not otherwise have had. In terms of atmosphere and suggestion, the film scores rather well. The in-car visions of the past and the initial encounter with the phantom patrolman proving to genuinely creepy. Equally effective is the flashbacks and alternate reality visions and memories, presenting us with absolutely unique scenes that are quite imaginative and really intriguing. The longest one, a night-time chase through a forest will get plenty of atmospheric scenes in, including the sequence where the hanging Tall Man ushers a big remark offering peace in exchange for his freedom. It's a great scene, and one of the best ones in the film. The sight of The Tall Man appearing as a regular human, sitting on his porch and offering the visiting Mike a glass of home-made lemonade is pretty impressive as well. Another cool thing about this sequel are the many eerie and haunting locations, such as a lonely beach, spooky rock formations, a lifeless street in LA and barren salt flats that give it such an otherworldly, supernatural feel that the typical mausoleums and old graveyards of the previous ones didn't. Although there's some really dull moments, there's also some big moments in here to get some big moments in, especially the autopsy scene that reveals a big surprise for one of the victims, with the Silver Spheres getting a welcome appearance that wouldn't have otherwise been. An attack from the spheres late in the film, leading to many of it's true gore set-pieces as they cling to major body parts is something to behold, and there's some more in here that are very welcome. All in all, this is a very worthy sequel entry.The Bad News There wasn't very many flaws in here, but they were somewhat important. The fact that it follows the conventions of the series closely is the main point in this one. This one has so many of the clichés and plot-points that the other ones have, and it can lead to multiple scenes where predicting what will come next will be done correctly the great majority of the time, which can lead to many problems throughout the film. That can be something in this one, mainly because none of them are changed around or inverted this time around, which is where the problem lies. Nothing is changed, and that is something which can be used against it at times. There's also the fact that the film doesn't really move as fast as the others out there, which can be somewhat irritating. A lot of time is spent wandering around in the desert, which offers it good scenery but nothing else, and by utilizing the clichés at hand, a long time is spent on others that have nothing to offer in terms of action, and at times this can be somewhat dull. However, the main problem with this one is that there's no explanations for anything in the film, much less the series. This one probably should've done something to answer the questions the others have to offer, and it would've been a great time to do it. That is the biggest flaw, and it keeps it down the most.The Final Verdict It won't match up to the classics early on in the series, but it's still highly entertaining for the series and wraps it on a high note. Highly recommended for the fans of the series or those just plain interested, but those who haven't followed the series won't find much in here that will appeal to them.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language "},{"Title":"The Second Best in the series!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot believe all of the bad reviews that this movie is getting! It is clearly the best sequel in the whole series!  It may have had a bizzare ending, but it left you to come up with your own answer.  Like one great philospher said, When the end is upon us, that is where the beginning may arrive. I have my own answer, but I could go on for hours about what I thought the ending meant.  Great movie, great sequel, long live the tall man! "},{"Title":"Second best out of four","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you remember the first movie at all, and you approach this movie with an open mind, you will find OblIVion quite satisfying. Though not as atmospheric as the first movie, there are several creepy scenes scattered throughout, including the opening scene and a dream sequence involving Reggie. In addition, there are several scenes from Phantasm (I) cleverly woven into the storyline creating continuity between the two films. Some, but not all questions are cryptically answered, which steadfastly adheres to the nothing is as it seems,non linear flow to the movies. It definitely leaves room for one last movie. Maybe the last movie can spell it out (or at least somewhat) for phans needing closure.In conclusion, if your not a fan of the Phantasm movies, or are just randomly renting movies out of boredom, I strongly suggest you don't bother and keep your cynicism to yourself. But if your willing to at least watch the first film, or if your addicted to Phantasm I, Phantasm IV will clearly keep you wanting more. "},{"Title":"The best one since the first","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am one of the world's biggest fans of the original Phantasm. But I have to admit, that the sequels really do nothing for me.Number four is the closest thing to the original. It lives the same world, but isn't distracted by pop culture phenomena of the time the way 2 & 3 seemed to be influenced/commentating on 'Evil Dead' and 'Home Alone'.As much as I like seeing the Tall Man, Reggie and Mike back in action, Jody still seems forced into the series. I really wish that Coscarelli had just left him dead and moved on. The whole 'living ball' thing is plain silly. "},{"Title":"Phantastic (sad fan pun) film (Possible mild spoilers)","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why people complain about this film so much, it is easily as good as the other Phantasm Films.This film, as usual, contains brilliant acting from the four leads, especially Reggie Bannister(who is God in the horror film genre, with Bruce Campbell as Jesus), and Angus Scrimm's aging appearance just add to his performance, (let's face it he look old, which is cool for the evil bad guy).  The action scenes are excellently staged and the make-up is the best ever.I find all the complaints about this film laughable and stupid.1. Not enough revealed about the Tall Man's origins, despite promises.  What do you what?  An autobiography, with detailed plans for his world domination (which part 5 promises if it's ever made).  What is revealed is enough to show evil comes from good, perhaps a metaphor for the Tall Man's quest for Mike over the ears.2.  Lack of action/gore.  Rubbish!!!!!!!!!  I'm going to sulk over this statement.  Reggie (God) Bannnister is one mean      Zombie-thing ass kicker.  Reggie's entire journey to find Mike goes from one gun battle to another.  And as for gore, there's more yellow custard flying around here than an Oscar losers after dinner party.3.  Bad script/direction. What a load of sh#te.  This is one of Coscarelli's funniest scripts, loaded with wit ('this won't hurt a bit...Well...maybe just a little bit.' person hearing this then screams, priceless).  And as for direction we need look no further than scenes featuring the Almighty, sorry Mr Bannister, the Motel Room scene is excellent, especially the endCREATURE(ON THE FLOOR)Wait, we aren't finished yet! REG(RAISING GUN)Sorry baby, but YES WE ARE! (GUN FLIES AT SCREEN AND BLACKOUT CRUNCHING NOISE)4.  Finally the end.  Another cliff hanger, noting is resolved, no clear winner (again) main characters face death, how will they get out of this?  Wait ten years for another installment. What's the problem, this is the best way to end the series if part five never comes - Reg aimlessly fighting for his friend's life, Mike Helpless to prevent his fate and the Tall Man appearing to be the Evil victor, but we know the good guys will win, don't we?  This is just the perfect ending as it embodies the entire themes and events of the series.  And should it lead to a part five it is also a brilliant cliff hanger.I'm not saying that this film is perfect,the results of part 3's cliff hanger are disappointing, as are the ideas that Mike has about his 'abilities', but it is still a very enjoyable film.  The desolated future scene is a Reg (God) send, apparently done without permission or blocking off the street, as are the flashbacks of unused part one scenes, the final one is very effectively haunting.Let's hope this leads to part five, if it's even half as good as this.  I saw part three first in 1994/5 on Sky and at the end thought 'Our heroes can't be left like this, Mummy (I was 12) how will they escape?'  she told me to wait and see.  Six years later I finally know.  As good as this, part five would be well worth the wait twice over. "},{"Title":"All good things...","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just watched this series of movies for the first time, and was very disappointed at the ending of Oblivion, there was so much promise in the story and characters, even tho it was getting pretty silly. In the end they just dropped the ball on everything, so to speak..I strongly recommend these movies to any horror/action movie fan, but its a huge shame the last movie was so.. just overall crappy. In lack of a better way of describing it. All the suspense and mystery was totally gone towards the end, and replaced with confusion and despair, as the movie suffered towards its inevitable credits text, leaving the viewer feeling sad and empty, almost betrayed.I struggled to give this movie a 4 rating. "}{"Title":"Good, but would have been better as a mini-series","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, let me say that Angus Scrimm is a National Treasure and any Phantasm movie is worth watching just for his performance.The first two Phantasms were excellent, pure works of imagination that are unlike any other horror series.  As for part 3, I've only seen part of it on Sci-Fi and as its not available yet on DVD, I don't remember it too well but presumably OblIVion takes over where that one left off...Mike is heading off into the wastelands and Reggie is pinned to the ceiling by a bunch of silver spheres.The story has Mike once again trying to stop the Tall Man and Reggie trying to catch up with him.  This time we jump through space, time and dimension to find the Tall Man's origins and get a glimpse of the future he has in store for the earth.This is a fairly good installment but it seems like there's more story then fits into the ninety-minute format.  It sort of reminded me of Stephen King's Dark Tower series and I think would have been more fun if there was more time to explore some of the story lines hinted at.  But if you're a fan of the other films, there's no reason not to check this one out. "},{"Title":"I'm an idiot.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I sat down and watched all four of the Phantasm films the other day, just because I'm an idiot.*some spoilers below*Allrighty. The last film. If you remember, I'd compared the arc of the three Phantasm films to the arc of the first three Alien films from spooky, atmospheric thriller, to action adventure(The Electric Boogaloo Gambit), to psychological head-game. As bad as it is, Phantasm IV Oblivion, fits right in with this comparison.AlienResurrection tried to be this massive, epic view of the universe in which the Alien series was set you got to see the Company, the military, space pirates, and of course you got to see a whole boatload of aliens. All this was wrapped in a movie that looks like the entre to an invasion of earth by all those nasty aliens. Bang, here comes the well-known Final Apocalypse.Phantasm IV same dang thing. It tries(and completely fails) to become some kind of X-Files sized conspiracy, wherein the Tall Man is some kind of interdimensional, time jumping bandit who actually just used to be the friendly neighborhood doctor and Incredibly Gifted Scientist. Michael is back, wandering around the desert Don Juan of the Yaqui-style, plotting to destroy the Tall Man, or find him in the past, or something or other. It's never really clear, and the whole struggle he's having with whatever is inside him is never quite resolved. \Meanwhile, Reggie is still on the road, still picking up girls who would never look at him and trying to do them, and playing with his four barrelled shotgun, among other things. The kid from the previous film is utterly discarded, and Rocky is by now training to become the arch villainess in the next Kickboxer film. Jody is still annoying.All of this is cached in what is supposed to revelatory never before seen footage that neither advances nor informs the story. Michael tries to hang himself, because apparently, he strung up the Tall Man at some point in the first film--and then cut the guy down. The scene is pitiful--it was cut for a reason, folks--and it just confused me. The rest of the revolutionary new footgage mainly consists of Michael running and jumping onto Reggie's Ice Cream Truck--at night, during the day, in the rain, etc., etc. It is worthless, and I'm tempted to think they structured the entirely structure-less film around this footage so people would look at it and think they were planning this sequel to fit it like a glove, years and years later. Blah.The ending is truly pathetic and leads nowhere. Tall Man is no longer interesting, because he is indestructible he's been pumped full of hydrochloric acid, dropped down a square hole, forzen in liquid nitrogen, and blown-up. Nothing's going to stop him. THAT'S NO FUN. Additionally, we never really truly understand what happened to Jedediah Morningside when he went into his magical device, nor do we get to understand what he wants to do with all those silver balls he's always carrying around. Reggie takes off after said Tall Man with said shotgun, and Mikey appears to be dying, all the while saying to himself, Gosh, this reminds me of the time I jumped on Reggie's Ice Cream Truck...CUE NEVER BEFORE SEEN FOOTAGEWe have hit bottom, to put it plainly. What started off as kind of cool has become a s**tstorm. Here are some bumps along the descent--What's up with Michael building a remote-control hearse to blow up the Tall Man? This is the most hyped-up prop in the history of all filmmaking, and it does absolutely nothing.Zing--little ball flies out, stabs Tall Man in head. Bamf--car explodes and burns up Tall Man. Eyyyerp--another Tall Man walks out from between the tuning-fork thing. What? Did Michael really think that was going to work? The exploding car thing, with it's forty minutes of set-up and three seconds of useless execution, was limper than Bob Dole during a Viagra shortage.--Jody, get your f***ing hands out of your pockets. Christ.--Did I mention I was glad when Jody gets it, even though I don't know why it happened? I figured it was just the divine providence of some better, dead filmmaker looking down on me.--Girl with killer silver balls for breasts. Ewww. Not even creative.--Who was the Demon Trooper? He pops up out of nowhere. Looks like a reject from Resident Evil, and is mostly there to give Reggie the chance to utter the stirring words Blow me.--Jody, put your hands where I can see them! Now!Well, there it is. Four up, four down. First one started off strong, but the rest just slowly descended into a massive pool-pah of garbage. But it was a valiant attempt, Mr. Coscarelli, and I applaud your initiative. You just got suckered into a mainstream archetype that you felt you had to follow. Too bad.I hear tell of a fifth movie, set in an apocalyptic future, where the Tall Man rules some kind of plague-ridden wasteland from Utah. I have to wonder if one of the lines from the movie(Jody, saying to Michael on one of their interdimensional jaunts to a vacant cityWe have to go. There's a chance of contamination.)was meant to be a lead-in. I wonder...I sat down and watched all four Phantasm movies the other day, just because I'm an idiot.But I'm still stupid enough that if a fifth installment comes out, I'll probably sit down and watch that, too. "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel, just not a satisfying conclusion","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I made a huge mistake when I began to watch the 'Phantasm' series. I started with this one and only because I couldn't find the original and just wanted to see this series so badly. I'd heard good things about it, but that was decreased a bit after seeing this film. It was made worse after I saw the first three because they're all so good by comparison. Every series has at least one installment that can be called the weakest and 'Phantasm Oblivion' seemed to be this one's example, but then I gave it another chance. It's still my least favorite of the series, but I've realized that after all is said and done it's really not a bad film. It is however a mediocre finale, which may not be the case if V gets it's funding.Pros A really powerful opening five minutes, which includes an unnecessary, but well done series recap. As usual the performances are excellent. It's cool to see alternate footage from the original in the form of flashbacks. We finally start to get some answers as to when and how this all started. Another really good music score. Setting a large portion of the film at night increases the chill factor. Pace is kind of slow, but steady. Some decent effects.Cons Lacking in action. Still a lot of unanswered questions. Though it's nice to see the deleted footage from the first film, a lot of it feels like padding. It's also cool to see Bill Thornberry again, but he's way underutilized.Final thoughts As another sequel, 'Oblivion' is above average and much better than I remember. But as a fan it just doesn't feel like a satisfying end to it all. A fifth film is said to be in the works, but it needs financing and to happen soon. This is overall a great series, but the wait for this next sequel is starting to get excruciating.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"A somber and satisfying final entry in the series","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eschewing the campy sensibility and full-bore action of the previous installments, writer/director Don Coscarelli instead puts a much more noted emphasis on the lonely and hopeless plights of the recurring characters of Mike (a fine performance by A. Michael Baldwin), Reggie (the wonderfully earnest and engaging Reggie Bannister), and Jody (a solid portrayal by Bill Thornbury) as they all grapple with their own personal agendas concerning the malevolent Tall Man (Angus Scrimm in splendidly sinister form) and try to figure out a way to stop him before it's too late Mike finds himself trapped in a strange inter-dimensional limbo, Reggie travels the countryside in search of Mike, and the spectral Jody offers assistance from an alternate realm. Those expecting the usual plethora of wild thrills and colorful graphic carnage will be deeply disappointed, for Coscarelli this time is more interested in exploring the Tall Man's origins while still taking time to ably create and sustain a supremely bleak and spooky gloom-doom atmosphere -- the shots of desolate and abandoned towns and cities in particular possess a genuinely eerie and unsettling power -- and maintaining a generally more grim and serious tone that recaptures quite well the surprising surrealism and unpredictability of the original. Moreover, there's an overall tragic and melancholy vibe evident throughout which gives this picture an extra wrenching poignancy. The strong and appealing chemistry between Baldwin, Bannister, and Thornbury helps a whole lot. The hulking Bob Ivy makes a memorable appearance as a vicious demonic state trooper and the lovely Heidi Marnhout plays spunky blonde babe Jennifer with considerable sexy aplomb. Chris Chomyn's sharp cinematography offers a wealth of striking oddball images. The spare shuddery score by Christopher Stone and Fred Myrow does the shivery trick. The ending is quite sad, touching, and daringly ambiguous. A worthy closer. "},{"Title":"The Best In The Series (Hopefully Not The End)","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm IV does deliver.  10 out of 10.  Only true Phantasm Phans will enjoy this one.  Don Coscarelli made this film as a love letter to all the fans.  The film uses deleted footage from the original Phantasm movie to further enhance the storyline and it works.After fleeing the mausoleum in the end of Phantasm III, Mike goes on a quest to try to escape his transformation, while Reggie tries to save him from The Tall Man.  Like so many great mythological stories about quest, heros and villains, the characters of Mike, Reggie and The Tall Man are truly genuine. Mike must confront his past and the history about The Tall Man is finally reviled.I must say, during the opening of the film, Mike's speech about The Last Perfect Day put me on the verge of tears.  Don't think this is the last Phantasm film, director Don Coscarelli does plan to make another sequel. Phantasm IV is a great masterpiece of film.  "},{"Title":"Take great care how you play.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ~Spoiler~The game can't end like this. I am extremely conflicted by this movie. I am a die hard phan of the series but I don't think I enjoyed this one. I want so hard to give Phantasm OblIVion a positive review, but I don't know if I can. I've read some of the other reviews (mostly negative ones) and I agree that there are some problems with this film. Problems Mike's parents died before Jody did, they completely dropped characters (Tim who could have developed into a fixture of the series, and Rocky who couldn't have), Reggie's one liners weren't that great (Blow me!), the red planet angle is dropped, and it's promises of closure and origins are false. I'm sure there are others but I'm too shaken to think of them. More questions and enigmas are created than resolved. Phantasm OblIVion shed no light into the heart of Phantasm and confused me more. No solutions are in sight and I hate that. I have been spun deeper into the web that is Phantasm, and I'm sure that's what Don Coscarelli wants. But I need closure!! But, on a sunnier (Morning) side, there are some good elements in the film. Highlights The opening sequence (eerie and awesome), Reggie still kicking a$$, and the idea that good spawned evil. Hopefully the next installment (Phantasm's End please!) will be the last and explain ALL. If your a true fan of the series then you owe it to yourself to see it once. And then maybe you can clue me in on whats in store for Phantasm. This is one of the best series in the genre and it absolutely cannot end like this. The game must go on. "},{"Title":"Yes, this film leaves many gaps yet there are good points..","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I admit this isn't the most well-made film and the loose ends, unexplained occurrences, and inconsistencies are enough to make one lose faith in the series, yet after the beautiful beginning cinematography done in panoramic view, where the Tall Man stalks the halls of the cemetary, the scene where Reggie is attacked by a mutant police officer, another scene where Reggie survives not one but two of the balls, and the most surprising scene of all, when Michael, after going through a dimensional gateway, encounters what appears to be the Tall Man's good alter-ego! There are pros and cons to this movie. Please give it a chance..you might find at least one thing you do like about it.   "},{"Title":"I'm amazed","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whoa!  I was amazed while reading all the horrible reviews this film got.  This is the best Phantasm since the first.  It has a very intelligent story line and the most mature directing of the series. I think a lot of people didn't 'get it' because they were expecting a bunch of gore and action, and a very simplistic plot (like most horror movies today).  If that is all you want then you won't like this film. But for people who want a more artistic horror film, this one delivers. (Of course seeing the first three is a must.  It is very hard to understand or appreciate without seeing those). "},{"Title":"The second-best of the series.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This video-only release is for true fans of the series. This gem includes close to 20 minutes of footage that was cut from the final release of the original Phantasm. This movie continues the thread and story of The Tall Man and his duties. I feel the ending left a lot to be desired as it left it open for yet another sequel. If you saw the original, check this one out. "},{"Title":"Nonsense That Might Appeal to Phans","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This fourth installment of Don Coscarelli's cultish horror franchise is a long-awaited mess that should appeal to hardcore phans but casual viewers will find it bewildering. The muddled plot is endlessly padded with stock footage and bits of material that was left on the cutting room floor in 1979s Phantasm to get this cheapie to feature length. Mike and Reggie embark on a quest to discover the origin of The Tall Man (played once again by a frail looking Angus Scrimm) in the hopes of breaking his hold on Mike. There's a certain appeal to Phantasm IV Oblivion if only for nostalgia's sake if you have followed the series. On it's own, it's not something I'd ever recommend. "}{"Title":"Uneven, but hugely entertaining","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's rare that the same creative team are still around 4 films into a series, and even rarer that a 4th film has anything new to add, so this makes a refreshing change.The tone is a little uneven, with Coscarelli seeming torn between delivering the slapstick gore and laughs of the previous 2 sequels and going for the darker more surreal approach of the first movie, so a lot of Reggie's scenes seem like they could have been pasted in from a different movie. Speaking of which large chunks are made up of deleted scenes from Phantasm, which, while suggesting money problems during development, actually works very well in bookending the events so far.It also goes some way to filling in the gaps, giving the Tall Man a proper origin story and answering a few questions while still leaving enough up in the air to justify the 5th film which is apparently in production currently.That said, even if a 5th film never materialises, this makes a nicely apocalyptic ending to a series that has actually come to life in it's sequels. There's still plenty of laughs, but there's a very downbeat tone and some nicely creepy touches, making this a very enjoyable, if slightly schizophrenic addition to a fun series. "},{"Title":"A fascinating final chapter...if you've seen the others.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  !!!!!!!!!!!! POSSIBLE  SPOILER !!!!!!!!!!!!The first viewing of PHANTASM OBLIVION disappointed me  although being a die-hard fan of the saga, I hadn't watch the three other chapters for quite a long time, and to fully appreciate this one you really need to have all the details of the story in mind. Effectively, OBLIVION is the closest to the original chapter and therefore has a very labyrinthic plot, jumping from one dimension to another, from present to past and future, which is rather surprising and hard to follow after parts II and III where the action mainly remained in our reality . If you've missed an episode, you should better wait before seeing this one  it would totally spoil your appreciation of this fascinating (final ?) chapter of the best sci-fi horror thriller ever made.After LORD OF THE DEAD that revealed the secrets concerning the embalming technics of the tall man that lead to the creation of the dwarves and spheres, this entry in the PHANTASM world focuses on the birth of the giant undertaker and Mike's destiny. The core of the movie is the mental confrontation between the two characters and that explains why there's a lack of action sequences in comparison to the two previous chapters and lots of dream-like scenes.But Don Coscarelli didn't forget the numerous fans of Reggie Bannister (a.k.a the god of the zombie killers), who is better than ever as the tired and angry ice cream man who desperately try to have a good time with a sex-bomb , and gave him a few memorable action scenes in which he can use his now famous super-gun against the army of the dead.An asset of PHANTASM  OBLIVION is to really bring an evolution of the characters and the story. Effectively Mike and Reggie are very different in this one, as they get used to fighting the tall man. For example Reg isn't scared anymore by the dwarves, on the contrary he even finds them too easy to blast and the fear his supernatural powers once bred inside Mike's heart has now turned into a sort of fascination . This avoid the traditional go-round of most horror sequels.The film suffers from a very low budget but at that point of the story, it doesn't really matter and is even in total harmony with the atmosphere of desperation and loneliness Don Coscarelli wants to create. There are no more assaults in morgues but it's logical the Tall Man has now invaded most of America (and maybe earth), so he can walk in the daylight as human survivors now live in his kingdom. The story's definitely evoluting.PHANTASMOBLIVION is presented as the final chapter of the saga, but on that point, the movie isn't fully satisfying. Effectively even if the climax is of a rare intensity, it's hard to believe that everything's over. With this chapter, Don Coscarelli might in fact have made a transitional movie that announces the real, final battle for the salvation of humanity  PHANTASM'S END, written by Roger Avary. But, not knowing if they would be able to bring this ambitious story to the screen, he also managed to make it look like a possible conclusion. This constant hesitation is the only weakness of OBLIVION as when an author doesn't really believe in the ending of his story he simply can't hide it. However, if this is really the last one, this ending might certainly be the most appropriate to the saga as it respects its philosophy `never believe what you see', and let fans build their own interpretation of what they've just seen and imagine what lies beyond oblivion.As a conclusion, let's say that OBLIVION definitely rocks and preserves the high quality expected from a PHANTASM movie. But be warned multiple viewing might be necessary to give a meaning to the whole story and fully appreciate it. ( ...And don't stop your tape-recorder at the beginning of the end credits, you would miss the cool song HAVE YOU SEEN IT performed by our good old REGGIE B.!). "},{"Title":"What is going on??","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This installment was a big disappointment. I'm a long time fan of the Phantasm movies, and this is the only one I can't stand to watch. Maybe someone can explain what was going on in this movie, because I have no idea. I was awaiting an explanation of The Tall Man's origins, but its not to be found here. The only good thing is that the flashbacks - and there are plenty of them - make you nostalgic for the original. It also makes you realize how this one pales in comparison.  "},{"Title":"my 2nd favorite B horror series...","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the evil dead series is my absolute fave in modern B horror films. my all time favorite modern B horror FILM is halloween; but like so much of the genre, it got picked up by bigger studios, polished up, and marketed for mass consumption. true B films have a houmor, honesty and fun that is so different than that of films like the friday 13th, nightmare, and scream series. it is the heart of truly independent filming in the horror genre. with that said...Andrew Devonshire wrote Reggie Bannister...is God in the horror film genre, with Bruce Campbell as Jesus. i must agree. i love these films. the mix of part one deleted scenes (a treat! BUT one continuity flaw - mike's parents died BEFORE jody did)) action banister scenes and art-house flavour is a delight. read andrew's review cuz he said it so eloquently... this series rocks!  "},{"Title":"The one that makes sense!!!!!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many did not like this addition to the series.  That is probably because this film differed from the rest in the way that it made some sense.  It tied the rest of the movies together in a pure piece of brilliance.  Over-all, an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty Damn Good....","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had read all of the bad reviews of this film, so I didn't know what to expect.  To be truthful, I thought the movie was a great addition to the Phantasm series.   For all those who hate the ending being so weird and it just leaving you hanging, well think about this  ALL OF THE PHANTASM MOVIES END THAT WAY!!!!!  All of the films leave you wondering what happened next?!?!?!  I thought oblIVion was cool and just as good as the other sequels...   "},{"Title":"THE BEST SEQUEL!!!!!!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm Oblivion is undoubtedly the best sequel in the Phantasm series!! It took the humor out of Phantasm III, and got back to the dead serious tone of the first film. Phantasm fans Must see this movie. Great movie, great sequel. Long live the Tall Man!!!!' "},{"Title":"A polished stunner as good as the original!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I highly recommend this film. Some friends of mine got together with a tape and watched this with much anticipation. We were all fans of the Phantasm series. We were not disappointed!!!  The original cast is back and Reggie is just as appealing as ever. The Tall Man can still deliver the looks that scare. This film was a bit more sophisticated than the previous sequels while not compromising any of the traditional fun, scares, gore or witty one-liners we come to expect from Phantasm. You won't be disappointed!!!! "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know about some of you people, but this is the most interesting phantasm yet. Sure, there isn't enough violence or gore, but that is the way that it was intended to be. This was supposed to be the final fling, and its supposed to explain a,lot of things, and it has. The plot is just hard to explain, and it's very complex. It seems that some of you can't see that and just write it off as being dumb. Well, you have to have a little bit of intelligence to understand the series, so don't even try understand if you can't. "},{"Title":"90 Minutes Of Flashbacks","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can admit to being a great fan of the Phantasm series. The first one was wonderfully fresh. The second contained more gore and was even more fun. The third left Reggie quite literally hanging around and the viewers wanting more. Sadly Phantasm obIVion fails to live up to any viewers anticipation. I was expecting a lot from this movie, especially considering the long wait we had until its release! Sadly I was faced with a huge series of flashbacks from all three of the past films muddled together which gives the story no real flow. Reggie, is brilliant as always, although now, as can be expected, he looks a little older! Hmmm, maybe it's time for him to buy a new wardrobe. Maybe he doesnt get much time in his attempts to save the world from the tall Man! The movie itself, though lacking in the strength of installments one two and three has redeeming features. The lovable killer The Tall Man is seen in a different light, serving lemonade if ever it were possible! There are also some fun scenes including Reggies run in with a cop and yet another of his romances ending in failure! Mentioning this a certain female character in the film does seem to have no real use, coming in for 30 mins then being killed off.In all this is a worthwhile movie to check out if your a fan of the Phantasm series. If not dont bother as you will find the story impossible to understand. Lets hope Phantasms End will put right what this movie failed to conclude.**/****  "}{"Title":"Phantastic","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best sequel to the original. This movie implements philosophical overtones that the previous two films left out. While II and Lord of the Dead provided the necessary action that plot needed to develop, OblIVion actually made viewers think. The storyline also revealed a lot more than it physically displayed on-screen. The origins of the Tall Man were explained wonderfully. Angus Scrimm did a remarkable job of transforming his evil character into a nice lemonade  offering old man, even if it was for only a few seconds. With characters jumping through dimensions and time, it was left for the viewer to determine why the characters where the way they were, and how they became that way. However, Coscarelli actually plots it out in a not so obvious way. It seems that the unused footage from the original film was intentionally left that way. Coscarelli tied in the 1979 scenes perfectly in conjuncture to the 1998 story as if the 19 year time difference was planned all along. Many viewers gave negative reviews to this film because it was not your typical slice em dice em horror flick. The two most common complaints have been that the movie didn't explain much and the original footage was worthless. If you think either of these two things, go watch a Friday the 13th movie where all you'll have to use your brain for is pressing play and rewind. If this is the last Phantasm, so be it. If another one can be made to show what is already implied, that would be great too. Either way, this is one of the few movies that has passed the test of time with a quality product. 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Not as good as the other sequels","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I know there is some controversy as to whether part III or IV is the better sequel. After seeing this one, I have to say that I was disappointed in this installment. It didn't have the humor that we crave, the excitement or the ultra violence that the others had.The best part of this one is the explanations of where The Tall Man came from. These scenes are very interesting. This whole movie ties in so well with the deleted scenes of the first one, though, it is obvious the director is making this up as he goes along. There are very few characters in this one b\c it focuses on The Tall Man's relationship with Mike (yet, of course, like the others not explaining all we need to know!). Reggie is severely downplayed, and I'm sorry but Reggie Bannister is the one of the main reasons these films are entertaining. I wanting to drown in my beer at the horrible one liners Reggie was given in this one (and I mean HORRIBLE). I thought the whole ice cream man uniform at the end was a little gay, though funny. Yet, the movie is okay on it's own. There isn't much action except at the end, there are a ton of plot hole (PLEASE! Someone tell me how Reggie escaped The Tall Man from being pinned up by the spheres at the beginning. This drove me crazy throughout the whole movie! Did he just LET HIM GO?!?).Anyways, a below average movie...waaayyyy too slow, and not paced nearly as well as the other movies (the fast pacing makes them more exciting). Only for true Phantasm lovers, I did enjoy what this movie was, but unlike the others, I will never watch this one again. 5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"MY FAVOURITE OF THE SERIES","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a die hard fan of this series and part IV is my favourite. It is alot like the orignal but manages to surpass it. Angus Scrimm is at his best in this movie. Dont listen to all the negative feedback. Remember this film was made on a budget of only $650000....thats less than a million...The special effects were VERY GOOD. Bring on part V. "},{"Title":"Sprinkling new life is a step up from part III","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like all the sequels in this series this one picks up right where the previous installment left off. Mike (Baldwin) with a silver sphere stuck in his head steals one of the Tall Man's (Scrimm) hearses and drives into the desert into Death Valley. He seems headed for an eventual showdown with the Tall man. Meanwhile, Reggie (Banister) having no idea where Mike has gone decides to quit from this crazy life. Jody (Thornbury) again appears through a sphere and tells Reggie that Mike is counting on him. Reggie hits the road along the way encountering a cop from hell in a scary and fun sequence in the middle of the desert he also hooks up with a blonde (Heidi Marnhout) but still can't get laid as her demise is ghastly. Using outtakes from the original, Don Coscarelli cleverly splices them together into the current storyline making it very interesting seeing the characters from the original in comparison to how they are today. Another very nice scene has Mike going back in time and meeting Dr. Jebediah Morningside (Scrimm) who was the Tall man before he became the Tall man. You can clearly see Jebediah is all ready experimenting with things that would eventually turn him into the Tall man. A thoughtful scene that Angus Scrimm nails to the wall and makes you wish you could see more of this origin of how he becomes evil. It still remains unclear as to why the tall man wants Mike so bad and why he is so important to his plans. This sequel is more focused than part III and there is an intensity to it that keeps things on edge. The effects and scares are there as usual and Coscarelli doesn't really bring outside characters into the storyline this time. We just focus on Reggie, Mike and Jody battling the spheres, jawa creatures and the Tall man, everything fans of this series want. Clearly left open for more, part IV departs from the type of road movie II and III were and the change sprinkled new life into this bizarre, scary, and original series. "},{"Title":"boooyyy....I'm so tired","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here we have it. The last Phantasm film. This time round things are a lot more reserved, as our heroes kind of get to the bottom of things. Michael finds himself out in the desert with the Tall Man, with Reggie not far behind. Jody's back too, guiding Reggie and Michael, but can he be trusted? We finally find out where the Tall Man comes from, and why he's so interested in Michael. Reggie's basically here to provide the action while Michael confronts the Tall Man. I read somewhere there wasn't a lot of money to make this film and you can tell. However, it's a lot moodier than the last two, and does provide a semi-satisfying end to the series. (SPOILERS AHEAD) Although it's not entirely made clear, I thought that what the ending meant was that Michael, who was already shown as being very clingy to Jody, couldn't quite get over Jody dying and had created this whole world around him where the Tall Man was stealing corpses (and therefore also stealing Jody). The Tall Man was doing something awful with the corpses, and to Michael it was as if the dead (including Jody) could not find peace in the afterlife. Michael was completely in denial about it all, but when the Tall Man says 'It was all in his head' and then we cut to a young Michael in the van with Reggie, we hear Jody whispering. This time, Michael denies he heard it, finally accepting that Jody is dead. Note that this is the only film that does not end in a cliffhanger too. "},{"Title":"Above average horror sequel.","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm IV Oblivion picks up where the previous movie left off, with Mike (A. Michael Baldwin) escaping into the night and Reggie (Reggie Bannister) given a reprieve by the nefarious Tall Man (Angus Scrimm). The resulting story continuously moves from dimension to dimension, and between various points in time, as Reggie once again determines to find and save his younger friend while Mike thinks that he may know the answer to dealing with his nemesis. He's given some insight into the Tall Mans' origins, while receiving suspect advice from his ghostly brother Jody (Bill Thornbury).It's nice to see the original gang back together again as writer / director Don Coscarelli attempts to put some closure (so to speak) on his characters and this universe he's created. It forgoes the comedy content of the previous sequel to create a mind-bending horror / sci-fi hybrid, one that has the usual amount of weirdness and atmosphere. There's still a lot of value to be found in the settings, with so many locations rendered desolate and mute thanks to the machinations of our villain. Christopher Stone does an excellent job with the music, as does KNB with the makeup effects.As could be expected, Coscarelli refrains from over explaining things, and tries to keep viewers on their toes with his style. Performances are all as good as could be. Bannister is still a hero with strong rooting interest, and yet The Tall Man is also compelling in his own way and fun to watch. Joining the guys this time around are the fetching Heidi Marnhout as lone traveller Jennifer and stuntman Bob Ivy as the demon cop. The fact that Coscarelli had shot lots of unused footage for his first film enables him to incorporate it here, and it is fascinating to see our actors at different ages throughout.It may not be altogether satisfying for some of its viewers, but it's still more interesting than most output in the genre, in the way that it gets its audience thinking and leaves events open to interpretation.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Apt Title!","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Picking up where the previous film ended, story has Reggie pursuing the Tall Man, who has taken Mike for his own purposes, but is once again accompanied by Jody, still trying to tell the secrets of the tall man's origins, before it is too late...Much better than III, though can't approach the first film, from which it uses much unused footage to further explain and enhance its present plot that has the gang going back and forth in time, including seeing the tall man before he turned evil; a kindly inventor(Jebediah Morningside) who invents a time/space tunnel to go through, but returns from the trip transformed into the evil tall man. Film is largely absent of the gruesome violence that hurt the past two films, but is slow-paced and jumbled nonetheless, still leaving the door open for Part V, which hasn't happened yet...Seems like they are still whistling in the wind... "},{"Title":"Getting better by the minute!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie keeps on getting better and better by the minute! Mike(A. Michael Baldwin) and Reggie(Reggie Bannister) keeps on trailing the sinister Tall Man(Angus Scrimm). Every time they go after him, they keep on finding things that weakens him. Time after time Reggie finds something, so did Mike. On the last movie, one of the silver spheres attacked the Tall Man was Mike's brother Jody. Not only Reggie was a Ice Cream truck driver, he was also a musician on the side. And he encountered the silver spheres himself. When he was spending the night with a woman, she later had spheres for breast. That was very freaky. All the other footages from the last three movies have been very helpful. The encounters, the people, and the unstoppable evil that constantly plagues the town that they are in. They remember that the sphere were not only weapons, they can be used as a key to open the portals. I liked the part when the ball was used to take out the minions of the Tall Man. When Reggie left in the Ice Cream truck, the question remains, Is it over? The movie puts the I in Intensity, out of all the other horror movies, Phantasm is tops! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Challenging But Solid Installment.","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm IV Oblivion is the fourth installment in the Phantasm series, and this film continues from where Part III left off. Mike (Michael Baldwin) and Reggie (Reggie Bannister) continue their relentless fight against the evil Tall Man (Angus Scrimm), a ghastly grave-robber from another dimension who is slowly taking over the dead one town at a time. Mike, after the events in Part III, finds himself in a strange limbo of dimensions in the Tall Man's world, trying to save his own life and stop the evil villain.Being a big fan of the Phantasm series, I really, really tried to like this movie as best as I could, but I had a little trouble with it at times. Like each film in this series tends to do, it's style and overall tone is a whole lot different than that of it's three predecessors. Part III threw in a lot of black comedy and humor for some comic relief, which did draw away some of the tension. Oblivion sheds all of the punch-lines and humor, and gets things back to the gritty, scary world of The Tall Man, and for that I have some respect for this movie. It maintains this feel of inescapable terror throughout, and the utter bizarreness and the dreamlike atmosphere is strong as ever. The entire film is like one big nightmare that you can't wake up from, and this nightmarish feeling succeeds in making you feel uneasy.However, I do have to complain that at times the storyline becomes a little lost in the vast dreamlike landscape and bizarre imagery. It's hard to distinguish what is exactly happening at times, and this film challenges you to put some pieces together yourself, and I'll admit it is a bit tough in certain areas. It takes a little thinking and it's not a movie you can really understand immediately, so I will advise a second viewing if needed, it may make you appreciate the movie more. There are a few minor inconsistencies concerning the dimension-travel and a couple of plot holes that are never explained (one of them being, whatever happened to young Timmy from Part III? We are led to believe he died, but nothing is ever really explained, his character is just kind of sloppily thrown out of the picture. I suppose it isn't too terrible though because his character wasn't of much relevance to the overall story, but still).Beside the storyline becoming a little lost at times, I can't complain about much else. There are some truly frightening scenes here, and I have to praise this movie for it's atmosphere, cinematography, and the truly eerie feeling that it emanates. Michael Baldwin is featured much more in this sequel, and holds up well, as does Reggie Bannister as his long-time friend and co-fighter against The Tall Man. Angus Scrimm is just as scary here as he was in the original Phantasm. His presence is really something of screen legend, especially within the horror genre. The conclusion to the movie is open-ended for a sequel (as are all the endings in these films), but we're still awaiting another installment to try and help answer a few questions and possibly bring a close to this utterly bizarre gem of a movie series.Overall, Phantasm IV Oblivion is an installment that most phans won't be too disappointed with. Personally, I enjoyed it. It has some script problems and it does become hard to follow at times, but the surreal atmosphere and the downright ambiguity and eeriness brought through the imagery and the cinematography is really wonderful. It's a weird sequel, but I liked it a lot, all things considered. I'd strictly recommend it to phans of the series though, because all others will likely despise it. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Have You Seen It?","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Opening up with a recap on what has happened so far, Phantasm IV Oblivion begins with the ending of Phantasm III Lord of the Dead and continues the ongoing struggle of good vs. evil with Mike (A. Michael Baldwin) and The Tall Man (Angus Scrimm). We see Mike driving a hearse down a desert road in effort to get as far away from the mysterious Tall Man with Reggie (Reggie Bannister) following Mike. While Reggie deals with demon cops and a sexy lady (Heidi Maranhout), Mike travels through multiple portals and discovers how The Tall Man came to this dimension and if his brother Jody (Bill Thornbury) is really what he seems to be.Phantasm IV is the most recent entry in the series to date but thank god it is not the last as there will be one more film on the way. While Phantasm II and Phantasm III were both very straightforward, Oblivion brings back the strange and unique feel of the original. So in short, you often have no idea what the hell is going on. ANd the fact that they show deleted scenes from the original Phantasm as part of the story really doesn't help either. I consider Phantasm IV to be a little better than the disappointing (but still good) third entry of the series, but my issue with this one is that even though you are entertained throughout and your eyes will probably be glued to the screen, nothing really happens when you think about it. You see a lot of Mike driving. Then Reggie driving, then Mike sitting in the desert. Reggie driving some more. Mike still sitting in the desert. Had the movie had more than one setting (not counting the ones in the portal jumping) it may not have felt this way. Towards the end it gets a lot more interesting and a lot of stuff happens but everything else was more or less a build up. The other thing is the ending. Thank god Phantasm V was announced because this has an extremely vague and unsatisfying ending. If you have seen 1-3, which all have the same ending more or less (which is vague also), this one blows it out of the park. Basically the film reaches it's climax, drifts to something completely random, and just ends out of the blue. And this is ten years (1998 at the time) before another film will be seen. Wow...Continuity errors are what really disappointed me about the third movie, but aside from The Tall Man's need for Mike to be alive carried over from the third, one this one luckily has none. The amazing Phantasm score isn't really played, but a slow violin version that sounds great is herd often which adds to the drama of the film (also herd in 2 and 3). Despite that there isn't much going on in the middle, the film manages to be extremely entertaining and if you are a fan of the series your sure to really like this one. Reggie Bannister serves as the source of humor and bad-ass hero who once was an ice cream vendor once again gives a great performance as does Angus Scimm as the sinister Tall Man as usual. Michael Baldwin gives a much better performance than in Phantasm III which was good to know. Like Phantasm III, Bill Thornbury is just kind of there but unlike Phantasm III he actually has importance in this one.The BreakdownPROS Captivating story, Great score, Likable characters, Dosen't contain many continuity errors unlike it's predecessor, Attractive women (Heidi Maranhout), Very surreal, And who wouldn't like to see a bald and middle-aged ex-ice cream vendor dressed in his old uniform shooting demon midgets with a quad barrel shot-gun?CONS The ending will really annoy you for a really long time, Though the film contains many of silver spheres, there arn't any real drilling's(, and you occasionally have no idea what is going on.OVERALL It isn't as good as Phantasm or Phantasm II, but Phantasm IV Oblivion is yet another satisfying entry to this amazing fantasy/horror series. While the series tends to be more horror, this one seems more of a fantasy/drama. Not that thats bad thing though. If you haven't seen any of the Phantasm movies I recommend you do as it is a great franchise. Also Reggie Bannister does a surprisingly good song called Have You Seen It? played in the credits and was made for th film.Rated R Mild Violence and Language; Runtime 1 hour 30 minutes; Score 8/10 "}{"Title":"Ahhh, now THAT's what we've all been waiting for!!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Phantasm is such a landmark cult film because it truly bent the limits of the horror movie genre. It blended horror, scifi, comedy and good old Ingmar-Bergman-like surrealism and gave us something no one could have expected. Here, 20 years later, we finally get a worthy successor.Unlike Phantasms II & III (which were entertaining but in a superficial way), Phantasm Oblivion takes us away from the formulaic action and throws us into a bizarre dreamscape where anything goes. Much of the movie happens in a desert setting out in the middle of nowhere (Death Valley). The scenery and camera-work are absolutely spectacular, and the images of desolation make us feel as if we're watching a classic old Twilight Zone episode. I don't know about you, but I love this kind of stuff! From there, the plot takes so many strange twists through the use of flashbacks, dreams and acid trips, that I'm sure most people are left bewildered. But some of the most interesting ideas are introduced. We get a peek into the origin of the Tall Man (with some fantastic acting on the part of Angus Scrimm who finally gets to read more lines than BOYYYYYY!), and we learn the significance of the dimensional portal introduced in the first movie.But don't look for everything to be answered straightaway & tied up with a pretty bow, Hollywood style. Remember back to Phantasm I which left us with more questions than answers. In classic minimalistic/impressionistic style, Coscarelli resumes this tradition and gives us just enough to get our brains primed. I wasn't kidding when I compared this to the works of Ingmar Bergman. Maybe even Fellini and Jean Cocteau. Coscarelli and his crew have matured very nicely.Get ready for some great stuff with some of the best one-liners in the biz (I thought cars only blew up like that in the movies!). And of course there's Reggie, the ass-kicking ice cream man. Folks it don't get any better. I give it 8/10 which is very high on my scale. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Frightening, and True to the Original","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have watched the entire Phantasm series and I must say that this one provided more information about the Tall Man than any of the others.  We actually get a look at who the Tall Man really was.  It was a great movie showing scenes orignally cut from the first film.  I was well pleased with it.  Reggie Bannister is amazing as the Ice Cream Vendor with the Four Barrel Shotgun from Hell.  I love him.  He is the comic relief and it isn't overdone.  A. Michael Baldwin retuns and the misguided and very peculiar Mike Pearsons.  His  character in the original was so strange to me.  I never really saw what the Tall Man wanted with him.  But in a scene that I won't disclose from the this film, you actually begin to see his importance to the Tall Man.  Bill Thornbury's Jody is incredible.  He returns in this film to guide Mike and Reggie on the right path.  I must now give credit to the most sinister bad guy in cult movie history, Angus Scrimm.  He is still scary today.  I loved him in the first movie.  In fact I loved him in all of the movies.  He brings an atmosphere to the set that just gives me chills.  I love his emotionless actions that make him the evil thing that he is and then to see his transformation into Jebediah Morningside.  He was a completly different man.  It is rumored that Morningside's persona is actually the real way that Scrimm speaks and acts.  This is only rumor of course.  He is the master of horror.  He is awesome.  This movies gives some explantion to his origin but very little.  I do know that there will be a fifth and final film.  I am looking forward to seeing it and I am very excited to learn that Scrimm is alive and well and will be in the fifth film.  Perhaps the mystery of the Tall Man will be finally explained. "},{"Title":"Give it up.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only interesting thing about this movie is seeing the original cast members after all these years. There is also a neat flashback sequence, with footage shot for the first film, but not seen before. A bunch of seemingly unrelated would-be scary scenes plod along aimlessly towards a big explosion at the end. (Was that a spoiler?) The oblique origin of The Tall Man is just more meaningless stuff. The first movie was a unique experience, the sequels have been pretty bad. Give it up guys.    "},{"Title":"The Tall Man is back again!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Tall Man returns with the original Phantasm cast for Phantasm IV Oblivion.  The fourth and supposedly final chapter in the Phantasm series takes off were Lord Of The Dead (Phantasm III) left off. In this one Reggie continues after Mike as Mike learns about The Tall Man's history. The kid from part 3 who knew everything about guns and fighting is dropped and Rocky who left in the car at the end of part 3 is also out of the picture. This leaves Reggie alone in search of Mike. As the Tall Man's history unfolds in a series of scene's from the original Phantasm, a majority of these scene's were cut from the original release of Phantasm and are being scene for the first time, other scene's are just scene's created specifically for this film. We learn about the Tall Man's history and even what his name is. In the end Reggie and Mike meet up for an unusual ending which leaves the viewer to figure out the rest. The first time I watched this I hated it, the second time I loved it, I don't know why, and now every time I watch it I love it, I guess the first time I just didn't like it. Phantasm 2012 A.D. is a possible release for yet another Phantasm film. ***1/2 out of **** it is a great film for die-hard fans like me, but on the other hand if your just sitting down to watch this you may be extremely confused. Thumbs up again to all the actors who have done an extremely well job with the acting in the series and hopefully will continue to do so in other movies or in the next Phantasm movie. Angus Scrimm did an amazing job playing 2 characters (a nice tall man and an evil tall man). Make sure you've seen the other 3 before this one, it should help a lot. "},{"Title":"Great Phantasm sequel!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm 4 Oblivion is a great film for you fellow Phantasm lovers out there.All the classic characters return.The tall man,Angus Scrimm's character is even fleshed out more,giving you a possible explanation on how he became the sinister grave-robbing mortician who can pass thru different dimensions.It has a surreal quality to it ,almost like being in a dream.For a Phantasm freak such as myself,I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Still too much unexplained","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oblivion is right; further misadventures of Reggie and Mike pursuing the Tall Man still leave too much unexplained; we do find out the Tall Man's identity (Jebediah Morningside) and how he became interested in his work, but it's never explained exactly how he got his supernatural powers, what exactly the other side is, what the flying spheres are or where they came from, how the other side transforms bodies into gnomes, and most of all, we still don't know what in the HELL the Tall Man means to do with his evil power.  To quote Joe Bob Briggs We never find out what it all means, but it looks cool.  Cool looks will be just about all you get from this film; it's loaded with flashback footage, and it's virtually impossible to distinguish the time-traveling sequences.  To cap the iceberg, the ending (which I won't reveal, for fear of being declared a spoiler by the IMDB) is ponderous and inconclusive, leaving room for yet another sequel to keep this tired series alive.  My rating *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"a very worthy sequel","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm Oblivion is a fantastic installment in the Phantasm series. I'd even go so far as to say it's the best since the original (even though the other two are great). There is a noticeable lack of physical action, but the real action is cerebral and extremely satisfying. This film has so many insights to offer about The Tall Man while posing a mind-boggling number of new questions pertaining both to The Tall Man and his entire world. The gore has been toned down, but it's not really essential to the story anymore. Any of you out there doubting the positive comments on this film, please do yourself a favor and at least watch it. I was surprised at how much I liked it myself. Phantasm Oblivion is truly a work of art. "},{"Title":"The movie lost me, and drove off down the road without me.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved the first Phantasm movie and I thought part 2 and 3 were enjoyable but this one was a complete let-down. What was it about? It has no real firm story, only some vague hunt for the Tall Man's origin. The effects in the previous films were far better. The plots were better too. There were soem pointless, stupid scenes in this movie and plenty of stuff that just goes unexplained. Save yourself some disappointment and just watch the first Phantasm again.  "},{"Title":"What was that?","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen all of the Phantasm movies -- well, I saw Phantasm 3 in pieces, the ending first. All of the movies had style, good creepy moments and storylines that were possible to follow. And Angus Scrimm was a really nice guy when I met him (briefly), so it's always fun to see him being an evil guy on-screen.Phantasm OblIVion has none of these things. Despite the return of the entire original cast (much much older than in the original movie) (oh, and the movie only has five or six people in it altogether), there's something missing, and that's a movie. Most of the effects in this movie -- Phantasm's infamous silver balls -- were clipped from other movies altogether. None of the dialogue makes any sense. You see The Tall Man before he became evil, and there's talk of attempting to keep him from becoming evil, but the idea is just dropped. None of the movie makes SENSE, which is the worst thing; none of the plot threads started go anywhere. The ending isn't. About 30 minutes of the 90 minute running time is flashbacks to earlier movies.I guess I'm having a problem writing about the flaws of this movie, because it has so many, and no real virtues to speak of. Hopefully, if another movie is ever made, a story will be written first, and what was good about the first two movies will be remembered.  "},{"Title":"The Phantasm series rules.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  not much to say except that i hope that part 5 will be the last part . I dont want to see the series going the same way as most horror series that is too many sequels. I hope it finishes with pt5. I love the shotgun reggie uses in the movies 4 barrels that is some weapon. "}{"Title":"it has the best cliff hanging ending any of the sequels have had so far.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the series just gets better and better.dont want to spoil it for anyone who hasn`t seen it yet but it is the  best ending yet. it also leaves some unanswered questions that i hope will be answered in part 5.    as i have said in my comments on the rest of the movies i hope pt5 is the final part cos we dont want the best horror series ever going on and on and on. the tall man isn`t exactly 25 years old now is he.it   would not be the same if they replaced him with some one else i hope they make part5 the last. "},{"Title":"Yet another waste...","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is worse than the last one.  Most of the movie is filled with flashbacks for no purpose.  Nothing is explained from the previous movies, or what is brought up here.  And the ending...if you make it that far...is the worst of the series.  Part 1 had a nice, low-budget-horror charm to it; part 2 was pretty much the same story but with better production.  3 and 4 are just disasters!  Between the 2 are three hours wasted.  And now I'm sure there will be a #5, but I'm beginning to believe no one knows what they are talking about with this series. "},{"Title":"W-o-r-t-h-l-e-s-s !!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm sorry if I may offend some loyal fans of this series, but this film was a worthless piece of garbage.  I've seen the other sequels and the first one was the better of them all. I could neither follow nor understand Phantasm VI.  The movie was such a cluster of unimaginative ideas.  I thought this movie was a waste of time and effort.  The dialogue was completely wack!  Who say's 'blow me' in movies, anymore ?? I would rather have pepper or salt dashed in my eyes then to set and watch this film twice. God have mercy on our souls if there is another sequel to this mediocre sci-fi adventure. I do hope the writer and director of this dust-collector-of-a-movie go to Oblivion and never return! "},{"Title":"They could have done so much better...","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a fan of the first movie do NOT see this one.  There was only one special effects scene and no story at all.  This was the worst moment I have ever experienced with the horror genre.  A real let-down.  A waste of film. "},{"Title":"5.7 for a horror movie that is not scary.","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not scary. So why does it have a cult few up? Why did it get 5.7. This movie is so overrated. The story line is awful. The ending is awful. This movie is pooh. All the Phantasm movie are just pooh pooh. Stinky pooh pooh. And they are wast time. They are also a wast money. Do not see any of these movies. This movie is pooh pooh. Stinky stinky pooh pooh. Plan 9 from outer space is better. The Halloween movies are better. A Nightmare on elm street movie are better. Friday the 13th (1980) is a lot better. Good actors wasted there talent being in this awful movie. This movie is not scary. It is just pooh pooh. Not scary at all. "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not in the least bit thrilling, or scary, or funny, or full of action. Any one of which could make for a decent horror film. I found myself yawning throughout most of it.The last few weeks I've been catching up on the sequels to Phantasm after having just become aware of them. I didn't like II very much for its randomness, and lack of Michael Baldwin. III was entertaining and over-the-top, but even though Michael Baldwin returned, we didn't get to see much of him during that flick.And then we get this one, where we see him a lot. In extreme close-up. And I mean, a LOT. Perhaps they were trying to make up for his lack of screen time in the previous one. Or perhaps because they only had about six characters in the whole movie. MB was a nice-looking kid, but as a thirtysomething adult a few more medium shots might have worked better.The biggest fault of this movie is that it's BORING. Lots of reaction shots, plot points that come out of nowhere, plot points that go nowhere. Literally, the middle of nowhere, which is where Michael spends half the movie. In the desert by himself.Only one or two memorable scenes in the whole movie (notably the motel surprise). I actually enjoyed the flashback sequences more and wish they'd used some more of that rediscovered film, or even worked in the deleted scenes from the first one. "},{"Title":"Decent and spooky sequel, almost promising what it all could have been","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fourth part of the Phantasm series is, as all before it, the continuation of the previous film, almost 20 years from the first. Mike Baldwin again is Mike, Reggie Bannister again is Reggie and Bill Thornbury is... well, Jody. Sort of. An attempt of explaining what happened is made, why The Tall Man seems so indomitable and yet he never gets the hero, with many self referential jokes and an origin story.This was funny at times, spooky most of the time, but mainly because of the music and the seriousness of Mike. The Tall Man speaks more and makes his evil faces. There are more chicks that Reggie can't bone and more scenes where the huge four barrel shotgun is completely useless. The story makes a little more sense than in the other three films, but not by much. In many ways, it showed the way the film could have gone, maybe with a little more focus on the characters and story and with a grimmer feel. The ending felt pretty disappointing, though. "},{"Title":"Phantasm IV Obilivion","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is nice about Part IV is the history and story telling of The Tall Man and how he originated, awesome! What I absolutely found appalling of Oblivion is taking extra footage from the original Phantasm and exporting those scenes in random parts. The only time I found it fitting was the scene towards the end. Those are the two major points of the movie in my mind, otherwise this is another mediocre type road movie. Its interesting to see how the brothers of Mike and Jody progress from Part 1, 3, 4. The conclusion of the film takes a different approach than the other Phantasm films, but you know its another cliffhanger. "},{"Title":"Is this the End?","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lots of mixed views and emotions on this final(so far) Phantasm film. I am afraid that though I liked many of the components of the film, the film as a whole was somewhat disappointing. Perhaps I just don't get all that Don Coscarelli is trying to do or perhaps Coscarelli doesn't understand what is the eventual end to such an openly ambiguous story. Some reviewers seemed to really get a lot out of the vague ending, but the fact is this and quite clear - no one can say for sure what happens and give substantial evidence to support it. That's fine. I like a film that tries and make one think, but sometimes that veneer can only mask shortcomings of a film and director and script as well. I believe Phantasm IV falls into both of those categories. The story picks up right where Phantasm III ends and Reggie is spared for a truly ridiculous reason(as later he is targeted whilst nothing substantially has happened in the plot). Michael takes roots in the desert to await his showdown with the Tall Man after trying to commit suicide. He then enters a time portal to the beginnings of the Tall Man in the Civil war era as a doctor. I found this line of storytelling interesting, but it never really explained much to me. I had so many questions at the end of the film. There are some truly horrific scenes like the one where Reggie deals with a super highway patrolman. Reggie and a beautiful girl entwined in some ridiculous plot twists. Scads of flashbacks from the over-shot first Phantasm film incorporated into this film to try and make sense out of the story and perhaps contribute to some continuum of time story. Coscarelli as always has an eye for settings and creates bleak, depressing places with the best. The action scenes are taut and tense. Reggie Bannister, A. Michael Baldwin, and Bill Thornbury as Mike and Jody are back, and Angus Scrimm steals every scene he is in once again - and this time around actually gets to flex some acting muscle. I wish I got out of this what others have but really hope that a fifth installment comes while Scrimm is still with us. Without him, this series would have floundered some time ago. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic Trip For Phantasm Fans","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ten out of ten stars go to an old friend. That's what I consider the Phantasm cast and crew to be, old friends. None of the Phantasm sequels have been able to live up to the legendary mystique of the original. What else is new though? Very few sequels ever are able to match originals? Nonetheless, Phantasm sequels are overall better than the majority of horror sequels. And in part four, Mike and Reggie continue their struggle to unravel the mysteries of the Tall Man, and save Mike from becoming a flying sphere. But back to old friends... I guess you could say that I'm one of those people that, Gets Phantasm. I understand why some people might not find any redeeming values in this film series; but to me this film and the characters it portrays are dear friends. Perhaps it's my own life experiences that enable me to level with the Phantasm plight. The Phantasm experience lies within each of us to most appropriately interpret. I, like many other Phantasm friends, have found solstice and understanding in Coscarelli's phantasmal imagining. I've been able to find solutions to my own real life problems and relive past memories through the help of all of the Phantasms. Part four is definitely a highly nostalgic imagining that die hard fans will certainly appreciate and understand. Others may have problems with part 4 and I understand, but don't know how to convert these people.This film was produced for slightly less than $1,000,000 in 1997! And while I'll be the first to admit that this fourth installment has it's fair share of problems, I commend the production team for a job well done. Part four is just smart film making, plain and simply, done on a minute budget. Coscarelli is a talented film maker; he's really quite a master of visual imagery and camera manipulation. Just think of the staggering number of movies in any genre that are made every year for ten or twenty million, yet still are total garbage. Most of what comes out of Hollywood is overpriced garbage anyway In 1998 and in 2009. Part four is far from being garbage at any production cost level. Everyone that worked on this movie worked on it because they cared about the people involved and expected something more than money out of it. The actors and production crew were there to make a movie for the fans that have supported the Phantasm legacy. "}{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Phantasm films and I couldn't wait to see Phantasm IV Oblivion. It took me a long time to find it (I couldn't even find it for rent!) and ended up buying it. To tell you he truth, I was kind of disappointed in it. It wasn't nearly as wild as the previous three. It still has some memorable moments and it is good to see the original cast back together. The major thing I didn't like was the ending, which sounds like to me a lot of other fans don't like it either. I also didn't like the low budgetness of this sequel, it really shows in some parts. To really like this sequel, you must be a die hard Phantasm fan or you will be totally lost. "},{"Title":"The best of the entire Phantasm series!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coscarelli has saved himself from the rather dull Phantasm III. It is obvious there's no budget and the story is barely there, but the Tall Man (Scrimm, in his best performance ever) is just such an interesting character. Additionally, we get to see just who the Tall Man really is and how he came to be (well, sort of). This movie is pretty much just a reunion of old friends for fans of the original (or any) Phantasm. The ending puts the series in a deadlock, but Phantasm 1999 (written by Roger Avery) is trying to get off the ground. If you love Phantasm or its sequels, you've just got to see this! If you don't you probably wouldn't understand anyway. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible mess certainly leaves one oblivious","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Appropriately titled, Coscarelli's cut and paste offering, Phantasm Oblivion, offers little.  Easily the weakest entry in the Phantasm series, Oblivion features unused footage from the original 1979 release worked into new material.  The result is a mess - incomprehensible - with some contradiction to the plots in the previous films.  Even worse, the film ends (and begins) ambiguously, laying the groundwork for yet another sequel.Coscarelli's first film featuring The Tall Man was original, inventive, and fast-paced.  Even on a low budget, he managed to create a unique look and potential style in Phantasm.  Unfortunately, he's not been able to successfully nurture those auspicious beginnings.Each film in the Phantasm series benefits from the presence of Reggie (actor Reggie Bannister).  An appealing character responsible for injecting subtle comic relief, Reggie's lust-driven dream sequences highlight the third and fourth installments of the series.  The amateur acting of A. Michael Baldwin (Mike) and Bill Thornbury (Jody) fares less successfully.  In fact, for some reason these two were absent from the first sequel.  Angus Scrimm, as The Tall Man, is still effective in his creepy role, though less so with each passing film.  Overall, Phantasm and Phantasm III Lord of the Dead are recommended; Phantasm II is weak, but Phantasm Oblivion exists for hardcore fans only - just barely.  "},{"Title":"What the Hell Happened?!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This series is as stylish as ever, despite any budget concerns. However, style doesn't mean s@*& without substance. What the hell happened? it was pretty cool and all, with good lines/action, but what about the plot? If only the ending made sense. It's still worth seeing if you're a fan, but don't go out of your way.  "},{"Title":"Stupid @$$ ending","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Me and my friend sat down and watched this movie. It was alright in the beginning. It was funny it started off where the 3rd one left off. There was a decent amount of action. To people who say there was no action what do you consider action? Around the middle it got confusing. What was exactly going on? The end sucked it leaves you hanging wondering what happens leaving a way for another sequel. Why couldn't it have made it seem like they won or the tall man won so you at least wouldn't be left wondering. Over all it was good and bad. Mostly bad because of a few little things. "},{"Title":"A big disappointment, the worst sequel!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe what I've seen. How could they do such a lousy sequel? Before, all series were so creative and scary, but in this one you get no particular action and no chills, as well as a ridiculous ending. Did they run out of money or ideas? I think both. "},{"Title":"Extremely abrupt ending makes it feel more like Phantasm 3 1/2","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm Oblivion is easily the most peculiar of the series, and it's structured differently from the previous three Phantasm movies.  Instead of Reggie & Mike seeking out the Tall Man in some mausoleum in some ghost town, this story takes place in a desert, and there is a lot of time traveling and sudden point-of-view shifts.  If you were confused by Godfather, Part II or Back to the Future Part II, then this movie will probably drive you crazy. However, if you enjoyed the first Phantasm movie, then you'd probably like the previously unreleased footage of the first Phantasm shown in Phantasm Oblivion. I sure did.  Also, the Tall Man talks more in this movie than the first three combined (which is a good thing), and in one part, he is a good guy for once.  The subplot with Reggie meeting up with Jennifer really gets in the way of the subplot with Mike time-traveling in the desert, but it validates its existence by building up to a very memorable scene. Unfortunately, Phantasm Oblivion has a very abrupt--and confusing--ending.  I know it's a trademark to have the Phantasm movies end suddenly (and some fans like it), but this one takes it to an extreme--it felt like I've seen only half of a movie! Did they run out of money or something??? "},{"Title":"One Horror Fanatic's View","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm IV is not as good as I expected. I have never seen Phantasm 1 because none of my local video stores have it.( I loved Phantasm 2 and 3 there were good shows, but I found 4 Slow, Without plot, and lots of flashbacks (which I liked actually cause I never saw the first movie). My Point is.. If you are a die hard fan of the series. WATCH IT. It does give some background on the Tall Man. If you have never seen a Phantasm movie before, forget it. Go watch the first 3. Lets hope Phantasm 5 is better. I do not think there will be a sequel though, cause at the end of 4 they go back in time and miss the key event that starts the whole movie series, Thus it never happened.  "},{"Title":"Balls to the lot of them.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw this movie I was a little disappointed. I felt that writer/director Don Coscarelli had once again did the best he could but that this time he had definitely bitten off more than he could chew (hence the filler material, as I saw it, made from unused scenes from the original Phantasm movie). Luckily, I rewatched the film recently and saw it for what it was a wonderful end (probably) to a series that had taken a momentous effort to get made in the first place. If things aren't always as polished as they could be, well, bear in mind that Coscarelli IS working within the kind of budget that I imagine wouldn't even pay for the catering trucks on a Michael Bay picture.This time around it's Reggie doing the chasing as The Tall Man has taken Michael and is almost ready to complete whatever grand plan he has had for the boy all along. As the clock ticks away on Michael's chances of survival we learn even more about the origins of the evil icon and how his plans were initially made.And don't worry, we have even more action from the spheres of doom along with plenty of interesting musings on inter-dimensional travelling and how to really create that shrunken little slave you've always hankered after. There are also a few twists and turns that, while well signposted, impress once again by showing how fearless Coscarelli really is when he has such faith in his own material.All of the main cast members return (Bannister, Baldwin, Thornbury and Scrimm), thankfully, and Coscarelli goes out of his way to provide each one with a fitting final moment in a series that will surely be loved by horror fans for many years to come.See this if you like Phantasm, Phantasm II, Phantasm III Lord Of The Dead. "},{"Title":"strange","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm Oblivion is a strange movie. It takes what I thought was a wierd story line. And pushes it farther into the sci-fi genre. I must say it was a decent movie but it just screamed low budget. I know. I know. all the phantasm's were pretty low budget. But Don's way of directed made them seem so much higher than the B rated horror movie. This one fell below expectations. Leaving huge plot holes and a cliffhanger ending that makes you think. 'Is he dreaming?' 'Did Reggie go back in time?' Plus you see a lot of scenes that were not in the first movie. But must have been filmed during the first movie. Or very well edited. (my opinion) It isn't the best sequel. Its probably my least favorite but I would to see one more Phantasm movie. One to end the series. I give this movie a 7/10. Mostly for its script and plot. "}{"Title":"A very disappointing film.  Expected a lot more from Coscarelli.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PHANTASM IV OBLIVION (1998)`Oblivion 1. A forgetting or having forgotten; forgetfulness.  2.  The condition or fact of being forgotten.' - WEBSTER'S NEW WORLD DICTIONARY.That pretty much sums up the latest installment in what used to be one of the most original and creative series in the horror genre.  After seeing this, I wish that I could forget it.  I don't think I was ever disappointed as much as I was with this film.  As much as it pains me to give this a bad review, I have to do it.  I just hope the people involved can understand the disappointment here.I was at the Fangoria show in January of 1998 in New York when the director and the major cast of the PHANTASM series were all there to promote the newest film.  The little trailer that they showed even looked really good. We were told that it would let in a little light on the mystery behind the Tall Man and his origins.  So when the copy of PHANTASM OBLIVION showed up on my door, I was one excited little puppy.  A puppy that soon realized what it's like to be caught in the headlights of an oncoming car.This new chapter featured some footage from the first movie that was never used.  Originally I thought that would pretty cool idea for flashback sequences of events that the audience had never seen before.  But the problem was that most of those scenes really didn't seem to have any point to the new film (or even the original for that matter, which maybe is why they were cut to begin with?), as if they were just simply padding.  As a matter of fact, there seemed to be a lot of scenes from both parts 2 and 3 that were used in the new one.  If these flashback sequences were in there for people who might not of seen any or all of the first three films, then that kind of goes against the statement that this new film was for the fans. The fans didn't need to see what happened previously, we already knew.After the brief recap of the previous films, Part 4 starts up where the last one left off.  As we all know, Reg was left 'hangin' at the end of Part 3, being pinned to the wall, by quite a few spheres.  So how does he get out of this tight situation?  The Tall Man just lets him go, saying it's not his time yet.  But then throughout the rest of the movie, Reggie's life is constantly in peril from Hell Cops to the dwarfs.  Sorry guys, but to me that just sounds like a big cop out, as if nobody could come up with a better idea.  Then we see a s**t-load of spheres come flying around a corner with the Tall Man walking away.  Normally this might have looked pretty cool, but for some reason I kept thinking of those little mini M&M's flying around.This was supposed to be sort of an ending to the series, answering a lot of questions.  Well, not only did it not really answer that much; but I have quite a few more questions and remarks after seeing this last film.- Reg says that he's done with all of this. No more. Then says, okay. After all that Reg's been through, like he would just up and quit.  And then in a blink of an eye decide otherwise.- Mike tells Tall Man that he has a friend and that he'll find me.  Then why did he leave Reg at the end of Part 3 and continue to go on his own?- Reg and the Hell Cop - It's so obvious as to why the Hell Cop got on top of the car, just because Reggie can't get the gun out of the clamp, and he could shoot him through the roof.- Coscarelli said that he wasn't going to put the humor that was in Part 3, since the fans didn't seem to care for it.  No humor?  What about the sequence with the Reggie and cop, with all the one liners?  `Blow me' - `Some cops can be real assholes.'?- Coscarelli says that he didn't rip-off the look of the dwarfs from STAR WARS, but then has the scene in part 4 with Michael walking through the rocks with the dwarfs looking at him from behind the rocks.  Is this a little in-joke?- If the Tall Man is just an alien being that had took over Jebediah Morningside's body, then why does he keep returning in the same body once that body is destroyed.- Mike talks about going back in time to kill the Tall Man but never does. Instead tries to kill him with his homemade sphere and the car blowing up. But then another Tall Man appears, just like in the previous films. Didn't we learn anything from the previous films?  Mike must not of seen part 2.- What's up with the Civil War sequence? What did that have to do with anything?  To make the point that the Tall Man has been doing this for years?  That was established in the very first movie with the photo that Michael found.As I said in the beginning of this review, it really pains me to give this movie a really bad review.  This has been one of the most entertaining and original series in the genre.  The first one I still a classic.  I've known Reggie for a couple of years now and the fact of telling him my feelings of this film is not an easy task.  So it ends up something like, `You looked great, Reg.'  I just hope Reggie, and everybody else involved understands.  "},{"Title":"1 was suspenseful, 2 was o.k., 3 was the best, and 4...","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This may sound weird but Phantasm Oblivion is the first Phantasm film that I saw(what was I thinking?!).Then I saw the others, and can now review this one. After two decent sequels to the original we get this mediocre effort that is the supposed finale to the series, I hope not!There are some good effects, the actors are good, and there are some good scenes, but not a lot.Anyone who says this is the best, or the best sequel is a retard, because it doesn't even compare.**1/2 out of *****.Heres best to leastPhantasm 3 *****, Phantasm *****, Phantasm II ***1/2, Phantasm 4 **1/2.I can't wait for Phantasm 2012. "},{"Title":"Pure GARBAGE!!! STAY FAR FAR AWAY FROM THIS BORING D MOVIE!!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not going to say much about Phantasm IV. I rented it hoping that the story would finally end in a glories gory fashion. Instead I fell asleep half way through the film and then watch the rest of it the next day. I had more fun reading my magazine then actually watching this terrible film. It looks like the script writers ran out of ideas and just created a boring deadend plot. This movie goes nowhere fast and you should not rent this film at all. Stay away!! "},{"Title":"Poor entry to what was a pretty fun horror series.","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As in the previous sequels, PHANTASM IV OBLIVION shifts gears in tone. This time it takes a horror/sci-fi approach & even has several of the original films cast members & themes back, such as the creepy old lady psychic, the knife the lady in Lavender used in the first & the picture Mike saw of the Tall Man in the Victorian era. As well as the tuning fork segment & it's use to possibly freeze up the Tall Man & the sphere's. The dark imagery is just as prevalent as ever. PHANTASM IV tends to be a much more intelligent film than III, since it dispenses somewhat with that films over the top premise & jokey charms & comic book like look to the picture. What's notable is how the the character of Tim from Part III, is nowhere to be found. In fact he's never mentioned at all here. It's almost as if he never existed. Unfortuantly, PHANTASM IV OBLIVION also once again keeps the answers as ambiguous as ever, as always the answers that are given only create more questions & those questions create more answers. In fact besides a glimpse into his past, the only other new information we have here on the Tall Man is how his name is Jebediah Morningside & the fact he was not always evil & a time travelling angle helps keep the story somewhat fresh. It's a good thing to, since the mood & atmosphere is rather cheap, since pretty much the entire film takes place in the desert, with the few scenes that don't, such as the deserted city in the near future, lacks any sort of cool set design & ghoulish eeriness that accompanied the deserted towns in the previous sequels & there's to many gaps in the storyline, which in itself makes no sense whatsoever & will only leave the viewer confused. DON COSCARELLI didn't have his heart set in this one at all. It's very clear to me that even he had nowhere to take this story, since PHANTASM IV is chocked full of never before seen footage from the first film. I don't see this as a gift to the phans but rather an attempt to help cover the paper thin plot he had & the fact he was bone dry for ideas. The PHANTASM films have always proceeded slowly, here it doesn't proceed at all. The only fresh revelations we have here, is the five minute long segments (two of them) that shows a glimpse into the Tall Man's past, which I felt could have been added to III, since there wasn't much time spent with it anyways. The scene where Mike hangs himself in the desert, is just a silly reference to a cut scene from the first. On a more positive note, Reggie at least gets to dress up in the same ice cream vendor uniform he had in the first & that was kind of fun. The cast is relatively small here (six actors, all unknown) & despite a bit of set work The Morning Side office/a crumbling hotel room & three explosions & a zombie cop, I'm still trying to figure out where the $500,000 dollar budget went! It certainly didn't go into effects, since the effects here are definitely below series par. None of the missing footage makes sense either, since none of it really fits in with what happened in the first, with most of it being an alternate ending, an alternate death for Jody, a few small missing sections cut from scenes present in the first. Coscarelli also lazily opens the film up & that was the first red flag that this film wasn't going to be to good. PHANTASM III ended with Reggie pinned to the wall by the silver Sphere's, with one of them set & ready to drill it's way into his head. Only here, Coscarelli had no clue on how to free Reggie, so he just uses the Tall Man to release him instead! Bannister is fun as always, but has nothing to do & that goes double for BILL THORNBURY (who admittedly is more interesting here than he was in the last film) ANGUS SCRIMM is as fun as always as the The Tall Man, but is utterly wasted here. In fact the film is so uneventful, that it has only two single best moments, one is where Reggie wakes up beside the girl he has picked up, her breasts starts to jiggle was she sleeps, which naturally triggers Reggie's curiosity, however when he opens her shirt, it's two silver sphere's emerging where her breasts should be! it's a pretty fun, weird & sick moment & the other is where the Tall Man confronts Mike in the desert, extending his hand to help Mike up & join him. In an odd way, one wants to see Mike & the Tall Man teaming together, while at the same time, you want Mike to leave him & run & an interesting character twist regarding Jody is also added & despite it's confusing ending, it at the very least leaves it open for everyone to draw their own conclusions as to what has happened, weather it was all real, or just in Mike's head. The film also resorts back to (what I felt was better) surreal dreamlike qualities of the first & that includes all the weirdness & psychological underpinnings that was absent in the first two sequels. In the end, PHANTASM IV OBLIVION is not a bad movie, it's just an uneventful. Followed by PHANTASM RAVAGER**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Whaaa??","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One boring summer night, my parents and I were watching TV. Bored, we decided to check for movies. We settled on this. After about one hour of random scenes, my mom asked Am I the only one who can't make heads or tails of this? She was right. This movie didn't make one bit of sense. I'm still trying to figure out what the hell it was. This would be a good movie to see stoned. Actually, this wouldn't be a good movie stoned, or under any other circumstances.0 out of 4. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm IV is the worst of the Phantasm series.The movie only has 6 characters Reggie, Mike, Jody, TallMan, Jen, and a Demon Cop.That's it.The movie has no plot, action and doesn't fit in well with the Phantasm series.Some people say Phantasm 3 is the worst in the series, it's not.Phantasm 3 is a good movie.Way better than Phantasm 4 will ever be.Not worth the money. "},{"Title":"The worst","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Phantasm series had been worst with each sequel. The last one is unbearable, and the end of the film is totally baffle. I like the first Phantasm and stand the other two sequels, but that is... It has no sense and is boring... Please, I don't want more Phantasm films... "},{"Title":"Poor Fourth Installment To The Series","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved Phantasm of 1979, and i liked the first sequel Phantasm II of 1988 a lot. Phantasm III Lord of the Dead of 1994 was quite poor in comparison, but i was still entertained. This third sequel, Phantasm IV Oblivion, however, has hardly any positive aspects. This film's only qualities are Angus Scrimm as the Tall Man and Reggie Bannister as Reggie. These two actors still deliver good performances as the Phantasm series' two memorable characters. Even those two characters have become a lot weaker though. The film tells a lot about the Tall Man's background, which takes a lot of this wonderful Horror villain's creepiness away. The character of Reggie also becomes less likable, since director Coscarelli obviously found it necessary for this formerly very cool character to annoy with 'hip' one-liners. Still, it is Bannister and Scrim who are responsible for the only few good moments in this film.Other than these two, the movie delivers one disappointment after another. Due to the total lack of new ideas, Coscarelli just decided to put in several scenes that were cut out from the great 1979 original. These recycled scenes basically serve as flashbacks - as flashbacks that don't make any sense and seem extremely out of place. The main purpose of Phantasm IV seems to be to recycle ideas from its predecessors. Even worse, the film destroys a lot of what the previous movies had built up. Even the super-creepy Tall Man's creepiness is destroyed by an idiotic story about his background. Not only is Phantasm IV Oblivion an unworthy sequel to the brilliant first, and cool second part, it is not even a worthy sequel to the, already poor, Lord Of The Dead. Another sequel is scheduled for 2008, and now that I've seen all other parts of the series, I'll give it a try (It can't be worse than part 4). To those who enjoyed the first 3 Phantasm films, and haven't seen number 4 yet, I recommend to skip this sorry attempt of a sequel, since all it does is destroy some of the magic of is predecessors. "},{"Title":"Reggie rules!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I met Reggie Bannister right before I saw the Phantasm IV Oblivion.  I just had to say that, but it's true.  Of the movie itself, I realize it's a horror movie, but it got a laugh out of me.  Seeing the part where Reggie flicks off that demon-cop was priceless.  I can't remember a thing about the object of the storyline.  I only watched it to see Reggie!  He's cool.  "},{"Title":"Finally, An Interesting Phantasm Film!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm 4 deals mainly with the main conundrum  is Mike the Tall Man's Successor or just walking around with a sphere in his head?  (Both seem more or less true).The great thing is that this time we are treated to a story, and not just a gross-out violent scene with the Tall Man, as has happened in the other 3 films.The only thing missing from our disjointed tale of silver spheres is the true origin of the Tall Man himself...we now know that he replaced Mr. Morningside, but what after that...?I understand that the team is producing one more picture...hopefully it will answer my question.BTW, I called it interesting because it's the only Phantasm segment that I didn't leave the room for a john break while it was playing...I needed to know what happened next... "}{"Title":"Nope, I didn't like it.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching Phantasm IV was like watching a senile person die.  And that is not a pleasant experience.  It was scattered and hesitant.  While the previous films seemed to be operating in a curious, intriguing dream world, this one was a sad mess of unfinished ideas, lame Reggie jokes, and -- most annoying -- tenuous links to the past that revealed lost footage, but did NOT advance the plot.  And the special effects seem to have taken turn for the cheaper this time around. Usually, when I dislike a movie, and so many others enjoy it, I can see both sides of the issue.  But this time, I'm baffled.  So I'll just shut up and say you will either love it, or, like me, you'll mourn the time spent watching this collection of disconnected, badly executed scenes.  (With the single exception of the hilarious Bannister song that plays through the credits) "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved all the Phantasm movies... all except this one, that is. Thin plot, hardly any action, millions of questions left unanswered, a VERY disappointing movie to a series that was, before this one, terrific!Sure, let's just let the Tall Man release Reggie at the very beginning of the movie so the demons can pick on him some more...Thank God they did let him go, because he's the only one who breathed a little life into an otherwise extremely dull movie. (Its only other saving grace was the lost footage from the original.)I realize that with a $650,000 film budget, there's not much a director can do. But please, don't just film another Phantasm movie to do another Phantasm movie. Put some real thought into it and try to understand what questions your audience has so you can try to answer them, especially if this is the last in the series.Better luck next time.... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a loyal fan of the Phantasm series, and couldn't wait for the latest installment to come out. Thinking it was going to be better than the original, I have now seen it -- and must say it was disappointing. It started off excellent, right where part 3 had left off, then took a bizarre twist leaving more questions for us about the TALL MAN's origin, still unanswered.   "},{"Title":"Movie was boring and short on action.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie when I saw that it was coming out.  Then it took me 4 sittings to get through it.  It kept putting me to sleep.  It wasn't scary.  And it didn't make any sense.  The other 3 didn't really make since either.  But at least they had a little style.  This movie did not need to be made.  It explained a little bit about why the tall man exists but that was muddled too.  Can somebody please explain this movie to me.  So to sum it up in one word I would have to say it SUCKED.  And I like these kinds of movies too.  Oh well.Richard "},{"Title":"The worst of the series.","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A terribly boring sequel that doesn't do justice to the other three.  The movie has no action, no characters, no plot, and basically nothing happens except a lot of clips from the previous movies are replayed.  None of the secrets are revealed, and the end was even more inconclusive than Phantasm III, leaving it wide open for another putrid sequel. "},{"Title":"Another contender for Worst Film of All Time","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PHANTASM IV OBLIVION (1998) (BAD) (D Don Coscarelli) - It's hard to be sure, but this is probably the worst of this series. Totally illogical and confusing, and even the beloved metal sphere provides nothing. Outtakes and un-used footage from the original PHANTASM are incorporated into what amounts to a nonsensical mess. One of the worst films I have ever seen, period. "},{"Title":"Those damn silver balls","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Phantasm IV Oblivion is the fourth chapter in a long running film franchise that only true movie geeks can enjoy. The cast once again is back and Reggie conitues to be a bad ass pimp with firepower and everything. You have to see the first three films to understand this one and it's all in fun.  "},{"Title":"Raises more questions than it answers.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oblivion is right; further misadventures of Reggie and Mike pursuing the Tall Man still leave too much unexplained; we do find out a few secrets, but the film raises more questions than it answers.  To quote Joe Bob Briggs We never find out what it all means, but it looks cool. Cool looks will be just about all you get from this film; it's loaded with flashback footage, and it's virtually impossible to distinguish the time-traveling sequences. To cap the iceberg, the ending (which I won't reveal) is ponderous and inconclusive, leaving room for yet another sequel PHANTASM'S END.My rating *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Terrible Disappointment","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really liked the Phantasm series, mostly because I think Reggie is such a crack up, so I was eagerly awaiting the fourth installment. I couldn't wait to see what happened after the third one. I was so disappointed I could have screamed. I expected the sequel to advance the series, but we just went backward. Half the movie was flashbacks. And what happened to the little boy? It was boring, pointless, and my favorite, Reggie, looked old and used up. It just seemed like they didn't even try with this one and it was just made for the money. I see that there is a new one coming out. Please, redeem yourselves and make that one worth the price of a rental. "},{"Title":"Strange","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I not really sure how I feel about this movie, it got to the weirdest one of them all, I did not really like this movie that much, it's took me while to get into the movie, like the first movie.I there bit more action then the last movie, how ever still not as good as the second movie in the series. I did not find this movie scary or creepy at all, even felt like bloody effects were lower then before even thought yellow think seen less in this movie.The acting was very decent there were decent twist here and there, which you can see coming miles away.The acting was really good in this movie from the whole cast As this movie had little more action then the first i gong to give it 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A Huge  Disappointment","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I just finished watching all four films this week.It's been like seven years since I took the time to watch these all the way through one after another.My opinion hasn't changed.The first film is a masterpiece and the second one was a cool follow up even if all the answers to the questions the first Phantasm posed weren't satisfied.The third installment added even more questions but at least answered some of the questions the first one.It seems the pattern of this series is to throw out more mysteries than answers with each installment.This tactic worked with the first three films but with the fourth one it got redundant.I have deliberately stayed very vague with my review to avoid any spoilers.Phantasm IV is not a stand-a-lone film.There is just too much mythology built up into the franchise for a newcomer to this to get any kind of enjoyment.Thinking this through, I think this is why I found this installment such a disappointment.I expected the film to wrap up all the loose ends from the previous films and that wasn't done.I would hope that if there is going to be a final installment that we should be given answers to such questions as What is the purpose of this army being built up from the dead? What enemy is this army of the dead supposed to battle against? What exactly was Michael's identity and why the Tall Man's interest in him? I could go on and one with these questions but will stop here.If you're a follower of the series than see it because you must go on with this twenty-five year journey that Don Coscarelli has taken us on.There is no point getting off at this point. This commentator expect's more of a definitive closure in the next installment or I'm really am going to be upset! In conclusion, see this because you really don't have a choice if you want to experience all that is Phantasm. "},{"Title":" I will get you","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A. Michael Baldwin is outspoken as Michael in this unlikely horror film. The remaining cast is rebellious. The costumes are plain. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Phantasm 4 Oblivion serves few horrors. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hmm","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well ladies and gent's I hate to disappoint, but horror movie's in the old day's were like this with little or no action and no gore. It is my prediction that it's a test done on purpose or of course just that way because of Coscarelli working with insufficient money. But anyway's I haven't seen Phantasm Oblivion but will be soon once I get it from the Beat Goes On. Anyway's instead of looking on the con side of the movie, I think us peep's should look on the bright side. After all a flawless movie still doesn't exist right?? Anyone who think's a movie is perfect in all way's in clearly crazy. Come on folk's how would we know, do we know anything about making movie's, must we be so damn nasty about it. Credit should be given where it's due. But no. "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews Oblivion","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm pretty sure everyone has pondered just who The Tall Man is and what his ultimate goal really is. The first question gets an answer in Jebediah Morningside..an inventor on the brink of a major discovery, a portal that can reach endless time and space. The answer to the second is a bit more difficult and easy. The easy part seems to be that The Tall Man's goal is to turn Mike into a sort of Tall Man creation. Why this is doesn't quite get a satisfactory answer. We have our own thoughts to question The Tall Man's motivations for allowing Reggie to survive. He tells him that the final game is about to begin so is The Tall Man's main motivation to simply manipulate and control Reggie and Michael? Why The Tall Man allows any of this film's story to take place really is a deep mystery. I never could really understand why The Tall Man would need a cohort to join him in his dwarfing business, but perhaps he's lonely or something..fact is we just don't get an answer because it seems like Coscarelli just wants to keep us head scratching. But, being an entertained fan of his previous three, this fourth entry seems to add a new puzzle to every answer. The one thing that seems to be a theme to the overall film is the past mistakes Mike made when facing The Tall Man. In his adult stage he seems to always try to escape The Tall Man, but lack success. We see in a past flashback Mike cut The Tall Man loose as he hung from a noose. This is an interesting piece to perhaps why The Tall Man took a liking to Mike..he seems to desire a partner in his schemes and maybe in Mike's cutting him down this was the answer to his idea. Reggie is pretty much a non-factor in this installment which is a bit disappointing because he was the major character in the other two. He actually carried the series on his shoulders because most of the entertainment came from his quips and charisma. He does shoot up some dwarfs and has a brief scenario with a supposed drifter(Heidi Marnhount). This little sub-plot provides a wild sequence where those metal balls come from an unusual location. But, Reggie still doesn't get laid and on his journey to help Mike he does encounter Jody. Jody's role in the film seems to be rather confusing. Which side does he work for? It seems he tries to help Mike and Reggie, yet he does pose a threat towards the end. Perhaps he is torn..Jody tries to help Mike stop The Tall Man, but is under control by the evil fiend. The story regarding how everything began with Jebediah is very fascinating, but a bit underdeveloped. Overall, the film has a fly-by-the-seat-of-your-pants kind of feel. This provides unpredictability, but also confusion. Still, the film keeps you guessing and has enough ghoulish gags(like the zombie policeman who Reggie has a hard time killing)to keep a horror fan interested. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics, Coscarelli (well, except for me, of course!).","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a brief montage of out-of-sequence scenes from the first three films, Oblivion begins as Lord of the Dead ended, with Reggie (Reggie Bannister) trapped by spheres, Mike (A. Michael Baldwin) disappearing into the night after discovering that he is no longer completely human, and Tim nowhere to be seen, having been pulled through glass into a black void. The film then proceeds to get extremely unfathomable, even by Phantasm standards, as Reggie escapes death once again and goes in search of Mike (conveniently forgetting all about young Tim and the fact that he owes him 'two').Although this sounds as though it should be very much in the same outrageous horror/comedy vein as parts 2 and 3, Oblivion is actually a much more sober movie, director Don Coscarelli ditching the overly humorous approach, instead focusing his efforts on further developing the more surreal aspects of the series (apparently in response to the critical lashing he received over Lord of the Dead's tongue-in-cheek approach).In my opinion, though, Coscarelli made a mistake in listening to his naysayers, for along with the laughs also goes much of the OTT action and gore, without which the film's lack of logic and narrative cohesion becomes all too apparent and ultimately rather tedious. The film's two genuinely entertaining highlights&#x97;Reggie's battle against a seemingly indestructible zombie cop, and his discovery that hot blonde Jennifer (Heidi Marnhout) has spheres for breasts&#x97;only serve to make the absence of fun in the rest of the film all the more obvious.A rather disappointing 5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for the clever use of out-takes from the original film as flashbacks. "},{"Title":"Lacking fourth part, but it's not all bad","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first two films in Don Coscarelli's excellent Phantasm series were prime examples of how imagination and dedication can transcend budget and still ensure that a film project is successful in spite of being made on a shoestring. The third part of the series was a big disappointment in relation to the other two, however, and the same can be said of this third sequel. The film isn't any worse than the third part, which was something of a surprise; it's just more of the same quality. I was worried before seeing this film as I had read the plot outline and it became apparent that Coscarelli has seen fit to do what most filmmakers do when it comes to a third sequel, and just go and do some back story building; which often turns out to be rather dull, and doesn't bridge any of the gaps anyway. But yes, Phantasm 4 Oblivion is one of those films that attempt to fill some holes from the first films, and here we are treated to finding out how 'the tall man' became 'the tall man'. Actually, it's not THAT bad.While the film lacks the brilliant invention of the first two, the back story that Coscarelli has created is intriguing and while he could have delved a bit deeper into it, if you don't go in expecting too much; Phantasm 4 will not disappoint fans of the series. Poor man's cult hero Reggie Bannister returns along with his usual arsenal of cheesy one-liners and womanising 'skills', and although it can become a bit tiresome after a while, it's always entertaining and seeing this completely non-hero guy battling legions of the undead has a subtle and absurd twinge of humour to it, which is nice. Unfortunately, the original Mike, A. Michael Baldwin returns once again to his character, and this is a shame as his replacement in the second instalment, James LeGros, did a much better job in the role. All the usual Phantasm staples are present in this film, from The Tall Man himself to the creepy little dwarfs, all the way to the very cool shiny metal balls that fly around and stick in people's heads. Shame about the atmosphere, but this is still a nice film. "},{"Title":"Almost seemed like they saved the best for last but in the end it's still the same old same old.","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No, I didn't hate this movie and I actually think it is one of the more watchable ones within its series. It however still remains a very messy movie and a poorly done and told one.You would think that director Don Coscarelli after 4 movies would really have lots of love for all of its characters and stories but none of this can be seen back on the screen really. Hardly any effort seems to be put in its story and it's just a mess of random occurring stuff. After 4 movies I still haven't really got a clue what the the story is all about. It doesn't help that they keep adding stuff, such as time traveling and Jedi powers, which only all adds up to the confusion of the story.The series has been much liked for it's mixture of horror and comedy but I just think neither of those two elements ever work out strong enough, in neither of the 4 movies actually. It's why I'm just not a big fan at all of the series.To be honest, the movie started out quite promising for me but it soon took a turn for the worse. It seems to be a trend with all the 4 movies that the second half is so messy and uninteresting, as if they were running out of ideas every time they were making these movies.But like I mentioned, it still is one of the more watchable movies out of its series. Things flow more pleasantly and the movie seemed to be full with plenty of potentially good ideas but none of them ever gets executed really well enough. It's a movie filled with missed opportunities and it's as if just a little bit more effort was put into its script, this could had actually been a decent, entertaining movie. So I'm not too sad about it that this movie (at this moment) remains the last one of the series. It also became painfully obviously in this movie how old all of the actors were starting to get. The first movie Phantasm got released in 1979, so almost 20 years had passed between the first movie and this one. The kid actors from the first one are all adults now and around their 40's. Reggie Bannister also suddenly started to look very old in this and it should be a law that a person who has lost already 70% of his hair just can't wear a ponytail. But even more shockingly old was Angus Scrimm as the tall man. He always looked old, in all of the movies but in this one he suddenly looks ancient. But in fact he only was in his early 70's at the time of this movie and he actually is still alive and working as well now days, which can't be said for most of the other actors within this movie. But fact remains they were starting to look too old in this movie to still convincingly work out an action like battle between good and evil. I prefer to watch The Expendables instead then, thank you very much!It's almost the best out of the series but that really isn't saying much.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"At Least It's Different","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phantasm IV (1998) * 1/2 (out of 4)Fourth and final film in the series takes a different approach to the familiar storyline of the previous two films. This time out, starting off at the end of part three, the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) travels throughout time trying to capture Mike (A. Michael Baldwin) who is trying to figure out the origins of the Tall Man and the secrets behind the death of his brother. Reggie (Reggie Banister) is also out there trying to locate Mike so that he can save him. This fourth film in the series at least had the Tall Man looking for someone instead of the same story of Reggie and Mike looking for him. The one benefit of this is that we get more screen time devoted to the Tall Man but most of the good stuff ends there. Seeing as how parts two through four take place as one continuous story, I couldn't help but think that had the three sequels been edited together as one movie then perhaps the series would have worked better. I felt a lot of the stuff in parts two and three was just carried on to the point of it being boring and I think that holds true here so if the director had simply made one good story instead of three weak ones, I might have enjoyed the series more. Once again the performances are decent, if nothing great with Banister and Scrimm standing out. The gore this time out is rather low, although we do get a few good kills scattered out. The story itself isn't the strongest in the world but it is a mildly interesting one but I wish there had been more backbone to it. We do learn a few new things about the Tall Man but there's still not too much and it really doesn't do any good considering the series is now over. "}]