[{"Title":"People are Missing the Most Important Point.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"64 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of course, i was missing it too, until about fifteen minutes in.Okay -- the title is THE ROAD TO El Dorado  Hands up, everyone with whom that rings a bell.No?Okay -- its stars are two fast-talking con men who get out of trouble by faking fights with each other,and who *almost* play pattycake at a point.Still no bells ringing?How about if i point out that, at one point, our heroes' images are briefly morphed into the faces of Bob Hope and Bing Crosby for about two frames?Right.This is a tribute to/animated version of those hilarious (if you're in the right frame of mind) B comedies starring Bob Hope and Bing Crosby (and Dorothy Lamour in a sarong -- does Chel look any more familiar, now?), all of which were entitled The Road to... somewhere or other.Nothing in them was meant to be taken seriously, and very little in this film is.I have to agree with a number of reviewers who say, with varying degrees of indignation, that this is not a kids' film.Duh.It wasn't meant to be. It was meant to ba a general-audience, PG-rated film.WILL you people PLEASE get it through your heads that animated does not, necessarily, equal kids' movie?Animation is just another film-making technique, to be used to make any kind of film the animator wants to make, and if you think that animation is automatically for kids, check out... oh, say... Akira or Fantastic Planet or Heavy Metal.Road to El Dorado is an excellent all-ages film, (with the caveat that is IS a PG-rated one, and that you ought to think about what you want your kids to watch) and anyone who sees anything bad or prurient in the scenes that everyone has been complaining about should take a close look at themselves... "},{"Title":"One of my favorites...","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the few more-modern animated films I still enjoy; maybe that's because it doesn't happen to revolve around The power of friendship/love/whatever and isn't some sappy love story, like many of Disney's drek has been (though it does have a minor, slightly sleazey love-ish story in the background). Dreamworks is a breath of fresh air in times like these, it would seem.The plot works on many levels; it's straightforward enough for the general kid to understand and enjoy, but is piled under levels of wit and more jokes that rely on understanding more of it, making it balanced and still funny the 150+th time I watch it.The songs are catchy (as can be well-expected from the good man Elton John), the characters are lovable yet total sleazeball con-men, and the humour is on many levels; and with it, it brings many good, memorable lines ('For three days?!' 'YES! Don't even breathe!' and 'You're buying your own con!' 'At least I'm not DATING mine!' '... oooh, low blow.' come to mind).As a basic rundown, there's Miguel, the fun-loving, more light-hearted of the two con-men; he tends to appreciate the beauty in fun and people. Tulio, the other half of the duo, has a bit more preoccupation with material possessions and wealth, though he still remains human. Then there's Chel; the seducer from the city of gold, able to help the two (at a price). And our main antagonist? Tzekel Khan (spelling unsure), a rather nutsy high priest and speaker for the gods, who proves to be... well, a basket case.The animation pulls itself off well; the movie is bright and colourful, but not a kiddie flick at all- rather, it's humorous on all scales- my friend's 6-year-old-brother, I, and my 55-year-old dad agree. The Road to El Dorado is enjoyable on all accounts. If nothing else, consider renting it. "},{"Title":"HOLY SHIP!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Every new animated film seems to break new ground in technique and execution.  Technology and computers have brought animation to new heights of excellence.The Road to El Dorado is no exception.There is a scene in which Cortez' ship is bearing down on the  boat that Tulio (voice of Kevin Kline) and Miguel (voice of Kenneth Branagh) are escaping in -- Miguel looks up and, just before their boat is capsized, yells HOLY SHIP!Some parents grabbed their children and stormed out of the theater because of what they THOUGHT they heard.  If you are going to watch a movie -- PLEASE pay attention and do not jump to erroneous conclusions.The soundtrack with music by (Sir) Elton John and lyrics by Tim Rice has Oscar nomination written all over it.Rosie Perez as 'Chel' is magnificent -- giving just the right amount of innuendo (so the parents will get it) without it being blatantly obvious.  She is great -- but then I have always liked her.There is a hint of Shangri-La about this film...  All too rare for an animated film The Road to El Dorado has a cohesive story and a real plot.While it does drag a bit at times the music helps to move the story along and is always a pleasant diversion.Some of the story was fairly predictable.  However, I was wondering right up to the conclusion just how this fable would end.I was pleasantly surprised.It was all wrapped up in a neat package complete with a bow.Of course it left a sequel wide open. "},{"Title":"They don't make movies like that anymore","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You probably think the one line summary of this comment is a bit strange, since The Road to El Dorado isn't in fact that old, but what I meant by it is that they do not make feature films like this anymore. Sure every now and then there is a great animated film that revives the Adventure genre of film-making, but that's basically it. If you're an adventure freak like I am and you simply love Indiana Jones or Stargate or The Mummy for all I care you should definitely watch this film. I bet you'll enjoy it, disregarding your age (although very small kid's might get frightened at times). Thank you Dreamworks for providing me with a fantastic story of adventure. I appreciate it. It's been so long since I've seen any good adventure (The Mummy was last and Indy before that).TO ALL STUDIOS I MUST SAY THIS start making feature films like this again please, I miss them. Does it seem &#145;right' to you that I I have watch an animated film mostly aimed at children, to get a film with a good plot, a good villain, great action, enough thrills, blood and emotion? It does not sound right to me. No Bad Boys II, no Triple X 2, no stupid and expensive action. You can do big with little as long as elements fit together.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Road to El Dorado...hooked from start to finish.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say?  The Road to El Dorado kept me hooked right from the very start, proving to be an amazing adventure filled with action, comedy, color, breath-taking imagery and music. After The Prince of Egypt, I wasn't too keen on another Dreamworks animated film.  Don't ask me why, but Prince of Egypt just failed to reel me in.  El Dorado on the other hand has restored my faith in the studio.I'll keep this short and to the point.  El Dorado seemed to deliver the goods in every aspect.  The music was great and certainly enhanced the mood and scene, Tim Rice and Elton John did a fantastic job with the instrumental score. The characterisation was done quite well, and you could really sense the strong friendship that Tulio and Miguel had with one another.  Chel was also a character favorite of mine, and Rosie Perez did a great job providing her voice! The artwork was also exceptionally good, with the colorful Mayan themes and designs providing an amazing backdrop for the story.  Of course the film is not without its fair share of eye-candy, the special effects were excellent and Dreamworks didn't go overboard with them. The story was also a nice change.  For once it wasn't the tired, rigid old formula of good guys meet bad guys, conflict, defeat bad guys and everyone's happy.  I mean..sure everyone is happy in the end...and there is the token good guy VS bad guy routine but Dreamworks seemed to mince it up somewhat and introduce all-new elements.Surely it has its flaws, you say.  Well in all honesty, I'm hard pressed coming up with any.  I didn't exactly love the character design for Tulio and Miguel but that's just being incredibly petty....All in all, The Road to El Dorado was very refreshing and a welcome change from the usual Disney-formula-based feature.  As for comparisons and similarities with the brilliance of Disney, I believe that there is no need for that talk.  I ask you, why do we need more Disney?  The Road to El Dorado shines in a light all of its own.  "},{"Title":"Watch out Mickey, Dreamworks is one step behind.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a new non-Disney animated film debuts I always find myself asking will we ever have one that can match Disney's musical timing and humorous tone. The Road to El Dorado is one of those that comes really close to being as brilliant as Disney. The films title talks about a path that leads to the mysterious Mayan City of Gold. This myth has been passed down for hundreds of years. In the 1500's a lot of Spanish conquistadors went to the New World in search of this city after it seemed to be impossible to find the Fountain of Youth, the other mythical discovery. This legend was screaming to be a fantasy film. In the Dreamworks interpretation of this legend, we follow the misadventures of two con-artists (voiced by Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline) who accidentally win a treasure map in a craps game. When the game goes sour, the cons hide out in some barrels and end up on a boat bound for the New World. To their bad luck the boat happens to be captained by the most famous of the Spanish conquistadors, Cortez. Thrown in the depths of the ship by Cortez, our two heroes plan their escape. Without spoiling anymore of the film, the two end up in the New World to follow their map. The Dreamworks animators deliver lush rich scenery and delightful characters. These characters and scenery were a lot like the brilliance found in Disney's Jungle Book and last year's amazing Tarzan. If you remember back to Prince of Egypt we had that magnificent look and the celebrity voices but no real memorable relationships. The intricate relationships between the characters in this film is one more step ahead forward Dreamworks. But what the film lacked was a real memorable song. The team of Elton John and Tim Rice, who dreamed up the brilliant soundtrack of the Lion King, really never deliver a solid song that your kids will be singing weeks after the film. The songs here really have no heart but instead just play during some of the weaker scenes of the film. Now all they have to do is deliver musical songs and a musical score we will want to listen to after the film closes. Disney still reins supreme as head animation studio. But watch out Mickey, Dreamworks is one step behind. (4 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"Greatest animated film ever!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First things first, I am 56 years old and I have to say that I adored this movie. It didn't seem childish or silly at all, on the contrary it had language and dialogue that my 6 year old grandson wouldn't understand! The plot was exciting, the characters deep. Towards the end when I thought that Tulio and Chel were leaving Miguel for good, tears sprang into my watery blue eyes. I almost couldn't stand it! The part in which the chief played ball with the village children was so adorable! The movie wouldn't be complete without it.I also loved the song, It's Tough to be a God because I couldn't keep from tapping my foot! It was so exciting!!!! All in all, The Road to El Dorado is an awesome animated film and a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Definitely a must see...","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most hilarious animated movies of all time. The situational comedy is truly amazing.The voice acting is well done as well however the song are a little disappointing, coming from the duo that brought us the soundtrack of The Lion King. Only a couple are good.However the comedy and the great visuals definitely make up for it.This movie is definitely a must see!!!Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Man Who Would Be King","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I liked 'The Road to El Dorado'. It has some nice songs, good animations and it was very funny. I especially liked the horse Altivo. The thing that bothered me is that most of the things on screen I had already seen in other movies. Well, one in particular. Two guys come to a strange place. They are mistaken for Gods because a miracle happens by accident. They have a plan to steal the gold in that place, but one of them wants to stay. This is 'The Road to El Dorado' but also 'The Man Who Would Be King' from 1975 starring Sean Connery and Michael Caine. Here we Tulio and Miguel voiced by Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh. They have the same funny chemistry as Connery and Caine had. In 'The Road to El Dorado' we have also a love interest, Chel (voice by Rosie Perez), and a high priest named Tzekel-Kan (voice by Armand Assante) who doubts the divinity of the two men. I liked it, but not because it was very original. If you haven't seen 'The Man Who Would Be King' you are able to enjoy this movie also for the story. Anyway, you will not be bored. "},{"Title":"A rather good film.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is nothing much that is bad that is to be said about this film. The characters, Tulio and Miguel, were fun, entertaining, and the plot itself was much the same way. I was surprised, however (though not necessarily disappointed), at how Disney-like this movie was, coming from Dream Works. Dream Works tends to go for a more crude or sarcastic humor. They don't seem to like using two scrawny, goofy men as main characters or having an antagonist that is so evil that you can hardly express how evilly evil he is. Both of these were present in the movie, as well as a scene where Tulio and Miguel *gasp* dance and sing! Verrrrry Disney-like if you ask me.Either way, I found the movie to be excellent. It is nothing that makes your jaw drop in absolute awe, but it makes your side hurt aplenty. The music was very fitting, and sounded beautiful. The animation stunned me, even though the movie had been more than 5 years old when I saw it the first time (perhaps showing Dream Works animation superiority over Disney?) I would definitely recommend it for if you are looking for a good laugh. "}{"Title":"the animation was great, but the voices were better","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only thing they could have improved upon was the story.  And it wasn't bad.  Just a little slight to hold up for an hour and a half.If you like animation, you need to see this one.  The colors, the detail, and the incredible water effects are all just breathtaking.The voices (Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline as Miguel and Tulio, respectively) are wonderful.  Rolling in the aisles funny over and over and over.  I'd've loved to have been in on the recording sessions these two did (and, unlike most voice acting, they *did* act together, at least part of the time).The story, about a couple of hapless 16th century con men who win a map to the legendary city of gold in a dice game, and go on to be mistaken for gods by the city's inhabitants, is a great hook to hang Kline and Branagh's talents on.  I just wish there'd been a little more meat to it.And I want that armadillo! "},{"Title":"Visually audacious and fun film","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road To El Dorado is a fun film from Dreamworks. Is it the best Dreamworks film? No, I don't think it is as evocative or as stirring as Prince of Egypt, as zany or as (quite) original as Shrek, as witty or as charming as Antz, as ambitious or as mature as Spirit or as audacious or as sweet as Over the Hedge. But is it the worst Dreamworks? No, I was disappointed with Shark Tale, which was nice visually but suffered from a meandering script and an unoriginal plot line, and I think it is better than Shrek the Third, which felt tired in comparison to its first two predecessors.If I had any negatives for this film, they are very few. One was that, the banter at the beginning between Miguel and Tulio came across as a little on the contrived side. My other complaint is that the ending was somewhat abrupt, maybe it is just me but I felt that the film could've done with a more rounded finish.These flaws aside, there is a lot to enjoy. The animation is stunning, the backgrounds are colourful, the colours are vibrant and the character movements are sharp. The animation of the lost city of gold itself was above mesmerising.I know people have complained about the songs and the score. We know from the Lion King, which is not only one of my favourite animated films but one of my favourite films ever that Elton John can write good songs. I actually liked the songs here, they were somewhat catchy and memorable. And the score from Hans Zimmer is great. Zimmer is one of my favourite film composers, and while he has done better work, his score is rousing and exciting enough.Others wrote about the story being dull. Fair enough, but bear in mind people complained about the story of SpiritStallion of the Cimarron being dull. The plot here was at least coherent, and while not perhaps the most fast-moving of all plots, does have some humour to keep the kids amused. The script is not too bad, there are some entertaining parts, and while some of the banter is a tad contrived other parts are witty and very humorous. The part with the chief playing ball with the village children was indeed adorable.The characters are engaging enough, and the voice acting was great. I liked the characters of Miguel and Tulio. Miguel is more light hearted and Tulio while more into wealth than Miguel has real humanity. Both Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline did a wonderful job putting their wit across and were entertaining as a result. Chel has to be one of the most vivacious female characters in any animated film, along with Jasmine, Esmeralda, Tzipporah and Odette. She is the seducer of El Dorado, willing to help Miguel and Tulio at a price, and Rosie Perez, a delightful actress was perfect. Then there is the antagonist, Tzekel-Khan, the high priest and speaker and to say he is nuts is an understatement. Armand Assante provides his voice effectively.In conclusion, a visually audacious and fun Dreamworks film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Disney take notes, THIS IS HOW YOU DO IT people !!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First TITAN A.E., now EL DORADO. I can´t believe another brilliant animation movie was trashed down by the critics. Trully unbelievable, specialy after inferior works, (in plot or character development) like TARZAN were a big sucess. Marketing realy is a powerfull thing...and being politicaly correct apparently still determines a sucess in the States.I´d read so many bad reviews about EL DORADO, that i started to believe in them myself, and i was ready to never going to see it, altough i´m a big animation fan. As it is very common in the american reviews, this time EL DORADO was the chosen victim and so it seemed that every critic was playing follow the leader when reviewing it. After reading so many bad reviews , i doubt that some critics ever saw the movie before they wrote about it. Or at least they definetely didn´t saw the same movie i did !Is there an european version or something  playing here in Europe ?...Anyway i went almost dragged to the cinema by my kid this saturday afternoon, and now i´m glad i did,  for it´s realy the best animated film i´ve seen in recent years (as good as TITAN A.E. and Princess Mononoke).And for someone like me who got a little bit disapointed with Chicken Run, and annoyed by yet  another politicaly correct animated feature in Disney´s Tarzan, EL DORADO made me think that there is still magic and thrills in modern animation.I started to suspect that this movie was going to be diferent, when i got in the theater, and i noticed that at least about 80% of the room was filled with an adult audience, and very, very few children, wich for a Saturday afternoon matinée of an animation movie is a particulary strange setting. Did someone knew something about this movie i didn´t ?...By the end of the movie, i began to understand what was so special about it. First of all this is NOT a Disney movie as so many people seem to think, but a Dreamworks production. The plot altough aparently common for this type of story, ends up being much better than it seems at first glance, because of the characters development and the little details around them all, wich i won´t reveal because part of the pleasure in this movie is exactely the discovery of those scenes. And EL DORADO might look in style like a Disney product, but fortunely has none of those politicaly correct so called educational moments wich infest all Disney products. Contrary to Disney,  EL DORADO even has an original story, and doesn´t use the same as in Lion King, wich is the same in Tarzan, wich was re-used again in Dinossaur, etc... EL DORADO doesn´t treat kids like braindead morons but instead presents a good original story in wich they even have to think to realy apreciate the movie wich can only be a good sign.A good detail , is that, there isn´t realy a bad guy so the children can´t separate right away all the plot into good guy Vs bad guy as usual, making them pay more atention to the story to discover what is happening.I don´t want to spoil anything, but go watch this movie , and notice how the character of Cortez was presented and used in the story without falling into the usual trap of the Disney style villain, and giving  a very authentic historicaly correct feeling to the plot Another good twist, is that there is another bad guy in the EL DORADO story, but not another abstract villain placed there just to fight with the heros and loose. This second villain even has a logical reason to be a bad person, and he´s not just bad just because. Even what happens to him by the end is not the usual cliché used for the villains in the usual Disney movie where the bad guy always has to die to pay for his wrong doings. Well...this time...go watch EL DORADO and you´ll be surprised how cleverly the story uses both villains.This is one of the best, surprising and most inteligent moments in this excelent underapreciated film as it connects perfectely the fantasy with the historicaly events of that time.But there is one thing i can bet was responsible for the faillure of this movie in America. And yes i´m talking about the erotic jokes scatered in some scenes and the sexual tension as a reason for conflict between the main characters. I can bet that those innocent little subtil scenes must have made plenty of puritane people in America grab hold of their Bibles and cover their kids eyes with thy covers, while the fathers themselves drooled over the sensual curves of the female leading character and the mothers complained how imoral this animation was. I´ve read an hilarious american review, claiming that this movie would incite kids to homossexuality and bigamy ! (WHAT ?!!! Because of the relation of great friendship of the male characters or their relation with the girl ? ARE YOU PEOPLE NUTS ?!! )I think DreamWorks took a bold risk, in creating an animation including those (innocent erotic) jokes. They risked and they lost,  but that doesn´t mean that their movie is as bad as the reviews say it is. And i don´t agree with the acusation that EL DORADO is nothing but a pale imitation of Disney style. EL DORADO took the Disney visual style and produced a movie way ahead of everything Disney ever did, thematicaly speaking. If anyone still wants to compare this to disney then the only thing i can say is that it´s movies like EL DORADO that Disney should be making, instead of using and re-using over and over again the same plot and formula, withou taking any risks or adding anything realy new to their products.Think of EL DORADO as a much better and inteligent Disney movie with a little spice. One day all animations will be like this. "},{"Title":"Terrific Dream Works Film!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  (In my review of Spirit, I mentioned it was a Disney film. My apologies to Dream Works, as it was their film, not Disney's.) Now, on with the review of The Road to El Dorado another Dream Works film!Now here is a Dream Works production worth its weight in gold, excuse the pun. Simply put, this movie is fun, with delightful characters, a terrific soundtrack by Elton John, and an exciting plot. Two scoundrels win a map that supposedly leads to El Dorado, the city of gold and wealth. Once there they realize that in order to steal the gold and take it back to their homeland, they must convince the people of the city that they are Gods. Unfortunately they know nothing about the Gods they try to impersonate and pretty soon, they arouse not only suspicion, but the interest of a lovely young woman as well. As with most Dream Works productions, the animation is outstanding. One slight distraction occurs near the end of the movie, however, when a giant monster-like creature arrives on the scene. Looking more like a Pokemon character than anything remotely related to this film, his sci-fi appearance simply doesn't blend with the rest of the animation. And if that's the worst thing I can say about this film, then you know that this is a terrific and fun flick, one you just might wish to own. "},{"Title":"A light hearted adventure","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Tulio and Miguel swindle their way with a map and after a bad experience being stuck on a ship with an evil captain, plan on making their way back to Spain. Landing on an island that matches with the map, they end up looking for El Dorado, the special city that the map tells them about, more crazy circumstances end them up finding El Dorado and instantly becoming their gods. THE ROAD is a fun if not short feast of excitement. Quality definitely plays a simple role where although the effort is not as monumental as DINOSAUR (2000), but has more of an impact because there are far more laughs here. Sometimes THE ROAD acts a bit stupid and like THE PRINCE OF EGYPT, you might point out and moan about the computer effects that seem to hinder more than enhance the quality of these movies. But if DREAM WORKS wants it that way, who can complain?  "},{"Title":"Was my favourite as a kid and after all these years it's still excellent","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's not surprising why so many people loved The Road to El Dorado, whether they were a kid or an adult. The Road to El Dorado charms you right in the beginning. Even if you usually hate songs in animated films, the music of this one is amazing. And they don't ruin the dialogue by turning a conversation to a song (Apart from It's Tough to be a god, but that song was so good it didn't even matter). Instead they are planted in scenes where no words are spoken. It works very well, and is a lot better than characters singing.And the animation is so beautiful. It's really captivating. The human characters look so much better than what Disney's usually do, especially because they are way more diverse instead of just putting the same face on every Disney prince. And the world around the character is the most beautiful I've seen in an animated movie. It's very colourful, it's lovely.But what really keeps the movie going and makes the story really stand out, is the main duo. Miguel and Tulio are great characters. They are different from each other, but they want the same things - which is why I would rather see a prequel than a sequel. And thankfully Miguel and Tulio aren't exactly the kind of heroes you'd except. In fact they aren't really heroic, apart from one or two deeds. Above all, they start as criminals. And their chemistry is so good, better than most romantic couples. (It can be debated if Miguel and Tulio were in fact romantic, but that's a whole other conversation). The Road to El Dorado has always been amazing movie, and that hasn't changed in all these years. If you haven't seen it, do yourself a favour and watch it. It's great, and it's hilarious. I could go on an mention every good thing about this movie, but I think that would be pointless. This movie is one of the best animated films that has been ever made. "},{"Title":"The Road to......","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The premise of The Road to El Dorado is nothing new. Two con artists, one a schemer and the other a dreamer, find their way to the ancient city of El Dorado where the locals mistake them for Gods. What sets it apart is if it can take advantage of this premise with enjoyable characters and good jokes, and El Dorado certainly does that. It knows just when to deliver the comedy, capitalise on the films adventurous aspects and when to let the characters breathe.Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh seem like the perfect pairing for the two leads, and many ways they are just that. They have excellent chemistry and you do get the impression that they are long-time friends, as both bring a great deal of wit and energy to their roles. Tulio and Miguel may not be the most complex characters, but they are a lot of fun. Chel (Rosie Perez) is a really fun character. Forced into helping the two pretend their Gods leads to a lot of effective comedic moments. The horse Altivo provided some humorous moments too, mainly due to his well animated expressions. None of the other characters were developed too much, but I liked the kind-hearted Chief (Edward James Olmos) and Jim Cummings' voice always sounds great. Tzekel-Kan was an enjoyable villain and served his purpose fine, but he could have been better. They should have made him a more tragic villain because he put his faith in the wrong Gods or more sinister by making want to dispose of our main characters more viciously. Elsewhere the jokes are well varied throughout, ranging from smart wordplay to amusing visuals and they frequently hit the mark. There's nothing absolutely hilarious, but the film is consistently amusing which more than makes up for it. The animation is very bright and always beautiful to look at, and it is a shame that DreamWorks decided to stop making 2-D animated films. The vibrant colour scheme really makes everything standout and El Dorado itself is smartly portrayed as an elegant city. When the shots need to look big or the angles comedic it usually works just fine. However, for some people the animation here might be too clean and if it was a little more rubbery then it would make the slapstick more amusing, but it doesn't bother me at all. The big action set-pieces are very well shot and convey a sense of danger effectively. Elton John does a very good job with the songs. Where in many other DreamWorks films the songs can feel out of place or ruin the flow, all of the ones on show here are enjoyable and feel as if they have a connection to the story taking place. The one song sung by the characters 'It's Tough to Be A God' is catchy in all the right ways. The score provided by Hans Zimmer and John Powell is excellent when it shows up. The film only suffers some minor flaws and it definitely could have been longer with certain areas developed slightly more, but this is more of an issue with the majority of DreamWorks films. The film flopped at the Box-Office and that is a great shame. It is an easy to enjoy, feel good adventure and I don't think it was ever meant to be anything more than that. I cared about the characters and wanted to know where the film was going to go, which is more than I can say for many films of this type. It certainly delivered in the areas it needed to with the characters, animation, music and comedy all being carried off well. "},{"Title":"An adventurous and funny nostalgic classic","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some people often try comparing Dreamworks features to that of their biggest competitor Disney. Sometimes those comparisons are worthwhile with the likes of Antz and Bugs Life, but for the most part Dreamworks always create their own style of fun. One of the best films at showing this is Road to El Dorado, with a unique setting and a sense of adventure unlike any put to animation before.After winning a map to El Dorado in a fixed game of dice, Miguel (Branagh) and Tulio (Kline) search the city of gold. Part of the film follows their adventure, over land and sea to desperately find the legendary land. Many films would focus on just this part of the story, but luckily in this film it's only the first act. The rest of the film follows as the pair arrive in the city and deceive the city into thinking they're gods so that they can leave the city with as much gold as possible. It's like mixed Indiana Jones with a con film like the sting and remains funny the entire time.It succeeds at this through some very funny and memorable dialogue and visual gags. Whether you're a kid laughing at the horse dancing funnily or an adult laughing at the hidden meaning behind Holy ship! this film is funny for all ages. It packs in enough jokes to ensure that you'll get a good laugh for every scenes and keep the film fun throughout.But what really makes the film so funny is the two leads Miguel and Tulio. Miguel is the one who lusts for excitement and adventure, who sees El Dorado as the trip of a lifetime. Whilst Tulio wants as much money as possible, viewing El Dorado as a possible score of a lifetime. Alone they're interesting characters and fun to watch. But together they make one of the best animated pairings put to screen. In large part due to the lively camaraderie and great delivery from Branagh and Kline. This comes from both recording their lines in the same room rather than separately so they could better read of each others reactions. The film even has some great musical moments with a soundtrack by Elton John and Tim Rice (both of whom worked on the Lion King soundtrack). Sometimes it will just be used to add a greater sense of beauty when seeing the city and other times it will let the music take over to create some lively and exciting music sequences like 'The Trail We Blaze'.But whenever it's used you always get a good and memorable musical moment. It is purely a fun movie. It never tries to be serious or meaningful. Instead the film just lets us enjoy the jokes and embrace the adventure of the film. It's a shame this film never caught on more, as it really is one of Dreamworks best movies. Road to El Dorado is a film that is fun from start to finish thats good for all ages. "},{"Title":"Like The Emperor's New Groove, this is underrated","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado (2000), an animated cult film if there ever was one. It's interesting to compare this flick to Disney's The Emperor's New Groove (2000), which came out the same year. Both are traditionally animated. Both are wickedly funny. Both underperformed at the box office. While Emperor has gone on to be one of the most beloved modern Disney films, El Dorado is still only a cult film. That's a real shame, because it's a fun ride with snappy dialogue and cool characters.If I have any complaints, then it's that the mixing of traditional animation and CG has dated badly. Most of the musical numbers are forgettable and could have been done away with. Luckily, those issues don't hurt the picture much. "},{"Title":"It has a spirit and a heart, and those are two of the hardest things to achieve in animation","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado was birthed during the period where Dreamworks was still getting started, per say. After releasing the deeply sophisticated Antz and the cult favorite The Prince of Egypt, moviegoers still really had no true idea of what kind of film the company would give them. If Antz was sophistication, then The Road to El Dorado is anarchy - the coherent and easily-lovable kind. Filled with catchy, spur-of-the-moment songs, bright stylistic animation, and an immersing storyline, it majors in the field of uncompromising fun.The film's lead characters, two extremely hilarious ones, are Miguel and Tulio (voiced by Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline), two con-artists who rig gambling games and deliberately turn the tables on unsuspecting folks so they come out on top of everything. During a small gambling session, where the two are winning because of loaded dice, the two rustle up a map of El Dorado, a place bearing untold heavens. Just as they get the map and all their winnings, the other group finds out their swindling tactics and quickly run them out of the area. The two, and a horse, escape on a small boat, which washes up on the beach of El Dorado. There the two are mistaken for almighty, powerful gods of El Dorado and are treated like royalty. They decide to live in the luxury for a while, sneak some goodies, then ditch it in search for a new land to rob. Obligatory subplots involve Tulio falling for a native to El Dorado (Rosie Perez), who is aware of the two's secret, and the thought that both Miguel and Tulio will grow angry at one another and contemplate going their separate ways.While in some regards the story of this film is standard and somewhat foreseeable, it's nonetheless a competent, potent production. For example, the animation is presented in a believable, realistic light, not making everything too silly and bombastic, yet not entirely life-like. This is almost guaranteed to offput some; I can see people saying that it's an animated film that doesn't take full advantage of its medium. Yet the crisp, controlled style of the film let's loose on occasion, particularly during the chase sequence on water that concludes the film, which is lively and exhilarating. Rather than grounding the film to reality, it seems that the animators wanted to provide the illusion that it was an animated film that can capture the events of its story in th way that if this was real, but certain laws, rules, and logic didn't apply, this is how it'd look. It's fascinating and often absorbing. A similar style was used in Disney's Atlantis The Lost Empire, when Disney took a shot in the dark, attempting to usher in a fanbase that wasn't so reliant/content with songs and candy-coated colors.This is one of the first animated films in a long time that doesn't use big-name actors to market its story, content, and animation. I guess Dreamworks used all its big-casting abilities on Antz. While Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh are certainly not unknowns in Hollywood, they aren't the kind you usually see receiving top-billing in an animated feature. Because of this, it's nice to hear voices that are not plagued by celebrity recognition and familiarities, so there's an easier transition to believing and knowing the character.The Road to El Dorado is wonderfully scored and livened by Elton John, whose song It's Tough to Be a God is one that will not leave my head soon enough. The film's music sequences are fun and spontaneous, much like the exposition as a whole. This is a good family endeavor; one that is light-years more fun than much of what passes for basic family programming.Voiced by Kevin Kline, Kenneth Branagh, and Rosie Perez. Directed by Eric Bergeron and Will Finn. "}{"Title":"OhMyGod this is simply HILARIOUS !","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Writing a review for this movie is difficult because it's hard to get across how funny it is !! Actors Kevin Kline & Kenneth Branagh (sp?) voiced their characters PERFECTLY! Kline using his hilarious sarcastic overtones wonderfully and Branagh with his hilarious English charm.Other's who have reviewed are right -- this is an animation not necessarily aimed specifically at children. The humor is fantastic but I can see some overbearing mothers getting arsey over some minor parts of the content -- Tulio and Chel have been almost caught making out, prompting the exclaimation from Chel What would he say if they saw one of the God's like this with me?! to which Tulio replies ...Lucky God!! looking rather dishevveled. Or Tulio's exclaimation of ''HOLY SHIP'' as they are rammed by a massive ship whilst in a rowboat. Obviously the latter could be misheard prompting upheaval everywhere by women who shroud their children in cotton wool.I, however, believe this is one of the best animations to come about for a long time, and has yet to be rivalled. I may be biased as I adore Kevin Kline, but it's like adults playing at being kids. All morals get thrown out the window (We need a miracle! .. No ... we need to CHEAT!) and the immature arguments the two main characters have -- Miguel - Even those mountains! You said it yourself, it could be possible, and it is! It really *is* the map to El Dorado! Tulio - ...You drank sea water, didn't you?Humor right down my street, and anyone elses who likes sarcasm and slapstick 'fall-down' humor. Think Chandler Bing!! Even my 42 year old aunt enjoyed it immensely.Well Done, Dreamworks !!! "},{"Title":"Lush, Memorable, Fun","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a Disney shareholder and a huge Disney fan, yet I'll be the first Disneyphile to admit this Katzenberg-led DreamWorks movie kicks Disney butt. It is fun, well-drawn, and decently-paced.  Elton John's music, though not really kid-friendly, is certainly memorable for adults looking to escape for a few hours. "},{"Title":"Like this one so much","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This cartoon attracts me when i see the characters which are different from other kids movie. The texture is fantastic, colour and imagination is organised perfectly.Story is not enjoyable at the first 10 minutes but after that, it gets more and more interesting. Maybe the main idea is to create something which is different. Most of the characters react very well with the script and the movie is funny as well.Thumb up, well done. "},{"Title":"Amusing and not just for little kids","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Miguel and Tullio are very charming and it is a very well thought out story. It's not as funny as it could be but it definitely has it's moments. The music is not all that great even though they make it out to me, it was a bit of a let down and I don't think kids would find it fun to sing a ong to. Other wise, it is a very cute movie. "},{"Title":"A winner.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the best animated movie (rated PG-13 or lower) since The Lion King. The story seems a bit rushed, but it is entertaining.  And the animation simply breathtaking.  The soundtrack is another winner for Elton John and the songs he performs add depth to the story.  "},{"Title":"A step in the right direction.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Road to El Dorado is a cartoon with plenty in it for adults. Adult cartoons are a relatively unexplored art form. Disney has started towards it with movies like Beauty and the Beast and The Hunchback of Notre Dame (a good movie to see if you liked this one), but Dreamworks seems to be the studio to watch. This movie is entertaining, well written, well cast, well produced and my only complaint is that they didn't go just a bit farther and make it a full PG-13. Maybe someday animation won't automatically mean for kids, and this is a step in the right direction. "},{"Title":"Good Buddy Movie","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie rating is PG, and with good reason. Kids won't get many of the jokes, as they are of a more mature nature than those found in Lion King. The soundtrack isn't quiet as strong as Lion King either, but then Phil Collins won the Oscar for the song from Tarzan, so Elton may well have a shot again...It's a movie in the style of the Crosby-Hope Road Trip movies, and it does fine job. I gave it a 7 of 10, and would definitely see it again. "},{"Title":"The right road to good animation.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"       Dreamworks being only three years old is making a impressive status with other Hollywood studios.  Not only are they producing some Hollywood hits like SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, MOUSEHUNT, and GALAXY QUEST, but also Oscar winning films like AMERICAN BEAUTY.  Thier animation department is also doing a impressive job, with such decent and entertaining animated films like ANTZ and PRINCE OF EGYPT.  Now a project that has been in production for years (and I really mean it) is finally being released, and it's ROAD TO EL DORADO.      ROAD TO EL DORADO is the latest with Dreamworks animation films, it has a impressive animation, funny and witty scenes, and a very good score.  The story of the film has two scheming con-artist in 16th century Spain, Tulio (voiced by Kevin Kline) and Miguel (Kenneth Branahgh).  While playing a game of dice, they win a map which leds to the fabled city of gold, El Dorado. While running from the authorites, Tulio and Miguel accidently stow away on one of the ships heading to the new world, led by Cortez.  After Tulio and Miguel seperate from Cortez and his crew, they arrive at the lost city and meet another con aritst, this time it's a female native named Chel (Rosie Perez). Chel is from the city of El Dorado, where it is indeed covered in gold, and it has two leaders, the Chief (Edward James Olmos) and Tzekel-Kan (Armand Assante).  While the Chief represents the good and peace to the city of El Dorado; Tzekel-Kan represents the evil and violence of the city, and saying that he is doing what the gods wish for him to do.  It isn't long that Tulio falls for Chel, and Miguel experiences the beauty, and improves the city traditions of the city of gold.      EL DORADO is a entertaining family film, it has the right ingredents from a Disney animated film.  There is a good story two scheming con-artist discover the city of gold, and their own personalities.  Good actors doing the voices Kevin Kline, Kenneth Branagh, Edward James Olmos, etc.  A very impressive musical score by Hans Zimmer, and songs by Elton John and Tim Rice.  And fantastic animation, including the first five minutes of the movie.      I did enjoy EL DORADO, I usually judge a non-Disney animated film to a Disney animated film, on how entertaining they are.  I would rank this film with ANASTASIA and PRINCE OF EGYPT as far as a entertaining family film goes.  It is fast paced, funny, exciting, and little jokes thrown here and there the same way a Disney film is done.  Yet, EL DORADO shys away from the cute Disney films with not too many cute big eyed characters.      For a good family film for now, this is a entertaining film.  I mean, why take your kids to a piece of rubbish like SNOW DAY?  This film is a good example of family entertainment, which now, Disney should be shaking in their loafers that they finally have competition with animated films.  ****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Great fun if ultimately unsatisfying","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The idea is spectacular in theory. Take the scene-stealing characters usually reserved for the supporting cast and give them the main stage with plenty of room to play. The execution was also good up to a point. Giving the likes of Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branaugh free rein in a recording booth to just improvise and riff with each other was an inspired choice. The back and forth between the two characters and the genuine affection they seem to feel for each other in spite of their differences is delightful. It's in the other aspects that the film falls apart. The problem sets in because the movie was built around a good premise, not a good story. There isn't a strong enough antagonist, a believable romantic angle (though Chell makes a very interesting and different love interest) or a satisfying enough resolution to the conflict. The songs also sail, but fail to soar. I enjoy the movie in the same way that I enjoy a Hostess Cupcake It's fun and delicious, but ultimately fails to feed me. Still, the heart comes from the friendship, and that's a lovely thing. "},{"Title":"Tulio and Miguel Are Off on the Richest Adventure of Their Lives!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSMeet Tulio and Miguel, two bumbling con men living in 1519 Spain. A group of sailors lead by Cortes were preparing to sail to the new world while some others were playing a craps game with Tulio and Miguel. One of them bet a map which they won. It was a map of El Dorado, the city of gold. That's when the men learn that Tulio and Miguel played with loaded dice and gave chase. They chased them all over town. The guys hide in two water barrels and just as they are about to escape, they are loaded onto a ship which soon sets out to sea. Tulio and Miguel are soon discovered and Cortes is most definitely not pleased. He sentences them to slave labor for when they reach Cuba then are thrown in the brig. Tulio makes a lousy escape plan while Miguel talks Altivo the horse into helping them by finding a pry bar. Altivo throws them they keys and they get out. They load from provisions into a boat and set out to sea. Altivo comes along. For several days, Tulio, Miguel and Altivo drift along not seeing much of anything. They're at each other's throats then soon make laments for dying. Soon they reach land! Miguel was sure it was El Dorado and takes out his map. He leads Tulio and Altivo down the blazing trail which seemed to lead no where.They finally reach a giant stone with mystic writing on it. Tulio was upset and wanted to leave. That's when a group of Natives ride up. They had chased a beautiful thief, Chel. They saw Tulio and Miguel and figured them as gods. They're brought to the real El Dorado, city of gold. They meet Chief Tannok and High Priest Tzekel-Kan. The city was vast and beautiful. Tzekel-Kan and Chief both make offerings to the gods. Tzekel-Kan offers a sacrifice and Chief offers gold. Tulio and Miguel like Chief's offering better. They also find their new palace to be quite relaxing. Unfortunately Chel over hears them saying they weren't really gods and agreed to keep a lid on it if she could join them when they go back to Spain. As time goes on, Tulio and Chel begin to get close while Miguel walks around the city and makes friends with the villagers. He even plays ball with some kids. When Tzekel-Kan sees, he challenges Tulio and Miguel to a ball game with some very tough players. It was alot like basketball except the hoop, or loop in this chase, was verticle and cemented to the wall. Tulio and Miguel were definitely no pros at the game, but Chel gave them a rolled up armadillo which they used as a ball and with luck they win the game. Tzekel-Kan offers to sacrifice the losing team and Tulio and Miguel don't like that. Miguel banishes Tzekel-Kan.Meanwhile, Cortes and his men arrive on the El Dorado beach; Miguel commissions Chief Tannok and his men to erect a boat so they can travel back to Spain with their gold but Miguel didn't want to go. Tulio on the other hand was just busting to go. Meanwhile, Tzekel-Kan was planning his revenge. He awakened a large, menacing Jaguar statue which began attacking the village. Soon Tzekel-Kan and the Jaguar have Tulio and Miguel on the edge of a cliff, but luckily it's the Jaguar and Tzekel-Kan who go over. When Tzekel-Kan surfaces, he is discovered by Cortes and his men and aims to lead them to El Dorado. Tulio and Miguel knew they were coming and had to make a plan. Tulio plans to have the boat destroy the entrance to El Dorado, making it safe so Tulio, Miguel, Altivo and Chel board the boat with the gold and sail out. The plan works fantastically and though the boat and all the gold is lost in the tidal wave, Tulio, Miguel, Altivo and Chel make it out safely and the entrance to El Dorado was blocked. Cortes, his men and Tzekel-Kan arrive then and when Cortes sees nothing, he commands Tzekel-Kan to be severely punished. So Chel, Miguel and Tulio hop on Altivo and head off on their next adventure.I enjoyed this movie. Tulio and Miguel are very enjoyable characters. They should get another movie together. Kevin Kline voices Tulio while Kenneth Branagh is Miguel. Edward James Olmos is Chief Tannok, Armand Assante is Tzekel-Kan, Rosie Perez is Chel and Jim Cummings is Cortes. I like the computer animated ships, barrels, trees, and gold! This is a great film for the whole family, although Chel is made out to be very sexy and Tulio says the words hell and crappy, well it isn't a Disney picture! This is probably the best Dreamworks animated film. I didn't really like Spirit Stallion of the Cimeron. I liked Shrek, though. Okay, it's ONE of the best. Anyway, if you're looking for something comic and adventurous to entertain your family, then The Road to El Dorado comes recommended by me!- "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very good movie. About the language, a little language isn't going to hurt anybody. About the nudity, you didn't see anything, so why does it matter?  I don't like movies with nudity, and I like this movie. We watched this movie in school, and we were twelve years old, and some of us were eleven. And it is PG, so parents were warned. The most adult movie I've seen is Titanic, and it wasn't that bad, either. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The movie... WRAWKS!!!","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado was the absolute BEST animated film i've ever seen. seriously! I mean the music was great, the animation was great, the plot was great, the characters were great, the effects were great, the artwork were great, the humor was original.... i could go on and on and on about this! I especially love the choice for the main characters... the balance between the dreaming Miguel and the brooding Tulio, add the ambitious Chel, then that adorable horse... O.O I watched it again just today since i own the DVD i love it so much!!! and Tzekel-Kahn! Grr I hate him but he's a great character!! I love it when he just makes that big Jaguar rock thing come to life... oh yeah and I LOVE MIGUEL LOVE MIGUEL OK I'm hyper now XD "},{"Title":"Best animation","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like to say that this film is the my favourite animation.It has all the funny jokes and one of the best story lines for a animation. The story follows two men (Tulio and Miguel)con men i might add and they get a map from a man (well they steal it) and it shows of a city made of gold called El Dorado. The film is mainly about their journey and their discovery of the city made of gold. when they get there they are believed to be gods so they play on as gods hoping to receive all the gold and head back to Spain. But troubles arise as Tulio and Miguel split up because of the gold and also a evil priest discovers that they are not really gods after all! The musical score is superb and i have to say that whatever age you are this film will entertain you. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Animated Hope & Crosby homage","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE ROAD TO EL DORADO (2000) **1/2 (Voices Kevin Kline, Kenneth Branagh, Rosie Perez, Edward James Olmos, Armand Assante, Jim Cummings, Frank Welker).  Second big-screen animated tale from SKG/DreamWorks with Disney echoes about 16th century Hope/Crosby set up with two con artists who wind up on the path to the mythical jungle city of gold en route w/Cortez and finding that there's more than meets the eye (individuality and friendship are more important than all the wealth they discover). Kline and Branagh do their best in low-key, sly witty banter and Perez provides enough feistiness to keep things afloat including the by-the-numbers forgettable musical numbers by Elton John and Tim Rice.  (Dirs Eric `Bibo' Bergeron & Don Paul) "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" El Dorado isn't going to tug at your heart strings, but I thought the film was very entertaining from beginning to end. Migel and Tulio are unique characters and very lovable. I also liked the inclusion of some more adult themes, like the relationship between Tulio and Chel. The animation is great, very fluid with the inclusion of some computer graphic elements. I wish more animated films now-a-days had that kind of animation. The soundtrack is also very good. The musical numbers weren't especially memorable, but they didn't detract from the story and the instrumental music by Hans Zimmer and John Powell is fantastic. Overall, I would say The Road to El Dorado is a very underrated film. "},{"Title":"One of the fondest memories from childhood!","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am going to put a disclaimer right of the bat and say that I am particularly biased towards this movie because it was a heart touching part of my childhood. I saw it at a time when cartoons, animations and fantastic storytelling were a big part of my life and the experience with this innovative creation holds a particular bond with me. Adventure cannot be better without The trail we blaze playing.The plot line derives directly from real life characters and early explorations of the new world by the European expeditionaries (Cortez). What makes it especially beautiful is that it fits a fictional and mythical subplot with a historic socio-political and cultural dynamic of the medieval age. The two lively and vivacious characters Miguel & Tulio are amid-st the center of havoc, fun and adventure to chart their way from imperial and civilized Spain to the new world. During the course they accidentally land up as captives in one of the expeditions of Cortez. As is the norm in children's classics they land up conveniently on the shores of the new world with a map for the greatest treasure the world had known. Needless to say with colourful animation, majestic soundtrack performed by (Sir) Elton John and a vivid brand of storytelling and situational comedies the path was packed full of adventure and excitement.The lessons to be picked up here are many. In my opinion it is one of those creations which reaches across time to deliver a message of good vs evil, lighted hearted and adventurous living vs power hungry and cruel ambitions. Not that one value is better than the other but we may sometimes have tendencies to overemphasize the latter over the former. Even though superstitious, the peaceable nature of the natives is put up in stark contrast to the violent explorers. Many character virtues are put up for contrast. First between the protagonists, the gentle, adventurous and kind hearted Miguel and the worldly, greedy and practical Tulio; and then between the skeptic, affable, grounded, wise and portly chief with the lean, mean, cold-hearted and divine priest. All these portrayals served to provide a distinct contrast for people to judge and develop value systems.Further full of playful innuendos and colourful artistry it can be appreciated over a range of age groups. I would definitely sit for another viewing any time. "},{"Title":"El Dorado The Film of Gold","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With animations so wondrous and setting so fantastic, The Road To El Dorado is a perfect film. Tulio, Miguel and their horse Altivo set sail, map in hand, in search of golden treasure in this all star adventure! Upon landing on the shores of El Dorado, the legendary lost city of gold, Tulio and Miguel are mistaken for gods and are lavished with riches beyond their wildest dreams. This film will leave you loving every moment. With a great musical score by Hans Zimmer and a gripping story line, this film never let's up in laughs, action and adventure. It is a very under- appreciated film and shockingly doesn't even make a 7 here! I don't know who rates this but surely they'd need to rethink. There is only one bad thing about this film, it didn't install a sequel which I think everyone knows was wide open. And so that concludes my review on this, a greatly made film! "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie with impressive animation","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is quite impressive with the animation, use of color and cast of characters. It's bright, delightful and humorous. Even though the plot is pretty basic in it's dramaturgy, it's still fully enjoyable.It might not be considered a kids movie (At least not under the age of 10) because of the sexual innuendos, and mild violence (scenes with blood etc.) But it might as well appeal to them seeing how Dreamworks wanted to give it captive bright colors and Disney-like animation style.The characters though, have hints of stereotypical personalities which almost seems forced to fit the plot. But the way they're portrayed with appearance and how they interact with the rest of the characters, makes up for it. Because the characters tends to have a stereotypical approach, their actions can be anticipated which helps to build up the plot, even if it's a tad bit obvious at times. I really enjoy the characters Tulio and Miguel however. This red and blue duo gives the movie a comedic touch which is fun to watch.The musical pieces all have a nice touch of atmosphere in them. It describes the present plot and co-operates effectively with the feeling of the scene it appears in.Looking at it as a whole, it's a fantastic movie which still makes people laugh, and with it's great set of characters and music it can still entertain people as much as it did when it first came out. I recommend this to any classic 2D fans! "},{"Title":"Funny and it's not Disney!!","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Don't be mislead by my title above. I have nothing against Disney, in fact I love Disney animation! I grow up with it.Back to El Dorado! This is one of the funniest animation I have seen. The characters Miguel and Tulio is as funny as hell and got amazing brotherhood! The beginning with them escaping from the guards until they landed on El Dorado island is so funny. I see bits of Aladdin similarities in those scenes.However after they reach El Dorado, things ain't so funny anymore. But the ball match certainly made up for the sudden lost of character development. That armadillo as the ball is haha~...Though there's some scene (naked butts and the intimate scene) are not for children. But hey, like I said, this is not Disney! It's Dreamworks! I am glad I found this one amidst a decade late. Give this one a try and it won't disappoint you! "},{"Title":"Memorized by heart","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember the first time I watched this; I was 9 years old and I was sick. My mother had to go to work (leaving me alone), so she bought this movie on DVD, got some oil paints and a art book and set my bed up in front of the TV in the lounge room. As she left, I felt all the comfort leave with her. I was in a state of boredom/sadness and felt a little bit scared. That all left me when this movie started - I don't remember a second that I wasn't immersed into this animation film, experiencing so much emotion (probably side effects of my sickness). None the less, I have to say this is an all time Favorited for me within all genres of film. I know what you're going to say, oh, but it's rated 6.4 or something, and you're picking it over classic Disney films?YES. MOST DEFINITIVELY. This film is so funny and clever that I still can enjoy it today - I have to say that Elton John's music was the cherry on top. It was just so memorable and heart warming/wrenching (depending on the scene). People read to much into movies such as these, commenting that it doesn't have that much depth or isn't historically correct or just plain simple hate it.I just enjoy it for what it is - a humorous animation movie made for children and adults. "}{"Title":"Just one word - AWESOME!!!","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are many movies that you feel very good watching. This tops that list for me. The colors and the witty dialogues are a treat right from the opening song. Forget what the critics say about the movie, its the ride that you will cherish. And this movie will put you in the front seat! The movie is filled with songs, which is great for any animated film in my opinion.With memorable characters, smooth plot, music that makes you wanna sing along, and above all the animation that just hooks you to the screen is worth every minute of it. Unfortunate that this kind of movies are not coming these days. "},{"Title":"One of Dreamworks Animation's best movies","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dreamworks Animation has been also known for doing traditional animated films. There traditional animated films have been given decent reviews, but they were mostly box-office bombs. But there was one that was both one of Dreamworks best movies and one of my favorites. The hand-drawn animated film was called, The Road To El Dorado.The story is about two con artists that are mistaken as Gods after finding the lost city of gold, El Dorado.What I love about this movie is the animation is great and colorful during the song, It's Tough To Be a God. The voice acting was also good because Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh do great jobs as there characters, Miguel and Tulio. The song's were good because they were done by Elton John and Tim Rice, they were both known for doing the song's for the Disney film, The Lion King.The thing's I didn't like was that the plot was pretty simple and the character's, Chel and Tzekel-Kan were weak.The Road To El Dorado, is one of Dreamworks Animation's best movies and it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Finally, a decent animated film!!","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've spent a good portion of the last year going through the animated films both of yesteryear and the more modern offerings (including recent 3D films such as those done by Pixar and Dreamworks.) I have to say - this is one of the top films I've seen (and that includes Disney classics and indie offerings.) Why? Well, firstly the artwork is definitely top notch - the colors and character designs are beautifully rendered, and the facial expressions are wonderfully done (just the right amount of exaggeration to make the emotions really pop up.) But most importantly, this film had an ENJOYABLE, non-cliché plot. Based (obviously) on the Road movies by Bing Crosby and Bob Hope, the two main characters were the perfect blend of lovable and caddish. The Rosie Perez character Chel actually had (a bit) of depth too. The plot was more than just your average Disney girl meets guy, they meet a cast of colorful characters along the way and defeat the bad guy to make it a happy ending for all type of plot. Sure, there was a touch of that in El Dorado as well, but the writing was actually fresh, and enjoyable...and the few modern references that were thrown in as inside jokes actually worked, and were organic to story. (Beats a movie like Tangled, where they just throw in irrelevant hip references to appeal to the younger audience. Bravo, Dreamworks! Really, really hope you have more like this up your sleeves for upcoming features...! "},{"Title":"Great fun for the whole family!","Date":"14 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie is a take-off of Bing Crosby's and Bob Hope's Road to . . .  series of movies. The two main characters do fairly good Crosby and Hope impressions with just enough of a twist to make it different.The animation is fantastic. Wonderful fluid lines and bright colors make for a wonderful landscape. Occasionally they have special effects of computer animation. These scenes don't quite work so well, but fortunately, they last mere seconds and are few and far between.It really is a great movie for the whole family. I've read other reviews that complain about nudity, foul language, and sexual scenes in this film. I want assure all parents out there are **no such scenes in this movie**. My family has watched this movie *dozens* of times with small children and nothing offended us *at all*. I can only guess that the other reviewers are vaguely remembering scenes and letting their adult imagination fill in things that never actually happened. If you stretch your imagination, you can see some puns and light double entendre for the adults, but I stress that they are *very* subtle and *way* over the heads of anybody under 12.Their are some scary parts and some tense moments that our toddler jumped at, but nothing too bad.The movie is filled with humor everywhere that will have everybody laughing. The main characters are thieves and con-artists, but they are the funny, kind hearted kind of rogues you've seen in many other movies.Overall, I very much recommend it. There are so few movies that both adults and children of all ages will likely and the Road to El Dorado is one of them. "},{"Title":"Animation is not always just for kids","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" everyone seems to think that just because something in animated, it is meant for kids. That is an utter and outright lie. Also, who ever said that this movie was made to be a comedy? It was not meant to be purely funny. In fact, it is one of the deepest movies i have ever seen. It tells the tale of friendship, lies, betrayal and honor. It shows two massively well developed charters and how they interact and become gods. yes there are some maybe over pg rated scenes, but it adds to the overall meaning of the movie. It has an amazing plot, some funny scenes and the one thing almost all current day movie goers overlook a great message hidden underneath it all (more like wrapped up into a yummy pie). Simply one of the most deep and great animated movies ever. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal,Great,absolutely fantabulous","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Great work people,now this is the sort of movie that everybody would like.Of course kids like it better but there are only a few animated kid movies that adults can also enjoy,The Road to El Dorado is one.Story of two really good friends,Both of them want money,One of them wants adventurous life,One of them doesn't care about adventures,They win a map in a gambling game and that map leads them both to El Dorado,the city of gold.There's always a villain in a good movie,this movie has one too!and a bad one.He follows them into El Dorado and they have to save themselves and the city of Gold to get out alive.. Great screen play,Great Script and fantastic music.Tell you guys,I've seen a lot of adventure movies and i say this is one of the best.This movie is recommended for all the kids,Adults who like adventure movies.A must see! "},{"Title":"Supremely fun","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado (movie) - Plot Two adventurers/con men (Kevin Kline & Kenneth Branagh) discover the city of El Dorado, where they are mistaken as gods by the locals.This is supremely entertaining adventure fare in the tradition of The Mummy and Alladin. Written by swashbuckling kings Ted Elliot & Terry Rossio (Alladin, Pirates of the Caribbean, The Mask of Zorro, Shrek), this is more of what you should know to expect from them Wonderfully funny jokes mixed in with plenty of exciting action. If you're not into any of the above mentioned films, you may have a hard time enjoying this -- or anything labeled as light fare. I just know that I was laughing and cheering my way through this movie. That's not so bad, is it? 9/10P.S. The songs by Elton John and Tim Rice were very forgettable, and they didn't really move the story forward, but the writing was so enjoyable that it didn't matter. "},{"Title":"Dreamworks SKG at their best","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado is a great movie! Possiably Dreamworks SKG at their best! A great movie about two men named Tulio and Mugel who go looking for the New World and gold! Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline did a fantastic job playing Mugel and Tulio! I wouldn't of picked any better actors to play the two! Jim Cummings did a good job voicing Cortes! One of my personal favorites in the voice acting business! Elton John did a fantastic job writing the music for this family film just like he did for The Lion King! Trail We Blaze is my favorite song! The animation was just unbelievable and was very wonderful! Dreamworks SKG did a good job with this 2-D animated film! I also believe that they proved that other animated studios besides Walt Disney Studios can do good with 2-D Animation! The Road to El Dorado is a true family film the whole family can enjoy! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The Forgotten Movie","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado is an underrated Dreamworks creation which came out and left in haste.The plot centres around two tricky Spanish swindlers, Tulio and Miguel, who manage to get their hands on a map of the City of Gold, ElDorado. After a long voyage, the stowaways find El Dorado, where they are treated as Gods. But their scam is endangered by the suspecting vile priest Tzekel-Khan.Voice acting is very good, especially Armand Assasnte's, who voiced Tzekel Khan. The priest gives me shivers every time I watch the movie. And speaking of him, there are some interesting characters, like the good Chief, who cares about the people, Cortes, the terrifying conquistador, the two main heroes themselves, who have different views, but one goal and Tzekel-Khan, the religious fanatic who strongly believes in sacrifices.The animation is superb, El Dorado is extremely well done, a colorful Utopia with unique wildlife, along with the surrounding jungles. Almost all the songs (several in total) are Elton John songs. They're catchy.Of course, the movie isn't perfect. The main flaw is that the entire plot is based on ridiculous coincidences. Tulio and Miguel HAPPEN to get a map and then HAPPEN to get on the boat that HAPPENS to take them to a place which HAPPENS to be the place indicated on the map.Also, some moments are extremely odd and, once again, are based on coincidences. But, overall, the movie is very good, a forgotten treasure with excellent animation, hilarious moments and a cool villain.Final Score 3.5/5 or 7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado is one of those family films that you can watch over and over again. It's witty, funny, and thoroughly enjoyable. Despite historical inaccuracies, the movie is incredible to watch the first time, and it maintains the charm even after the fifth time you watch it.The animation in this movie is very good. The jungle scenes are bright and cheery, while the darker scenes are appropriately colored. The background animation clearly and easily sets the tone for each scene.Not only is the animation great, the music is extremely well written and fits the movie perfectly. The characters are endearing, and you'll feel yourself magically drawn into the whirlwind of adventure that is The Road to El Dorado. "}{"Title":"Solid Gold!","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado is a highly underrated movie that is absolutely fantastic. The Story Miguel (voiced by Kenneth Branagh) and Tulio (voiced by Kevin Kline) are best friends who also wanted conmen. They play a game of Craps with some sailors. They keep on winning because they use a loaded dice. One of the sailors bets a map of the lost city of El Dorado in The New World. Miguel & Tulio win the map, but then the sailors find out that the dice they were using is loaded. They both escape but are then chased by a bull. They (seemingly) safely escape onto Cortés' ship, but are soon caught by Cortés' men and taken to the man himself in stocks. Cortés (brilliantly voiced by the most excellent Jim Cummings) thinks that they're stowaways and says that he's going to sell them to a plantation in Cuba. Miguel and Tulio end up escaping with Cortés' horse, Altivo, onto one of the longboats, but end up famished out at sea. When they think Miguel, Tulio and Altivo think they're about to die, they end up on an island which turns out to be El Dorado. The men find there way to the city and are mistaken for gods. But, it soon turns out to be trouble in paradise for Miguel and Tulio because El Dorado's priest, Tzekel-Kan (voiced by Armand Assante), keeps on demanding sacrifices and, upon finding out that Miguel & Tulio are mortals, sets out to destroy them, while amorous Chel (voiced by Rosie Perez), who wants in on the mens' plan to take the gold and run, seduces Tulio and Cortés is on the island and is making his way to the city fast. All of this ultimately puts Miguel & Tulio's friendship to the test.A great family flick that will somehow appeal more to adults than kids but kids will still love it. "},{"Title":"No masterpiece, but certainly a wonderful must-see","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While the complaining against Dreamworks' pop culture-laden cgi feature films continues to drag on, many seem to forget that back in the day the company has produced some pretty good, even excellent inspired animated films. It's just that no one came to see them, while the universally hated Shark Tale raked in twice it's budget, and Shrek the Third's only disappointment is that it didn't gross as much as it's highest grossing of all time predecessor. Notably the criminally underrated Sinbad and The Road to El Dorado stands out amongst Dreamworks' older films. Aside from so eye-catching animation (even though the incorporation of cgi get a bit distracting at times), the film contains some of the most sparkling chemistry between characters that I've seen. It's witty one-liners are enough to hold the film during the duration of it's running time, but where the story lags the characterization is the film's winning element. Dreamworks films were always the type to diverge from the Disney formula. Here, the protagonists aren't exactly cuddly or warm, but they're human. They make for an immensely entertaining film, which doesn't pad on any cliché 'celebration of culture' theme such as Disney's Pocahontas or Dreamwork's lack luster Spirit Stallion of the Cimmeron, but allows the story and characters to speak for themselves in a genuine way. Catering to the accepted standards for a 2d animated film is kept much to a minimum, aside from the inclusion of one wine-induced song. The film's comedic sophistication (and perhaps the film's somewhat strong but necessary sexuality) is almost too much above the heads of younger ones, which added to it's trouble in the box office and resentment from other older viewers. Still, I'm certain any adult interested in animation would find the film entertaining in a way that many other animated films fail to deliver, and perhaps if more adults were willing to branch out they would as well. "},{"Title":"The road to El Dorado - will we be richer to get there?","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After the epic Prince of Egypt, The Road to El Dorado is a more simple, lighthearted animated feature, but it's a hilarious and very fresh movie and it's keeps getting better and better for every time I'm watching it. Tulio and Miguel are two likable characters, but to quote Simba in The Lion King You learn to love them (after a while, he-he). The Armadillo and the horse Altivo are the best characters in this feature (just like the animals usually are the best characters in Disney features).But this movie does have a big weak link; The script. The story is pretty underdeveloped, thin and there are many questions left unanswered when the movie is finished. Besides Tulio and Miguel, the small cast of human characters are not so well portrayed. HERE COMES A SPOILER What's the point to make a seductive woman in a animated feature who have children as their main audience? And one other thing that it's seem unnatural (I know this is a cartoon, but still) is that the Spanish settlers communicates with the natives immediately in English. The quite opposite to Disney's Pocahontas (when the two main characters in the movie doesn't understand each other in the beginning cause of the issues of language)SPOILERS OVER.But hey, The Road to El Dorado is a fresh and good film, who is actually very funny and exciting at times. The are not that memorable, but still working quite very well. The animation is also great and so is the score of Hans Zimmer. But the best thing of all with this feature is that it is almost totally free for sentimental moments, cause almost every animated movie has at least one very sentimental moment. The reviewers in my country were a little bit rough on this picture, who in some ways makes sense. But still, we common people have learned to not obligatory trust the reviewers, right? "},{"Title":"Exciting Movie!","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this movie a while back on a VHS. I remember eating Smores while watching this. Anywho, since it was so old, I don't remember much but I will try at my best to explain.Two young men are running from people and ends up getting on a boat. They get caught and then escape with a horse who loves apples. They find an island and one of them remember hearing about a place called El Dorado. They accidentally discover it and people think they are Gods. They are proved wrong by an evil man. But in the end, that one evil man is caught and locked out of El Dorado.I hope I can get the time to watch this movie if my sister has it on DVD. I recommend this movie for all ages. It was sort of funny, exciting, and great for kids. "},{"Title":"Slightly well-done","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Like many recent American movies, it is difficult not to like The Road to El Dorado. The characters are slightly interesting, the plot, although predictable, adheres slightly to the recipe and the execution is technically flawless. The animation is slightly appealing. It is also easy to feel slightly indifferent to the ensemble.This is the kind of work you feel like giving a passing mark after all somebody spent 90 millions bucks for this, you feel for them, for the effort provided. But this seems to be just it an effort. You sense that the filmmakers restrained themselves, that they could have reached further, either in the animation, the plot or the characters, or in most of the scenes where the jokes fall short, where the competent animation is the only thing keeping you from dozing or failing to explain to us how it is that, right off the bat, 16th century Spaniards who never left their country could converse fluently with native American Indians who never saw a white person before. We also feel the effort towards political correctness, for example not to show Cortez slaughter Indians, but to display some of the Indians with somehow modern Western values (the chief being the liberal, the runaway girl being a Mesoamerican feminist). As I said, the animation is well done and the scene where the people convey the gold items to our 2 con artists is a clever mix of seemingly real gold objects and animation.Since Dreamwork started, sometimes successfully, their animation venture, it appears to this viewer that the attempt to emulate Disney and its triumphs is too obvious. Of course they have more than a few Disney refugees working in Dreamwork, but the cracks at Disney are at once understandable and sad with such successes, why wouldn't you want to replicate the method, but the public deserves more.This being said, The Road to El Dorado is by far superior to the highly inadequate Atlantis, one of the latest Disney creations. El Dorado attempts to be funny without being improperly pretentious. Although the animation technique is more spectacular in Atlantis, they forgot to wrap it with a story (which is the sin of many contemporary Hollywood productions, please see The Perfect Storm and Cats and Dogs). It is true that The Road to El Dorado is less than the sum of its competent parts, but we owe it to the filmmakers to that they were not trying to achieve a self-important ecstasy, just a slight fantasy.  "},{"Title":"Fictional but Fun","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Simply put it, this was a fun movie that unlikely could have happened in real life.  It seems just that the two Spanish theives (Tulio and Miguel) got along a little too well with the Aztecs of Latin America.  Wouldn't there be some differences?  (Language?  Culture?  Norms?)Anyway, Tulio and Miguel are wanted in Spain for robbery and they really were Hollywood's best actors four hundred years before Hollywood even was around.  They could always sneak their way out of trouble and they adore adventure.  They won a (stolen) map of the fabled city Eldorado from some sailors, and stowaway on a ship to the New World.  They do find the city, and they want the gold--all the gold they can get.  But is it enough???As far as I know, this is the only movie with an Elton John soundtrack.  Hey, Elton John fans will not be disappointed.  The animation rivals Disney's and all of the settings are there for it to be a successful movie.  Eight out of ten, no doubt as a rating. "},{"Title":"better then disney","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i love disney films i grew up watching 101 dalmations,peter pan,the lion king,sleeping beatey,robin hood and dumbo and still watch them i recently saw tarzan and atlantis but this film should of been disney it rocks the animation,el dorado of corse the things that happen is all very good it has the voiceing talents of kevin kline and kenneth branagh the bad guy in it is kinda cool his bet tiger is even cooler well disney will probobly knock them out when atlatis is out so until then el dorado "},{"Title":"I should have watched this before. Love the animals.","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had a number of reasons for not watching this film before now. First it was by Dreamworks. I had avoided their previous films because I thought they sacrificed characters and plot for the sake of CGI. Also I like cute animals and they did not seem to include them. (Ants aren't cute.) Second I do not like Kevin Kline. Third I saw a bad trailer. I could not have been so wrong about it.While browsing at my local rental store I noticed the video cover. There was an armadillo clinging to a horse's tail. This persuaded me. The start was rather shaky but from the moment the horse appeared I loved it. The characters were good fun especially the armadillo, the horse and Miguel. There were one of two bad songs but that didn't matter. The CGI was kept to a minimum, there was a decent plot and plenty of humour. I won't be so quick to judge in future.  9/10  "},{"Title":"Great movie, but not for young kids.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a really great movie - as an adult I enjoyed it.   But there is a fair amount of adult humor (and even a brief scene of bare-bummed male nudity)!I was really impressed that the female love interest in the movie was short and voluptuous - moreover, she was portrayed as cute and  s e x y (not just funny; as I would expect a movie to do).  How about that?  Guys get smitten with short, voluptuous women too...I don't have kids, but when I watched this movie, several times I thought This is NOT a kid's movie...  I'd probably let a child over 10 see it. "},{"Title":"A pleasure to watch","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How refreshing to find a good animated movie coming from somewhere other than Disney! DreamWorks produced a great effort here. My wife and I, as well as my 10-year old and my 4-year old enjoyed this movie. The music (by Elton John and Tim Rice) is great, and the musical numbers do not feel forced, the way they do in some animated features, but actually advance the story.  "}{"Title":"A great movie for grown up animation fans","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie with my younger brother (who is in his late teens) and we both loved it. This movie, and Titian AE, are part of an interesting new trend- animated films that appeal to teens and adults. I was stuck by how much this movie wasn't for little kids- the whole Tulio/Chel relationship notably- but since I'm not a parent, I don't have to be bothered by that. I got the impression that this movie was animated only because it is easier(ok, cheaper) to draw the elaborate settings than it would have been to constuct sets that showed as rich a setting. My only qualm with the movie is the awful musical numbers that all animated films insist on having in them- why do they all strive to be musicals? But all in all, it's a great movie. If you too find yourself drawn to such shows as Batman Beyond, you might appricate this animation that isn't geared towards small children. "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very entertaining, wonderfully animated movie. As is typical for animation, historical accuracy and real world rules are not followed, but this does not detract from the entertainment value. My husband made the comment that his is the first animated movie he's seen that is directed like a live action film.The complaint about nudity is ridiculous. The two main characters go for a swim/soak during a montage of their trek through the jungle. It is brief, viewed from a distance, and not sexual in anyway. It is simply silly. The only profanity I remember (from three or four distracted viewings) is when one of the guys says Holy ship, perfectly in context since they are about to get run over by a large ship. Parents who complain about these items should stick to G rated movies.As for the music, I am not an Elton John fan. I did not particularly enjoy the songs the first time but they have grown on me. "},{"Title":"Almost a Golden Cartoon","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It wasn't until recently that movie studios other than the Walt Disney Co. were trotting out animated features that got noticed.  And Dreamworks has so far produced two features in the Disney style, The Prince of Egypt and The Road To El Dorado.  I love the art style of El Dorado, particularly in the opening sequence.  Admittedly, it's not completely for little kids.  Some things about the movie have justified its PG rating.  But I'd say it's enjoyable for all. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  of course there were some plot flaws (okay, quite a few) and it got a little uninteresting toward the end, but all in all it was cleverly written, well acted by the voice actors, and posessing some simple animated slapstick comedy for everyone to enjoy. "},{"Title":"There's just something about it...","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After seeing countless GIFs on Tumblr and then coming across the title on a list of underrated animated films, I finally acquired The Road to El Dorado and watched it last night.Without beating around the bush, by the time the credits scrolled, I was a little disappointed. Granted, I propose that my lackluster reaction is somewhat unjustified because I knew virtually nothing about the film before watching it and therefore wasn't really expecting anything in particular; my only prior knowledge was the basic plot executed by Dreamworks in an unmistakable Disney-like visual style.There were a few things throughout the entire ninety-minute run that I couldn't help but question; like how the main antagonist's magic was never really explained, Miguel's immediate forgiveness of Tulio (who learned no explicit lessons), and a couple of anti-climaxes here and there, particularly in the end when the Big Bad is defeated after a rushed action sequence with no formal confrontation to the protagonists.In fact, that's a good word to describe the entire film rushed. The plot progression was executed comprehensibly, but it was just a little fast and lazy, and there were quite a few plot Macguffins that were painfully obvious. Most notable the horse, who regularly committed to actions and executions better than the humans did.Not to mention that I was put under the strong impression that the movie is just an instant-rice mish-mash of all kinds of clichés. For example, the main protagonist was certainly a Starscream to some notable extent. The behaviors of Miguel and Tulio were typical Cane/Able-esque. The whole liar reveal thing was the main driving plot of the story, and of course, we've seen that type of storytelling a thousand times over in movies. However.The fact that Miguel and Tulio's lie was never actually revealed to the village made the premise significantly less cliché since the ending wasn't exactly typical of the plot...at the same time, it made it pretty much anti-climactic, so I'm torn.Despite my gripes, though, I can't help but find myself really liking, if not loving, the movie simply because the characters are brilliant. Miguel and Tulio, along with Chel...all of them are wonderful and have great chemistry. If the plot itself is lazy, then the characters are more than enough to captivate the audience.Not to mention, the comedy was extremely successful. I got a really good laugh out of the film quite a few times, and that rarely happens with me.I'd recommend it, but rent it before you buy it. It's a movie that's good to add to your cinematic arsenal. "},{"Title":"Undervalued, like all hand-drawn animation","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The banter between Miguel and Tulio felt very contrived at first, but that soon passed; there were moments of true humour, and the story was a good one. Animated films just aren't treated fairly. This (like its maligned Disney counterparts) was vastly better than the majority of popular Hollywood films, and deep down, we all know it.Yes, I'm aware of the problems. While the art direction was decent, El Dorado wasn't as fabulous as it might have been; the aspects of the city most likely to give one a pure, adolescent thrill - things like the fantastic and colourful beasts, like the giant turtlish things people used to cross the lake, were neglected. It's not as though we in the audience particularly cared about the gold. (The other problem with the art direction, of course, was the CGI. It usually is.) The songs were a bad idea; note that for the most part, this isn't a musical, but one of those films in which the characters can't be bothered to express their thoughts and feelings by singing for themselves; instead, they get a pop star (Elton John here, Phil Collins in Tarzan) to do so for them. (The songs are so ineptly worked into the story you'll cringe.) They weren't good songs, either. I'd thought of Tim Rice as being, at worst, workmanlike in his lyrics; here he slips a few notches, to lame.But it's lush, it moves briskly, there's nothing really wrong with the plot, and the character animation is superb - much better than in The Prince of Egypt. Note Chel, in particular I'm glad to see ex-Disney animator James Baxter at work on a really sexy babe. (She has a tendency to waddle - I suspect because Baxter was asked to tone down the heat a little - but that only serves to make her cuter.) Hardly an animated classic, but compare it to - oh, I don't know, the live action Road to movies with Bing Crosby and Bob Hope - and it dazzles. Well, it glows invitingly, at the very least. "},{"Title":"Nice Movie...","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie-The road to El Dorado is a very comedy show where you can enjoy it from the comfort of tour sofa and will not fall asleep. With a colorful plot where anything impossible is possible to happen.The voice in and the characters portrait is a very good combination and the playfulness of the horse. All sort of feelings also comes into play. Friendship,betrayal...it shows that friendship is the most important thing to happen and that suggesting to viewers out there watching to keep up the relationships with their friends and not break it up. I give this show 10 stars out of 10, also because of the animation way it was done, the songs were very matching to what is on the screen. I recommend viewers out there to watch this show.You are never too old to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"to discover an adventurous friendship","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" tangled in an action-adventure story, sustained by computing animation inventions - a brilliant tale of the quest for the most precious thing in live - a livelong friendship, is what this film in script, songs and performance reveals to the openhearted part of the audience, with such power, that your heart feels golden like the butterflies of El Dorado, and will help you fly on in the grey reality of your life searching for your own true friends. as an adult, one cant help enjoying the quality of the dubbing, melodies and lyrics by elton john/ tim rice. children unite! "},{"Title":"Worth Watching (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a well animated film.  The images are crisp, the colors are vivid.  The characters are amusing for both children and adults.  The story-line isn't anything particular new.  Unlikely heroes find a lost city and end up sacrificing their own self serving goals to save the day, revealing that they truly are good people when push comes to shove.I felt that the Elton John songs were a little campy and weak, but nothing that had me sticking my fingers in my ears.  A few of the numbers were very fantasia like, which I felt was out of place in this particular film.  The non-fantasia like musical numbers are good.The film is cute.  The characters are like-able - I in particular found myself more entertained by the horse and the armadillo at times - and intelligently done.  This is one I might keep away from the littlest kids, but for the ones in school I think they can probably handle everything in the film.  Parents might want to watch this one first themselves, because they probably have the best idea of what their kids can handle.Watch this film! Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"cute!","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  we rented this movie for my friends little brother,and watched it with him. it was so cute! the animation is amazing in this movie. it is kind of reminiscent of Aladdin in the beginning.my favorite charachter was the horse. i think he was the smartest one of the bunch!  this movie is really cute and funny,and i would recommend it to anyone! "}{"Title":"Almost as good as Disney","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have always been a person who preferred Disney movies out of all animated movies but this movie comes pretty close to the Disney standard.I am also the first to admit that I am only judging the Disney standard on movies i have seen and i haven't seen them all. This movie had impressive dialogue and Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline did a good job of the character's voices. It also was surprisingly funny and wasn't just a kids movie as it had some older humour in it.The storyline was also somewhat original for an animated film. The only down side was the rather repetitve music which could get quite annoying but i suppose you just have to grin and bear it.All in all a good movie which i would recommend to people. "},{"Title":"***** A perfect 5 starsAnother Animated hit for the new millennium.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" StarringKevin Kline(Hunchback of notre dame),Kenneth Branagh(Wild wild west),Frank Welker(The transformers),Jim Cummings(Pokemon),Armand Assante(Mambo Kings)Genre(s)Animation,Adventure,Comedy,Family,ActionBrief Summary (Spoiler Warning) 2 spanish con men called Miguel (Branagh) & Tolio (Kline) head out to el dorado after getting a map to that place after conning a few sailors.Although the ship they stowed away with doesn't have a pleasant captain (Cummings).Our heroes although they got caught at first they manage to escape with the captain's horse (Welker).After they got to land and after a trip through the jungle they found the city and its populated by aztec-like indians such as the town's chief (Edward James Olmos) & certain others like a female theif (Rosie Perez) & Tzekel-Khan (Assante) ol'miguel & tolio are known as gods.And..(Well I don't want to tell the entire story and I know that this summary is supposedly brief).(End of Spolier Warning)Rated PGMild Language,Mild adult contentCommentAnother animated hit for the new millenniumThe goodSo many good things so little time.Well theres the animation,cast,story,humor,performances, all sorts of things.It makes a good animated movie,action comedy movie,buddy flick,etc.Although I did like Wild wild west you shouldn't be too narrow-minded for this film just because it has kline,braunagh of that movie.The badAlthough it is quite a good film the highly cynical folks in here should be careful.The casting isn't bad but its a tad odd for a american actor (Kline) & british actor (Branagh) to be voicing spanish con men but things like that are certainly not rare.Quote(s)Perhaps they should call this the road to cheldorado.(Miguel)  "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but a bit over most kids.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Visually stunning film. My own little critic, my 2.5 year old, sat thru 1 hour of it, which is very good for her. It seems to hit somewhere in the middle as far as for adults or for kids some of the scenes were a bit violent for small children (my kid jumped a few times) and the interactions between the characters was a bit over most kids. Overall, however, an entertaining film and quite a piece of eye candy. "},{"Title":"A fast paced, hilarious film","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  DreamWorks' The Road to El Dorado was a lot more comedic than their last film The Prince of Egypt. The animation was colorful and the voice-overs were great! ONE of the best films of the year SO FAR. The music by Elton John and Tim Rice was great, not to mention the background score by Hans Zimmer. However, the music from the Lion King had a lot of radio play plus the fact that more people went to see it. That's why more people remember the music. To this movie, the music is great but I don't think it will be as memorable. In the end it was incredible and I would give it 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Lavishly Done","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The marriage of image and music in this movie made for a delightful movie-going experience.  Never before have i seen such intense animation coupled with an exciting storyline.  A movie such as this comes a few times every decade, and is Disney's best since The Lion King.  Oscar talk is not premature in this case. "},{"Title":"nifty for kids and boomers","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked this animation and especially the fine voice cast.  The computer game scene quotes were beautiful (especially from Tomb Raider) and the Elton John/Tim Rice tunes are strong.  My family will see it again. "},{"Title":"I wish Elton John wasn't part of this","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For me, Elton John ruined the experience. I don't doubt for a second that Dreamworks have put out a new brilliant animation feature film, like the incredible Prince of Egypt, but did they really have have to fill it to the brim with Elton John's lack of poetic sense and chewed out songs from the early 1980's? In a way, this movie reminds me of Ridley Scotts Legend, an overall good movie, completely ruined by its soundtrack. I hope noone errs like this again. I bet you, a hundred or more people worked years to complete it, and it took Elton John a week or two to destroy it. Dreamworks is an incredible company, and they have made some incredible pictures. This is not one of them, let's all hope they don't make another one like this. Watch Prince of Egypt, or Emperors New Groove instead, and get some real bang for the bucks. "},{"Title":"Wonderful adventure movie!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado is a wonderful adventure movie with great music and tons of humor that are good for more then a few laughs. But it has some flaws...The movie starts of extremely well in a good fast pace and with some nice comical moments. But later on the movie loses some of it's pace and the story takes a not so positive turn and all the feeling of adventure is suddenly gone. A shame because the movie had lot's of potential.A major problem is that the movie lacks a good villain. Cortes is underused and plays a too minor role to be really considered a villain. And Tzekel-Kan also doesn't play that much of a role in the story. The story focuses a bit too much on the friendship of Miguel and Tulio and leaves a lot of potential unused.The movie is filled with visual beauty and some really well done scene's. The animation is above average but not as good as Dreamworks previous animated masterpiece The Prince of Egypt. That might very well be one of the reasons why this movie flopped a bit; People were expecting too much from this movie after The Prince of Egypt.The musical numbers are excellent. The combination Hans Zimmer/Elton John pays of once more. But why is the extremely fun soundtrack by Hans Zimmer and John Powell (and co.) not available? Unfortunately the only CD available is the one with the nice Elton John songs on it. A shame because the music was very good and fun! But oh well, I can still listen to it while watching the movie.An excellent feel good movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Sergeant Pepper Meets West Side Story","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The old TV show `Sky King' spent half its time on the adult hero flying around with the adolescent Penny scouring the landscape, with her periodic reports that she saw nothing interesting. I feel this way when I go to these mundane time-fillers. But there are a few layers worthy of attention we can see from a height.The first is the style itself. Cartoonists are like other filmmakers in that they stand in the footprints of those who went before. Their palette is one of quotes and references but with the references particularly noticable. Here, the directors chose to depict a legendary quasi-place and chose to make it like Pepperland of `Yellow Submarine' fame. The water effects are wholly new, but that is a matter of emerging technology, and of course we have pyramids. But once the heros arrive in the fabled city, it is all Pepperland (and the opening credits as well). Interesting. I suppose the reference is from the fabulous nature of the places and not the use of hallucinogens by the Maya. Except, well except the treatment given of the priest's magic which is wholly psychotropic.Another observation is the evolving exploitation of exotic cultures in kiddie fare. Africa (in `Lion King' and `Tarzan'), the Mideast (in `Aladdin' and the Moses thing), India (in the Kipling thing I didn't see) and Algonquian America have all taken their turn at neocolonialism, reinvention of truth, and propagation of stereotypes. But here we have a new, rather interesting insult.The Spanish perpetuated the greatest genocide in history until then by killing 2/3 of South and Central America just for gold (and crazy religion). (This was the worst in history until the Belgians killed 10 million Africans in their greed for rubber.) By the time of the First English colony, the Spanish had already imported a million Africans as slaves, because the Maya and other indigenous people didn't make good slaves. Today, in Mexico, the Maya still resist assimilation after over four hundred years. Now, the Mexicans are the cruel oppressors, still with the Spanish language, religion and governmental system.So much remarkable (and even entertaining) could be said of/shown about these people (who still don't even speak Spanish). But what do we get? The characters are Mexicans! We won't know the difference, right? But wait, it gets worse, Rosie Perez isn't Mexican but Puerto Rican, and in fact was born and raised in New York City. So we have a presumably real West Side `watchagonnado &#145;boutit' person standing for a Mexican cartoon, standing for the European Hispanic stereotyped woman (big legs, big boobs, big lips), standing for a Maya. Now that's interesting. Penny, can you see anything through the clouds? "},{"Title":"Colorful and witty pictures, with impressive animation. *** out of ****.","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ROAD TO EL DORADO / (2000) ***By Blake French	DreamWorks Picture's Road To El Dorado is an adventuresome journey into the lives of two nomads in the midst of poverty and trouble. Miguel and Tulio are the lifelong friends with very different personalities. We first meet them gambling riches for a map to El Dorado, the secret city of Gold. They win through creating. Therefore Tulio and Miguel devise an improvised escape leading them to hiding in barrels boarding a ship. When the captain discovers the stowaways he is not happy-but at nightfall the friends escape from captivity once again. This is when they become accustomed to their new friend, a horse. As the three pondering souls drift about the massive sea, they begin to lose hope. Just when everything seems hopeless, however, Tulio and Miguel hit the shore, which just so happens to be the island inheriting the road to El Dorado. 	Road To El Dorado certainly has an action packed, fast paced opening, which works well. We do lose character development, however. The filmmakers obviously presume audiences will relate to Tulio and Miguel through assumptions of lifestyles and cultures. The main characters are believable, colorful, and provoke some interesting and funny moments.Miguel and Tulio stumble upon the city of  gold after meeting a seductive and mysterious young woman named Chel. At El Dorado, the two drifters are mistaken for all powerful gods by the town's sadistic sorcerer, Tzekel-Kan, who convinces the high Chief they are truly miraculous immortals. Miguel and Tulio dream of riches, so play along with the city's hypothesis. With money on their mind and danger lurking beneath every motive, Tulio and Miguel must figure out a way to inherit the riches before the townspeople discover their real identity. 	Throughout the production, the story moves along quite steadily. All the events are connected with a strong narrative drive. The movie never explains a few crucial plot nuggets, however, like why the natives presume Tulio and Miguel to be all powerful gods, or El Dorado's reason for existence. The second act stumbles slightly due to the lack of impact of several unnecessary scenes. The sequences do propel the story forward, but do not serve a real dramatic purpose.   Road To El Dorado has an effective villain, a character who is muscular and demonic in appearance and gradual in his development of evil. He contains hidden powers and mighty strength, all elements we come to expect modern day bad guys to occupy.  	DreamWorks' animation is very impressive in Road to El Dorado. The landscapes are detailed and visually enticing. The ocean's vast appearance is overwhelming. Previous achievements in DreamWorks' animation include The Prince of Egypt, and Antz. Although Road To El Dorado is not as mature as The Prince of Egypt, it still offers an acceptable variety of humorous moments and entertaining characters.  The musical numbers performed in this feature are not memorable nor very involving. But the film as a whole contains a lot of energy and wit. I did not the like the ending, which felt rushed and inconclusive. Still, Road to El Dorado is a movie with enough effective material to be worth watching, not purchasing.  "}{"Title":"Entertaining and funny - 4 out of 5","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In fair warning, I am a huge fan of Kenneth Branagh, though I'd only found out he played Miguel a couple of days before seeing El Dorado - Thanks to previews, I'd already decided to see what promised to be an amusing movie; Kenneth was icing on the cake.So let's start there. Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh were amazing as Tulio and Miguel. They played off each other well while giving personality to their individual characters. Rosie Perez was a suitable choice for the streetwise Chel. The horse, though not a speaking animal (we get enough of those in other animations, don't we?!), had some of the funniest facial acting in the movie.I agree that Dreamworks has some work to do if they wish to truly compete with Disney, but they're getting there. I was not at all happy with Prince of Egypt, but thoroughly enjoyed El Dorado.I'm 21, and went to the movie with my mother, 55. We'd received free tickets through a grocery store promotion. My nephew is only 7 months, so we had no child to take. Therefore, I cannot offer a kiddie review. But we adults loved it. True, some of the jokes, Chel & Tulio's relationship, and some of the issues are adult, but it is important to remember that the movie is A CARTOON! And what may be stupid or shocking to adults has a good chance of going straight over the heads of kids.As for the issues in the movie, Miguel and Tulio are revered as gods because they are great white strangers riding upon a beast the natives have never seen before (horses were brought to America, not born here), and happen to match a nearby carving of the gods when the natives first encounter them. Miguel gradually reveals himself to be more than just a gold-loving swindler - backed by Kenneth's gorgeous voice, he proves to have a caring heart. Examples of same may be considered spoilers, so I'll leave it at that comment.Though the pair are wanted con men in Spain and start out obsessed with gold, gold, and more gold, they do prove to have morals. Through the course of the movie, their plans change - along with their ideas of what is truly important. They sacrifice everything they once loved for what they have come to love.Speaking of voices - 2 Spaniards (one with an American, one with a British accent) encounter a tribe of Aztecs(?) for the first time and can understand and be understood by them?! When I first realized the characters must have Babel fish stuck in their ears, I was annoyed. But as I got into the movie and reminded myself IT'S A CARTOON!, I found I no longer cared.The music. What can one say about the music? I'm tired of it being compared to the music in Lion King just because the same people did it. Okay, I didn't come out of the theatre humming one or more of the songs, but I only heard them once - I didn't have a chance to learn them. The movie could have survived without them, but they were cute. The opening song kind of helped set up the native point of view, which led to the misunderstanding about our protagonists. The Miguel & Tulio duet struck me as being along the same lines as Singin' in the Rain in the movie of the same name - they were singing just because they were in a good mood, not necessarily to advance the plot.See it. It's funny. If you don't want to waste money, see a matinee - they're cheaper. Or wait for it to come out on video and rent it. If nothing else, you'll get quite a few good laughs out of it and some eye-dazzling animation. And it's never a loss to hear Kenneth's lovely voice, in my opinion.And after the movie, pull out your kids' history books or take a family trip to the library. I think the movie will help the kids relate to what they've learned/will learn in History about the first encounters between American natives and Europeans - if nothing else, some scenes give a face (even though cartoonish) to the bland text about religious human sacrifices and other traditions, as well as the white gods. And by combining the two, you can discuss those encounters - how the natives saw unfamiliarity and believed it to be divinity, their (what we would consider) inhumane traditions, the eventual downfall of the gods, etc. - who knows? Maybe the kids will enjoy history more! "},{"Title":"Witty buddy film a winner.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Excellent film, witty and warm and well made. Kline/Branagh make a great team (wish they'd team up in a live action film); the visuals are wonderful, from character design to stunning backgrounds to giving much of the motion an Aztec feel. Elton John and Tim Rice's soundtrack is bouncy and should appeal to the parents; in fact, Dreamworks has made a film that parents will enjoy, unlike some kiddie flicks. All around a winner, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Excelent!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went with my family and we really enjoy this movie. Congratulations to the Directors to bring us movies like this. I have been waiting for this movie long time. Now It's here and I can recommend everybody to see The Road to El Dorado "},{"Title":"Guys Interrupted - by Music","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Clever dialogue and appealing characters don't quite overcome the basic flaws of this movie, though they do keep Road to El Dorado from amounting to a complete waste of our spent time and money.  The basic story line is exceedingly simple and cliched, the two 'bad guys' (Cortez and Tzekel-Kan) are very standard fare and not well developed in either character or motivation, and the movie suffers from the director's evident inability to commit to an effective target audience.  The largest and most difficult barrier to enjoyment of this film, however, was the music.  It seemed purely a nod to the apparent modern convention that animated movies must have a certain number of perky songs inserted at regular intervals throughout in order to please the juvenile crowd.  The songs seemed stamped from the same mold, were musically uninspiring to say the least, and were an annoying interruption to the flow of the story rather than providing narrative or character development, or serving as an enjoyable interlude.  The songs seemed a mailed-in afterthought on Elton John's part, and less than that on Tim Rice's; not one stood out, provided a laugh, or inspired child or adult to hum along or tap a toe.  The director would have done better to have provided the economic opportunity to some starving neophytes who might have cared about the outcome. "},{"Title":"Charming but I wonder who is the audience.","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw a sneak preview of The Road to El Dorado. The animation is dynamic.  The lead characters are quite compelling and the voices/charisma of Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh really put the movie over.I thought the movie was enjoyable but it seems a little too adult for kids and too childish for adults. Who is the audience for these adult animated films?  "},{"Title":"He gave me loaded dice!","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is another movie from my childhood days. I was expecting it to disappoint me since The King and I, 1999 animated version- another movie that I used to love when I was younger- left me speechless. And not in a good way. But this movie surprised me! I loved it! Maybe even more than I did when I was younger!Tulio and Miguel are two best friends who make a living by swindling and tricking people. They obtain a map that leads to El Dorado- the city of gold. After some unfortunate events, Tulio and Miguel, along with a warhorse, end up lost at sea and eventually wash up on the shores of El Dorado. The natives of the city are in awe in seeing the odd pair and assume that they are the gods that they have always worshiped.When I hear DreamWorks, I think of talking creatures- pandas, ogres, llamas, bees, mice, you name it. I can only think of 3 films off the top of my head where humans are the center of the film. First is The Prince of Egypt, the second is How to Train Your Dragon and the third is this film. This film, though it doesn't follow DreamWorks' formula when creating animated movies, works. It really works!This is a really funny movie! I'm sure I found it entertaining when I was younger (say 5 years old?), but there are certain jokes that you'll only get if you're of age. And Chel? Scandalous choice of a female sidekick for DreamWorks! But no complaints here.. I know my curious 5 year old self loved her. I loved Tulio and Miguel. They made a perfect pair of friends. They were both different, but had their own lovable qualities. Especially Miguel and his cute, sensitive self.The humor in this film is a tad different from other works of DreamWorks. It's targeted to a more general audience, rather than children. So I don't get why this film bombed, as people say. The songs were fun and catchy. I'm not a fan of movies that randomly burst into song, but I let it slide if the songs are catchy. And here, the songs WERE catchy! Oh come in, who didn't like 'Trail That We Blaze'? I know I ended up watching that part about 5 times! This was a fun film filled with fun songs!The things that have changed from me watching the DVD before and the DVD now were that A) I used to rewind the DVD so that I could watch the 'Chel and Tulio' scenes, B) I now am more aware of the homosexual undertones between the two male leads (don't hate me) and C) I still love this movie!Viewed on April 17, 2011 "},{"Title":"Hilarious, a job well done.","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a very funny animated film about two Spanish outlaws (although they've done hardly anything bad), called Tulio and Miguel who find themselves on a ship bound for South America and El Dorado. The two friends find themselves on a fantastic adventure - and a horse is included as well..!I like this film because it is very funny, the characters are well developed and interesting, the plot does well, the animation is good and there are good Elton John songs included! Even though this is a very funny film, dreary themes are included as well, either to provoke the audience, or to speed up the plot. Personally I like the fact that the makers did this, although not everyone else will like it.Everyone who likes animated films ought to watch this, it is good for both adults and children. One reason I say this is because there are a few jokes that teenagers and adults will get incredibly easily. Enjoy The Road to Eldorado! -)P.S Possibly my favourite quote from the filmTulio All right, we'll get out at night, grab some provisions, hijack one of those long boats and then we row back to Spain like there's no Manyana! Miguel Back to Spain, yeah? Tulio Yeah. Miguel In a rowboat? Tulio You got it! Miguel (sarcastically) Great, sensational and that's your plan then, is it? Tulio That's pretty much it. (Pause) Miguel (enthusiastically) Well I like it! "},{"Title":"Road To El Dorado","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this was an awesome movie by Dreamworks...the movie road to El Dorado had a lot to learn about..it shows strong friendship and adventure and proves gold (or money) doesn't have to complete a good life..it tells a story of friends who always have adventures and fun in stealing gold and money to make a living, and they accidentally win a map to a city of gold and the people they scammed find out they win with loaded dice..so they off on a run and land on a ship going off to search for the city..so they make their escape by the death of night and soon two days later really do land on the island..or..land..so they follow the map and it leads them to city of El Dorado,the city of gold...where they are mistaken for gods, and the rest of the story follows "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved El Dorado! It's one of my favorite cartoon movies that I have. Miguel and Tulio had me laughing from the very beginning! The characters were very colorful and well developed. I only had a few complaints, one being Chel- she was cute at first but then her dialouge started to get annoying. Also, the movie seemed stuck between trying to please two audiences. There were some pretty off scenes (the almost-sacrifice, cutting his hand, backsides exposed, Miguel and Chel's make-out session...etc) that you usually don't find in kid's movies. But then other times, the humor would be aimed at younger kids. Lasty, the computer animation was a bit choppy, but not horrible. But overall, it was an awesome movie! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Technically, Not Bad At All","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a student of animation, I think ...Dorado is brilliant. Sure, there are continuity problems and other goofs, but if the film is carefully examined, it is great. Tulio and Miguel have excellent body language and great chemistry, and are well-etched. Even the most minute mannerisms of the characters are shown. (For example, when Chel is arrested for stealing from the temple, she looks at Tulio and Miguel pleadingly in the exact same way a human would). Very realistic. A must for those who want to learn the nuances of character animation. The colours used are rich and vibrant. And of course, the humour! The usage of Spanish music for the beginning scenes are instrumental in establishing the swashbuckling characters of the two heroes. But then, to each his own ... watch it if you want to. It's a good pastime for the grouchiest critic! "}{"Title":"A Must See, but watch it twice","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is short of perfect and I only wish that I could see a sequel. Which might explain why they did not use Cortes much. The other reviewer complained about the non-villains, while I on the other hand, LOVED that about this movie. The villain wasn't the classic Disney B.S. that we've all seen 100 times and more. It was new, and something different. This movie was so original. It wasn't the cookie-cutter thing that we're so used to. I personally don't LIKE violence, I don't LIKE evil, evil bad guys. The priest was evil, but not in the obvious ways that we all know and that's what I liked most about it! A lot of it was conveyed in GREAT dialogue, and not in action and that was even more powerful. The characters were all very complex and well presented. You ended up loving them and caring about them, even the bad guys! I actually loved all the characters, good AND bad. And I like the ending compared to all the ones I've seen before.I found this movie incredibly original and I recommend that you watch it TWICE not just once!! "},{"Title":"Very good looking film.","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Road to El Dorado combines vibrant animation, lots of fun and adventure, and bits of suggestive adult humor as expected of a Dreamworks film. Sadly, it seems that with the following success of the Sinbad film, Dreamworks may be taking the animation crown away from Disney, who said that the critical flop Home on the Range would be their last traditional animated film. As a huge fan of Disney, this is obviously very sad news, as many of the animators will no doubt find their way to Dreamworks.Back to the film. The animation is great. The blend of computer effects and traditional animation give great energy to this film. El Dorado can easily compete, in terms of animation, with some of Disney's more big name ventures, however it seems to slightly lack the depth or artistry found in may Disney films. But what do you expect? This is a fun romp, not a deep epic. They go through many fantastic and somewhat unbelievable stunts that we really don't, and shouldn't, question.The songs in El Dorado are instantly forgettable (in fact, I just watched it 5 min. ago and I don't remember what most of them sound like...). I would have really expected more from Elton John and Tim Rice. There are a two exceptions. I enjoyed the song played during the credits, and the main theme song. Personally, I think the song would benefit by omitting the songs, save the songs I mentioned previously. Unlike Disney films, the songs in El Dorado distract jarringly rather than enhance the moment. Perhaps this has to do with Elton John's rather distinct voice (don't get me wrong, I love his stuff), or it may have to do with the fluffiness of the lyrics and arrangement.Overall, this is a fine film. I don't care for the songs, but they may grow on me the second time. "},{"Title":"The road to El Dull-rado","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say. I nearly fell asleep during the film. After Prince of Egypt, I was expecting more from Dreamworks. I took my kids to see the film and, as we left the theater, my 12yo son said that the movie was OK. That's it. Just OK. Since seeing the movie, neither of my kids has mentioned the film. They haven't been humming any of the tunes. They haven't recited a single line of dialog from the film. I hate to say it, but I'd rather sit through another viewing of Pikachu's Vacation that watch this film ever again. "},{"Title":"Good fun but not dreamwork's best","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado was a childhood favourite of mine and one of the few DreamWorks features that I watched regularly as a kid. I enjoyed this film quite a lot and the main things to savour in this film is the animation and the two central characters played by Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline. However this certainly isn't Dreamworks strongest film and it suffers from generally a weak songs provided by Elton John (although It's Tough to Be a God is actually pretty catchy) and a lack of a real heart or emotional core leaves me although having enjoyed the film, never being really invested in it. Overall, I would only recommend it to those of you who have seen and enjoyed other better works by Dreamworks. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A fun animated adventure film","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was a staple in my late childhood back in the early 2000s. I really enjoyed the colors and the story of El Dorado so I had fond feelings for it. I rewatched it recently and while I think it is not as great as I remember it is still fun.Good The animation is the best of the movie. It is colorful, vibrant, and very detailed. It is possibly one of the best animated of the Dreamworks animated movies. I like the voice acting with Branagh and Kline providing some worthy voices and the plot while predictable it is still fun. I like the sense of adventure provided in the movie as well.Bad The humor can be hit or miss with most of the funny stuff in the first half. In the second half, the movie slows down and it is not as funny or entertaining. The villain is pretty weak also with little development. The plot is also nothing special despite it being fun.Overall, it is a good animated film to watch purely on the visuals and it is fun despite it having a slow last half and a predictable plot. "},{"Title":"Road to Animated Amusement.","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Road to El Dorado (2000) Dir Eric Bibo Bergeron, Don Paul / Voices Kevin Kline, Kenneth Branaugh, Rosie Perez, Armand Assante, Edward James Olmos Very funny animation about the treacherous quest to obtain fame. Two swindlers gain access to a map to El Dorado. They become slaves on a ship but escape and are swept ashore an island. They are mistaken as gods by a tribe so fearing execution they go along with it. Typical plotting reduced to formula with the standard action violence climax. Director Eric Bibo Bergeron and Don Paul concentrate on humour and are backed with colourful animated landscapes. Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branaugh bring hilarity to the swindlers who will obviously have their differences that threaten to divide them but ultimately friendship will win out. Rosie Perez is wonderful as a tribal woman who will become involved with both guys. This may not set well with parents whose children this film is aimed at. Other roles are mere cardboard including Armand Assante voices the villain who feels that the swindlers threaten his chances of taking rule over the tribe. Edward James Olmos voices the tribal leader but the role seems recycled from every other animation that features tribes. This all arrives at a mindless cartoon violent climax that accomplishes little other than to provide action. The message is friendship, which is a road worth travelling. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Not as fun as it wants to be","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Petty-criminal pretty boys Tulio (Kevin Kline) and Miguel (Kenneth Branagh) are wanted by the authorities. They steal a map to the fabled El Dorado city of gold in the new world. However they accidentally stole away on Cortez's ship to the new world while on the run from the guards. They escape and end up in the new world with their new horsey friend Altivo right where their map starts. When they get to El Dorado, they run into Chel (Rosie Perez) and a bunch of warriors. Tulio and Miguel are used by high priest Tzekel-Kan (Armand Assante) in his scheme as returning Gods. Chel had tried to steal an artifact from temple, and the duo gives her a second chance.The main problem for me is that the two leads are basically the same character. The chemistry is not the best for a comedy duo. They should have some differences to make it work better. These two are both bickering witty talkative scoundrels. They may as well be the same character.The animation is fine if somewhat blocky and cartoony. I have no problem with that. It's a lot of flashy bright golden colors. The music is all Elton John and I do have a problem with that. It's not that I dislike Elton John, but it makes the music somewhat monotone. All the songs sound the same and none stands out as a hit. The story isn't as much fun as it wants to be. It certainly tries to be flashy and wacky, but it's so forgettable. And the jokes aren't necessarily funny. It's not even good enough to be second tier animated world. "},{"Title":"The Road to El Dorado","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Following Antz and The Prince of Egypt, Dreamworks Studios created this third animated adventure film. Basically, it is 16th Century Spain, and two wanted swindlers/con men, Tulio (Kevin Kline) and Miguel (Kenneth Branagh), manage to win themselves a map with directions to an island where apparently El Dorado, the city of gold, is located. Escaping from a ship as stowaways, they and a horse get shipwrecked onto an island in the New World, and it just happens to be the island on the map, so they follow the map to find the secret city, only to be taken to it by force by the natives. With their foreign appearance, and looking like some figures on a rock, they are worshipped by the people as gods, and with the help of Chel (Rosie Perez) they manage to keep up this pretence, while they plan their departure with all the gold they can get. There is the usual disagreement, and it looks like only one of them will leave the island, but it is resolved, and in the end, they escape with no gold (apart from the horse's hooves), but at least the bad guy gets what he deserves, and Chel of course. Also starring Armand Assante as Tzekel-Kan, Edward James Olmos as Chief, Jim Cummings as Cortes, Frank Welker as Altivo and Saw's Tobin Bell as Zaragoza, with narration by Sir Elton John. The animation may not be up to the standard of Disney, there are some chatty sequences in between, and a little bit of a cheesy story, but with some CGI added, at least two action bits, and two appealing lead characters by two good actors, there is some fun to be had. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"Follows standard animated flick formula","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Watching this movie with some friends, we had mixed reviews. The dominant positive note was that the film's main characters, a duo set for adventure, were some of the most charismatic men to come out of a cartoon. Their dialog was played out very well, giving the impression from the start that the target audience was probably older than films from Disney. Dreamworks has been successful with older audiences before. However, their characters were so simply defined as the thrill-seeker / plan-maker pair, that the film became too predictable, right down to which facial expression would be dished out next. Enter the token cute animals as support characters, and immediately the target audience seems to be back into preteens... until we're introduced to a character whose sole purpose seems to be sex appeal. Were this kind of character in a Disney film, I can see a leading male role dropping his jaw for a minute, requiring assistance getting it closed again. This movie takes a much more... adult approach.In any case, the movie is well worth watching for Cortes. This guy should have dominated the film. Although I was more than happy to settle for El Dorado's high priest. Even if he is a little dumb at times, his demeanor is entertaining.Oh and only one of Elton John's songs fit the scene. I just can't understand how a love song can be thrown into the middle of a fun party scene. So to sum up, a lot of the film is cheesy and predictable, but the characters bring a lot of wit and energy to the screen. "},{"Title":"not great but likable","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  `The Road to El Dorado' is no great shakes as an animated film, but it makes for a relatively breezy, relatively painless way to spend a spare ninety minutes.  The film tells the too-familiar story of a couple of fortune hunting con artists who stumble quite by accident onto an ancient civilization and are immediately mistaken for messianic gods.  In this case, the lovable rogues are Tulio and Miguel, two early 16th century Spaniards who, in a rigged game of dice, win a map to the legendary land of gold called El Dorado, reportedly located in the recently discovered New World. Voiced by Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh, respectively, Tulio and Miguel become surprisingly endearing characters.  The script uses the traditional approach of domesticating history by having its characters utilize mannerisms and speech patterns that are decidedly contemporary in nature &#150; but at least in this case some of the humor that arises from this comedic use of anachronism is actually funny.  Add to the mix a feisty Rosie Perez as a cynical Indian maiden who comes between the men, along with some `good' and `evil' natives, and the stage is set for some internecine as well as cross-cultural conflicts.  Despite the banality of the story, the film moves at a relatively brisk pace, stopping just long enough at points to squeeze in the inevitable musical numbers, penned this time by none other than the songwriting team of Elton John and Tim Rice.  The backgrounds are colorful, the animation clever and exciting and the soft-pedaling of the horrors of this particular period in history understandable in the context of a movie aimed essentially at little children.`The Road to El Dorado' will not go into the books as an animation classic, but by not taking itself too seriously, the film earns a decent amount of good will from its target audience.  "}{"Title":"Not Bad, but not real","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although my kids love this film, and that the animation of it was exceptional, I did have problems with some of the realism. Mainly the fact that the people all spoke one language and no need for interpretation was needed. Also I do tend to object to the fact that there was skinny dipping in a so called kids movie. "},{"Title":"Lovely to look at, but hectic characters and story.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The character animation here is very good, but very quick.  The first time I saw El Dorado, I missed most of the dialogue and  character mannerisms, just because Tulio and Miguel move too quickly.  The whole plot is like that, fast and furious, so much so that the viewer can't keep up.  Dialogue and events  fire so rapidly that the audience doesn't have time to get attached to any of the characters, or really follow what is happening at all.       Altivo the horse is a wonderful addition to the cast, one of the few characters the audience will love.  One thing about the girl, Chel...is her voluptuous figure.  Personally, I think it's great to see a heroine who doesn't weigh 90 pounds and have a Kate Moss look.  Chel is rounded, realistic, and portrays femininity in a sensual and intelligent way.  I have no problem with her adding in some wile and guile-- It's different and a clever change from the sweet, cute and perfect female image that Disney has churned out in so many years passed. (Mulan has been the only outstanding exception)             Despite the flaws in this film, I would like to dispel two common, ridiculous complaints about it...  At NO TIME, does this film EVER claim to be historically accurate or based on actual events.  Just the opposite, Dreamworks provides the traditional Accuracy Out with the credit paragraph about no similarities with actual events.... Due to this, viewer harassment about the portrayal of the Spanish and Native South American peoples being inaccurate, is unfounded.  If it isn't claimed by a film, it's ridiculous for an audience to impose it or enforce it.  This film is supposed to be a fantasy with a historical backdrop, not some kind of factual documentary.  Dreamworks did it this way intentionally, exactly because they wanted to have artistic freedom with it. If you're concerned about your children believing everything they see on TV and in movies, then you've got much bigger problems than 'El Dorado,' and you should deal with them elsewhere.***********  And as for this skinny dipping scene that everyone can't stop whining about.. Shall I remind everyone that seeing backsides is extremely common?  The Simpsons 'brandish their buttocks' quite often, all over network TV, The Darling's son got backyard exposure in Lady and the Tramp, (45 years ago) ...And let's not forget all those diaper companies, who have no problem showing close ups of REAL LIFE behinds of real human beings on TV every day... And these are all underage children..MINORS .. who are not even old enough to give consent, I might add.  How this is okay and not child-pornography, while having two cartoon backsides on a movie screen (distantly, for about 2 seconds) gets everybody all upset.. Makes no sense at all.    I have seen 'El Dorado' twice, and still think the plot is too quick and disjointed to yield a really enjoyable movie experience.  The music is overused.. There are a few good songs (The opener El Dorado, Out of the Blue and The Trail We Blaze) but just as many that are irritating. (It's Hard to be a God may have you wincing, or stepping out to go to the potty or concession stand.)*** On the plus side, the movie is beautiful to look at, with lots of gold and jungle and color depth, FX abound and more gleam, light and shadow than you can shake a stick at.  The CGI and hand drawn contrast is noticeable, though... Tulio and Miguel stand out badly against the rich backgrounds and computer aided props.*****There are some cute, funny and dramatic moments, but nothing consistent that will keep the viewer interested for long.  The wild pacing and lack of emotion make this film a disappointment.     Altogether, it has an unsatisfying feel to it, not a triumphant one.  It is worth seeing as a novelty, something different with a few redeeming qualities, but it's no epic.               "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Just saw it today. It was fun for me (Dad) and my 11-year-old son. Nice visuals, and just about the right length.However, I don't understand why any producer saw it necessary to insert mild swearing (let's get the hell out of here.) into the script of an animated movie! I know kids hear it all the time, but it added nothing good to the movie and was a negative point for my family. "},{"Title":"Katzenburg can't make a second Lion King, but he'll keep on trying..","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Eh.  That's the feeling that was left with me after the film.  Dreamworks SKG honestly has the only animation that has been even close to equal to Disney, combining computer fluidly with traditional animation, and very smooth animation.  But, looks alone does not make a film great.The preview alone warned me not to expect too much from this film, and I was glad that I did, because there wasn't too much to it.  Mostly cute gags and quirky comments are what are used to motivate the plot, and songs sometimes seem out of place.  In fact, the Tough to Be a God song I will go on record to say was the most pointless song ever seen in an animated film.  It had all the color, all the pizazz--no point.Prince of Egypt was very satisfying, and very unique in its mature approach towards animation, but if Dreamworks SKG continues to make movies like, Road to El Dorado....well, let's not think about it.  Spirit of the Stallion and Adventures of Sinbad will determine the pattern of movies Dreamworks SKG plans to make, and I think everyone will agree that Disney definitely needs the competition! "},{"Title":"An animated film that teaches kids how to flirt.","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my nephew to see an animated film thinking that it would contain good clean fun only to find that Chel was blatantly working to get the attention of Tulio through subtle adult methods.  Showing off her back, giving him a massage, and then he gives in and they are almost caught by the evil High Priest making out on the floor - horizontally!  I saw the user comment and no children I know will miss the thrust of their inappropriate relationship. This film shows quite clearly that men are easily manipulated by a woman showing a little skin (and in Chel's case - quite a lot - I can't believe her tube top stayed on through the film - good thing it was animated!). Nice message Hollywood.  It seems that in attempting to make the film interesting to adults they have forgotten that they are adults accompanied by children, and that perhaps children should be allowed to remain children for as long as possible in thought and in action.  It's not a terrible film, just a little more sexually charged than I think most kids need to be burdened with.  Adults like good clean fun too, especially when accompanied by minors. "},{"Title":"A racist piece of garbage","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To call this film an idiotic piece of racist garbage would be too polite. This film exacerbates every racist misconception concerning Native people, while using the invasion and genocide carried out by the Spaniards as the backdrop for a children's movie. Please, avoid this film at all cost. "},{"Title":"Fairly disappointing.","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this about a year ago and thinking it was amazing, but then again, I watched it at around midnight so I was probably far too tired to realise how good it really....isn't.It has pretty nice animation, but the plot is just so silly, and it failed to make me laugh once. It's a very confusing film, as it's hard to tell what it's target audience is. Some things the characters say are quite intelligent, and use words I haven't heard before, but it has got to be possibly the least funny Dreamworks film I've ever seen, as the humour is just so...childish. It just doesn't make sense that they use very complex animation, and have characters speaking words not even children would know, when the humour is clearly designed for children and no-one else. Maybe it was just an attempt to appeal to all age groups, which ultimately failed.Now onto the music. I was very surprised to here Elton John, Tim Rice, and Hans Zimmer were working on this film's soundtrack, and I was even a little excited, seeing as they produced the best music for an animated film I've ever heard - The Lion King. The music isn't atrocious, it's just not very interesting. Maybe it's because it's of a far different style to The Lion King's music, or maybe it's because not even the music goes perfectly with this film; which is odd considering the movie itself all over the place in many ways.While I'd probably rate this film a lot higher than most other Dreamworks offerings (because of it's animation), it's not the kind of film I'd recommend or watch again. I can see why a person like Roger Ebert would like this film, because it does offer a lot of things that usually make a film great, but it's just not funny enough to make all of the other things work. Maybe I was just expecting a Disney film with this one. "},{"Title":"Not quite golden.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have yet to see any evidence to indicate that Dreamworks makes animated films for any reason other than, Nyah nyah, Walt Disney! I can do it too! (This, incidentally, is the same reason Don Bluth made animated films, until he realized that children were scared by them) Shrek, Antz and the upcoming Shark Tale in particular seem direct attacks on the Mouse.But this movie is different. Inspired seemingly equally by The Man Who Would Be King and the Bob Hope/Bing Crosby Road pictures, The Road to El Dorado is a thoroughly enjoyable and original motion picture. Witty, gritty, pretty, and even adjectives that don't rhyme. Granted, the Elton John/Tim Rice songs are really, really, really, really, insert preferred number of reallys here BAD, and the love story between Rosie Perez and Kevin Kline is hardly believable, and Cortez sounds like a bad Orson Welles impression...but let's not quibble! Wanna hear about its strengths? Electric chemistry between the classically trained actors Brannagh and Kline (who, in an unusual turn for animation, recorded much of their dialogue together see also The Lion King and Monsters, Inc.), the surprising historical accuracy in terms of the culture and look of the period, and the open-ended, optimistic ending.Now, I for one still think that Disney consistently makes the best animated films you could ever hope to watch (I don't care what anyone says; I thought Treasure Planet and Atlantis were groovy) but if you insist on pursuing Dreamworks entertainment, this and Chicken Run are the only acceptable ones.  "},{"Title":"Not Disney, But Not Bad","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The animated feature, The Road to El Dorado, was fast paced, funny, and entertaining.  Dreamworks best picture to date.There are some adult themes, but these will most likely zoom right over the heads of children.  The musical score is not memorable, but overall, it's a pretty good show!  "},{"Title":"An okay thing...","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie very recently.  Quite naturally, it was okay.  It tried, it really did, but they did so well with Prince of Egypt that Dreamworks had a hard time I think in meeting that expectation.  The music was absolutely pointless.  For some reason Elton John decided to tell the story in his songs somehow believing that we were too stupid to understand the film.  The animation was good, a little different than the POE, but Road To El Dorado as a whole seems low budget and slopped together.  The characters were supposed to be from Spain but didn't look it or talk other than a few commonly known Spanish phrases randomly thrown into the picture.  The film was good and the villian was great, but I feel that the project was rushed. Perhaps they will take more time on the next one.  In the meantime, go ahead and see it, but wait for video. "}{"Title":"Okay, but too Communicative","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ****Slight Spoiler****The movie was nice. Although it was (to me) a bit too bright in color. As for the ending, (those who have seen the whole movie), it was somehow uncomplete. And the most important thing is communication between the tribe and Miguel & Tulio. Since the movie was made in America, English is used instead of Spanish, since the two guys were from Spain. Okay, but how could they just arrive in El Dorado and actually communicate with them at first sight???? The High Priest Tzekel-Kan and the fat chief just talked to them like they knew the same language as the guys. If you know what I mean, you'll probably notice this too. "},{"Title":"My Kids Liked it But.....","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my kids to see it and they liked it.  They had also liked Cats Don't Dance which I hated but found superior to this film.Other than some dazzling visual effects, this movie was painful to watch.  The movie was flawed.  It looked like it only took them a day to get from Spain to South America.  Tulio and Miguel swindle a treasure map and then end up on the same boat with their victims.  How come the map is not taken back from them when they are imprisioned?  How do they happen to wind up in the exact starting point of the map when they land?  Whatever happened to the guy that originally drew the map?  How do Miguel and Tulio make a volcano erupt and then stop? (It wasn't clear if it was the Shaman that made this happen).I thought Cortez went to Mexico.  What is he doing in South America.The street-wise Rosie Perez character with her Bronx lingo accent was totally out of place as a Mayan girl.This had probably the worst Elton John Music I ever heard.  As soon as I left the theater the music was quickly forgotten.  The movie didn't even have a catchy closing tune.If you need to take the kids to this one, pay a baby-sitter to take them. "},{"Title":"Cute, pretty, funny, but...","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love animated films.  I'm a sucker for a cartoon.  Heck, I even liked The Swan Princess and Cats Don't Dance.  And I LOVED Prince Of Egypt, the last animated outing from Dreamworks, despite being an avowed agnostic.  However, I feel that there was something...missing from Road To El Dorado.  I can't quite put my finger on it -- the characters were charming, the animation was lovely (albeit a bit exaggerated in the character design, but to each their own), but...well, I don't feel any urge to go see it a second time.  And after Phil Collins' fantastic work on Tarzan (which I saw nine times in theaters!) Elton John's vocals left me completely cold -- I have no desire for the soundtrack whatsoever.It's kinda sad, really.  I can't say that El Dorado was a bad movie, because it wasn't.  I would recommend people go see it just to have seen it, because it IS fun, and the banter between the two lead characters (three if you count the wonderfully devious and delightfully sexy Chel) is hilarious.  And I look forward to the next outing from the Dreamworks team.  There was just...something missing from this movie.  I wish I knew what it was. .-=K=-. "},{"Title":"Can you hear the schlock tonight?","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" El Dorado? Interesting topic, and not exhausted in film. Two protagonists? Yes; quite a number of possibilities. Animation... sure, OK!Late Elton John songs... uh, no. No very much. Wrong age. Elton (who once had a great career) has filled the last three decades with dozens of cds I don't want to own, or hear; it's the tepid work of one prematurely old. There isn't a strong, specific image evoked anymore - He just cuts right to narration about all the half-hearted mush he believes in; as old men do. These songs are all tuneless interruptions. If they took more than a week to generate, I'd be floored. Truly awful. As much as this movie has adolescent boy research written all over it, Elton John is just the wrong choice. As are Kevin Klein and Kenneth Branagh. Way, way too old to characterize impetuous rascals.So they go to El Dorado. What do you do in a city of Gold? Well they make googly eyes at children, tip over a set of dominoes, and they play basketball. This takes two hours. Ho hum. I doubt anyone can even detect the germ of any idea that Katzenberg was inspired with initially. It's all over the place. Each scene is more mediocre than the last. An hour and a half into a movie, you shouldn't still be asking Where is this going? Skip this, and rent the Emperor's New Groove. "},{"Title":"El Dorado May Be City Of Gold - Movie Sure Isn't...","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me preface this by saying that even as a 27 year old male who really likes the genre, I was disappointed by El Dorado, the latest animated feature from the Dreamworks studio.  As stunning and original as Prince Of Egypt was, the Road To El Dorado was not.What was wrong with the film?  Nothing.  It was the same formula we saw six years ago in Disney's The Lion King, with the only exception being a change of location and far less-catchy or inspired songs by Elton John and Tim Rice who were either too tired from doing Aida to put any work into El Dorado, or too tired from El Dorado to put any work into Aida (I've seen both but don't know which came first).  The only song I remember is the main title, and that's only because it's in the previews.Of interest, there were at least two times when I caught What the hell! being used - a first for a cartoon since Bebe's Kids, though that was PG-13. Also, one phrase, Oh Ship! means that silly vulgarity has now infiltrated children's cartoons.  The sexual tension between the Kevin Kline's character and Rosie Perez's character isn't much left to the imagination and there is light petting and necking in a way I've never seen in a cartoon.The running time seemed nearly eternal, and the CGI (Computer Generated Imagery) Animation seemed much more intrusive and far more pointless than in The Prince Of Egypt.  Rosie Perez must have had the benefit of a very good vocal coach, though, because she's actually clear and easy to understand in this film, unlike any other I've ever seen her in.Skip Road To El Dorado.  You'll have plenty of chances to see it on all of the McDonald's or Burger King tie-in promotions and action figures, toys and playsets aimed at your kids. "},{"Title":"We've been down THIS road before . . .","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A professional storyteller once told me, If you tell a great story simply, children will be captivated--and every adult within hearing will want to eavesdrop. This is a motto that Katzenberg and Co. at DreamWorks might do well to post over their studio door. Judging from The Road to El Dorado, it certainly is a principle they haven't learned yet.Truly great animated features never lose track of who their audience is. They don't blur audience into an abstract mass by arbitrarily tossing in something for everyone. Road breaks this fundamental rule, dishing up some pop-cultural postcolonial philosophy for adults, a few double-entendres and a lot of attitude for teens, and some sticky cuteness and a little toilet humor for the kids. Everybody gets talked down to; nobody gets the respect of being THE audience.Given that a great story is, first and foremost, an original one, Road deserves about a 3 on a 10-point scale. The plot set-up is strictly by-the-numbers, and it isn't much fun swindlers pair up, swindlers concoct a plot to get what they want, swindlers encounter a situation (i.e., a girl) that makes them question their motives and desires. The working-out of the plot--which takes nearly three-fourths of the film--is both predictable and tedious.Part of the problem here is that DreamWorks is well on the way to having created its own feature animation formula. What appeared to be original and inventive in Prince of Egypt is already appearing hackneyed, even self-parodying. Most disturbing the characters here look like the close cousins of the characters in Prince; Miguel and Tulio are enough like Moses and Ramses to be their blood brothers. They even walk and run (!) in the same goofy way. They speak in the same anachronistic dialogue, sounding like stuffy folks from a Merchant-Ivory period drama one minute and the brats from South Park the next. Figures from the Mayan Popul Vuh do the dream-sequence thing that the Egyptian hieroglyphs did in Prince. There's a spunky woman--Chel--who looks and acts and moves suspiciously like Miriam in Prince. There are obligatory _Indiana Jones_ sequences, too, like the chariots-descending-the-scaffolding bit at the beginning of Prince, perhaps dating from Katzenberg's Indiana Jones period at Disney (which gave birth to Rescuers Down Under). And there is Cecil B. De Mille-type music here, the John-Rice score bears no resemblance to that of Lion King, ranging instead from ho-hum to annoying.And speaking of Rescuers Down Under--where the kid never did return home to his mother--Katzenberg needs to learn a fundamental lesson of mythic structure you can't have a legitimate journey without a return. That is, you've got to have a home or a Promised Land for your protagonist(s) to return to or arrive at--and then you need to see that they get there. (People sitting around me at the screening I saw of Prince were muttering, as the credits started to roll, That's it?? and You mean, it's ending HERE??) Without giving away the ending of Road, I'll simply say that the concept of home (and arriving there) is still something of a problem. (And maybe Disney was right when they claimed that Katzenberg didn't have as much to do with the successful rebirth of Disney animation as he said he did.)True, there are impressive moments in this film, moments where the characters, however briefly, flicker into real and meaningful life, moments where the special effects draw appreciative murmurs from the audience. But momentary life and special effects do not a movie make; and crisp-as-the-dickens animation does not compensate for the lack of story and originality. Besides, as good as the effects are, there is nothing that compares with the best moments in Tarzan or Toy Story 2--and the upcoming Dinosaur promises to blow them all out of the water.Save some cash rent an old Bob Hope/Bing Crosby/Dorothy Lamour Road picture instead of shelling out for this well-traveled version. "},{"Title":"Incredible Colors, But Message Questionable","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First, a bad point the lead characters are ones who defraud people and they are the heroes. That's not a good example for your little kids. Minor irritations included the annoying voice of Rosie Perez and just a so-so story. The dialog, really, is more for adults than kids, which doesn't make sense. This is supposed to be for kids. The humor in here is okay but nothing special.What is special - the good news - is the visual content. In here are same of the prettiest animated colors I've ever seen in an animated film. The colors are bold and beautiful scene after scene. They are a great attraction and alone make this movie worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Okay movie... but......","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was an OK movie. There are some issues with it though. There are quite a few adult themes that kind of ruin the children's movie feel. The movie did not have to have an oral sex scene. Also, the music was a bit lacking. I know that most people feel like this movie was good, but truly it was mediocre. This is not Dreamworks' best movie, and is over-rated as much as it is under-rated. There were some historical errors. The characters were also an issue. They had no real moral, or any way to make you like them. The horse was the best character. Overall, this movie was not all that good. Dreamworks stepped it up later, and for that I am thankful. "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched the film on DVD, but I got really bored for the majority of the film, I did not even finish watching it.The story was very poorly done, I did not feel much adventure and all in all it was really boring. The worst part of it is Miguel and Tulio stayed in El Dorado for the majority of the running time. If the title is The Road to El Dorado, they should have made Cortez and his men trying to make Miguel and Tulio stay on the boat to Cuba, arriving in Cuba, doing penal labour there, and escaping from Cuba, so that they continue their journey to El Dorado, and last but not least, Miguel and Tulio finally arriving in El Dorado should have been the ending of the movie. That way, the story could be up to the name of the title, as well as more excitement and adventure. And if there was a sequel to the movie, Miguel and Tulio would become Spain's richest men, where they could help give money to the poor or something like that.On the positive side, the music by Hans Zimmer and John Powell was good, the voice acting was excellent, featuring Kenneth Branagh, Kevin Kline and Jim Cummings as Miguel, Tulio and Cortez respectively. The beginning of the movie was one of the best scenes I have ever seen in a DreamWorks Animation film and is also memorable and very exciting where we see Miguel and Tulio playing a sword fight, running away from the bull and later running away from the guards, as well as going on Cortez's boat, with Altivo the horse helping them escape, as well as being on an escape boat stranded in the middle of the ocean, but when they arrived in El Dorado, it's all downhill from that scene onwards and the film got really boring.Overall, this film is not worth watching as it shows a story that could have been so exciting and memorable that actually turns to be out boring and forgettable. "},{"Title":"Just for kids","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Miguel and Tulio are two thieves in the Spain of the XVI century. Due to a problem, their are forced to go to America to escape from the wrath of the people, there, they'll be able to arrive to ElDorado, where they'll be considered as gods, and this will cause them many problems. Though the adventure is more or less interesting (although has almost any surprise, totally predictable) the movie is quite short and it contains almost any good joke, but it's not boring though. It's a movie for kids, where they'll probably have a good time. The action is easy to follow, characters totally clear about good and bads and all this stuff. The songs (typical) are not upsetting but could be better. To sum up, a movie for kids that the parents will not be very bored at watching to it. "}{"Title":"please help","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" hi, well few years ago (about 6-7) when i was 7-8 years old I remember I had been watching my cousin playing a game which name i can't remember because it was too long ago. this game was a full copy of the film. I mean few months ago one my friend and I were at my home and we were watching TV when suddenly I saw this movie. I was pretty confused because I had never been watching this movie before but I knew what was going to happened because of the game I was playing years ago. so my question is can somebody PLEASE give me some links to a places where i can download the game or see some info about it because I've been searching for it for years and I haven't found not a sign of it at all. Thank you and excuse me for my bad English but I'm not from UK or USA D bye... "},{"Title":"many critics bashed it, but wouldn't have done so were it a Disney movie","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First, I should identify that I have never seen any of the Bob Hope/Bing Crosby road movies, and I do not wish to see them, as I have a very low opinion of both those men.* Knowing that The Road to El Dorado is loosely based on those movies might make me want to avoid it. However, I thought that the movie was fairly clever, with Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh providing the voices of two con artists who accidentally stow away on Cortez's boat, make their way to the Americas, and get mistaken for gods by the natives.Now, many critics said that the movie was kind of ridiculous, and possibly inappropriate for children. I have just one question would they have said this were TRTED a Disney movie? So many things that have appeared in Disney movies I do not consider appropriate for young 'uns, and yet the critics don't seem to criticize those. A previous reviewer noted that animation is just another film-making technique, and it doesn't necessarily mean for children.So really folks, take another look at this movie. It's not any kind of masterpiece, but it doesn't pretend to be such. Nor is it necessarily intended for three-year-old children. But I like it better than Disney fare. Also featuring the voices of Rosie Perez, Armand Assante, Edward James Olmos and Frank Welker.So would YOU go in there for a million pesetas? *Like my parents' generation, I see Bob Hope as the gross old man who took Playboy bunnies to Vietnam. As for Bing Crosby, he was really abusive towards his family and apparently an anti-Semite. "},{"Title":"The Fun Fizzles, But Good Animation","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first half or so of The Road to El Dorado is fun, but then the plot gets lost and ridiculous (as it turns into an Aztec Jurassic Park) and I think the very restless little kids didn't follow it even if the images were entertaining.The music by Elton John is completely inappropriate sugary pop -- why not use Latino rhythms for Spain by a Latino artist and some sort of pseudo-Indian for the Aztec culture? But then the two Spaniards are voiced by Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh, who are a lot of fun even if illogical. I'm sure Branagh enjoyed being transformed into a blonde surfer dude. Rosie Perez was neat, with producer Jeffrey Katzenberg's trademark impossibly bombshell female character (not sure why she ends up with Kline's character -- didn't the On The Road movies leave us guessing more who Dorothy Lamour would be with?) The animation is terrific -- with lots of water storms thrown in as is de rigeur in animation these days. Much better than the previews for blown up TV cartoons from Pokemon and Rugrats.(originally written 4/8/2000) "},{"Title":"El Dorado in Mexico????","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Come on!!! who wrote this, somebody who doesn't know anything about the history of El Dorado, the legend occur in Guatavita (Colombia) not in Mexico!!! is very disappointed this animated version of dreamworks I just couldn't believe if dreamworks try to compete with Disney this is not the ROAD when they use this title you hope the children can learn something about the legend of El Dorado like prince in Egypt but this is so.... false and have nothing to do with the real legend,not even the landscape and Cortes what is he doing in.. Guatavita, of course who wrote this picture is so ignorant that he put El Dorado in Mexico!!! probably fun, good effects, color and music but not true not even close!!! again El Dorado in Mexico?  "},{"Title":"2.5 out of 5 stars","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Funny, but somewhat simple-minded and offensive, feature-length cartoon cut out of the Disney mold of the 1950s.  Two Spanish con men (Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branagh) accidentally end up on the cross-Atlantic voyage of explorer Hernando Cortez and then wash up, treasure-map in hand, near the famed El Dorado.  While the first half hour is a fun, carefree comedy about the con men and their gaff-filled voyage, the film quickly turns into a `white man's burden' replica as the natives treat the men as gods and worship them accordingly.  Lacking in any memorable characters, the film depends largely on a few engaging scenes (including a unique game of primitive basketball), but is dumbed-down by its constant reminders of cultural superiority.  Included several Elton John songs that define cheesy music for a cartoon.  Communicates no large message, but does subliminally portray a few that the kids may be better off not learning. "},{"Title":"Weak and convoluted story","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I found it hard to believe the talent at Dreamworks made this boring, bland formula movie. The two leading character are likable enough but the movie itself is awful. The Iron Giant and Tarzan were much better entertainment than this junky and sometimes inappropriate movie. "},{"Title":"too mature for children, too immature for adults","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  	Following the musical triumph of The Lion King, and the sheer magnificance of The Prince of Egypt, there should have been a lot of enthusiasm about their creative meld - The Road to El Dorado.	But the genius of Elton John, Tim Rice and Hans Zimmer (all who won Oscars for original music in The Lion King); and Dreamworks' animation division (who received critical acclaim for The Prince of Egypt) don't bring enough to The Road to El Dorado to make it a movie worth watching.	The Road to El Dorado follows the story of two Spanish con artists who hitch a ride across the Atlantic and stumble upon a native civilization that mistakes them for gods.	It's tough to handle that everyone in this movie speaks English, although for practical purposes it's probably more handy than having small children try to read subtitles. But the movie still takes Euro-centricism to a disturbing level. For heaven's sake, the tribe actually calls its city El Dorado.	That's not the half of it, though. The two Spanish protagonists are white enough to be from Norway (although the other, evil Spaniards are dark-skinned). They are voiced by Kevin Kline (who's from Missouri) and Kenneth Branagh (who's from Northern Ireland). Members of the tribe - the movie never says exactly who they are or where they're from - are generally slow-witted, with the exception of a manipulative thief (voiced by Rosie Perez) and an evil priest (voiced by NArmand Assante).	That's not to say the movie is racist; in fact the movie is for the most part kind-hearted. But the movie is highly insensitive about race, and promotes an awful lot of stereotypes to children at an impressionable age.	However, there are plenty of other reasons young children should be discouraged from seeing this movie. There are disturbingly explicit sexual scenes, and a lot of adult humor, such as Kline's character yelling holy ship during the voyage across the ocean.	Children's movies seems to often struggle with this point - a movie aimed at children still needs to appeal to the adults who are taking those children to see it. Advertisers are quick to point out whenever a critic says fun for all ages about any film.	The Road to El Dorado seems to overdo its attempt to involve adults in the movie by sacrificing its innocence. It's not simply a matter of grown-up themes like The Lion King tackled with a character's death. On the contrary, The Road to El Dorado only uses adult themes of the most immature nature.	Add to all of these problems a weak soundtrack - weak as far as animated musicals go. John's songs are actually OK, although the movie probably would have benefited had he not provided nearly all of the song's vocals in the movie itself.	At every level of execution, something went wrong with this movie. Instead of being a promising children's movie, it turned out to be a highly flawed movie inappropriate for younger viewers. "},{"Title":"Aka 'The Road To El Duplication'","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's a clever homage early in 'The Road To El Dorado' that made me laugh out loud. This costly animated Dreamworks production pays homage to one of the company's founders (name rhymes with feelberg) when a giant shark blasts out of the ocean and devours a bird whole. It's a cartoon version of the infamous 'Jaws' poster, of course, and I hoped it was the start of something a little off Disney's beaten path. Nope, rather than blaze their own trail in the once-great land of animated features, Dreamworks diligently recycles elements of past cartoons and offers absolutely nothing new of their own. When Jeffrey Katzenberg left the Mouse House on bad terms all those years ago, someone should have told him that if he wasn't going to work for Disney anymore than he shouldn't make movies as if he was still under Walt's banner.Sticking with the theme of borrowing from past work, there's a little of the old Hope & Crosby 'Road To' pictures and also a touch of 'The Man Who Would Be King' in this flick. Those movies worked in large part because of the chemistry of the leading actors. Kevin Kline & Kenneth Branagh provide the voices of Tulio and Miguel in 'The Road To El Dorado' and they seem to be having some fun playing Spanish swindlers. When they win a map to the legendary city of gold known as El Dorado, they find their way there by dumb luck and sheer coincidence. Once they arrive, the natives are convinced that these two fools are gods and treat them like, uh, gods. Rosie Perez later joins the con as Chel, a local who is never once fooled by the half-wit impostors. Armand Assante and Edward James Olmos round out the cast as El Dorado's two-faced high priest and good-natured chief, respectively.So you can probably guess that the bestest buddies will have a falling out before the climax, maybe even over the girl and the gold. You can estimate that they'll have a cutesy animal sidekick, maybe even a horse. You can figure that they'll argue about sticking with their original plan to split with all the gold or stay in this Valhalla. And you can expect that all  this will happen against a colourful backdrop with daring escapes, villainous hocus-pocus, lush locations, and all the other standard stuff we've seen a thousand times before. This movie isn't badly made (in fact, the animation is pretty nice) and the cast does okay with the ho-hum script. In fact, Rosie is nice enough to dial down her Brooklyn accent about as much as Connery dials down his Scottish accent. Good for her.The hungry shark cameo is certainly not enough comic gold to make 'The Road To El Dorado' worth a spin in the DVD player. Oh yeah, kids will be moderately entertained and some undemanding adults will eat up the action. Who am I to throw fire on their cartoon dreams? I suppose you could do a lot worse than this movie, but I bet you'll get eye strain trying to see something original. After all, Earth Day does less recycling than this photocopy they call a movie. "},{"Title":"The Road to El Dumb and Dumber","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The title of this review makes it sound like I despised the new animated feature from Dreamworks, The Road to El Dorado.  I didn't despise it, I enjoyed myself in the theater, and so did my eight year old son.  But, I liken the movie to a Twinkie.  It's really fun while you're eating it, but when you're done, there's no feeling of fullness or satisfaction, and you wonder, Why did I spend money on that??The Road to El Dorado has one thing going for it, there are no other new movies to take your kids to right now.  For another, the character voices are wonderful.  Kenneth Branagh and Kevin Kline have a great time with the stars, Miguel and Tulio.  The opening scenes introduce us to these two scoundrels who live life on the streets of Spain running scams and dreaming schemes.  They're fast and funny.  And as animated guys go, Miguel gets a seven and a half on my sigh scale.The buddies acquire a map to the fabled city of gold, El Dorado.  Their actual road to El Dorado includes stowing away on one of Cortes' ships headed to the New World.  Through various stumblings and mishaps, they actually do find the lost city.  They get a little help from a native girl named Chel (Rosie Perez).  And the trio is caught between two leaders of the civilization who are grappling for power (Edward James Olmos and Armand Assante).There are some great messages for kids  friendship is more important than wealth, make sure you know how to read a map, the cutest guy doesn't always get the girl, beware religious fanatics and always make sure you get a really smart horse.But, in an effort to titillate the adults who enjoy animation or happen to be in the theater with their kids, the creators of The Road to El Dorado hit a pothole.  The character of Chel is interesting.  But, she's not a very good role model for girls.  She's a thief, the Mayan version of the Material girl.  She's rather loose, barely dressed and nearly breaks up the relationship between our two heroes.And our two heroes possess many qualities we try not to foster in our kids.  The Dreamworks creators say they're hapless fellows who happen into movie worthy situations.  But what they really are is a couple of con men who get to go on a great adventure.  They're greedy and sneaky and liars and frauds, when it comes down to it.And the music.  This is the trumpeted first collaboration between knighted and oscared Elton John and Tim Rice.  While the first two songs showed real brilliance, there wasn't enough substance to sustain the 89 minute running time.  And, the animation during some of the songs, particularly the ones that take place in El Dorado, reminded me of the psychedelic pinwheels and trippy color washes from badanimation treats like The Aristocats and Yellow Submarine.  I sat smiling and riveted early, I think it was during Someday Out Of The Blue and The Trail We Blaze.  But, that feeling gave way to puzzlement.  Did they run out of time or money to flesh out sequences for the songs later in the film?The really sad thing is, I can't remember any of the songs that I liked, nor did I hum them while leaving the theater.  That says something, either about me or the movie.The Road to El Dorado is a meal of empty calories, when I'd rather feed my family brain food.  There are a few scary scenes and mild sexual content to earn it a PG rating.  It's a two and a half on my scale, 0-5.The Road to El Dorado is fun for a rainy afternoon, but I'd recommend time after to discuss some of the themes with kids.  Maybe the nourishment could come from some post theater research into other Latin American myths and cultures!  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as 'Prince' but has its own issues...","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all I'll name some good points soundtrack was okay and the animation was good.  There, that said, let's get on with the other stuff.  First of all, this movie is about El Dorado and some guys going after it, right?  El Dorado was a freakin' king, okay? and he lived in South America.  And a Maya city would not be named El Dorado in the first place.  It would be named something like Chichen Itzá or Tikal, all right.  The Indians didn't speak Spanish. (Which is why people shouldn't be confused about Caracol because caracol means 'snail' in Spanish so that can't be the original name of the city).  By the way, who are these Indians?  Are they Aztecs, Toltecs, Olmecs, Mayas, Incas...Another thing, and this would be the biggest mistake in the whole movie...the villain.  This whole thing about the priest being evil is ridiculous.  In the time of the Maya, Aztecs and most especially the Toltecs, human sacrifice was widely popular and widely accepted...BY EVERYONE!  It was considered honorable to commit suicide even.  They even had their own suicide goddess for peets sake!  The filmmakers are so ignorant, it is sickening.  I understand that little American children don't want to see the losers of the Ball Game having their heads chopped off on a Chac Mool but then don't make the movie!  If you can't do everything, there's no point.  You know, people down in Central America take great pride and interest in their heritage.  Dreamworks may be successful with its computer animation but when it comes to using paintbrushes, let's stick to Disney. "}{"Title":"Should have caught up on my sleep","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I won't go into the problems that I had with this movie.  Most of them have been touched on, from sexuality, to mild swearing, to stereotypes.  I had a hard time staying interested after the first 30-45 minutes.  I was bored and looking at my watch a lot, especially after they found the city.  The animation was nice but the story was not. "},{"Title":"Road to nowhere!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not amusing animation movie about the adventures of two friends who find the way to the mitical city of Eldorado. Colorful and beautifully made, the movie is extremely talky and has too many musical scenes. I give this a 05 (five). "},{"Title":"Wow, I was surprised!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie.  But I must say that I was shocked that Disney would put nudity and some profanity in an animated family film.  That really disappointed me and I would not have taken my small children had I known that would be in the movie.  But the plot was excellent.  I wish Disney would get a clue and stop adding filth into otherwise excellent family films. "},{"Title":"A heart warming tale set against the backdrop of genocide!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If Disney has taught any kind of lesson about making cute animated films about historical events, it is that we should simply not make them at all.  Inaccuracies aside, a cartoon that takes a cheerful look at the European colonization of the America's is looking for trouble.The Road to El Dorado opens up in 15th century Spain where two street punks  become accidental stow aways on a ship bound for Cuba.  The captain of the ship is the nasty Captain Cortez, and when he finds them he orders them to be flogged and then kept prisoner to be sold as indentured servants when they arrive in Cuba.  Our two grifters, Miguel and Tulio, escape with the Captains prized horse in tow, and end up one step ahead of their captor, on the island with the fabled City of Gold.  They search out the city, find it, and then try to swindle the villagers who see the pair as gods.  I honestly believe that this film should be judged on two levels.  We should be looking at the animation, which is incredible, however, we should also be looking at the story, which, I hate to say, has a profound effect on how I feel about the movie as a whole.  Dreamworks produced this picture, and there is no doubt that they have managed to achieve the level of animation that Disney, the kingpin of all cartoon factories, has made famous, but they still have several lessons to learn.  The story is not only banal, it is slow moving and anti-climactic, the good versus evil thing seems to fizzle out.  Our heroes are almost as bankrupt morally, as our villains, and they never quite learn their lesson in the end.  The Road to El Dorado has a couple of cuddly critters, yet neither manage to tug at my heart strings.  The horse, who was crusty when owned by the ruthless captain, becomes a loyal, if not temperamental ally.  And then there is this possum who somehow decides to go along for the ride. Elton John writes and sings the music attached to this film and I hate to say it, but its awful.  I won't be looking for him to sing any of these lifeless tunes at next years Oscars.  And then there is the gay sub-text. Oh yes, if you look carefully ... if you really want to see it, it's there.  I forgot to mention that our grifters, with swishy voices provided by Kevin Kline and Kenneth Branaugh, are toned, tanned and maned to the hilt.  The scandal surrounding this film is the hot tub scene, where the boys eagerly rush naked into the steamy water.  In reality it should be no big deal, but if that sells tickets, then who am I to argue.Personally, I would suggest passing on The Road to El Dorado, only because of the lousy story.  I would not suggest it for children, only because I doubt they would be interested.  On the other hand, high praise to the animators, and my fingers are crossed in hopes that they be given a decent script for their next big venture. "},{"Title":"I'm shocked!","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Road to El Dorado is sick and obscene! It showed a girl and guy flirting and the girl feels up his chest 3 times.  The blonde guy says the curse word hell three times!!!  They shouldn't have this adult content and language on a Disney cartoon! It shouldv'e been rated PG-13. "},{"Title":"Too adultive for children, and too childish for adults (","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Road to El Dorado, hmmm, SUCKS!! This animated toilet water of a film made no sense at all. First of all, The Road, What road? They were on ship from spain, and why the heck did the indians at El Dorado smoke cigars and speak English, kinda makes you wonder, doesn't it? It was a cartoon meant for children (originally) yet all they talked about was sex, and used provocative language, obviously not for children. It was too rediculious for adults, therefore, not for adults. Who was it for? I may be wrong or right, but just keep in mind that this is only an opinion of mine.ARAF/Crimson Guard "},{"Title":"Not something for kids","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was greatly disappointed with this cartoon.  To begin with, it WAS supposed to be for children, wasn't it?  Because there is a whole lot in here which i was definitely shocked to see in a cartoon.  The female character wears a very revealing outfit and there are a number of times where the characters are involved in 'adult situations.' The story had potential- there were a number of funny parts, especially at the beginning.  But the rest of it dragged.  The music, which i always consider very important, was not the least bit entertaining but such a bore that it was only the amusing visuals that kept me from fast-forwarding. But what really put me off,as mentioned before, was the adult content. it just doesn't seem right to have it in a children's cartoon.  There wasn't any sweet romance in it but rather something else . . .  which keeps me from recommending it as something for kids to watch.  "},{"Title":"Parents Beware","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Other then the fantastic villain of Armand Assante and the very brief reference to Aztec culture this film went where it shouldn't have. For me, taking the kids to see a film specifically made for children is the only safe haven I have from vulgarity and lude acts that seem to filter through on the television. This film had me second guessing the FCC and the sanity of the people at Dreamworks, who as of the last few years have really allowed a lot of innuendo's and straight forward adult oriented remarks into their kids films.In this film towards the end the sexuality of the film takes one gigantic leap where two title characters roll around on the ground in a make out session. The language was a bit heavy as well. Since then I have yet to take my kids to a Dreamworks film (especially after seeing Shrek). What could have been a great vehicle for exploring the ancient Aztec civilization turned into a sad excuse for a film that was an attempt to push the envelope and lost. Parents beware. "}]