[{"Title":"Excellent look at the seething underbelly of New York City.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard to understand why this film couldn't command better distribution than it did.  It has a bankable cast, a strong story and a realistic presentation.  It is a raw and dark story about corruption by contractors supplying the transit system in New York City.  Parts of the story are all too familiar and the entire film is very Godfatheresque.  However, while `The Godfather' glorified organized crime, this film gives a much grittier view of the dirty deals and conniving, stripped of the Hollywood veneer.  That is precisely what I liked about it, and in all likelihood, it is the reason that it foundered on the market.Leo Handler (Mark Wahlberg) is just returning home from prison on a car theft conviction when the movie opens.  He is repentant and sincerely wants to go straight.  The deck is stacked against him though, because everyone he knows other than his mother (Ellen Burstyn), aunt (Faye Dunaway) and cousin (Charlize Theron) is corrupt.  Leo applies for a job with his uncle Frank (James Caan) who is a contractor supplying parts to the New York subway system.  He is reunited with an old friend, Willie Gutierrez (Joaquin Phoenix) who is currently working for Frank.  Willie is eyeball deep in shady deals including the sabotage of other suppliers.  One night a sabotage mission goes wrong and Leo assaults a policeman while trying to escape the scene.  A manhunt ensues and both the cops and Leo's uncle are trying to hunt him down.  With sinister intent, Uncle Frank wants to find him first so he won't blow the lid on the crooked dealings.The story, written and directed by James Gray, delves into various character studies that bog down at times.  However, speaking as a person who once lived there, it is an excellent rendering of New York attitudes and mannerisms, and includes plenty of not-so-glamorous shots of New York's seething underbelly.  This is a New Yorker's eye view of the city, far from the glitz of Broadway, Wall Street and the art galleries.  It shows the competitiveness and machismo of a segment of society known only to the locals.The acting by the ensemble cast is outstanding.  All the players capture the essence of the New York middle class gestalt beautifully.  Mark Wahlberg delivers a somber but resolute character trapped in a vortex of graft and corruption.  His performance is understated yet powerful.  James Caan is one of the best at playing the small-time racketeer and he nails it again with his portrayal of the dirty dealing supplier.  Joaquin Phoenix also shines as Willie, giving him a macho personality and the ability to rationalize any act according to his own code of morality.  The cast includes Faye Dunaway, Ellen Burstyn and Charlize Theron in strong supporting roles.  Steve Allen makes an extended cameo as the tainted commissioner.This film is excellent and has been sadly overlooked by the distributors and the public.  I rated it a 9/10 despite a somewhat familiar storyline, because the presentation is so precise and the style so un-sanitized.  The film has a real New York feeling to it, especially recognizable to anyone who has lived there.  It has my vote for the sleeper of 2000.  "},{"Title":"Interesting drama","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards is labelled a thriller, at least here in Sweden, but I think that this movie is a drama more than anything else. A very dark drama about crime and family. I was pleasantly surprised when I realised that this was not the Godfather-wannabe that some people have suggested. The Yards stands on its own, and even though it is no masterpiece it is a very interesting and tense drama with a great cast. Mark Wahlberg does a good job, but Joaquin Phoenix is certainly the stand-out. Also, his complex character is by far more interesting than Wahlberg's stereotype. Great performances from Charlize Theron and James Caan as well. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Cut Bait","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards invites you to taste corruption and to witness an imposed morality and then slyly allows you to resolve its escalating entanglements.  It is a well-acted morality tale written and directed by James Gray that is as topical now as when the first bureaucrat accepted graft.  Mark Wahlberg's Leo Handler character is a loser who seeks to redeem himself from the neglect of his sick mother and the evil he has done to others.  If only his friends and relatives had similarly good intentions.  The world he inhabits is a society with the unwritten code of conduct to never snitch or else pay the consequences.  The best scene involves Leo as he nervously proceeds with his orders to kill the policeman who can finger him in the rail yard assault.  Can he justify yet one more crime in order to maintain the good graces of his benefactors?  Joaquin Phoenix's character, Willie, is perhaps the most tormented figure, having to choose between his high-minded intentions and his immoral survival instincts. He becomes less the controller and more the henchman of what others tell him to do.  The excellent cast gives The Yard a true flavor of the perverse nature of favoritism from Faye Dunaway and James Caan to Ellen Burstyn and Charlize Theron (in a surprisingly youthful dark mascara look).  However, Joan Allen would have added a harsher, more pessimistic visage to the sometimes inappropriately bubbly Burstyn.  This film displays well how corruption commands people's lives and how hard it is to break out of that code of conduct.  "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable, but only Joaquin Phoenix was remarkable","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The yards is a film about the shady on-goings of the contractors in New York City who work to rebuild the city's subway cars. Underneath the suits are ruthless mean trying to get ahead in the busines by whatever means necassary.  Everything seems to be going fine until Leo Handler (Wahlberg) gets out of prison and enters into the dark business himself, his presence will trigger a series of events that will rock their dangerous world.Leo finds that his aunt (Dunaway) has married one of the biggest contractors, Frank Olchin (Caan). With no money and a patrol officer breathing down his back, his mother (Burstyn) in bad shape, Leo turns to Frank to help him out by giving him a job in his successful business. Leo wants to follow in his best friend, Willie's (Phoenix) footsteps in the business, 'cause it seems Willie is doing ok for himself, with enough cash to spare for his girlfriend (Theron) and consequently Leo's cousin and one-time-love.  But when a money-deal goes wrong, Willie kills a yard-master and Leo beats a cop into a coma - something that could see him revisiting prison and getting a life sentence. Now Leo is on the run, and blamed for the murder aswell. The business that welcomed him with open arms, is now looking to get rid of him, before he brings down all they worked for.The Yards is slow at times. The story-telling appears to go at a snails pace, but thats ok, because the story-tellers (the actors) are more than enthralling enough to entertain for the whole 110 minutes. Wahlberg is deep and moody as always, and while the performance mirrors alot of his previous works, he still seems to have 'something' that keeps you hooked. Theron proves she is more than just a pretty face as she plays a soft-spoken character who has much to hide and slowly reveal as the plot thickens.  But the out-standing performance is Joaquin Phoenix. This man can do no wrong and is seriously one of the best actors of our time. He is disturbingly dark at times, but can easily switch gears and play-out the most emotionally intense scene with just a single tear running down his cheek. this man is amazing, and one day justice should be carried out and he should be handed an Oscar.Watch this film, if for nothing more than to check out the Wahlberg/Phoenix punch-up which the actors really participated in (and were apparently black and blue the next day). Great, great film. "},{"Title":"Awesome - a classic","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards is simply one of those classic movies rare to find these days. Unfortunately it hasn't achieved much success (At least in my country), and that's a crying shame. I really can't see why, because it's got everything that makes a movie good (Great acting, a great cast, and a well-developed storyline). This is one of those films I need to see again just for the pleasure of it.Nothing else to say, simply watch it whenever you have the chance. You won't be disappointed.10/10. "},{"Title":"Too much plot, not enough time","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The cast and acting in this crime/drama is great, but the actors are let down by a melodramatic script that is too busy. The Yards is a character-driven story, but the problem is that the script has too many subplots going on which doesn't give us the time we need to know and care about the characters. By the end I really didn't care what happened, because I didn't know the characters and didn't care how the plot was resolved.Basically The Yards tells the story of Leo, a working class young man who returns home from a stint in prison to his ailing mother. His best friend, Willie, takes him on at Leo's step-uncle's subway train outfitting business, where things aren't exactly above-the-board. Leo gets more involved in the business and things go awry. And along the way, there's a hundred and one subplots.This movie had some nice moments, and great acting, but it can't rise above a script that tries to pack too much plot into too little time. "},{"Title":"A much more complex and interesting film noir than it seems.","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is interesting about Grey's picture is the use of understatement to emphasize the complexity of negotiated relationships in the New York world where mob business and city administration intersect. Wahlberg's comparative lack of expressiveness suits his role as a minor crook out of jail and wanting to go straight; it's echoed in his mother's passivity, and her statement that the two of them have this in common. He's not stupid, but he's tentative as he emerges from jail back into the world; his uncle is willing to help, but has complex and risky operations that make him cautious. In any event, Wahlberg's tentativeness leads him instead to his old and apparently warm friend, who's grown into slack opportunism (as his uncle clearly knows, and would like to keep his nephew away from). When the friend stupidly kills the yard manager, he tries to spare his pal, but finally lets the latter take the rap and run off (in violation of his parole). The film gets interesting at this point one expects Wahlberg to be the victim, but he has figured out that he's been set up, that even his uncle is willing to have him killed to cover up the crime, and that he's got to drop his earlier loyalties and figure out a way to clear and protect himself at the same time. The solution is a real New York compromise between truth and justice the identifying cop is paid off, the real crook kills his true love inadvertently and, crushed with anguish, is taken. Wahlberg has set himself right with the law, probably will be used by one side or the other of the warring tracks manufacturing moguls, crime and bribery continue as always in the Big Apple. What's refreshing about the picture is its calmness of tone -- the violence is justified but not overdone, the acting has the assurance of real people doing what they must. Poor photography at times -- confusing shots which add to the difficulty of following a complex plot. But it's a better picture than comments suggest. "},{"Title":"when opinions are this polarized. . .","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . you know you've got a movie that tried something different. Not NEW, necessarily, as The Yards is paced, structured and shot like it was made before 1976.  But you don't see that often these days. The Yards is an entertaining and noble attempt at a tribute to crime films of that era. I have friends who don't have the attention span to sit through The Godfather(on some days neither do I) - I wouldn't recommend this film to them. Reared as our younger generation was on Spielbergian and MTV-cut films, the pacing of both that film and The Yards are slow and deliberate - sometimes hard to take.  The Yards could have used a bit of tightening up in editing, just seconds off of a scene here, a scene there to move things along, but still, it's a strong film. The first thing that caught my eye was the sparse dialogue.  There's a lot of acting going on here, and not of the scenery-chewing variety (recent Pacino).  The actors are given a lot of room to act with their eyes and bodies.  You're not hit over the head with 2-D stock characters, although it may appear so at first.  The story is genre  ex-con, returning to his New York borough neighborhood falls right into the same circles that got him in trouble in the first place.  What follows is a story of corruption, redemption and family; structured almost as a Greek Tragedy.  But quietly.  There are no good guys or bad guys, as almost everyone is on the make.  The overall impression projected is that everyone is protecting their own and trying to succeed in a system that they live in - not one they created or control.Mark Wahlberg isn't a great actor, but he delivers what the character requires.  Charlize Theron isn't in her element playing a Queens-chick, but aside from a faltering accent, she does pretty well. Excellent acting is delivered by Joachin Phoenix, as well as veterans Caan, Dunaway, and Ellen Burstyn. The Yards is a good movie, although admittedly, not for the average movie-going audience.  It likely won't meet their expectations of what a good movie is. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Perfect","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Imagine a painting hanging in a museum.  It's a masterfully rendered portrait of a family, a house in the background.  Maybe a lake off to one side. The picture is absolutely flawless, and if you merely glance at it, or even give it the once-over, you can recognize it as a picture of a house and a family, and move on.But if you stop to look at it, it's not quite perfect.  The color of a scarf clashes with the rest of mom's outfit.  That squirrel in the tree only has three legs.  Little things to let you know that the artist, while talented, still hasn't perfected his craft.  Or, more likely, if the painting weren't so excellently rendered, you wouldn't be able to point out the scarf, or the squirrel, or any of the finer details.Like this painting, we have The Yards, a story centering on Leo Handler (Wahlberg), freshly released from prison and trying to look after himself and his mother.  The story is well-told, the characters (with the exception of Dunaway) are carefully acted, and this character-driven drama is fascinating to watch.But taken as a whole, parts of the film were just overlooked.  Wahlberg acts with a blank stare, his character just as dumb as his character in Boogie Nights.  None of the female characters exist for any reason except for the audience to feel pity for them.  Every death is predictable, minutes before it happens.  And the entire story spirals into such a depressing destination, I can't at all think of who I could recommend this film to.  It was well-made, but James Gray would do better as a playwright with material like this.An exquisitely well-made, beautifully directed film.  The pictures are wonderful and the performances are excellent, but be warned that this film is a serious, serious downer.  May the director find lighter material soon. "},{"Title":"A swan that turns into an ugly duckling.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many consider the film noir to have died in 1958 after Orson Welles made Touch of Evil. It was deemed so perfect that no one really took a stab at true noir again. However, in the late 60's and early 70's, the noir revived as the crime film. It was less mysterious and relied more on criminals and such. Since Polanski's Chinatown in 1974, many movies inspire themselves from noir. The Yards is one of them.Leo (Mark Wahlberg) is a young man just out of prison for car theft. He goes back home one night to find his family and friends throwing a party for him. Now that he is out of jail, Leo is looking for a job. He arranges with his friend Willie (Joaquin Phoenix) to try and get a job at Leo's uncle's  (James Caan) company where Willie works. Willie is dating Leo's cousin by marriage, Erica (Charlize Theron). The family is completed by Erica's mother, played by Faye Dunaway, and Leo's mother, played by Ellen Burstyn. Leo goes to meet his uncle, who tells him that he would be perfect as a mechanic, but he'd have to take a two-year course. Leo wants the same job as his friend, which consists of `dealing with customers.' One night, he and Willie go out to negotiate and their deal turns awry. Soon, Leo is wanted for murder. But he didn't do it. Or did he? No, he didn't. Maybe he did. Watch the movie.As in most film noir (and film noir inspirations), the plot is hard to follow. The story is intriguing enough to warrant a movie, but the way it is handled is less impressive. I have no idea what is done, but the movie manages to make the viewer drift away completely from the plot. Frequent plot changes take us to Leo's mother. Leo's mother is boring. All she does really is try and not have a heart attack. It's a shame when a gifted actress like Ellen Burstyn is given such a bare bones part.Mark Wahlberg seems to have bitten off more than he can chew as Leo. While he has shown great talent in Boogie Nights and Three Kings, he seems `out of it' here. Charlize Theron shows pretty much the same talents as in The Devil's Advocate, that is, sobbing a lot and taking off her shirt. Dunaway and Burstyn, two grand actresses and Oscar-winners, are given very small, pointless roles. I could've very well seen anyone else in the part and the movie wouldn't have been spoiled for me. Phoenix comes out best as the slimy Willie. He is really one to watch, much more than Heath Ledger who may get girls ga-ga, but couldn't act his way out of a wet paper bag. James Caan, on a Hollywood comeback since Mickey Blue Eyes, also gives a good performance in the handful of scenes he is in.The Yards has much better mood than matter. The feeling of paranoia is well achieved, partly because of the brooding score, good photography and nice lighting tricks. However, the story is derivative and confused, the performances are so-so and the whole experience is sloppy. They get points for trying, but it never becomes as compelling as it should be. 5/10  "}{"Title":"Great cast,mediocre movie,disappointing Wahlberg","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I expected a lot of this movie and I felt a bit cheated. All right,the reviews weren't that super but with an assembled cast like that,who could blame me. Joaquin Phoenix was great (after his superb role in Gladiator) but leading man Mark Wahlberg seemed a bit lost. Don't get me wrong! He's a fine actor and let's leave it like that. The oldies (James Caan,Faye Dunaway,Ellen Burstyn) left behind a good impression. I'll just end by saying that this ain't another Godfather or Goodfellas. Just a decent movie to watch on a rainy day. And ponder on the fact that in this movie the young generation have a lot to learn (including beautiful Charlize Theron) from the oldies. Excluding Joaquin Phoenix,ofcourse. "},{"Title":"An acutely observed crime drama","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Yards' is a sombre tale of corrupt city bureaucrats, semi-gangsterish businessmen, and the small-time crooks who do their dirty work, as they tussle over maintenance contracts on the New York subway system. This is a world of mundane corruption and criminality, whose inhabitants live several rungs down the ladder from the kind of mafia dynasties depicted in 'The Godfather'. Although the cinematography certainly nods towards Coppolla's epic, particularly the dark brooding interiors, this is a less self-consciously grandiose drama, more an intimate study in betrayal.The chief protagonist is Leo Handler (Mark Wahlberg) a young man returning home after a spell in prison. As is obligatory in such tales, he is intent on going straight, but finds himself lured by his smooth-operating buddy Willie Gutierrez (Joaquin Phoenix) into the semi-legitimate business operations of his step-uncle Frank Olchin (James Caan).Frank is finding it increasingly tough to win subway contracts, due to competition from rival Hispanic firms, who are being aided by preferential treatment policies for minorities. This has led him to task Willie with sabotaging the operations of his competitors so they fail to meet municipal work standards. When one of these sabotage missions goes violently wrong Leo finds out just how fragile loyalties can be. Nepotism and friendship soon evaporate when their is a murder to be explained, and Leo must fend for himself if he is not to take the fall.The film provides an intriguing look into a sordid and incestuous community in which family and business interests intertwine, with connections, favours and dirty tricks being the accepted way of getting things done. The protagonists are not simply bad people, but are proper characters, compromised as much by the environment they operate in, as by lax personal morality. In the aftermath of the murder, their betrayals are not mere cold-blooded expedients, but anguished decisions driven by instinctive self-preservation.Overall this is a subtly observed drama, skillfully acted (particularly by Joaquin Phoenix) and handsomely shot. The final climax may be just a tad overwrought, but personally it could not spoil an otherwise admirable film. "},{"Title":"Joaquin Rocks!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards was an OK movie.  If Joaquin Phoenix is in it you can be sure his acting will be first class, which it was in The Yards.  He is the best of his generation with very few able to hold a candle to him.  He is extremely versatile with a huge range of emotions.  I have never seen him give a bad performance and I've seen most of his work.  Without him in The Yards, the movie wouldn't have gone anywhere even though Mark, Faye, James and Charlize did well in their performances.  Joaquin added that touch of class which brought out better performances from the other actors.  I will watch it again and again, that's for sure, just to see the master (Joaquin) at work. The story is good enough so overall I'd give the movie an 8 out of 10, just because JP was in it. I give him a 10+, but perhaps I am a wee bit prejudice? "},{"Title":"unexplicably underestimated","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it a true shock to find out that The Yards only gets 6,5 out of 10. First of all the actors put down an amazing performance. Joachim Phoenix, Mark Wahlberg and Charlize Theron are truely rising stars.Most people may find the Shakespeare-like tragedy not their kind of cake. I find it refreshing none the less I'm sick and tired of all the good guys/bad guys kind of movies who all end happy.Thank you, James Gray, for your amazing masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Exceptional film, well done in every way","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This poetic film appears to create a particular style to tell its story, it isn't a ride as people often describe films lately, it's an experience. Production values are exceptional, it's beautifully written, directed, shot and edited, gorgeously acted, featuring a first-rate performance by Mark Wahlberg. "},{"Title":"The Fences","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Some minor chances taken here. It's a new fashion to make actors' pictures. Altman's been doing it for some time, but now we have guys like Anderson and Grey who bank everything on commitment. And these are committed actors -- they obviously are working hard, and it shows. It may work better in a theatrical setting, but this stuff only connects when you engage the viewer visually. (Or in some other metaphysical wrapper.)And that's where this falls down. It's not the script as you would think, because in films like this, the story is the merest excuse for powerful images of some kind. You can flash like PT. You can build a wrapped environment for the actors to populate like Ridley. You can play games with the narrative like Kubric. But you've got to do something with that character called the eye other than rehash Godfather lighting.Interesting to see what this guy does next. "},{"Title":"The movie that goes on and on and on...","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a shame that THE YARDS isn't a better movie considering its cast of acting heavyweights---James Caan, Ellen Burstyn and Faye Dunaway alongside new-bloods Joaquin Phoenix and Mark Wahlberg. Wahlberg plays a recent parolee who returns to his Queens neighborhood intent on carving out a more respectable life for himself and his mother (Burstyn). After getting tangled up with old friend Willie (Phoenix), Walhberg soon finds himself wanted for murder AND hunted by low level mobster Caan (who happens to be his step-uncle)---all the while trying to protect his cousin (a sleepwalking Charlize Theron) from Phoenix. Wahlberg mumbles through the movie and Theron is fairly dull. Excellent acting by Caan and Burstyn can't hide the fact that THE YARDS is extremely convoluted and despite a running time of less than two hours feels much much longer. The off-beat supporting cast includes Steve Lawrence (yes, Steve Lawrence) and '70s TV star Tony (TOMA) Musante. "},{"Title":"one of great unseen movies of the nineties","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to move pretty quickly when this movie first came out. In spite of strong reviews, I guessed it wouldn't be around for long (in recent times, think of the wonderful Tabu, which in spite of ecstatic reviews, totally bombed in the UK). It was good that I caught it and I did not regret it. This is more than a story of corruption and redemption, it is also an amazing mood piece. The fact that so many quality stars were involved in this film tells you how impressed they were by the script and by the vision of director James Gray. I think the slow ratcheting of tension was beautifully done, not at all boring. In some ways it reminded me of On the Waterfront, which I also love and was as much about character as plot. Yes, it is THAT good. "},{"Title":"Somber, well acted, but the script's far too conventional","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a review of Little Odessa, The Yards and We Own the Night, three crime dramas by director James Gray.Released in 1994, Little Odessa stars Tim Roth as Joshua Shapira, a volatile criminal who has been exiled by his family. A prodigal son returns narrative, the film watches as Roth returns to his family home. Though his relatives still distrust him, Joshua is idolised by his younger brother, little Reuben Shapira (Edward Furlong). The film ends, as most prodigal son tales do, with Reuben dying, paying for his brother's sins.Little Odessa was Gray's debut. It's a very good drama, well acted by the always electric Tim Roth, but the film's ethnic details are unconvincing and Gray falters in his final act with an obvious, overblown sequence in which little Reuben is accidentally gunned down.Gray followed Odessa up with The Yards (2000), a crime drama set in the commuter rail yards of New York City. The film's structure is similar to Odessa, and sees Mark Wahlberg playing an ex-convict who returns home after a short stint in prison. Wahlberg attempts to stay clean, to keep his nose out of crime, but is drawn back into the criminal underworld by a friend played by Joaquin Phoenix. The film retains the brotherhood dynamics of Odessa, Wahlberg playing the good son who eventually turns on his suffocating sibling. Once again the film ends with a ridiculously over-the-top death sequence.While The Yards has a certain, smothering pretentiousness about it, convinced about its own importance (it's lit like Rembrandt, street fights are filmed like Visconti's Rocco and His Brothers and it's reaching for the tone of Coppola's The Godfather), Gray nevertheless cooks up some wonderful strokes, like a beautifully sensitive welcome-home party, a wordless assassination attempt and a fine, aching performance by Wahlberg. It's a great mixed bag.Gray then directed We Own The Night, arguably his best crime flick. The good brother/bad brother motif returns, this time with Mark Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix playing a pair of brothers on either side of the law. Phoenix's a perpetually high playboy who owns a nightclub frequented by drug-runners and mafia types, and Wahlberg's a straight-arrow cop trying to keep the streets clean. When the mafia unleashes an assassination campaign on local cops, Phoenix switches allegiances, goes undercover and attempts to take down the mob. There are touches of Donnie Brasco, Rush, Point Break, Serpico, State of Grace, Infernal Affairs and every other undercover cop movie you can think of, but the film is beautifully lit, is atypically straight-faced and features a superb, rain-soaked car chase.Some have suggested that Gray's trilogy should be celebrated for working in a classical, almost conventionally Greek mould. That his conventionality suggests that all his characters are at the mercy of already in place contours, their fates forgone. Mostly, though, Gray's trilogy highlights the ways in which contemporary artists have struggled to conceive of a response to postmodernism. The crime movies of, say, Tarantino and Scorsese, are unashamedly postmodern, toying with and regurgitating clichés from 1930s Warner machine gun operas and MGM crime flicks. They aren't about crime, so much as they're pastiche jobs, jazzed up films about crime films. As a response to this aesthetic, artists who deem themselves serious, who rightfully ask what exactly comes next?, tend to look backwards at what came before, as though post-war modernism, by virtue of being modernism, is intrinsically the solution. This leads to classically shot and written but wholly regressive fare like Gray's trilogy, which essentially unscrambles the world's Scorseses and Tarantinos and puts you right back in the 1940s, minus the irony and flippancy.But you can't go backwards in this way; your audience will always be ten steps ahead and there will always be a huge chasm between your solemnity and the tired insights your film delivers. This is why true progressive works in the genre, for example fare like The Wire, which actively attempts a cognitive mapping of both global capitalism and crime, are neither modernist or postmodern, whilst possessing the vital traits of both. Philosophers have alternatively coined this new movement neoprimitivism, pseudomodernism, participatism, post-post modernism, but the one that seems to be sticking is new modernism.Whatever you call it, this hypothetical movement rejects postmodern nihilism (nothing matters, there is no truth, it's just a film), actively tries to convey the complexities of our world, and covertly believes that it is possible and necessary for individuals to make value judgements, take stands, approach objectivity, and back facts up. It is modernist in its desires to understand, teach, decipher and make better the world, and in its emphasis on culture, society, technology and politics. The movement doesn't reject postmodernism, but co-opts its tropes and bends them to suit its aim, questioning agency, subjectivity and attempting to piece together the fragments and multiple perspectives that typify complex systems. In short, truly relevant crime films simultaneously simulate our contemporary environment of junk, noise, commerce and static, before proceeding to decode, organise and target roots. As William Gibson said way back in the 1980s, future great artist will function like search engines, mapping and making sense of the detritus. Gray goes backwards to when there was less noise.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"James Gray film mixes a good noir cinema and thriller movies","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Film directed by James Gray, who tells the story of Leo Handler (Mark Wahlberg), who just released from prison, and trying to straighten out his life, he becomes involved in a murky issue of the hand of his friend Willie (Joaquin Phoenix) and his uncle Fran (James Caan).The film has some classic black cinema memories mixed with the thriller of the 70's. Indeed, what is proposed in James Gray is a journey into the past, not only because history tells us has a certain aesthetic to the 80, but explain how the story has many more points of contact with the past.Gray show waiver dizzying stunts and chases. Instead, a tight script clearly dominates the important thing is the characters involved in the plot and the wonderful treatment that makes them the director. Although one could say that the film is on three bands a Leo who has been in prison without betraying his fellow raids, but now we will see, by force of circumstances in a similar situation, while Willie exercised a powerful influence, image of the winner, but with feet of clay, and above all his uncle, Fran a person who from the beginning has a lot to hide. But Gray does not neglect other important characters in the plot such as premium Leo, Erica (Charlize Theron) with little presence but a lot of weight argument (although rather implicit, we sense only on small details) or the mother of this Kitty (Ellen Burstyn), without forgetting the presence of Faye Dunaway playing the wife of Fran.The merit of the script is that every character has a bearing on the story, aided by the excellent director of actors that showcases the director. All are fabulous, but it is true that it should be stressed above all Joaquin Phoenix and James Caan true aces of interpretation, well above Mark Wahlberg an overly soft.The third pillar of the film is staging a gloomy photography when we see the very studied characters outdoors and play of light and colour when it comes to indoor scenes. This achieves a gloomy atmosphere, which gives perfectly murky tone to what we are telling.A dry film, resounding round without being at all, remembers the good times get the police and noir cinema film. "}{"Title":"Great, moody, dark slow-burner with excellent performances all round","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've just read someone else's review of this film that claims there are too many subplots, that it is too melodramatic and that there is so much going on the reviewer ended up not caring what happened.This could not be further from the truth. There are only a couple of subplots, and they are very basic, easy-to-understand concepts that do not get in the way of the main theme.I would also contest that this is a 'romance'. Whilst this is one of the subplots, putting it under 'romance' as one of the main genres is mildly misleading.The performances from all central actors are excellent. As my title suggests this is a slow-burner but Walburg puts in a great performance and I DID care what happened to him in the end.Oh, and listen out for the soundtrack. It really is quite striking. "},{"Title":"An underrated noir slow, moody, surprising.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One man's decision to turn around his life in a rush and another's rush to avoid having his life turned-around set the stage for this noir tragedy. We've seen these folks before in other movies, but we're still moved because we might have made worse choices still in their shoes.Leo (Wahlberg's character) returns from prison to a great welcome home. He just wants to become a productive citizen again. His cousin's Erika (Theron) is dating his best friend, Willie (Phoenix), who's working for her step-dad, Frank (Caan). Frank wants Leo to take the high road towards a new life, but Willie's encouraging the low...and what young man can resist such temptation?Although Leo, his Mom (Burstyn) and aunt (Dunaway), all want him to go straight, Leo can't see that Willie's way is more than a shade crooked. Before Leo gets a chance to really choose, Willie makes a choice that sends the families, the yards, and borough politics on a collision course. Each step along the way, folks make their prisoner's dilemma choices with disastrous results for all.The film is shot dark, evoking the barely colorized films of the 50s and 60s, but clearly takes place within the last decade. The noir mood is held by the high quality of the acting (I don't usually like Wahlberg, but for once he doesn't get in the way of his natural charm). Writer/Director James Gray keeps us in the mood, spending just enough time letting us glimpse the hard choices that everyone makes...and to see why they choose poorly over and over again.We want Leo to choose the clean life, but we can see why he doesn't (and why we might not in his shoes). We want Willie to walk away rather than act rashly, but we can see why he can't. We want Uncle Frank to do the right thing, but it's clear why he won't.It's too bad that Gray had to ruin the ending with a been-there-done-that Hollywood ending. Mind you he's done a better job than other corruption-and-politics movies, but it still feels a bit like a cop-out (you should pardon the expression).Despite the ending, it's a great film. And you'll find yourself still thinking about Leo and company's choices for days afterward.I rated this 8/10.If you don't like slow, moody, noirs, give this a pass. "},{"Title":"Stayed with me","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie on advice of a friend.  I didn't really like it at all.  I felt it was an 'artsy' piece and returned it that evening.It's been 2 months.  The Yards hasn't left me.  Something about this movie, the characters and plot just stay in the back of my mind.  I highly recommend this movie. I can't say exactly why, but I loved this film. "},{"Title":"Terrific modern-day noir","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent film, well-written and expertly told. Unlike so many so-called neo-noir movies, this one is concerned with time-honored virtues of traditional storytelling, not style and attitude. As a director, Gray had the courage to tell his bleak, oppressive tale in a quiet, measured way, resisting the urge to ratchet up the action and decibels and pander to a jaded audience. If the story gets a bit needlessly contrived by the climax, it's rescued by the exceptional cast. This one can stand with the best of the classic noirs. "},{"Title":"2000 was a good year for Joaquin.","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Joaquin Phoenix did well in 2000. An Oscar and Golden Globe nomination for Gladiator, a couple of nominations for Quills, and a Critics Choice Award for this film along with the other two. He put out some great performances that year, and this one should not be overlooked.It shows the seedy underbelly of politics and city contracts, but it is more important in the study of friendship and how sometimes you can never really fit in.Willie (Phoenix) and Leo (Mark Wahlberg) are friends, but when it comes down to the wire that friendship is expendable as Willie is trying to forget his Hispanic background and fit in with White power in the city. The fact that they are both in love with the same woman (Charlize Theron) also complicates things.You never really know where this tragedy is going to end, but you can be sure that is will end tragically. The journey is made more interesting with characters played by James Caan and Faye Dunaway.It is a trip worth taking for film noir lovers. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards is not just good; it's excellent. James Gray proves to be a great director and the cast he assembled is, to say the least, stellar. Joaquin Phoenix wowed again; he was brilliant as Willie Gutierrez and in every scene he's in it's hard to take your eyes off him. Mark Wahlberg was mostly subdued as Leo, but it worked. Charlize Theron and James Caan both put in believable performances. The only unfortunate thing about this movie is the lack of attention it's receiving, in Singapore it's showing in only 3 theatres (which is very pathetic). I truly believe this film will make you think. 4/5. "},{"Title":"An underrated near-masterpiece","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Yards got nowhere near the attention it deserved but hopefully will gain new appreciation on DVD. The acting is uniformly excellent Mark Wahlberg once again proves how far he has come from modeling underwear -- his scenes with Ellen Burstyn as his mother are truly heartbreaking. He knows he's been a source of heartbreak for his emotionally vulnerable mother and wears his shame as clearly as he does his love. Anyone who saw this before Monster would not have been surprised at how good Charlize Theron was in that film -- she's magic in this and her eventual fate is so shocking because we've come to understand how torn this confused character is. Joaquin Phoenix is fantastic -- forceful and masculine yet weak, greedy and disloyal at the same time. And that's just the young 'uns. Burstyn proves -- after her standout turn in Requiem for a Dream -- that she's unmatched of her generation at being able to bring a new level of vulnerability and truth to her characterizations. Caan does what Caan does -- and there's nothing wrong with that! -- and Faye Dunaway also surprises with her Lady Macbeth-like character. The story is believable and compelling and harks back to films like On the Waterfront and Serpico. There was another review on this site that said the lighting was amateurish. Rubbish! The dark and gloomy look of the film contributes to the ever-growing sense of doom and tragedy that makes The Yards so good. It's cinematography resembles that of The Godfather -- dark brown and sepia tones hiding activities that are both criminal and, eventually, tragic. My only complaint would be the too-neat resolution -- apparently tacked on at the insistence of the Weinsteins. Great stuff and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Terrifically Evocative Capturing of Urban Corruption","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" While director James Gray's Little Odessa focused on ethnic crime in Brooklyn (specifically Russians in Brighton Beach, for Tim Roth's best performance 'til that time), The Yards is Queens par excellence.While the lack of NYC accents causes a bit of suspended belief, the strong acting and devastating screenplay by Gray and Matt Reeves more than compensate.The depiction of NYC corruption is heads and tails above Sidney Lumet's City Hall, here with demonstrations of how family and ethnicity get very intermingled in NYC politics. Nepotism is the ultimate explanation. More, the screenplay is cinematically presented -- the points are made visually and through body language and situation, not banged over our heads with explication. In my past, I worked both for the Queens Borough President (the one whose name is actually mentioned in the movie and no one west of the Hudson let alone younger will have the slightest idea what the reference means) and for the MTA, where we were constantly stunned by what went on in the bowels of the Transit Authority, while my husband has supervised City contractors for ethics violations, so I was amazed how mostly accurate the movie was--including a cameo by Councilman Peter Vallone as a councilman. (Just a small quibble that this movie would have been more accurate if it had been set in a time period before the Board of Estimate was declared unconstitutional and contracting procedures were changed.)While Cherlize Theron is somewhat miscast and mis-dressed, Joaquin Phoenix blows the screen away. He steals every scene from Mark Wahlberg, who is supposed to be the moral center of the movie, and his last scenes alone are explosive. The older male actors are as impeccably cast as The Sopranos, though the ethnicity of the characters vs. the actors is a bit confusing. James Caan is more comfortable in this patriarchal role than he was in The Way of the Gun; he clearly felt at home in Astoria. Steve Lawrence (yeah, THAT Steve Lawrence) doesn't have Donald Manes's charisma as Borough President, though he actually does look a bit like him. Faye Dunaway is surprisingly spot-on; I've been to many of those Queens political dinners and saw wives dressed and acting like her. Ellen Burstyn, in the third bridge-and-tunnel-mom role I've seen her in this month, got to have her hair combed this time.There is a surprising lack of pop songs on the soundtrack, as so many would have been appropriate, instead it's mostly Howard Shore's score. I kept thinking of Bruce Springsteen singing Nothing feels better than blood on blood. . . There's wonderful views and uses of the Queens landscape throughout this movie. This fully realizes an outer borough. If Gray is on his way to do a pentateuch on crime in NYC, I'll go to the ones on each borough. There was a guy in the audience who had been an extra or a one-liner or something in the movie, but who didn't provide additional insight as he mostly talked to his friend about his upcoming auditions than the making of this movie. (originally written 10/29/2000) "},{"Title":"House and Maintain","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Over the course of his career Mark Wahlberg has emerged as the working man's image on the big screen. He certainly comes by that naturally with his background being born and raised in the Dorchester section of Boston. His best performances on screen in my opinion have been of ordinary people and their situations. In The Yards he gives one of his best performances and his Boston accent barely shows.The Yards refers to the place where the New York City subway cars are housed and maintained. There are several in the city and the action here takes place in the Sunnyside section of Queens. Mark Wahlberg is a young man who recently was released from jail having taken a rap for all of his friends involved in a crime.He wants badly to turn over a new leaf and his uncle James Caan who has a business maintaining the subway cars offers him work. He can also go the trade school route. But Wahlberg's mother Ellen Burstyn is in a bad way and he's needing money now. Another tragedy of our inadequate health system. Rather than repair subway cars, Wahlberg goes to work with his old running buddy Joaquin Phoenix who works for Caan on the side wrecking the work of other contractors, minority contractors who get a set quotient of work.But one night Wahlberg is caught by a cop whom he turns the tables on, takes his nightstick and clubs him leaving him in a coma. At the same time Phoenix has a quarrel with yardmaster at night and knifes him to death. No one suspects him, but there's a bullseye on Wahlberg's back with every cop in the city hunting him.The manure piles up big time in this one, even threatening the Queens Borough President Steve Lawrence. How it all works out is a typical New York City story.Big Kudos for Mark Wahlberg in this one and some recognition for Joaquin Phoenix playing another one who gets in way over his head. The Yards should be seen back to back with the Al Pacino film City Hall for a real look at New York's political underbelly. "},{"Title":"Corruption in High Place, and Low.","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There aren't many laughs in this dramatic pastiche of corrupt industries and the not-quite-innocent who is swept up in them before finally blowing the whistle.It's not ethnic, but it seems like it. There's a bit of The Godfather, a dash of Prince of the City, a soupçon of On The Waterfront. There are all sorts of conflicts between men and women, family members united against the law -- or that part of it that isn't in bed with the gangsters.Interesting milieu. Mark Wahlberg as the ex con who's trying to obey the rules of his parole finds a job working for his uncle, James Caan, in the subway marshaling yard in Queens. Caan's company does repairs on broken subway cars. In order to make sure they have enough business, Caan has hired Joaquin Phoenix and a couple of bad goons to sneak into the yards at night and damage the cars. Caan's character is not unidimensional. When Wahlberg asks him for a job, he tells Caan that he'd like to work with Phoenix, a childhood friend. Caan gently tries to steer him into a more honorable, if less lucrative, path to success but Wahlberg is insistent. It's a big mistake on Wahlberg's part. There follow intrigue, brutally staged fist fights, and a couple of death, all leading to betrayal.Wahlberg doesn't have that many lines but he handles them well enough. Like the other men, he has a working-class New York accent. Lots of double negatives I don't know nothing. Charlize Theron, as Phoenix's doubtful girl friend, doesn't sound much like New York but she doesn't sound much like Johannesberg either. With her big eyes, upturned nose, and plump lips, she's never looked better.In many ways it's a depressing movie because although many characters commit immoral acts, all of them are given human qualities, including some that are generally considered virtues. "}{"Title":"Superb. One of the best crime films in the past 10 years (P.2)","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PART 2 (PART 1 BELOW) SPOILERS From there, events spin out of control. Leo is, of course, being an ex-con, accused of both assault and murder. The situation becomes sticky for everyone. Every result is logical and intelligent. And amazing surprises pop up all the time. The story is compelling and elicits great sympathy.And even if the story does not impress you, and I don't understand how it couldn't, you simply must be impressed by the level of acting that is carried out here. The cast is populated mainly by three old masters and three young up-and-comers. Each of the six principles gives one of their greatest performance. Of the established actors, Ellen Burstyn has a small part, but she is every bit as good here as she was in her Oscar-nominated performance from Requiem for a Dream. Faye Dunaway has a very small part, but it easily surpasses anything that I've seen her in in about the last two decades. James Caan contributes a lot of supporting performances nowadays, and his Frank is an excellent character. He is not content to play just the shrewd businessman, but works a keen balance between that and a man who knows that those who are potentially dangerous to him are also his kin. Of the youngsters, each of the three have captured a reputation in the past several years. Starting with Charlize Theron, she has almost done too much, not exacting a very good sense of judgement in her roles. She has thus appeared in bombs (Reindeer Games, anyone?) and well-received films (such as The Cider House Rules, which I personally did not care much for). She has great potential, and she shows that best here, easily the best performance in which I have seen her. Joaquin Phoenix, just in this past year, has built up a reputation that is going to take a lot to live up to. He has give three masterful performances in the past year. His role in Gladiator was that film's saving grace, I thought. He was nominated for an Oscar for it, and, although no one was predicting a win for him, I was rooting for him. And then there was his role in Quills, one of the years very best films. He held equal footing with Geoffrey Rush, Kate Blanchett, and Michael Caine. That role was also Oscar-worthy. Now here he is with The Yards, and he is also great. His role, as with every role in this film, is very complex. The last scene he appeared in brought me to tears. Here we come to Mark Wahlberg. He has acted in a lot of crap, and in all of that crap he has brought in some dignity. Alongside that crap he acted in several great films. His two greatest highlights were Boogie Nights, which instantly established his career, and Three Kings. The Yards is up there with those two, and perhaps he is even better here than in those. In fact, the performance is very challenging, for it is not developed through dialogue so much as through expressions and body language. And, where the main characters of most films are intelligent, even philosophic men, Leo is unintelligent. His decisions are often very simple-minded, such as when he decides not to run when a siren is set off because he feels he must wait for Willie, even as his cohorts are bolting. This characteristic is established right at the outset, when Leo misunderstands that he was required to check in with his parole officer right away before leaving prison. Audiences so often object to a story where they are smarter (or believe they would be smarter in identical situations) than the protagonist onscreen. I remember after seeing A Simple Plan with a friend, he said, upon being asked what he thought of the film, I hate watching movies about mongoloids. They were so stupid, it was just irritating. But c'est la vie. People can be dense, and, as far as I'm concerned, a crime movie is much more interesting when the characters are liable to screw up during the proceedings. Leo has made some stupid mistakes, but now his only prerogatives are to take care of his mother and live like a normal human being. And as for the mood of the film, it is spectacular. It is reminiscent of The Godfather, but it is also all its own. The palette is earth-tones, dirty brown buildings and crummy apartments, filthy New York city streets. Every once in a while, a momentary brown-out occurs. Often, a character will use it to his advantage. More often, though, it establishes mood. The pace is slow, which makes the few bursts of violence all the more meaningful. The music is sombre. The only person who smiles in the entire film is Ellen Burstyn, for she is utterly happy that her only child is finally home. The other characters are quite sad in their lives. They do not prefer to live in a world of corruption. It is only that the system of corruption has been in place for so long that it cannot be expelled. When Leo delivers a speech at the film's close is delivered for the purpose of euthanasia. He wants to sever the entire system like a gangrenous leg. It is a truly powerful speech.  "},{"Title":"Superb. One of the best crime films in the past 10 years","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PART 1And it's mostly because I'm sick of Pulp Fiction and its clones that The Yards impressed me so deeply. Well, maybe not mostly, but certainly I wouldn't have been as impressed if the crime movies of the past 10 or so years haven't been so derivative. Even Pulp itself is derivative of Scorsese's films, plus several other influences. The Yards, instead, is a very introspective film which I would compare very favorably to The Godfather. In fact, if its scope had been larger, it may have been up there in the same area as The Godfather. Instead, it decided to be a small indie, and what it does, it does spectacularly and perfectly.SPOILERSThe film begins as Leo, played by Mark Wahlberg, has just been released from prison. He had spent several years there on a grand theft auto charge. He desperately needs a job so that he can support himself and his mother, Ellen Burstyn, who is ailing from heart troubles. Who better to get a job from than your relatives? His mother's sister (Faye Dunaway) is married to Frank, a very wealthy man (James Caan) who runs a place that fixes and makes cars for trains and subways. Alas, this side of the family has grown apart from Leo and his mother. His Uncle Frank is willing to help him financially and give him a run-of-the-mill job after he has completed a two year technical degree. Leo has no time for this, and instead tries to get his way into the same company via his best friend, Willie (Joaquin Phoenix), who is romancing his cousin, Erica (Chalize Theron). That job would not necessarily require any sort of education, but is rather more on the business end of the company.But Leo soon finds out that this new job is involved in very illegal activities, including bribery and sabotage. While on a sabotage mission, things go awry. In order to avoid being caught and subsequently being sent to prison having violated his parole, Leo attacks a police officer. Worse yet, Willie is forced to murder a railroad worker after their arrangement goes sour. As Leo, Willie, and their cohorts flee, the police officer remains alive, although in a coma. The only way to get out of this is if Leo, who was really at fault for allowing himself to get caught, kills the cop before he awakes from his coma. As he is about to do it, Leo is forced to give up on killing the cop and, alternately, to flee from the violence of those who at first were his friends and now can do nothing but scrap him.END PART 1 "},{"Title":"Best crime film since maybe Pulp Fiction or maybe Fargo. A very special and underrated masterpiece. 10/10","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***     ***SPOILERS*** And it's mostly because I'm sick of Pulp Fiction and its clones that The Yards impressed me so deeply. Well, maybe not mostly, but certainly I wouldn't have been as impressed if the crime movies of the past 10 or so years haven't been so derivative. Even Pulp itself is derivative of Scorsese's films, plus several other influences. The Yards, instead, is a very introspective film which I would compare very favorably to The Godfather. In fact, if its scope had been larger, it may have been up there in the same area as The Godfather. Instead, it decided to be a small indie, and what it does, it does spectacularly and perfectly.SPOILERSThe film begins as Leo, played by Mark Wahlberg, has just been released from prison. He had spent several years there on a grand theft auto charge. He desperately needs a job so that he can support himself and his mother, Ellen Burstyn, who is ailing from heart troubles. Who better to get a job from than your relatives? His mother's sister (Faye Dunaway) is married to Frank, a very wealthy man (James Caan) who runs a place that fixes and makes cars for trains and subways. Alas, this side of the family has grown apart from Leo and his mother. His Uncle Frank is willing to help him financially and give him a run-of-the-mill job after he has completed a two year technical degree. Leo has no time for this, and instead tries to get his way into the same company via his best friend, Willie (Joaquin Phoenix), who is romancing his cousin, Erica (Chalize Theron). That job would not necessarily require any sort of education, but is rather more on the business end of the company.But Leo soon finds out that this new job is involved in very illegal activities, including bribery and sabotage. While on a sabotage mission, things go awry. In order to avoid being caught and subsequently being sent to prison having violated his parole, Leo attacks a police officer. Worse yet, Willie is forced to murder a railroad worker after their arrangement goes sour. As Leo, Willie, and their cohorts flee, the police officer remains alive, although in a coma. The only way to get out of this is if Leo, who was really at fault for allowing himself to get caught, kills the cop before he awakes from his coma. As he is about to do it, Leo is forced to give up on killing the cop and, alternately, to flee from the violence of those who at first were his friends and now can do nothing but scrap him.From there, events spin out of control. Leo is, of course, being an ex-con, accused of both assault and murder. The situation becomes sticky for everyone. Every result is logical and intelligent. And amazing surprises pop up all the time. The story is compelling and elicits great sympathy.And even if the story does not impress you, and I don't understand how it couldn't, you simply must be impressed by the level of acting that is carried out here. The cast is populated mainly by three old masters and three young up-and-comers. Each of the six principles gives one of their greatest performance. Of the established actors, Ellen Burstyn has a small part, but she is every bit as good here as she was in her Oscar-nominated performance from Requiem for a Dream. Faye Dunaway has a very small part, but it easily surpasses anything that I've seen her in in about the last two decades. James Caan contributes a lot of supporting performances nowadays, and his Frank is an excellent character. He is not content to play just the shrewd businessman, but works a keen balance between that and a man who knows that those who are potentially dangerous to him are also his kin. Of the youngsters, each of the three have captured a reputation in the past several years. Starting with Charlize Theron, she has almost done too much, not exacting a very good sense of judgement in her roles. She has thus appeared in bombs (Reindeer Games, anyone?) and well-received films (such as The Cider House Rules, which I personally did not care much for). She has great potential, and she shows that best here, easily the best performance in which I have seen her. Joaquin Phoenix, just in this past year, has built up a reputation that is going to take a lot to live up to. He has give three masterful performances in the past year. His role in Gladiator was that film's saving grace, I thought. He was nominated for an Oscar for it, and, although no one was predicting a win for him, I was rooting for him. And then there was his role in Quills, one of the years very best films. He held equal footing with Geoffrey Rush, Kate Blanchett, and Michael Caine. That role was also Oscar-worthy. Now here he is with The Yards, and he is also great. His role, as with every role in this film, is very complex. The last scene he appeared in brought me to tears. Here we come to Mark Wahlberg. He has acted in a lot of crap, and in all of that crap he has brought in some dignity. Alongside that crap he acted in several great films. His two greatest highlights were Boogie Nights, which instantly established his career, and Three Kings. The Yards is up there with those two, and perhaps he is even better here than in those. In fact, the performance is very challenging, for it is not developed through dialogue so much as through expressions and body language. And, where the main characters of most films are intelligent, even philosophic men, Leo is unintelligent. His decisions are often very simple-minded, such as when he decides not to run when a siren is set off because he feels he must wait for Willie, even as his cohorts are bolting. This characteristic is established right at the outset, when Leo misunderstands that he was required to check in with his parole officer right away before leaving prison. Audiences so often object to a story where they are smarter (or believe they would be smarter in identical situations) than the protagonist onscreen. I remember after seeing A Simple Plan with a friend, he said, upon being asked what he thought of the film, I hate watching movies about mongoloids. They were so stupid, it was just irritating. But c'est la vie. People can be dense, and, as far as I'm concerned, a crime movie is much more interesting when the characters are liable to screw up during the proceedings. Leo has made some stupid mistakes, but now his only prerogatives are to take care of his mother and live like a normal human being.And as for the mood of the film, it is spectacular. It is reminiscent of The Godfather, but it is also all its own. The palette is earth-tones, dirty brown buildings and crummy apartments, filthy New York city streets. Every once in a while, a momentary brown-out occurs. Often, a character will use it to his advantage. More often, though, it establishes mood. The pace is slow, which makes the few bursts of violence all the more meaningful. The music is sombre. The only person who smiles in the entire film is Ellen Burstyn, for she is utterly happy that her only child is finally home. The other characters are quite sad in their lives. They do not prefer to live in a world of corruption. It is only that the system of corruption has been in place for so long that it cannot be expelled. When Leo delivers a speech at the film's close is delivered for the purpose of euthanasia. He wants to sever the entire system like a gangrenous leg. It is a truly powerful speech. "},{"Title":"Triumph of mood over plot","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards, through its magical use of music, powerhouse acting (even virtual bit-parts are filled by Faye Dunaway and Ellen Burstyn) and lingering, deliberate camera-work, particularly concerning characters' faces, is a triumph of mood over plot. That is not to say that the script is a turkey; its just that the oft-told tale of corruption in big business (this time with the trains) is somewhat slight when compared to the tragic, near-Shakespearian mood of the end affect. It also throws a spanner in the works, in the form of a misconceived final scene which bears all the hallmarks of a tacked-on studio demand. It seems we are to consider Leo a paragon of morality; this despite the fact that he was earlier quite ready to cold-bloodedly shoot dead a hospitalised cop. In fact, elsewhere, moral ambiguity and  multi-faceted characters are among the strengths of the film.For full enjoyment then, The Yards should be appreciated in the moment, rather than too closely scutinised. If so, it offers moving snapshots of a mother's pain, a friends betrayal, a released convicts attempt to be a better person... and over it all, that beautiful music (including a much-repeated snippet of Holst's Planets suite), which could probably bring the illusion of meaning to a conversation about the latest Eastenders storyline. Special mention must also go to Joaquim Pheonix who, were there any courage to be found in the Academy, would have received his nomination for this, rather than Gladiator. "},{"Title":"Under-Rated Film...","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe Gray does organize the filming of it a bit conventionally, and maybe the script is a little orthodox, but it's the actual story of The Yards that makes it truly a great film about the decadence of a once-happy family. The acting is all superb... especially Phoenix as Will. I think that overall, Gray's directing is very professionally done, and even though the way it begins and ends may not seem very original, the actual story of the film, in my opinion, is very original and witty. "},{"Title":"Script Nothing to write home about, but some brilliant acting!!","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just seen the Film at the London Film Festival. I thought that it was nothing special, the script anyway. I don't know why it just needed something more!! Some brilliant acting, James Caan was brilliant as Mark Wahlbergs corrupt Uncle, He was kind but still sometimes quite scary, is a threatening kinda way. Joaquin Phoenix was also brilliant. He was doing his 'Bad-man-who-can-cry' role again, but he did it excellently. You believed him! Chalize Theron, was also very good. Mark Wahlberg, was, well, Mark Wahlberg, the performance was OK but it's what you expected from him. Although the script was missing something, the ending with Charlize Theron's character was good, you expect it, but you don't. "},{"Title":"Avoid the Blu-ray version of this film from Echo Bridge Entertainment","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Speaking to the blu-ray transfer of this movie, this is one of the sorriest transfers I've seen. Echo Bridge Entertainment took the wide format of this movie and chopped 30% of it off entirely. I wonder why Miramax would allow them to butcher the movie like this. It's a disgrace. The movie was shot in 2.391 ratio but you won't see that much of the film since Echo Bridge Entertainment decided you don't need to see the entire film. They issued it in 1.781 ratio which is like redirecting the movie. Cheesy distribution companies like Echo Bride should be run out of the movie business entirely rather than be allowed to destroy an otherwise good film from a good cast. Read the review here by Blu-ray.com and see how the film was butchered by Echo Bridge. I say don't buy this one. Maybe it will be re-released by some other company in the future, someone who holds film more sacred. Unfortunately Echo Bridge is not such a company. "},{"Title":"Your mother needs you now&#133;The Yards","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Yards is a fantastic film in all facets. Possibly my favorite performance from Marky Mark by far, this role was made for him. Phoenix is put in a similar role as he was in Night&#151;it's weird making these backwards comparisons as I saw the new before the old, but what can you do&#151;and James Caan is absolutely spectacular in a turn that has more levels to it than anything I have ever seen him do. The story is well crafted and well directed throughout, enhancing the actors' clinic going on. There is truly little to fault.At its core, the movie is mainly a character study of an extended family at home and on the job. As the title alludes to, the action sparks from the train yards of Queens and the corruption and greed occurring there and in the business dealings of the rival rail lines. Our entry point to the tale, though, comes from young Leo Handler (Wahlberg) arriving home from a stint in jail where he took the fall for his friends. Of course, while he was inside, all those he covered for seem to have made a good life for themselves, working with his aunt's new husband and seemingly cleaned up their street thug images. Leo believes that what he did was right and that those around him will do what they can to keep him out of trouble and hopefully make a life of his own and support his ailing mother, a stellar Ellen Burstyn as always. This trust is a bit blindly taken as he soon finds what it is his old friends do for his uncle. Rather than protect him, they drag him right back into the life of crime he is desperately trying to stay clear of.Through all the corruption going on, we soon find all our principals caught in a web of lies as they do what they can to keep the business afloat. Sometimes your best friend is the best fall guy especially when he is the easy choice to go down for it. This is where trust shows how it can backfire quickly on a whim. I believe that aspect is the main driving force here&#151;trust in your parents, trust in your children, trust in your friends, your boyfriend, and above all else, yourself. Leo finds himself growing up very fast in the short time he is out of jail. He may not be so good with words as his friend Willie (Phoenix), however, he takes the advice of reading those around him, to see what they want in order to give it to them for his means, to heart. While on the lam as an unknowing scapegoat, Leo finally sees who his true family is and what he would like his life to be.The entire plot hinges on the success of Wahlberg and Phoenix's relationship with each other as Leo and Willie. These two guys have been through a lot together in their youth and find they are more brothers than anything else. Willie is even dating Leo's cousin and working for his father after all; they have all adopted him into the family, almost as a replacement for the kid that helped keep him out of jail. The two have absolute trust in each other, yet Willie finds himself flying a little too close to the sun. When push comes to shove, only one of them will find they are willing to face the consequences for the other. The two actors are at the top of their game and captivated me every second of the proceedings. Never quite knowing how it would all turn out, both channeled the streets and showed what it is like to face the decision of sacrifice, whether that be throwing oneself on the sword or feeding the other to the wolves.Firing on all cylinders, The Yards doesn't rely solely on these two lead actors. The supporting cast is immense and they all perfectly execute what is needed from them. As previously mentioned, Caan is a powerhouse of emotions and restraint in a role that appears to be the tough guy patriarch he is so often portraying, but also containing some semblance of humanity at its core. Charlize Theron shows some of the skill that would eventually lead to an Oscar as the naïve cousin caught in a family of liars and cheaters, never knowing who she can really turn to for help, and Faye Dunaway brings a nice performance, in a small role, culminating into a heart-wrenching final moment with Wahlberg at the ending funeral, so perfect in its simplicity and a great culmination of everything that has gone on.I must conclude with some props to the director as well. Whether the credit goes to him or not for the cinematography, it is spectacular. I love the moments of brown outs and just the use of darkness in general, (a scene between Leo and his uncle alternating between light and shadow comes to mind). The fight scene between Leo and Willie is shot nicely, beginning in close-up and eventually panning out in two cuts to a wide view, and a later frame of Phoenix in his car, face cropped in shadow, with a single tear falling from his eye, is just plain beautiful. Either way, Gray deserves all the credit for getting the pieces put together and allowing his ensemble cast to hit it out of the park. An earlier film for some of them&#151;at least before the huge stardom they appear to have now&#151;the youngsters definitely hold their own in scenes with some of cinema's greats. "},{"Title":"Justice for The Yards.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was SUPERB!  The Yards is classic moviemaking.  Good acting, good chemistry, a tight, solid unique narrative, and a sensitive director bring this movie to the top of my personal favorites.  I don't understand how this movie was overlooked.New York Times rated it on of the years 10 best. I agree. (By the way I'm sorry Mr. Gray that this movie was overlooked by the studio marketers, it was a bad decision on their part.) "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having become a huge fan of Joaquin Phoenix after seeing his wonderful performance in 'Gladiator' I eagerly awaited to see his next film The Yards, and was not disappointed with it one bit. OK, so perhaps this kind of tale about family corruption has been done many times before, but after all, how many truly origonal films are there? And this hardly matters when the performances are so compelling. Joaquin Phoenix is wonderful in his role as the good looking, smooth-talking, charismatic Willie, who soon finds himself being torn apart by the events which take place. Mark Walhberg is also excellent as Leo, trying to get himself back on the right track by working with Willie, but ending up becoming what he feared.  I found this movie very exciting, tense and moving, and would have seen it more then once if I could! 10/10 "}{"Title":"Spoiler Great movie about train yard work up to the illogical fantasy ending.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" SpoilerThis movie has some great acting, but an ending that ruins it for me. At the end, all the train yard principals cut a deal that only leaves one character hanging. But then another leading character violates the agreement, which makes no sense as it will devastate everyone he loves, plus gets him whacked before they can even go to trial, if the movie went on. The movie should have ended where three family members are holding hands at a funeral with a bitter-sweet ending. Instead the movie asks us to accept that a powerless, jobless ex-con is going to bring down the power brokers of New York city based on his word, and no proof at a council meeting. Rubbish. "},{"Title":"Somewhat predictable story, but . . . Charlize Theron makes the movie","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not exactly, but somewhat in the Godfather genre' of story and cultural scenario, it's not really the sort of movie I would be inclined to become interested in, but the cast is so strong, I had to at least give it a shot.Joaquin Phoenix and James Caan delivered their characters about as perfectly as could be done in the context of the story. Technically they were flawless, kudos to the casting director.But . . . Charlize Theron . . . if for no other reason, watching her more than justified the time spent. Spectacularly beautiful, but well crafted to suit her character, she makes the film!The actual story . . . well, it's predictable enough. Nothing surprising, no winding twists and turns, no really compelling complexities woven into this script. A snapshot of life, with its foibles of the human condition mapped against a well known cultural stereotype.But if for no other reason than to watch Charlize at the absolute peak of her career, doing her thing as best as she's ever done, I might watch it again some time. "},{"Title":"Off on the Wrong Side of the Tracks","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three years in prison and out on parole, attractive and muscular Mark Wahlberg (as Leo Handler) rides the New York City subway to his home in Queens. His mother and friends have a surprise Welcome Home, Leo party for Mr. Walberg, with his best pal Joaquin Phoenix (as Willie Gutierrez) and girlfriend Charlize Theron (as Erica Soltz) in attendance. Walberg's goal is to get a good job and stay out of trouble. Fat chance&#x85; You know when Walberg glances at a cop on the subway where this story is going. In this type of movie, the hapless hero is reluctantly drawn back into a life of crime. This usually begins when the star agrees to assist a friend's criminal activity &#x96; in a relative safe position, such as a lookout or driver. Then, something goes terribly wrong. A mother's heart is broken. The young men fight over the girl. Police are involved &#x96; and, if an officer gets hurt, there could be hell to pay...The Yards may not have been the best title for this crime drama. It refers to New York City's railroad yards, where subway trains are maintained.Written (with Matt Reeves) and directed by James Gray, the story follows very familiar tracks. Having characters play out a fairly predictable plot is not necessarily bad &#x96; but you do expect some significant deviations. The most striking may be that Ms. Theron's make-up and manners seem way too hip for her character and the setting. With blue-black shellac in his hair, Mr. Phoenix appears like the 1950s Elvis. Wahlberg delivers moody doom well for Mr. Gray. There is good support from shady businessman James Caan (as Frank Olchin). He and Gray are obviously going from On the Waterfront to The Godfather in the scene where Mr. Caan discusses business with his associates. Ellen Burstyn is fine in a small part, but Faye Dunaway has nothing much to do in an even smaller role. Vegas-style singer Steve Lawrence (as Arthur Mydanick) is very effective. Harris Savides' photography is stylish.The Yards is circulated with different edits. Thematically bracketing the opening, the theatrical version version is superior to the director's cut.****** The Yards (4/27/00) James Gray ~ Mark Wahlberg, Joaquin Phoenix, Charlize Theron, James Caan "},{"Title":"plausible story, exemplary cast and a true story","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very sensitive, intelligent and ambitious variation on the traditional going-straight story. Mark Wahlberg is just out of prison and determined to keep off troubles but inevitably runs into them when getting involved in the sabotage and in the unforeseen murder. In terms of conventional suspense, the film is too much muted and sombre in order for it to deliver the goods convincingly but as a character study and an exploration of different notions of family, friendship, duty and loyalty, the careful attention to detail pays off. A great cast (Phoenix and Theron perfect as wheel) does help, as does the strongly surprising use of good music. "},{"Title":"'There's nothing more dangerous than an innocent man'","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This somewhat ponderous but very moody film dates back to the year 2000 and it is fascinating to see how the actors, so glamorous at the time of the filming, have changed. Age happens, and in the case of this film it has aged well.The title refers to the rail yards of Queens where contractors repair and rebuild the New York's subway cars. These contracts are lucrative, so graft and corruption rule. When Leo Handler (Mark Wahlberg) gets out of prison having taken the fall for his friends and family, he finds his aunt Kitty (Faye Dunaway) married to Frank Olchin (James Caan), one of the big contractors; he's battling with a minority-owned firm for contracts. Willie Gutierrez (Joaquin Phoenix), Leo's best friend, is Frank's bag man and heads a crew of midnight saboteurs who ruin the work of the Puerto Rican-owned firm. Leo needs a job, so Willie pays him to be his back-up. Then things go badly wrong one night, a cop IDs Leo, and everyone now wants him out of the picture. Besides his ailing mom (Ellen Burstyn) and his cousin Erica Charlize Theron) , to whom can Leo turn? He is drawn into a world of sabotage, high-stakes payoffs and even murder. Then, he discovers a secret that makes him the target of the city's most ruthless family - his own. How Leo responds is a lesson in courage.Strong cast, good screenplay by Director James Gray ('We Own the Night', 'Little Odessa', etc) and Matt Reeves, atmospheric creative cinematography by Harris Savides, and a very beautiful musical score by Howard Shore make this little drama intense and moving. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Dense Characters in Gloomy Atmosphere","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gloomy, soft spoken, and bare this story about corruption and its effect on Family and Friend relationships maybe too low key and laid back for mass appeal. It does offer a Name Cast and a slightly inaccurate Mob Boss attraction but this one is quite different than most.The Film is about character and stylish confrontations and wise(guy) cracking Characters are nowhere around this slow of pace, but tense, Noirish Melodrama. The best parts here are interpersonal relationships and responsibility put to the test in some gripping set pieces.The Movie does fail to completely render its Political uncovering and City Hall money grubbing. Those scenes feel less recovered and tend to stultify the pace. It is this weak exposition that keeps the better parts from becoming fully engaging and some of its themes a bit unclear. "},{"Title":"A Great Crime Thriller","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Yards is a crime film featuring Mark Wahlberg, James Caan, Joaquin Phoenix, and Charlize Theron. In this drama, a young man joins the family business without knowing that he's entering a world of danger and deceit. It was written and directed by James Gray.Hot-headed Leo Handler has had some scrapes with the law and served time for a crime he didn't commit. Hoping to get his life back on track, he takes a job in the New York subway yards, secured by his Uncle Frank, who has a high-ranking position in the New York Transit Authority. The longer Leo works in the yards, the more he realizes that his uncle controls a corrupt underworld where graft, violent reprisals, and even death are just part of the job. Will Leo turn against his family in the name of justice, or will he keep quiet and ignore the danger and lawlessness that surround him?A very good film, and though obviously flawed, it does generate one form of elation the feeling of seeing a young director stick to the guns of his tricky, ambitious material, and find the right people to tell his story. How it shifts toward crime drama through character rather than pure plot is hard to disclose without divesting twists. Inspired by real-life scandal, James Gray lets personal insight color Shakespearean shenanigans of privilege, panic and power. Overall, it is a sensitive, intelligent and ambitious variation on the traditional going-straight story; its ambiguity that makes the film interesting and a richly textured crime thriller with an authentic feel. "},{"Title":"Should Be Seen","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not sure why I hadn't heard of this movie before. Now that I have, I can convincingly say that it's mostly first rate and should be seen by anyone interested in those quirky off-the-beaten-path types that still manage to tell a real story without all the Hollywood garbage. Burstyn, Theron, Caan, Dunaway, and Phoenix go all out while newcomer Wahlberg struggles to get over his wooden-ness. It's a minor point, however, since most of his scenes are covered nicely by the more mature actors. Both Wahlberg and Phoenix went a long way with We Own the Night, but this little piece is how they got started back when. Also, I kind of enjoyed seeing Charlize Theron as the flirty, young gamin who comes to a rotten ending at the hand of her vile lover. Well done ! "},{"Title":"The Yards proves to be excellent","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards proves to be an intense drama that contains none of the gratuitous explosions and side plots that are so often rife in blockbusters. The plot moves along steadily and keeps the viewer intrigued. While I can  see how this movie may not have mass appeal, this look at the yards of Queens gives the viewer a plot with all the elements of a great movie. The cast all turn in note-worthy performances, as well.  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very powerful movie... I watched it by accident since it was on my TV and there was nothing else on... But after watching it I was glad I did... Very good performances by all the actors... I would recommend it to everybody... "}{"Title":"Business and political corruption in NYC, good film, deserves its 7 rating.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - Quite a collection of well-known actors here, The Yards concerns those NYC contractors who bid on jobs to keep the NYC rail systems in repair. The corruption among politicians, city contract administrators, and businessmen here is fictionalized, but we suspect something like this goes on almost everywhere. Thus the hook!Leo (Mark Wahlberg, in a fine performance) has just been released on parole and comes home to his mother, and the 'friends' he covered for. One of them, Willie (Joaquin Phoenix), has become quite the well-to-do businessman in the meantime. Willie is boss Frank's (James Caan) man who puts money or other appropriate gifts in the hands of those on the take, to allow Frank's company to be awarded bids. At the same time, Willie and his cronies are sabotaging competitors' work to gain them lower reliability ratings. Willie is also courting Leo's cousin, Erica (Charlize Theron), and plans to marry her. Erica is clueless to the corruption. Frank is her father-in-law.All Leo wants to do is get an honest job, put his past crimes behind him, become a productive member of society, and show his mother (Ellen Burstyn) that he can be a worthy son. But it is difficult because Willie draws him into the web of deceit. Almost by surprise, Leo finds himself at the rail yards at night, a cop sees him, begins to beat him, when Leo takes the nightstick and knocks the cop silly. Leo is on the run again.Worse, Willie the same night stabs and kills a night shift man in the yards, but it is blamed on Leo. Eventually everyone is out to snuff Leo to keep him silent. Leo is too smart for that, turns himself in, and as the film ends is testifying against the principals in the corruption. It ends with him riding the train home, which seemed a bit incongruous, since at that point he might have required a police escort.Anyway, it is a good drama depicting how local corruption might happen. However, I feel the writer/director Gray took the easy way out with his ending.  It may have been a more interesting film if Leo had been forced to stay on the run, while the corrupt guys gradually destroyed themselves. But the ending presented here is probably a more popular one.The DVD was good, nothing spectacular, not much surround sound, not much low bass, and the extras are spartan.  Still, good entertainment. "},{"Title":"An OK movie, even a good movie, despite all the boringness and strangeness, but here I go---","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful cast! And such wonderful acting! Two of my fave actors are in this, and they did very, very well. But, this fell short of being an Oscar award winner. The plot could have been very interesting, but the way they pulled it off, was, well, dull? I feel sorry for the cast and crew who had to endure this. If only there was different dialoue, or setting. Or if they sped up the pace. But it was an ok movie, even a good movie, boringness and strangeness aside. "},{"Title":"Lack of action can work, but it doesn't here","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  James Gray wastes a lot of acting talent by pushing the plot along as though it were rock moving uphill.  Lack of action may have worked in Little Odessa, but this story is not compelling enough to weather the slow pace. One bright spot, Steve Lawrence makes great corrupt politico. "},{"Title":"Technically good. Actually dull.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards has much to commend it. Excellent acting from a fine young cast - Wahlberg, Theron and Phoenix as well as from a few old veterans - James Caan, Burstyn and Dunaway. The script is also not bad.There's also plenty fun to be had for film buffs in spotting the Godfather references - Caan who once played Sonny Corleone, is now a Vito figure, listening sagely in the study to requests for help from Theron. The opening familial celebration and the later tense hospital scene also echo the 70s classic. There's also more than a touch of Michael about Phoneix's character.Yet somehow it's not enough. Maybe I am too harsh - usually I'm the first to recommend good scripting and acting over the usual Hollywood special effects and intellectual vacuousness. But ultimately I think it is the story which is lacking that vital something. We have been here before too often. We can generally see vaguely how the story will go from the outset. (eg. Will the released Wahlberg stick to the straight and narrow? Probably not). Something more is needed and really I could ultimately only recommend this to a TV viewer - it is not quite compelling enough to warrant a visit to either the cinema or video shop.  "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film, and can say I think it's OK. I read all about the way the director made the film his way, without any compromises, and how he got a great cast together, and I respect him for that. But it's hard not to compare this movie to his first one, Little Odessa. It has about the same feel about it. It looks a bit the same (dark and gloomy most of the time). It sounds a bit the same (dark and gloomy most of the time). Some elements of the story are about the same; in both films a young man returns home after having been away for a long time, living a life of crime or spending his time in jail. Both times the mother of the main character (Tim Roth in the first one, Mark Wahlberg in this one) has poor health, and spends a lot of time in bed. Both times a story with a lot of crime unfolds, with eventually leads to a very unhappy ending. I must say I think I prefer Little Odessa; maybe just because it was there first, maybe because it's just a bit more dark and gloomy, and a bit more over the top. Finally I read a lot of comparisons of this film to Coppola's The Godfather. Of course I can see them too, but once more it's shown here that it's virtually impossible to compete with that epic crime saga. "},{"Title":"a disappointment","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i saw this movie because i greatly admire the actors and actresses on the bill. i fell asleep during this movie not because of the acting, but because of the plot- or rather lack thereof, the boring score, and the horrible documentary-style cinematography. nothing about this film (other than the performances from the great cast) was artistic. it was very dull and flat. with such a vast, clean canvas on which to paint an entire experience, this film lacked in color, depth and excitement.   "},{"Title":"a beautiful film","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The Yards' is a film for those who enjoy film as an art form. Frankly, it probably won't impress those looking for a fast paced gangster flick thriller, as the trailer for the film seemed to suggest. I don't understand why films like this one are often marketed as such.Nevertheless, James Gray has crafted a truly beautiful film. It is so rich visually, through Gray's use of light, color and carefully composed frames, that watching this film is almost like viewing an exhibition of paintings.Equally rich are the soulful characters that give real depth to the story. What makes them interesting is that they are just the way people are; full of hopes, flaws, and regret. In other words, characters that have character. Of course, it's all possible only through the superb performances of the cast. There's no point to even get into it. Just look at the  cast list on IMDb. If you see their name, they gave a phenomenal performance.Lastly, what I most enjoyed is the film's political commentary. The story skillfully details the intricacies of the relationships of business and government, and all the opportunities for corruption between them. Coupled with all its troubled characters in this complex landscape, 'The Yards' is really a modern exposition of the classical tragedy.Wait! One more thing. Sadly, this film had a very short run in the theatres, so you'll likely have to see it on video. But absolutely, you have to see it in widescreen edition, which means you'll probably have to rent it on DVD. Trust me, it's the only way to watch this film. "},{"Title":"pretty good drama from miramax","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  James Gray working for the third time with Whalberg,chose to give the best part to Phoenix.After collaborating in Fear(1996) and The Corrupter(1999),filmmaker Gray reunites with Whalberg to turn up quite an exeptional little drama ,aquiring great performances from Phoenix,Caan,Theron and Bursting but when came time for Whalberg to act he turned a dull,forgettable performance.Still,if you liked Grey's At Close Range(1985) don't miss The Yards.  "},{"Title":"Under-Rated Film...","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe Gray does organize the filming of it a bit conventionally, and maybe the script is a little orthodox, but it's the actual story of The Yards that makes it truly a great film about the decadence of a once-happy family. The acting is all superb... especially Phoenix as Will. I think that overall, Gray's directing is very professionally done, and even though the way it begins and ends may not seem very original, the actual story of the film, in my opinion, is very original and witty. "},{"Title":"Tremendous genre film with tense atmosphere","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes, the best films are those that struggle for ages to find a distributor before being eventually plucked from obscurity and then finding both an audience and critical acclaim. Luckily for us, The Yards has now, after numerous attempts, at last found a slot in our busy cinema programme. It might not be an extreme case, but no print of The Yards had hitherto made it to Luxembourg's screens, despite plenty of advertising. Now it is on, though, and it was well worth the wait.The film concentrates on ex-convict Leo (Mark Wahlberg), a pretty dumb (`I'm not too good with words') but normal member of the Handler family, a family that includes his longtime friend Willie Gutierrez (Joaquin Phoenix), cousin Erica (Charlize Theron) and corrupt Uncle Frank (James Caan), the latter being head of the company that controls most of the NY railways. After a botched sabotage at the railway sidings (`the Yards') in Queens, Leo takes the brunt for his friends' failure and gets into serious trouble with the police. And, at the same time, he is in the middle of a love triangle too.The Yards really is nothing more than a genre film &#150; that is, if you want to call the mafia-film an established genre. The basic scenario is not far removed from any of the luminary films of the mafia genre. There are elements of The Godfather, of course, and like all these films, the story is one of a whole family caught up in the dirty business of, no, not narcotics or booze, but the slightly less illustrious world of control over the New York subway. And plenty of people get ` whacked'.Writer-director James Gray, whose only previous directing credit is for hitman-portrayal Little Odessa, has assembled one of the best cast lists you'll have seen for ages. `Marky Mark' Wahlberg is for once not overshadowed by his fellow actors or by computer-generated gadgetry. He is perfect in the role of the innocent-looking ex-convict and, considering his surroundings, relative softie. True, he sports just one expression for the entire running-time of the film, but it is a convincing one. His screen-friend Joaquin Phoenix just keeps on surprising with consistently great performances (see Quills for his best outing yet). With a face like his, the danger is of being continually type-cast (as the nasty villain of course), but he has already conquered adversity to pick up some of the most fascinating parts on offer. Alongside these young guns, there is a treat for the lads too Charlize Theron is as good and as beautiful as usual. But they only make up half of what is a terrific ensemble, with leading ladies (and a leading man) from Hollywood's recent past all playing their part. It's a treat for all died-in-the-wool cinemagoers to see Ellen Burstyn, Faye Dunaway and James Caan in one and the same tremendous movie.The Yards is essentially The Godfather (James Caan's name in the credits provides the obvious link) on a smaller and, dare one say, more realistic scale. Here the players don't all wear dark suits, preferring baggy shell-suits instead. And the obvious accents, while not as strong as those of Don Corleone & Co, are still there. There is always a subtle hint of Coppola/Scorsese in this film, be it only a snatch of music or a certain camera angle. The Yards is a film that is aware of its genre, but that is one of its great strengths it takes the conventions and uses them to great effect in what is a very personal look at the mafia and the way it is portrayed in the cinema.But The Yards' great forte is the tense, and intense, atmosphere that it manages to keep up throughout. The narrative structure is pretty classic, but the film has all the things that, taken together, make up a great movie subtle script, superb performances, music, lighting, editing etc. This is undoubtedly one of the best films of the year.  "}{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I work in a video rental store and i recently rented a screener copy of The Yards. I wasn't really sure what it was about when i sat down to watch it, but i really ended up enjoying it.  The Yards is a very unique story about young Leo (Wahlberg), who returns home from prison and begins his search for an honest job in order to redeem himself from a previous life of crime. Unaware of what he is getting himself into, he becomes involved in a corrupt railroad business headed by his uncle (Caan). The film basically chronicles the effect that Leo's return has on his family, and the effect the railroad business has on him.  Very stylishly directed by James Gray, and wonderfully photographed.  The use of lighting adds very much to the bleak atmosphere. I really enjoyed Phoenix's performance, and it's good to see Caan in a role worthy of his talent.  I really found myself caring about the characters and what was happening to them.  It's a shame that some films don't get any recognition when released theatrically. Hopefully The Yards will do better on video. "},{"Title":"Very solid work by all involved.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very solid movie, visually told, with excellent performances by all.  The young actors hold their own against the veterans in the cast. The story itself is quite ordinary, but the emotion that James Gray and his cast bring to it make it something special. "},{"Title":"A gangster film with emotions?? How passe said the cynic","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film had an emotional quality and depth that very few movies aspire to these days, without being unduly sentimental or mawkish. This isn't Scorcese or a body-count type film, it tries to do something completely different to that by emphasising the emotional and moral conflicts that the chararcters go through. To be honest, the tagline (...nothing is as dangerous as an innocent man) doesn't do the film justice. The ending is ambiguous as the main character does what he has to do to survive and even avenge himself, but the right or wrong of his actions are left to the viewers to figure out.The characters are developed as real people, not as ciphers or as walking metaphors, facing real pressures and dilemmas. I certainly could relate to all the characters in the film since I know people just like them. All the cast put in strong performances, particularly James Caan and Faye Dunaway (one of the few times she hasn't turned to her cheekbones for support).Themes of the film are skilfully emphasised by the director's use of light, in particular where Leo is sent in to kill the policeman. The harsh antiseptic light contrasted with the soft outlines of the translucent surgical curtain reinforce the moral dilemma and fear of crossing into the unknown faced by the character in a truly memorable scene. There are other, similar examples all through the film.I would say from watching this that James Gray has got at least one truly great movie in him. This isn't it, but it's still good. I found it refreshing to watch a movie where the characters actually develop in different directions for a change instead of remaining static and where other qualities than bullets, one-liners and all-pervading cynicism are expressed. Bravo for trying something different and avoiding the pitfalls of this genre. If you like your cynicism hard-boiled and prefer throwaway style over substance, don't bother with this. Anyone else should enjoy it. "},{"Title":"a very tense..and very good movie","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the yards may suffer from a script that isn't as original as it is supposed to be,but some really great piece of acting from mark wahlberg and the rest of the cast gives a great force to the movie. furthermore,director james gray displays real image-creating talent,especially with the use of shadow vs light sequences that really help supporting the script. I think the movie shows the diversity of US cinema in a positive way. "},{"Title":"Use of musical score to full-effect","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  James Gray's use of music and the musical score composed by Howard Shore is very poignant in this film, especially in the intense scenes where there's no dialogue. This effect makes him very distinguished among the young film directors who merely rely on violent scenes and bad dialogue in portraying similar situations. I nominate both Gray and Shore  for Best Director and Best Score respectively for the upcoming Academy Awards. I rarely have seen such effect in recent movies. Bravo!  "},{"Title":"oscar quality film","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great movie all around - script, acting, camerawork, casting.Comparisons to standard Hollywood gangster movies miss the point. Complaints that this movie owes too much to the Godfather, On the Waterfront, etc are at best superficial and at worst obtuse.This is a tense, moody work and as such has more in common with LA Confidental or The Thin Red Line than Goodfellas or even the Godfather. Its classic but at the same time unique. Those that call it too conventional can pop another ritalin and watch many of the available flicks that run more like music videos than cinema.Only criticism is the ending. "},{"Title":"Out of the ordinary","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Years ago, I was involved in a major public works highway project planned for Boston. The bidders I was working with suggested bringing the job in in a year's less time than their competitors.  I warned them that wouldn't get them the job, since the city officials deciding the matter had an interest in keeping as many people employed on this job for as long as possible. Why not?  It wasn't their money they were spending and all these construction workers vote. Unfortunately, the people I was working with didn't listen and didn't get the job, which I think is still going to this day.The Yards is a very good, modern crime drama that gives some insight into a world most people know little about, the big time awarding of public contracts in Eastern urban centers.  This is not a flashy story about car chases and big explosions, because usually things like that have nothing whatsoever to do with organized crime or professional criminals, the guys who get hired to torch failing restaurants or factories, or in this case, to wreck some subway cars to help somebody win a contract.The film should be seen for this reason alone.It should also be viewed to see some very first rate acting all around. Hats off to Mark Wahlberg and Jauquin Phoenix as the two young punks caught up in this world, and to Ellen Bursten, Faye Dunaway, James Caan and even Steve Lawrence (yes, that Steve Lawrence) playing either concerned parents or corrupt public officials trying to protect their own.Also, hats off to director James Gray for both his part in the script and his work behind the camera.  Charlize Theron turns in what may be the best performance I have seen out of her, and that may mean she was badly directly in some of her previous efforts.I just have to say, I was impressed.  The ending was a little too neat for my tastes, but all and all, an excellent, engrossing movie that was not afraid to show what crime really looks like, rather than the over hyped, over cooked nonsense we get in most Hollywood movies.This had the feel of the real thing about it. "},{"Title":"Just a few words of praise...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is the first James Gray film I've seen. i know nothing about him or his previous movies & i was very impressed with The Yards. the acting was generally very good - except for the token good-looking girl- and the story moved well and was interesting. I think that the film raises important questions of loyalty and friendship, as well as family ties being a negative thing.Mark Walhberg is truly exceptional in this. I loved the fight scenes, they were so true and violent..... "},{"Title":"Are you people friggin' nuts? This movie is great!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Go figure why Miramax gave the kissoff to this remarkable piece of classical cinema, a byproduct of ON THE WATERFRONT and THE GODFATHER that is in no way shamed by its ancestors. The script --about an ex-con (Mark Wahlberg) trying to stay out and do good--is one-two-three, but it's all in the handling, and especially in the acting. There hasn't been this kind of lumpenprole thespian fest since Stuart Rosenberg's POPE OF GREENWICH VILLAGE. Wahlberg is a miracle of quiet, unforced, uninflected honesty. As the hothead/troublemaker buddy, Joaquin Phoenix resists the temptation to ham it up in the DeNiro-in-MEAN-STREETS vein; in repose, he has the liquid-black-eyed anguish of Michael Corleone. Mascara-streaked, pinned in doorways as if with thumbtacks of misery, Charlize Theron hits career highs. Ellen Burstyn, so wocka-wocka in REQUIEM FOR A DREAM, hits not one false note. Faye Dunaway, a drag queen for aeons, becomes a real person. And James Caan matches the gravitas of his WAY OF THE GUN performance; what an actor this old cheeseball has turned into!Add to this what may be Howard Shore's finest score (and that is saying a LOT), and a visual design that would put a tear of pride in Gordon Willis' eye, and you have a noble, elegant piece of working-class tragedy. How is it people don't get this movie? "},{"Title":"A very grim and disturbing story with phenominal acting","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this story so real that it was so draining.  All around, with an excellent cast, James Gray managed to pull the best of each actor.  It's not a swashbuckler or a spectacle that Hollywood seems to thrive on, but a film that's so real that your heart begins to palpitate when there's a violent scene.  The actors give such overwhelming and real performances, that you feel and can identiy with them.  Don't expect to see car chases, massive killings and gun shots.  This is a thinking persons film that holds alot of depth.  James Caan is at his best, as is Mark Wahlburg, Charlene and Juaquim.  The whole cast is superb and newcomer Robert Montano (Hector Garlardo) is extremely impressive as the competitor "}{"Title":"Great acting about real people holds up The Yards","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, If you've seen the trailer for The Yards, you can see that it's nothing new.  Same old story for the script, with one difference, an amazing cast.  I have no idea how James Gray got all these people to be in the movie (the script could not have been convincing enough) but he did it.  The acting really portrays real people in difficult situations.  Surprisingly, this film shows vulnerable characters who always can't do the right thing, or do what they're told.  Joaquin Phoenix and James Caan are excellent.  Faye Dunaway has a small but very well acted role.  And Mark Wahlberg is really showing that he is one of the better young actors out there today. While James Gray is no script man, he can definitely direct.  You would think this film is fodder for lots of suspense, but Gray doesn't play it out that way.  He uses the drama of the family to make the movie more interesting.Like I said, I have no idea how he could have convinced this cast to come together.  But they did, so we should appreciate the acting. "},{"Title":"Heading to the Oscars","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film recently and I must say that it is very well done. It is both wonderfully written, acted and directed in what I believe to be Oscar quality. The character Raymond, played by a relative newcomer Andrew Davoli, also seemed to stand out with the rest of the cast. I highly recommend this film upon it's release. "},{"Title":"A strong tale of corruption and redemption from a major American director.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw THE YARDS at a preview screening and found it a powerful and unsettling experience. It is a subtle movie, perhaps too subtle for the smash and grab movie culture that we have created in America in the last twenty years. The performances are uniformly strong, with James Caan, Charlize Theron and Mark Wahlberg particularly effective; and what director James Gray has done with Joaquin Phoenix,  is nothing less than astonishing. I would also single out Tomas Milian in a small but crucial role.Writer/Director James Gray has pulled off a small miracle in these cynical and exploitative movie going times, a real movie with a real story and real emotions. Though it involves corruption and crime, it is NOT a gangster movie. It is rather a social drama done in the style of Visconti. Which is not to say it is an art film.Just about anyone who watches THE YARDS with an open mind and heart will be fascinated and moved. Without doubt, in years to come people will look back on this film as a classic, and James Gray as one of the foremost directors of the new American wave.   "},{"Title":"A tightly written, highly intelligent drama","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is based on several real life situations.The director has woven them into a tightly written drama that reflects all the complexity, confusion, and even fear that was faced by those who were affected by the situations.In every way, this movie asks the reader to follow along, pay attention, and become involved in what is happening on the screen.  It requires real work on the part of the audience which then has the reward of leaving the theater knowing that they have had to exercise their brains, been touched in their emotions, and will have memories of how corruption and greed affected the lives of several true-to-life characters.Those who go to the theater expecting to sit passively and watch explosions, special effects, mind boggling dialogue that expresses nothing should confine themselves to the exploitation films that are among us every week.But for those who want in cinema what they find in Opera, music, and reading of fine literature will see this movie as a work of art.  It makes demands of them while giving a reward. "},{"Title":"Decent drama for 80 minutes becomes a slow dirge and fizzles out","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an engaging drama of a young man (Mark Wahlberg) back from a stint in prison who becomes a man on the run accused of a murder he did not commit. The event occurred in connection with his uncle's railway car business in New York City, and this leads to complications involving his cousin and his best friend, primarily, but with a spotlight turned on the character of his uncle, ably played by James Caan.The first 80 minutes of the picture are an 8/10, but then, inexplicably, the scenes begin to be drawn out to excessive length by needless slow pacing. Furthermore, the way in which the drama is resolved, involving a public hearing, is clumsy. And also a layer of extra tragedy is woven into the fabric without apparent reason or a compelling dramatic justification.By the end, all the main characters are acting like zombies, and the final scenes are lacking in impact or proper focus on the right characters.These faults are really a shame because the plot of the story is really very sound and original and the acting is on target. As in a few other movies I've recently reviewed, I believe the faults lie in script and direction. It's hard for me to understand. It's hard to believe that the film makers cannot see the obvious and glaring faults in the flow of the story (lethargic pacing in the last third) and in the unrealistic way in which the final act and resolution are conducted. I liked the behind-the-scenes deal making. It's just that it happened too fast to be believable. I felt as if some rabbits were being pulled out of hats. Similarly, the final death in the story seemed out of place.Overall, it's a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"great cast, poor design","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a tale that has been told before. Nothing really new here. The cast was very good. The production design was OK. Lighting and sound should have been better. I wonder about the choices the director made.It is one thing to try to make a Noir film, but I was totally turned off by the hushed tones, and whispers. Conversations seemed to take place in echo chamber. As it continued to be unhearable, it became unwatchable.If you have a quiet media room, then you might get more out of this than I did.There are plenty of other crime dramas out there. "},{"Title":"Solid but average","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Recap Leo has just been released from prison after doing 18 months time. He gets a job at his aunt's husband's yard. But being on parole, his job suddenly involves bribery and sabotage. One evening everything goes wrong, and Leo get wrongfully accused of murder. He goes on the run, sought after both by the police and his former friends that now regard him as a threat.Comments This is a low key thriller about how loyalty and friendship comes to a head with honesty and self preservation. Set in the middle of a family and it's family business it always keep a level of pressure, a level of suspense on the character Leo and the story itself. Without any up tempo bits, without explosions and without any high paced chases it still keeps interest. And that's good. However, it doesn't really reach any climaxes either. No scenes when almost everything comes to a point, when you are on your edge as a viewer. It only walks slowly along its storyline, with only small changes in pace. And that makes it good, but without any real high points. It is a good movie, but it will soon be forgotten.It relies heavily on the acting, and fortunately it has casted well. A movie that sports Mark Whalberg, Charlize Theron, James Caan, Joaquin Phoenix and Ellen Burstyn, among others, can consider itself lucky. Those are solid, quality actors and actresses and as usual they perform well. But like everything else they must conform to the story, and also never reaches any real high points.A good movie, with a good story but maybe a movie that should be viewed if you like any of the actors especially well. Or like stories about corrupt public systems more than others.6/10 "},{"Title":"The type of film we see all too rarely","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Leo Handler comes home after a jail stretch for stealing cars. A full-blown Ryker's graduate, he's a bit inarticulate, a bit reserved and frankly at a loss as to how he can earn some decent money to support his ailing mum. He falls in with his old crowd of friends, who ostensibly are a nice enough bunch. His buddy Willie hustles for Uncle Frank, who's head of a company that contracts out to the New York Subway department, mending the trains. You might imagine that to be a proud, honest and responsible profession, but think again. It's an industry riddled with corruption and intimidation, as murky and brutal as weapons-dealing. Payouts, bribes, kickbacks (all under the banner euphemism looking after people) grease the wheels of this institutionalised back-stabbing, the rot reaching as high as public officials. Sabotage is rife, as are threats and recriminations as the rival contractors vie for the coveted, profitable subway contracts.Leo doesn't have the patience &#150; or time &#150; to graduate as a machinist, and before long he's accompanying Willie to clandestine meetings where money, or nice clothes and sports tickets, change hands like the most natural thing in the world. But the best laid plans go off the rails as fiction has proved time and time again, there's nothing harder than trouble for an ex-con to stay out of. Before long Leo is in over his head, when a night-time raid on rival-Waltech's trains goes badly wrong. Leo finds himself wrongfully accused of murder, and there's a cop in a coma. Worse, Willie and his mates go to ground as Leo legs it, happy for him to take the rap and even happier for him to have to get his hands dirty. Leo is pursed not only cops, but also his extended 'family', who want him silenced before he gets caught. The incident in The Yards turns unwanted media attention on the business' sinister policies; everyone's in jeopardy of a grand-duty indictment.James Gray has been dormant for too long. This is that rare, rare breed of crime film. It's mature, superbly crafted and while brilliantly stylised, design never overshadows content. It's an adult film. Too many gangster films indulge in OTT violence and gloss, revelling in the brutality they should probably condemn as they try to ape Scorsese. The keynote of The Yards is restraint and a sombre tone. The muted colour scheme and precise 'scope framing (kudos to cinematographer Harris Savides) never draw attention to themselves, but along with excellent, plausible art direction create a dark, dangerous world, where the corruption of the train lines spills over into (or better put, infects) the home. The performances, too, are excellent. Mark Wahlberg's mumbling and stoop captures Leo's uncertainty and isolation very well. James Caan and Joaquin Phoenix are also excellent, always hinting at the violence and betrayal that lurks behind their clean-cut image.Some viewers might be initially put-off by the downbeat tone, but stick with it. Gray conjures up some superb set pieces, relying on incredible sound-design and lighting to create spell-binding tension, all of which is anathema to your regular shoot 'em-up action sequences. With its use of slow-motion, wide-angle lenses, precise lighting and hinting (rather that showing) of the community that lies beyond the home and 'hood, the films creates the impression of small characters struggling against a bigger, wider system that they seek to control. The use of music, notably Holst's Saturn, gives the film a celestial, timeless feel, but this rarefied atmosphere is married off by a feel for Leo's predicament and working-class background.There are problems. The filmmakers almost overdo the sobriety and restraint to the extent it sometimes stifles suspense, and the narrative climaxes a good ten minutes before the end, even though the coda is moving. But it's still an excellent film, and I can't wait for Gray's next. "},{"Title":"Liked it so much I bought the DVD","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well the 6.4/10 vote for this movie really surprises me . I thought it was excellent . In fact I liked it so much I bought the DVD . Normally if I see anything with Mark Wahlberg I instantly pass but after seeing this movie it made me change my opinion of the guy . Nice dark thriller with a good story and great acting . 9 out of 10 . "},{"Title":"Shallow and cliche riden, but good cast.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the movies, it always amazes me that people running a sophisticated and successful business scam, always decide to go over the top just when an outsider has come on the scene. If the thugs employed by the Phoenix character to make sure Caan's company got the lion's share of city contracts operated as crudely as they do in the scene where Walberg's character beats a cop half to death, they would have been busted the first or second time out. And why does Caan's Frank give in so easily to letting Leo join Willie's crew when so much is at stake? Besides the usual lack of logic, the film commits the ultimate sin of being just plain boring. As someone else wrote, too many characters with no reason given to care about any of them. Nice to see some good actors getting a paycheck, but this film is a waste of time for everyone. And, every time I saw the crooked politician, I kept thinking, why did they give Steve Lawrence that part, and when is he going to break into a Broadway show tune?  "}{"Title":"too many main characters","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nice idea, but the director wanted to tell too much about everyone and not enough about one or two characters. Did we really know enough about Leo before he arrived home? Did his mother really need to have a heart condition? Was it necessary for Erica to give her step father the respect ala Godfather. Couldn't this have been her real father? Just too  much in one film. Focus focus focus! "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's a stretch of about ten minutes in the first act of this film during which it looks like it's going to try to present a realistic picture of corruption in business, which could've been pretty interesting. Unfortunately, it quickly degenerates into standard, sloppy, and worst of all boring thriller material. This is the kind of movie that feels like it's at least 1/3 padding; Charlize Theron in particular has almost no reason to be in the movie other than to provide emotional moments that I think are supposed to be some kind of character development. All the pointless go-nowhere scenes aren't helped by the general lack of interesting dialogue or (despite a decent cast that is mostly solid) performances. Worst of all, Mark Wahlberg gives a bland performance with an annoying accent, and portrays one of the most unsympathetic and uninteresting protagonists in recent memory. Some crime films present a flawed hero, who does bad things but has a good heart; some get by with an amoral criminal who has an interesting outlook or is fascinatingly skilled. Here Wahlberg plays a loser of seemingly sub-average intelligence who is barely any better than the people he's running from and always seems to be on the verge of falling asleep, making it impossible to care about the man on the run aspect of the film. And, of course, the ending is anti-climactic and ridiculously pat. It's the last nail in the movie's coffin. Avoid this one.  "},{"Title":"There's nothing more dangerous than a `so so' movie.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"   Hmm `The Yards' is, in some ways, a `dangerous' movie. It's neither bad, nor good. It's mildly entertaining, diversionary and that - far too often - is all Hollywood seems to strive to achieve. It's a bad state of affairs but. what can I do?It's not the acting that's particularly at fault here. Mark Wahlberg is Leo Handler. He's a parolee who is trying to go on the `straight and narrow' but gets dragged back in by his evil friend Williw (Joaquin Phoenix). Cue some trouble with the `family' and events spiralling out of control. Wahlberg is decent here, trying to play the `I-want-to-be-honest' man, who seems unable to arrest control on the events around him. His face doesn't ever register much emotion but. well the script won't let him. Phoenix does what he did in `Gladiator' - a little evil with a touch of the melodrama (look at my single tear!) The rest are all grand, playing their shallow little roles.The problem is a weak script. Leo is working for a company that provides rail equipment, using underhand practices. None of the characters here are fleshed out to any degree that we care. They're slimy or corrupt or trying to maintain honour. They feel like pale imitations of Scorcese movies, or cast off concepts from `The Sopranos'. The plot itself isn't much either - it unravels slowly, and the resulting tapestry is all rather dull. So blah blah happens to Character X? You know, I don't really care that it does.It all adds up. to casual indifference. Yes, there's a conclusion which is somewhat obvious and trite. Sure there's some action, in a mild formulaic `seen it before' way. OK so the actors try well enough but they can't breathe life into a product that never really lived. A TV viewing here, nothing more. 4.8/10. "},{"Title":"ummm...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie boring and uneventful. It was semi predictable, and offered nothing new! Wahlberg has a whiny acting style that doesn't help him pull off certain roles. This is one of them. It's not a good sign when you don't really care what happens to any of the cast! Anyway, watch the movie - some people may like it. For me it's the kind of movie you'd watch on TV if there's nothing else on. I certainly wished I hadn't paid my $3.00 for it. "},{"Title":"the movie was REALLY bad","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	Mark Wahleberg plays a parolee recently returned to his old neighborhood.  He tries to find a job with his Uncle's rail union and fails due to his lack of experience but his best friend gives him a job making people happy.  Before Mark knows it he is wanted for murder and assault on a police officer.  He has nobody to turn to because all of his friends in The Family are now looking for him also.   	Wahleberg is becoming a better actor with each movie.  The rest of the cast includes people like Faye Dunaway, James Caan, Charlize Theron, and Joaquin Phoenix.  It should have been a good movie.  The second time I woke back up I quit watching.   "},{"Title":"Good piece of acting","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I have to admit that The Yards is not the best movie I've ever seen, and it does remind me of the Insider an awful lot, but it came with a few surprises for me. Keeping in mind, that the roles were supposed to be the opposite (ie. Joaq was supposed to play Leo, and Marky Mark - who, to me will forever go under that name - was to get Willie) it was nice to see them in a movie where they are finally not typecast as the suffering one and regular 'bad' boy respectively. Naturally Joaquin got his moment in the movie as the lost one - check out the single tear on his right cheek in his last scene in the movie, it's a beautiful one - I know it sounds cliche-ish, but its a well done for actor and director equally. One of the highlights of the movie. Another fine moment comes from Erica (Charlize) crying on the shoulder of her stepdad - with the necessary amount of body fluids emerging... sounds like an Oscar stealing scene, eh? On the serious side, she was a gem for a movie that comes from a good idea turned into a mediocre script. Marky Mark was convincing throughout the movie, his character being plain on the whole, there was not much color he could have added to it, but he tried. I ended the movie realizing that he was a good actor.Altogether my impressions were mixed - but it is worth watching, and more than once. Actually, the more I watch it, the more I like it(Saw it 3 times). I guess it's one of those movies. And, wow, check out the club scene! I bet the actors and extras were having a ball there - for those having seen Joaq in To Die For dancing like a true jerk should see this movie - he can dance after all. Not to mention Marky's pathetic moves...I bet the director will come back in a few years to make a really good movie. He definitely has the touch, but it still feels a bit uneven.Altogether I'd give the movie a 6.75 out of 10 - if you're interested in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"sadly, falls short of greatness","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i'd have liked the yards to be a great film, but frustratingly, it falls short.james gray's style is a blend of total opposites harsh coldness, with static camera shots and silences, and melodramatic pathos, with lingering closeups and emotional music. at least in the yards, the two don't comprise a compelling whole. it feels more like schizophrenia.the plot feels both real and operatic; again, a potential for greatness. but gray's insistence on lingering on every detail and his use of closeups and flashbacks to explain the story made me feel spoon-fed. it is unnecessary, as the story of corruption in the n.y. transit system is really quite simple and easy to follow. he also overdoes it a bit in the emotion department.harris savides' cinematography, howard shore's music and particularly kevin thompson's set design are notable, and gray himself delivers a few effective moments of shock action. sadly, he lets his film slip into overlength.still worth watching i suppose, but hopefully, in the future, gray will produce something better. "},{"Title":"much ado about nothing","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This picture frustrated me because I saw so much energy going into peripheral aspects of production and dramatic values being ignored. What use is all that beautiful cinematography--the equal, possibly, of the great Gordon Willis's in The Godfather--if the story just doesn't take off? Those oh-so-carefully-chosen interiors? The very atmospheric rail yards? Here we have a two-hour bore that would have made a decent 60 minute TV episode.Remember how disappointing The Firm was?--all that gore over a law firm that was overbilling its corporate clients. I felt that way here cheesy goings-on to do with repairing subway cars. A certain pervasive sense of evil is missing, since all the bad stuff is coming out in the news.There is a great film that deals with corruption in the city On The Waterfront. Brando gives one of his strongest performances, and he's supported by Eva Marie Saint, Rod Steiger, Karl Malden and many more. The sense of menace and suppressed violence is superb.I'll close by praising Joaquin Phoenix, finally coming into his own; Charlize Theron, who impresses in a part that should have been expanded; James Caan, in a quieter role than usual. "},{"Title":"The sad story of corruption","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is quite hard to critisise the Yards because it is a good story that is well directed and very well acted. Having said that it is not earth shatteringly gripping, gutsy, yes but gripping ,no. I have an extra interest in The Yards because it is set in the Subway yards where the trains are repaired . I work in a depot in London fixing trains in same way that these people do although i cant say i know of to much corruption going on around my work place! The acting is superb during this film especially from Mark Whalberg ,James Caan and Joaquin Phoenix who make this film very watchable which is important because it is a little long considering the story. This is a film that i liked a lot but for some reason that i cant quite put my finger on im not going to give give it a large mark out of 10, which is annoying because i cant tell you why. Give The Yards a go and see for yourself. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Half A yard","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards is one of those films that is infuriating because it is on the verge of being a really good film.  The all too predictable story - the genesis of which probably lies in Mean Streets,(the scene where they enter the club at the beginning must be a reference to a similar moment in Scorsese's classic) The Godfather and On The Waterfront is carried along by solid direction and a good cast. Unfortunately the terrific cast of 70's Hollywood stars Caan, Dunaway and Burstyn do not really get as much screen time as they should have done. Of the younger actors Wahlberg has perfected a strange mid distance stare with glazed over eyes which doesn't really lend itself to much emotional depth and, as the films core character, he is a major weakness not managing to illicit viewer sympathy the way this character should Phoenix, on the other hand, is hugely charismatic displaying a cold exterior and fragile psyche which creates the films most interesting (though still a little underdeveloped) characters. Ultimately, a near miss but a director to watch I would think. "}{"Title":"gritty and gripping","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE YARDS is a gritty and depressing but beautifully made story of corruption and violence. To say that it is about graft and corruption in the metropolitan NY rail system is not to convey the power of the plot, script, acting, direction and cinematography. The movie never got a lot of time in the theaters, unfortunately. The presence of James Caan is usually a good clue to quality in a movie, and this is no exception. Mark Wahlberg is also turning out to be a pretty good actor. The movie, very understated, and the more powerful for being so, is an underrated and overlooked gem. "},{"Title":"A terrible waste of a good cast","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People make mistakes.  If yours happen to be big enough, and you get caught, you go to jail.   Most inmates are intent on serving their time, so they can get on with their lives and be productive citizens.  But once released, they're faced with the ol' Catch-22 - to go straight they need a job, but they often can't get a decent job with a record.  Exacerbate the situation with bad acquaintances and old surroundings and you have another recidivism statistic.Leo Handler did the right thing after doing the wrong thing - busted for grand theft auto, he refused to rat on his friends, because that's what the street code says.  After breaking rocks for 18 months, his only desire is to go legit and look after his ailing mother.  He even gets a great job offer from his new uncle, a contractor for the New York city Subway system - go to school for two years, become a machinist and Leo has a guaranteed job that pays a good union wage.  But, for Leo, who watches his best friend Willie spend money like water, two years may as well be twenty, and he asks to work in the company's contract division.  Welcome to the dark side.It is always disappointing to watch a film with good intentions and potential slowly disintegrate onscreen.  While not the worst movie I've seen recently (and there have been some doozies),  The Yards has too many little problems (and some big) to recommend it.  The biggest culprit is the script, which is far too predictable, I mean, corruption in New York contracting - tell me it ain't so!  In addition we are expected to believe that our protagonist, who managed to survive for a year and a half in prison, is too stupid to figure out that twenty-five year-olds with no education don't generally earn a thousand of dollars a day legally.  More frustrating were the villains who were not particularly menacing and the poor editing near the end of the film that forces the viewer to sit through fifteen minutes of superfluous drivel.  I do have to credit the actors for their performances.James Caan is credible as Frank, the pensive and subdued boss who genuinely cares for his family and is uncomfortable with the rules of his business.  The scene where Frank tries to discourage Leo from pursuing the unsavory side of the business is simultaneously emotional and subtle and is a testament to Caan's skill as an actor.     Joaquin Phoenix, once again cast as the bad guy, balances his weasel/tough guy persona perfectly, and you will thoroughly dislike him. Even Charlize Theron, who I've mercilessly lambasted in the past, is passable.  The big disappointment is Mark Wahlberg, (who shone in Three Kings and Boogie Nights), or to be more specific, his character.  Leon is so mercilessly stupid, has no depth, and virtually no good lines, and I'm surprised that Wahlberg accepted this role as written.  Such a waste.  Despite a talented cast, bad writing, underdeveloped characters and lazy editing hobble The Yards.  If you're in the mood for a family drama walk past The Yards and rent The Godfather.  "},{"Title":"Layered & Complexed Film with Solid Performances","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have read a comment where the contributor described this film as neo-noir; they could not be more off the mark. This film has none of the classic characteristics of film noir--the protagonist is not conflicted or an anti-hero, he is more a victim of circumstances; there is no femme fatale; none of the dark shadows and moody lighting attributed with noir; and most substantial this is not a mystery/thriller, it is a modern crime drama. Jimmy Caan described it as a classic tragedy, I think that this is a more apt description.First, I must say I really liked this film and more importantly, the performances. I am not going to re-hash the plot, with over 100 postings, my peers have explored the story very thoroughly. I am going to concentrate on the key performances.Mark Whalberg was fine, it was a very stripped down performance and without passion. I feel that he might have confused minimalism with phlegmatic-ism, the end result was a little wooden--not quite as bad as Keanu Reeves but it could have been infused with some emotion. I got that he just wanted to take care of his mother and stop causing her pain, I know real people in this circumstance; however, Wahlberg's character did not seem to connect with anyone else in a significant emotional way. Even though Charlize Theron may have recycled her performance from such films as The Devil's Advocate and The Astronaut's Wife, it still works fine here. Ellen Burstyn conveyed fragility and optimism very well, she always holds her own around an ensemble of gifted actors. In a departure from the norm, Faye Dunaway delivered a very understated, subtle performance which relied a lot on body language to convey her emotions. What can I say about Jimmy Caan, of course he nails it. Corrupt but has a sense of family loyalty and personal code of ethics. It's not unfamiliar territory for Caan but he is so good in this type of role that you can't wait to see what he will do next. The true standout is Joaquin Phoenix who perfectly demonstrates a wide range of emotions from arrogance, intimacy, anguish, immorality, betrayal, and personal loss and full submission. Phoenix demonstrates what made him so good in Gladiator; the true tragic figure who goes from a middle-management criminal to a full scale bad guy willing to do anything to save his sorry hide, albeit unsuccessfully. "},{"Title":"Very competent film noir","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the independent cinema,there's a space for expressing ideas and conflicts by an excellent work of screenplay,brilliant performances and great direction.The yards is an independent movie which has all of that things.Director James Gray never goes by the easy way in showing the glamour of crime and he never shows the characters as anti-heroes trapped by the circumstances.Gray shows characters 100% human without villains or heroes.The violence is not coolit's real and the consequences do not have an escape.Mark Wahlberg brings an excellent performanes,but Joaquin Phoenix steals the show.He makes a brilliant performance on every movie he participates(including this one,obviously).The only fail I found on this movie is that the ending resolves the conflict very easily.But I can excuse that fail when the movie is so good like this one.The yards is a very competent noir movie which tells a simple but deep story. "},{"Title":"Very realistic film about business and political corruption","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very under-rated film. It presents a very realistic situation that could easily happen between corrupt businessmen and corrupt politicians. The characters were presented as they might easily appear in real life.The story line is of Leo (Wahlberg) who just gets out of prison on parole and looks to his uncle (Caan) to get a job so he can support himself and his mom. Willie (Phoenix) gets Leo involved in a late night escapade where a cop gets beaten up and a railway worker gets killed. Leo is caught between the code of silence in the criminal world and the pursuit of the cops after him, thinking he is responsible for the killing.Leo has a lot of feeling for his family, especially his mom, Val, (Burstyn) and gets caught up in the corruption of the railway business. Frank Olchin (Caan) is a step uncle that Wahlberg tries to get a job with. Olchin really does have non-corrupting intentions for Leo. Leo tries to adhere to the criminal code of silence, but the pressure builds.Erica (Theron) is Olchin's step-daughter and full daughter to Kitty (Dunaway) who has married Olchin. None of the women (Val, Erica & Kitty) know about or are involved in the corruption but their feelings get stepped on due to the circumstances of what's going on.The action is not as intense as in many crime dramas. But this leads it to being more realistic, yet it retains one's interest to see how things work out. There is some nudity, but the lone sex scene is not so long that it detracts from the story line. It's just there to show the relationship between Willie and Erica and to let Willie loosen up after a tough evening. I give the film a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Shades of WB gangster flicks of the '20s/'30s crossed with On the Waterfront meets CopLand","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE YARDS (2000) **1/2 Mark Wahlberg, Joaquin Phoenix, James Caan, Charlize Theron, Ellen Burstyn, Faye Dunaway, Victor Argo, Steve Lawrence, Andrew Davoli, Tony Musante, Tomas Milian.Cross-section of 'On The Waterfront' and 'Cop Land' urban rot and corruption drama that reeks of a Sydney Lumet melodrama Wahlberg is a recently released con who winds up neck deep in trouble with self-made businessman Caan and his loose cannon lieutentant and Wahlberg's best friend Phoenix which leads to murder, double-crossing and ultimately redemption at a severe cost. Excellent cast goes through the motions in this overly familiar terrain of gangsters and a plot line lifted from any James Cagney Warner Bros.' flick/morality play (which is not an insult).What the film lacks in originality makes up with fine turns by all especially Phoenix whose dark side gets the best of him. (Dir James Gray) "},{"Title":"Superb!!!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very good movie. For a start the story is well thought. The atmosphere gets heavier and inextricable throughout. The hero sinks deeper and deeper into a desperate situation where it seems he will never get out. The casting in general, the overall performance are brilliant, subtle and all in shades. The supporting roles are all extremely convincing. And beyond everything else, the light in this film sets a new standard (just like 'Seven' did a few years back). It just looks like it is not lit and it is served by a very wise choice of locations. I don't know how they managed to make it look so real and so good at the same time. "},{"Title":"It's the supporting cast that really does take the movie","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw The Yards a few days ago and although over all I thought it was a decent movie and I am a fan of Mark Wahlberg's, Mark was incredibly flat in the movie. The true story that really caught my interest was between Joaquin Phoenix and Charlize Theron, both Oscar winning actors who again can hold their own in a film and separate themselves from the rest. Does Joaquin play a great bad guy or what?The film is about Mark who is a tough guy who just got out of prison for grand theft auto. He promises his mom, played by the great and under rated Ellen Burstyn, that he is going to shape up and be the son she truly deserves. But when he goes to James Cann and is denied a steady job due to lack of education, he takes up with Joaquin and gets into a whole bunch of trouble. Charlize plays Mark's cousin and Joaquin's fiancée, she defends Mark and therefore results in tragic consequences with Joaquin.The film is over all pretty good, but not enough to really grab my attention. Like I said, the supporting cast really brings it home with this one. Mark really seemed like an amateur and stood no chance. Sorry, Mark.7/10 "},{"Title":"**WARNING SPOILER!**  Pretentious Film","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gosh!  What a cast!  All the names from the 60s!  Caan, Burstyn, Dunaway... and all the red-hots from now!  Wahlberg, Theron, Joaquin Phoenix!  But, what a dud!  One word for this wannbe film  boring.  Wahlberg looks either confused or uninterested.  Caan looks like his replaying Sonny from the Godfather, Dunaway and Burstyn are underused and frankly, Charlize Theron is cute but uninspiring.  I could go on and on...but why bother?  The opening review hit the nail on the head.  Give good actors a lousy, poorly written script and you come up with a lousy movie.  None of the characters either spark interest or generate sympathy.  The themes of corruption can not in themselves generate a good story.  The characters here move along like cardboard cut-outs.  This is a very disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Ok but over-rated.","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards tells of corruption in the New York commuter transit maintenance contract awards system. An attempt to vandalize trains to thwart a competitive bidder goes wrong and a metro worker is killed. Thus begins this plodding saga which showcases some excellent young and not-so-young actors. Although the film is technically well crafted and artistically okay, the sepia, subdued and oblique lighting, and underexposures are obvious and reminiscent of the Godfather series. The actors spend most of their time talking under their breath with deadpan, emotionless expressions, all designed to create a sense of importance about what is, by cinematic standards, a feeble story. To make matters worse, our hero, a putz played by Wahlberg, is an excon who gets out of jail and immediately gets into trouble again. His only redeeming quality seems to be he loves his mother; and we're supposed to be rooting for him?? This mildly entertaining flick's biggest flaw is the absence of any reason for the audience to care about any of the characters. The film is left open at the end with many lingering question marks. An ok flick, but over-rated. "}{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some well known, not necessarily brilliant, actors are collected to stroke a neophyte director's ego in a very tedious and boring film that is a direct steal from Visconti's Rocco and His Brothers, right down to the soundtrack. Only there is nothing relevant about what is said, other than that there is corruption everywhere. C'mon, let's get a fresh idea or two before stealing from a classic. Charleze Theron delivers another chameleon like performance and Ellen Burstyn twitters away like always. Faye Dunaway has long ago convinced us that she hasn't any real idea of what acting is about other than trying to steal scenes, and Mark Walhberg covers character nuances from A-B(apathetic to bland) while huge pipe organs pound out prophetic over dramatic music to establish the doom to come. It was interesting to note that this pedestrian director didn't direct anything of note thereafter. "},{"Title":"No revolution","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Visually, The Yards is very good, whether it is the direction or especially the photography, which is kind of the trademark of James Gray.Because script wise, it is very conventional and little inspired. The movie doesn't revolutionize at all what has already been made previously, and if the story unfolds pretty smoothly, it doesn't fully captivate, also because of a wheezing rhythm.The other big problem is the cast, little convincing. Joaquin Phoenix, though not bad, isn't transcending either, as always. As for Mark Wahlberg, he is too inexpressive and really lacks finesse in his acting for such a dramatic role. "},{"Title":"A nice flick that doesn't hold up under examination","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Yards is one of those films that's pretty good as long as you don't think too hard about it. It has some great performances and a strong build-up, but the story doesn't really work and the whole thing sort of flames out and sputters to its conclusion.Leo Handler (Mark Wahlberg) is a young man fresh out of prison and returning to his family. Leo is neither well educated nor particularly bright, but he is hopeful of getting a job with his Aunt Kitty's (Faye Dunaway) new husband. Frank Olchin (James Caan) runs a subway car manufacturing company and strongly urges Leo to get the training to qualify for a good union job. That would take a few years, though, so Leo decides to throw in with his best friend Willy Gutierrez (Joaquin Phoenix). Willy is essentially Frank's bag man, handling the payoffs, petty larcenies and sabotage that are the seedy underbelly of doing business in the city. But when a nighttime trip to vandalize a competitor's subway cars goes murderously wrong, Leo becomes the linchpin of a scandal that could destroy his family or cost him his life.There's a lot to like about this somber and quiet tale, chiefly the work of this fine cast. Mark Wahlberg as an actor has, I believe the phrase is, a limited instrument. Put him in the right role and he can be electric. Put him in the wrong role&#x85;and you get something like Wahlberg him in the Planet of the Apes remake. Leo is the right sort of role. Wahlberg's common, uncomplicated performance provides a clear window into the corrupt world of Frank and Willy. James Caan is pitch perfect as a man who is aware of the criminality at the heart of his business but believes he and his family can glide harmlessly over it. Joaquin Phoenix plays Willy as a successful version of Leo; a street kid who thinks he's making good. Phoenix, however, has a greater depth of talent and is able to show the audience far more as Willy's life falls apart. If he and Wahlberg had switched roles, Phoenix could have still shined but Wahlberg would have been a fiasco as Willy.The distaff side of The Yards doesn't get as much to do but manage to do as much as they can. Charlize Theron plays Erica, Leo's cousin and Willy's girlfriend. The character isn't much more than a plot device that takes off its shirt, but Theron gives her much more depth than she really deserves. Ellen Burstyn as Leo's mother is, again, more of a tool to get Leo through the story. Faye Dunaway as Erica's mom and Frank's wife does get just a little sliver of substance in her role. Plotwise, Aunt Kitty is largely just an obstacle but she also embodies one of the themes of the story. Kitty married a rich man to try and give herself and her daughter a better life. Yet Frank's wealth only disguises the fact that he and his world are exactly the things Kitty was trying to get away from.The Yards is also a decent take on the subject of big city graft and how that sort of corruption persists year after year. It's not really an organized conspiracy. It's just people making self-serving deals and trying to get a leg up in what they see as an unfair world.But as I mentioned, you can't think too hard about any of this stuff. For example, there's a section of the plot where the only way it could happen is if the entire police force were made up of utter morons and there's a big cover-up that, if you consider it logically, couldn't possible cover anything up. The ending also feels&#x85;off. Everything is tied up a bit too neatly, both in circumstance and morally. It's like a happy ending glued onto a sad story.The Yards mixes family drama and urban venality into a tasty stew, but the proportions are not quite right. It's a fine meal that could have, and probably should have, been better. "},{"Title":"It is one of my favorite dramas","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My father and I were recently talking about what constitutes a good movie that is enjoyable each time you watch it.  This was part of a discussion where we were trying to decide what movies were worth buying.  My dad brought up the excellent point that movies with twists at the end are worth watching only twice (i.e. The Sixth Sense, maybe even The Usual Suspects, if it weren't for the excellent acting of Kevin Spacey). You usually need to see them a second time to understand what is going on and to pick up on things you missed that were important. I was reminded of this movie because on the Digital Versatile Disc's commentary (no abbreviations allowed), the director of The Yards brings up a similar point, and that is why he claims to have made this movie about the characters rather than about the events.  I am not one to be persuaded necessarily by what a director has to say about their masterpiece, yet I did agree that this was one movie that succeeds in its development of the characters rather than the events.  On top of all this, I believe that it is almost always more interesting to watch or read about characters who walk the fine line between right and wrong and good and evil.  Heroes are just so boring.  The Yards is a movie where there are no heroes.  That's a very good start.  If there was a hero, I might have to boycott it on principle.  But seriously,  I really enjoyed this movie.  I thought that the acting was great, and the story, though a little cliche, was still interesting.  But if you are going to watch this movie, it shouldn't be for just the story anyway.  I won't get into details.  Perhaps many already have and it would be simply a rehash of what others have said already, not to mention, I have a hard time summarizing plots, most of the time.  I just thought that this was an excellent movie about characters and what happens to them, but most importantly, why.  It doesn't say why, but if it did, I would have to deduct points from its score.  So therefore, it is up to the viewer to try and understand the motivations behind the actions, and so on. I will leave you with advice that is in some ways relevant.  Next time you go into a video store, and you read on the back cover of a movie You will have to see it a second time, it would be in your best interest to over-analyze just what that critic really meant.  A movie that you have to see twice is good.  But a movie that you enjoy watching multiple times is better.  I give The Yards a 9 or a 10.  I know some are going to be insulted because I am putting it in the same category as The Godfather but I rate movies mostly on their own scale because it would be just plain painful to rate them any other way. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Encountering The Yards on cable over the weekend, I found myself drawn into the film much more than when I first saw it.  I think the film has too many things wrong with it to be a really good one, but it does hold one's attention.  Watch it for the performances.  What a cast!  And all of them are excellent.  Mark Wahberg continues to grow as an actor in this film.  He created a memorable character.  This is a guy we really respect, a guy we'd like to help out, but all we can do is watch his sense of loyalty lead him into trouble just as it did in the past.  As to problems, well, the ending is too pat.  The strength of all the actors is also a weakness.  If every actor is that good and their parts are written strongly to match their talents, then the film loses focus.  One feels that the film doesn't concentrate enough on the few characters that are really important to the storyline.  Our attention is diverted to characters of secondary importance.  Still, watch the film for those excellent performances, especially, Mark Wahlberg's.  He holds his own with the best of them. "},{"Title":"Intense atention grabbing movie","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie The Yards is an Excellent movie.It contains emotion, action and very realistic scenes(especially the street fight).Joaquin Phoenix(Gladiator) gives an Awesome performance as does Mark Walhberg (Planet of the Apes).This movie grabs your attention and each time you see it.You  can see the movie through a different characters eyes each time. I recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Nice ingredients - Shame about the overall meal","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is a lot to commend this film - cinematography, lighting; a dark, brooding atmosphere. Unfortunately, the film ultimately disappoints. Sure there is much to admire about the director's craft - What he doesn't succeed in is maintaining the opening 40 minutes' promise throughout nor drawing any depth from his stars with a fairly tawdry script.Pitching a few contemporary film stars in with some of Hollywood's veteran stars seems only to have been a commercial device rather than a profound attempt to get the two generations to bring the best out of one another on-screen. Faye Dunaway was criminally underused - Ellen Burstyn hardly justified her fee. Only James Caan managed to lend any weight to proceedings. Joachin (or is that Yachin) begins well but peters out, possibly due to the life blood draining from the script by the final reel. Wahlberg does his quiet, moody thing - again. (He is in danger of becoming as stereotyped as Arnie or Sly Stallone ever were.)MINOR SPOILER Why Wahlberg's character should suddenly abandon his carefully honed code of honour in the last reel is a complete mystery and is probably at the heart of what was disappointing about the picture overall for me. "},{"Title":"Tries to be profound, but doesn't quite make it","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whilst perusing the DVD section of my local video shop, my eyes fell upon this title, and a rave review from The Guardian,Set to become a modern classic.Is it?I don't think so. Yes, the cast is strong, and being a filmfour production I had hopes of it being a gritty and original drama. Gritty - yes, original - no, not really. There's nothing really in this film that hasn't been seen before, in earlier superior dramas (for instance Sleepers, and others that my memory fails me on). Charlize Theron is underused, not in screentime, but in character - seemingly she is there just to be a pretty face. Which of course she is, I won't argue with that.Wahlberg's character is clearly the protagonist of the story, but yet his character is not particularly likable- not always a problem, but I think it would help to draw you into the story more if he weren't quite so humourless.So I guess if you haven't seen it - the question is should you?Perhaps, but don't expect the classic.  "},{"Title":"Has polish but too slow","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a Godfather feel to it, but it fell short of that goal. The story concerns a look at the dark side of the NY rail yard business, but there is little substance to the plot, which often rambles, and is  slow in too many spots to redeem it. The acting is first rate, however, with many recognizable stars. "},{"Title":"Quietly riveting drama","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A young man, just out of prison, wants to go straight but is drawn back into crime as a result of circumstances beyond his control, and ends up being hunted by the law and betrayed by his friends.  A close-knit family is torn apart due to its involvement in crime and corruption.  Sound familiar?  Yes, it's been done before; but James Gray manages to steer admirably clear of crime drama or urban corruption cliches and to create a haunting, moody film driven by character and not action.  There are no credibility-defying stunts or chases here, no inventive new ways to kill someone off; the fight scenes are realistically messy and un-melodramatic.  And yet the suspense at times is almost unbearable.  What matters is that Gray actually makes us care about his characters; one can even feel sorry for the bad guys, who in a way are also victims of circumstance.  A couple of plot developments may be unconvincing, and in at least one scene Gray sacrifices plausibility to drama Several police officers walk into a borough council meeting and deliver a tragic news to two people right in the crowded room, leading to a dramatic reaction.  (In real life, of course, they would have been asked to step outside.)  But these are minor problems.  Some critics apparently thought that the ending of the film was lame and hackneyed.  I totally disagree.  For once a hero in a film makes the morally right choice without grandstanding.  How refreshing.The film is beautifully shot, for the most part well-written, and above all, wonderfully acted.  I have been a Mark Wahlberg fan ever since Boogie Nights, and I think this is his best role and best, most natural performance since then, except maybe for Three Kings.  (I agree with another IMDB reviewer who said that in his other recent performances you can see the acting.  People may not realize that The Yards was shot RIGHT AFTER Boogie Nights -- its release was delayed by nearly two years because of Gray's perfectionism in editing the film.  I hope this doesn't mean that Wahlberg's best work is behind him and that he has become hollywoodized... I hope it just means that he needs a good director to bring out his natural talent.)  Without a single false note, he conveys Leo's desperation, fear, and tenderness toward his mother.  Joaquin Phoenix also does a superb job as Leo's friend-turned-traitor Willie, who is not really an evil man but ends up doing evil things out of a desire to save his own skin.  A virtually unrecognizable Charlize Theron is very good as Leo's cousin and Willie's girlfriend Erica.  And the elders -- James Caan as the sleazy, weary family patriarch, Faye Dunaway as his wife, Ellen Burstyn as Leo's mother -- are superb.Because Miramax has refused to give this film the backing it deserves (evidently the suits believe audiences are too dumb to appreciate an intelligent movie that doesn't have gore and explosions galore), it may not be around much longer.  Run, don't walk, to see this gem!  "}{"Title":"Really dark plot...","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wahlberg is a recently-released convict who's looking to get his life back on the straight and narrow by working for a sub contractor who repairs subway trains. Unfortunately, he's pulled into the underworld of the business and ends up on the run, suspected of assaulting a police officer and murdering a yard worker.I say this movie has a dark plot because of the sidelines along the way Wahlberg's relationship with his mother, Caan's roll as the sub contractor (seems like he's trying to revive his role in The Godfather) and the relationship between Theron's dark character and just about everyone in the movie, except maybe her step-father (Caan).Although practically unknown at the time, the cast has more promise in them than what I felt was shown in this film. The first question that comes to mind when it comes to films like this is, Is it believable? The first answer that comes to mind is, NOT! I was working in a video store when this first came out in 2000, and it was a big seller/rental at the time, but I forgot most of the plot line (with good reason) and watched it on one of those premium movie channels during a lazy afternoon. I can see why the movie doesn't work, because, frankly, after seeing this film, I don't want to work, either. I'm not saying this film should inspire me, but it should carry SOMETHING...ANYTHING. It doesn't carry the actors, the actors don't carry the movie, and even James Caan, whom I consider one of the better actors today, just seems like he's going through the motions. It seems to me like the director came out, started rolling out film, and wasting it. Facial expressions are out the window and it seems like they've all had an overdose of those injections meant to make you look younger (I won't call it by name because it would be a shameless plug).5 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Solid drama","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Yards is a solid effort from the unknown (to me) James Gray. The only thing that keeps it from being an absolute classic is that the storyline itself is rather bleak, but this film was intended to be just that, a realistic telling of how things really are out there. Its about corruption and the competition between two largest transport companies in NY. The main villain of the film, Frank Olchin (James Caan in a stellar performance, perhaps his last), is like any other average crook at first he seems honest and nice, but when you accidentally step on his toes, he does his best to destroy you. Leo Handler (Mark Wahlberg, pretty solid) is an innocent and tough young man with a rotten luck. Not only did he have to serve time for a crime he didn't commit, but soon after his arrival home he gets tangled in the crime web spun by Frank, who is also the new husband of his aunt (Faye Dunaway, kinda bland). His friend Willy Gutierrez (Joaquin Phoenix, very intense) gets him in trouble and this shows what a double edged blade such friendships can be. Things get worse after Willy finds out, through Frank, that Leo fancied and probably still fancies his girlfriend, Leo's own cousin Erica (CharlizeTheron, pretty solid). So things get spiraling out of control and tragedy ensues.This is a very emotional movie. Leo goes at great lengths to make a better life for himself and take care of his mother (Ellen Burstyn, fabulous), while at the same time having to prove his loyalty and friendship to Willy. It is a situation in which most men would lose their heads and do something drastic, but Leo shows strength and determination and ultimately justice triumphs. It is a strong message that one should not let himself give up and become a victim to anyone.This is a really good film-noir drama which in itself is a rarity. It is not dominated by bloody violence, although there is a portion of it here. Still the film is driven by the strong dramatic story and stellar performances. Mark Wahlberg may not be the best choice in the leading role, but he does bring credibility with his street persona and image and thus is very authentic in the part. With this dark but still optimistic tale, James Gray succeeds in delivering the goods and telling it like it is at the same time. "},{"Title":"Not as intense as hoped.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Figuring it is from James Gray, who made Little Odessa, I was expecting a gritty film about the underworld.  But this film did not have too much of that.  Instead, it was more into the political corruption going on and how it impacted the principle character's life and everyone around him that he loved.  It wasn't too bad, but there was not much of the rawness of Little Odessa.  Near the movie's end, where all the politician and crooked businessmen just keeps on hiding their corruption, it left me with a bad taste on how politics are run and how cronyism continues on no matter what.  But they had to throw in the ending, which seems to be a nice little wrap-up in order for people to walk away from it without the cynical feeling.  I felt it became a letdown at that point. "},{"Title":"You've seen it before, every predictable minute!","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Intrigued by the poster, I went to see this Sundance Official Selection.  Boy do I wish I hadn't.  The story of a ex-convict trying to do the right thing and support his dying mother is almost too schmaltzy to bear.  Every twist, every plot development, every piece of dialogue was predictable.  Leo's bid for legal job fails, Leo falls in with the wrong crowd again, Leo gets in big trouble (surprise!). . .NOT! Leo's in love with his best friend's girlfriend and whammo there's a boring predictably complicated love triangle. I have read reviews mentioning The Godfather in the same breath as this poorly done waste of footage, and it offends me.  The Godfather was a cinematic masterpiece,a work of genius.  This is the work of a hack who's watched The Godfather and every Scorsese movie ever made too many times and still doesn't get it. A good film surprises us even though we know the ending, a good film involves us and makes us think, it does NOT give us worn out stereotypes spouting regurgitated dialogue, struggling with moral dilemmas that not only are painfully easy to resolve but that no one can identify with.  (Jeez should I risk violating my probation since I've assaulted this cop or should I kill him and raise the charge to 1st degree murder?  DUH!) A good film teaches us something about ourselves and our world that we didn't know. This is not that film.  Don't even recommend this for rental unless you love gangster films even the awful ones. "},{"Title":"New Bronson.","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, like Gray's Little Odessa, is thick with mood and suspense. The outstanding element of the film for me was the performance by Mark Wahlberg. Wahlberg has certainly succeeded in portraying proletarian characters from one end of this country to the other. He seems to get into accents and mannerisms. In previous films, I felt that his acting was quite visibly overlaid on his characters. In this film, I saw him become his character. (This also happened for me in Boogie Nights.)I was reminded of Charles Bronson in his prime. The same physical presence and brooding depths. I think this is what made the film a great success in my eyes. I look forward to Mark Wahlberg's continued evolution. We need great stars who can act.  "},{"Title":"short of the whole 9","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Leo Handler (Marky Mark) is a recent ex-con who comes home to find his aunt has married a big hot shot train and subway car repair contractor. So Leo needing a job, turns to his best friend, whom also works for Frank to get work after Frank cautions against it. But he needs money ASAP so the friend hires him as his back-up. One night, when they're trying to sabotage a rival competitor's business a major F-up occurs, and now everyone wants Leo out of the picture. Nothing here we haven't already seen before but the performances make it somewhat watchable none the less. Plus, Tomas Milian is pretty damn good no matter what he's in or what size the part.Eye Candy Charlize Theron is briefly topless from a distance (NOTHING like Devil's Advocate tho) For the Ladies Joaquin Pheonix's ass for no reason what so ever My Grade C- DVD Extras Commentary by James Grey; 12 minute Behind the Scenes; Concept art; Theatrical Trailer; and Trailers for A Hard Day's Night, Hamlet, Immortality, Cop Land, Jerry and Tom, Reindeer Games, and Cider House Rules "},{"Title":"Highly Disappointing","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slow and long yarn of little interest about ex con Wahlberg accidentally getting into deep trouble while working with his crooked family and friends. He soon finds out who he can really trust and discovers that he must uncover the whole truth about his shady step uncles going ons in order to get his life back. Can't make its mind up whether it wants to be a thriller or a drama and is a kind of cross between both. Wahlberg is Wahlberg, as ever, whispering his way through, and Caan sports a dodgy &#145;tash, although Phoenix, Theron and Burstyn are stand outs. "},{"Title":"The greatest film ever about the New York Subway Yards...","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite a great cast (and Mark Wahlberg), this tale of corruption in the NY Rail industry manages to reach coma-inducing levels of boredom. Those who like their films incredibly dreary, with most of the cast mumbling or whispering their lines, will revel in the mind-numbingly tedious film that is The Yards.Wahlberg is as wooden as he usually is (and sports his trademark 'bad hair'), and the rest of the cast do the best they can with the script, but lets face it, with a topic as scintillating as this, they never really stood much of a chance, did they?If I were to write any more about this movie, it would be a waste of my time and yours. "},{"Title":"I really, really wanted to like this film........","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" .....but it just does not captivate.Nothing wrong with the cast here, they are all excellent stars, and they do good work here. But the story is........well, boring. Good acting + uninteresting story = a boring movie. Perhaps also the problem I have with this movie is the ambiguity behind who is good and who is bad. Personally, I like my movies to delineate good and evil a little more sharply than this one does.And as a side note What do Charlize Theron and Robin Tunney have in common? Almost every movie they do they have at least one scene where they show off their knockers (exceptions Theron in The Astronaut's Wife and Tunney in The Vertical Limit). With Tunney I dont mind so much, they are some of her better assets, but Theron is a superb enough actress that she doesn't need to do that(plus, while they are nice, her boobs are no great shakes). The reason I mention this is once again Theron's top comes off in this movie! It's getting to be a trademark, kinda like Van Damme and his butt!Rent it if there is nothing else to see. Otherwise, use the two hours of your life more productively.5/10 "},{"Title":"20% of this movie was a masterpiece and the rest...wasn't.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To make a good movie, you need a good story told by good writing, good direction, good acting and good editing (among a million other things). With all of that said, this movie fell 4/5 short of being a masterpiece.I rented the movie because of the cast and, thankfully, the cast didn't let me down. There were strong performances all around but that's where the quality ended. The story itself wasn't that stimulating. Or maybe the poorly thrown together plot didn't dive deep enough into the souls of the characters about which we were supposed to care. That, coupled with lackluster direction, despite great performances, left many of the characters in the great abyss of viewer indifference.I'm not an expert on movies but I do know this movie falls perfectly into the why bother? category. Why bother making this movie when there are so many other stories to be told? Why bother viewing this movie when there are good films to see? Why bother loading a film with amazing actors when you're only going to waste them? "}{"Title":"Cliche script sinks engaging ensemble cast","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It always seems like an intellectual slag when somebody derides someone else's review of a movie as obviously not getting it. No, I get THE YARDS, but what I don't get is why someone would write such a generic story and then somebody would spend some large amount of money to produce it. THE YARDS isn't bad. It's just boring, held together by good actors working with a script written by someone who paid TOO MUCH attention in scriptwriting class. Technically, it looks fantastic, but everyone in Hollywood now has the technology to make even the worst movie at least look good. So what's left? The lack of tight, non-padded script. Everything that happens, one can see coming from a mile away. I don't expect crime thrillers to be wholly original, but there is nothing that distinguishes this from any straight-to-video dreck that ripped off all of Scorsese's crime films and say for example, USUAL SUSPECTS, other than it actually got released in theatres. It obviously goes on way too long, by what I can honestly say is a good 25 to 30 minutes. Certain scenes are painfully unnecessary, just absolute filler. It would be a great film to teach by; have the class watch it, discuss what subplots could be avoided, where proper editing can add punch in places and speed up a lagging narrative. Recent examples of decent films within the same MEAN STREETS genre BOONDOCK SAINTS and MONUMENT AVE. Not original, but engaging, localized crime thrillers that ENTERTAIN. Somewhere within THE YARDS is a good movie waiting to be rearranged into something solid, but as it stands, now suffers from its pedestrian excesses.   "},{"Title":"If only the hero had gone to the movies once in his life!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a brave thing to enter Corleone-land after The Godfather, GoodFellas and The Sopranos. But it's pretty dumb to act as if none of these cornerstones of movie- and yes human history ever existed. And while it was great to see director James Gray diving into the almost unknown russian-american crime scene in the fascinating Little Odessa (1994), it is boring and most of the time plain unbelievable to witness ex-con Leo (Mark Wahlberg) trusting a sleazy and over-the-top Joaquin Phoenix - murder, mistrust and treason are the uninspired consequences, when the cops as well as the mob are trying to hunt Leo down, because Little-League-mob boss Frank (James Caan) wants to get to Leo before the police does. Too bad the only thing that comes to mind is If Leo had only once been to the movies in his life, he would have known he was talking to Sonny Corleone - and had run away as soon as he could. "},{"Title":"middle quality","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Yards is really little more than a way to kill time. It portrays some shady dealings involving the New York City transit lines, but it seems that given the talent involved, they should have come out with more. I don't doubt that it was better than Mark Wahlberg's next movie (the very unnecessary Planet of the Apes remake), but he and co-stars Joaquin Phoenix, Charlize Theron, James Caan and Faye Dunaway have all done much better than this. And overall, I gotta wonder just how many movies there can be about corruption involving the transportation industry.What would a sequel be called? The Gardens? "},{"Title":"Stay out of this Yard","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mark Wahlberg (Three Kings) plays Leo, an ex-con car thief who's trying toget his life back together with his ailing mom (Ellen Burstyn), but he finds himself drawn back into a nasty web of deceit and murder. Yeah, aren't they all? Just once, I'd like to see a movie in which the guy leaves prison a changed man and then actually DOES stay straight. What's that? It wouldn't be interesting? Touche, mon frere.All would be wonderful if Leo could just go straight, but those things never work out that way. Hey, Michael Corleone couldn't go straight in Godfather III, so why should this loser? He'll be good, he promises. He'll get a job at the railroad station with his uncle Frank (James Caan). Only that doesn't quite work out, either; his old pal Willie (Joaquin Phoenix, wooden as always) wants him to work with HIM in the railroad yards. With all this tugging going on, our boy Leo's feeling a bit overwhelmed. Where will he go? (Does it matter?)In brief, there's murder and stuff. Cops get involved. The boys from the old neighborhood, those knockabout  toughs of yore, involve Leo in bad things. The funny thing is, Wahlberg plays him as this innocent naif who seems as clueless as Little Orphan Annie might have been in the same situation. There are times when he appears crime-savvy, but for the most part, a wide-eyed state, mouth agape, is the character's trademark.Wahlberg seems to be sleepwalking through this escapade, and his supporting cast - strong as it is on paper - is no better. Burstyn has a thankless dying-mom role; Faye Dunaway plays her sister. You'd be hard-pressed to see a lot of life from either actress. Caan is becoming more of a caricature of his old-time tough-guy self; he's still fun to watch, but his performane is a little too one-note for me. And we also have Charlize Theron as Willie's fiance. Could someone please tell me WHY this young lady took this role? She looks horrid, and the role's not nearly meaty enough for her to enjoy. In short, anyone in the world could have performed the character, and Theron herself didn't add anything to it.With that tremendous cast, and with a small amount of hype involved, I expected a far better film. This one is moody, somnabulent, and dull; a vapid pastiche of overwrought and underwhelming performances.  "},{"Title":"Charlize is hot, the plot is not","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The pacing in this film is a snails pace, the action is very low and boring and the plot is hackneyed and stale to say the least. There are a ton of better organized crime dramas out there and this one is only taking a retarded pot shot at a genre it is too clumsily slow and stupid to dominate.This is a dull minded script that bears no resemblance to entertainment, drama, or reality so it fails at hitting whatever it was trying to accomplish.There are a couple of places in the movie where the plot picks up a bit and I woke up and was like- oh yeah, they were saving something good for the end yayyyy... but.. then it fizzled and went back to the doldrums of an unrealistic slow paced moronic stale plot.Charlize wasted her looks and her talent on this movie- she is really easy on the eyes.Far better movies Goodfellas, THe Godfather, Layer Cake, the Sopranos series, Donnie Brasco, etc.. and if you want to watch a movie about a guy who just got out of prison trying to do good- go watch the Blues Brothers instead. The difference is you will be watching a fun movie that is watchable. "},{"Title":"Bleak and uninvolving","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't particularly care for movies centered on corruption, and this one proved to be no exception.Corruption in one particular town on one particular rail yard is an awfully small conflict to center an entire movie on. The best thing about the movie is the performances. Charlize Theron's portrayal of her character is the only thing that brings real emotion to the film. Mark Wahlberg becomes his role. James Caan as usual provides a character you really love to hate. But the film fails to make you care about what happens to the main character Leo (Wahlberg). The only thing you really feel from him is loneliness. His nonchalance about everything is quite irritating and thus facilitates the audience's nonchalance about the movie. The last scene with Erica and Willie is awfully predictable. Ultimately, by the end, it leaves you wondering 'why should I care?'VERDICT Substandard. Not necessarily a bad film...I just don't care for it. The only reason why I don't feel it was a complete waste of time is because of Charlize Theron's performance and her chemistry with Mark Wahlberg. To me, that was the most interesting thing in the film.3.5 out of 10.0 "},{"Title":"A TAD DULL","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In many ways this is a frustrating film. You have a good idea. You have a good cast, and it is well-acted. Ultimately it has more to offer than Road Trip or XXX. The trouble is, is this film is dull. It drags, and you really can't get involved. A failure, that you must therefore avoid unless you have insomnia.  "},{"Title":"Family, corruption and murder in Queens, NYC.","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is never the use of the D word, but Queens, NYC is solidly controlled by Democrats and -- as shown in this movie -- thoroughly corrupt in government, police, public works, et cetera. Made 9 years ago, it's a good preview of the corruption we're now experiencing in 2009 in Washington; as trillions are being taken from our pockets.Marc Wahlberg is on the L train, riding home from the slammer and intending to follow the straight and narrow and make a better life. His reformation will endure for almost 24 hours. Returning home to a household living off corruption and payoffs, it doesn't take any longer to get dragged into the dirty money.....There's a houseful of well developed characters played by top level actors and actresses. The on-location filming adds a lot. A good movie, but not a great one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  NB SpoilersI was incredibly underwhelmed by this film. I found the direction lack lustre, cliched, uninspired and generally more of the quality I'd expect to see in a made for TV movie than on the big screen. Yes there were visually good moments, but I have no idea why Gray chose to shoot it in letterbox format when obviously he has no idea how to use the space it was mostly wasted, and mostly up close shots. A good example of the clumsiness of direction is the last scene, when Faye Dunaway is one side of the screen, Mark Wahlberg the other, and she reaches her hand out to him across the middle....just excruciating.Other complaints are the script, the lack of characterisation which resulted in my not caring what happened to them, the weak plot and music which jarred. The actors were all top notch but flounderingOverall why bother watching it? 3/10 "},{"Title":"Very Boring","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've found this movie slow, very slow indeed.  The plot could result in a better movie but it's saved by the remarkable Joaquin Phoenix's performance as the turned-down lover, maybe he got his role in this film because of his experience in Gladiator as a not corresponded lover. "}{"Title":"Who can you trust? Can an innocent man remain innocent?","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  James Gray directs and shares writing credit on this yarn about an ex-con(Mark Wahlberg) returning to Queens, NYC in hopes of starting his life over, but in no time at all he is caught up with racketeering in the rail yards and kills a night watchman. If you're hearing is not the best, you will be irritated with the characters speaking so lowly. At times it appears to be whispers among Wahlberg, Joaquin Phoenix and Charlize Theron. All three have had better roles and turned in finer work. There is a supporting cast of veteran actors...those of note James Caan, Ellen Burstyn and Faye Dunaway. They too seemed to be throttled and lacked motion. A lot of talent was wasted in this one. "},{"Title":"Near miss - could have been something special","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Yards, which has been well-received by many critics, is fairly boring. There were titters as the end credits started. One woman in front of exclaimed sarcastically, Well, I was glued to my seat through every minute of that! The Yards is a gangster movie set in the Bronx of yesteryear that attempts the realism mode of, say, Goodfellas, but never quite manages to rise to the exceptional as Scorsese did. The lighting in most of the indoor scenes is very poor. For a while one wants to believe it is deliberate, especially as there are a few nice photographic images (the opening scene of flickering lights, suddenly revealing their context as the camera pulls out of a tunnel with the speeding train). But there is no hidden meaning - after a while it just reeks of low budget or ineptitude. Which is a shame. The acting is good (Charlize Theron particularly is a pleasant surprise) but nothing of a standard to lift this rather drab film out of itself. The unexceptional script conspires with the lack of pace and the viewer is left with the feeling that there should have been something more to justify sitting in the cinema for two hours. Young intelligent petty criminal tries to make good when he comes out of prison, but gets bogged down by the mob. Story nothing special. The most remarkable thing was Howard Shore's brilliant score, that creates tension occasionally out of practically nothing. Could have been a nice, moody thriller - if only it had that special something. "},{"Title":"A Summary of a Horrid Film","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the two hours spent watching this film I felt like I was watching some stupid made for tv movie. The acting was horrible except for Jouaquine Pheonix and Charleise Theron. The acting could not save the horrible storyline which seemed to be making a petty attempt of mirroring the Godfather. The drama led you knowwhere and the ending did not fulfill what is should have. Choppy editing and stock directing. I have forgotten the screenplay. The screenplay was also horrible which was partly caused by their fake Italian accents. What can possibly be said about this movie except it was horrible. Don't spend money on this film hoping for a good mob drama because this is not one. With an 8mm camera a chimp could give me a better film experience. This film brought down some great actors to a low level. An emberassment to filmmaking as a whole and am deeply upset that it IS that bad.  "},{"Title":"Bad sets, background, poor quality.","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is ATROCIOUS! The sets and backgrounds are poor, the lighting is terrible, the acting is low, and overall, it sucks.The mood is slow and boring, but the music keeps the film going. I'd give it 1/2 star out of 5. "},{"Title":"A waste of everyone's efforts.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" First, let's make it clear that this movie is not about The Yards (NY subway yards) at all. You don't get any feeling for the subway administration, the operations of the subway system, or the unions that work the subways.Second, it's about corruption only in the vague, overbearing manner common to so many movies. There's nothing new here, either about the nature of man or the potential for municipal corruption. A couple reviewers have praised the movie for being so brave as to expose the corruption in NY. They must have a very low opinion of the actual corruption in NY if they think this is a groundbreaking movie.Third, just about all the characters are unpleasant enough that you don't really care what happens to any of them. They are foolish, venal, and self-centered. It doesn't take a genius to make his/her characters unpleasant. There's no ambiguity, or sense of tragedy, in this film.Finally, the film ends in the most contrived and artificial manner possible.Not worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"It's not a touchdown (DVD)","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I picked up this movie because it stars Theron (as a brunette) and it was sold cheap! What a shame! I should have respected the law of cheap DVD if they are cheap, your pleasure will as low as their price.First, having now a couple of Theron movies in my bag, I think she isn't so talented as an actress. She acts always cold, superficial, showing her plastic but without spiritual beauty. Well, in a word, beyond the easy sensuality, there's nothing appealing.Second, I found the new generation irritating Phoenix and especially Walberg aren't prone to bring emotions as well. The first keeps on whining and the second acts as he is dumb.This story of bribes in the New York public transportation could have been interesting but it is particularly bad written and unbelievable. the most wanted criminal has just punched a cop and this boy wants only one thing his mama.That's left me with the ancient guard (Mr Caan, Mrs Dunaway) who shows the young ones what's acting. Unfortunately, they aren't in the spotlight.However, the director knows how to pace the suspense and offers some great shoots (huge buildings against small people, circular editing) but it isn't enough to please me. "},{"Title":"The Yawns","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this film was going to be a A lot better than it was. I thought the setting of the story would be good, the organised crime aspect would be good and the cast looked good, it ALL looked good!I have to say the story was alright... I just thought that... it's like getting told a story by one of your mates, and you go Aye, that's quite mental - eh? And then you move on without a pause... The story doesn't grab you (well, it didn't grab me anyway) and make you go F*ck's sake, what's he gonna do now!?! and get you on the edge of your seat. Now I really like mafia films and that type of scenario... but this just didn't do it for me.I thought the acting was fine and truly believable, Phoenix, Wahlberg, Caan and Theron etc but at times I just thought the movie moved too fast. Now I must point out... I don't mean too fast so that you don't follow what's happening, it was just like the mood (mainly of Leo, the main character) changed very quickly so you were like O-kay... so he's not so bothered about that anymore then....Sorry but most disappointed I've been with a film for a long time 3/10 "}]