[{"Title":"A brilliant film about loss of hope in the jaded 90s.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Head On is an amazing film. Its  beauty and treasures lie in not judging the journey taken in the film but opening up to the experiences of a young man lost  and hidden. Its not a bright, gay film but rather a fiery drama which doesn't offer answers but depicts a painful truth which many would prefer to disregard.  This is a film about the  loss of hope in the jaded nineties.It is very much a local film (shot in Melbourne) and an Australian film, but I think it offers up wider and more general issues.Few films capture the mood of the 1990s quite like Head On.   It is a film embedded with  characterisitics which intuitively identify the strangely blank decade that edged up to the 21st century.  If the  eighties was - though simplistically - regarded as the decade of high paced materialism. The 90s can be seen as a time of  conservatism and cautiousness  - again too simplistically -  which could be regarded as the tired decade. A time imbued with a feeling that everything  had already been done. Grunge embodied this, as did the increasing popularity  of pastiche  and remakes  such as the way television shows were more and more the source for films. It was a time where even moreso than in previous decades - the answers and ideas were sort in ready-made forms.  Reused, resurrected and exploited.  Sarcasm and cynicism became law. Pettiness became more and more common. Many of us were just tired out.Ari, the central character in Head On played with brilliant  vibrant vividness by Alex Dimitriades,  is the embodiment of this tired feeling. He reacts to the world by going to extremes in an attempt to register some feeling, a momentary intensity. Since there is nothing new to be found, he embraces  fleeting bursts of passion and uses anything that helps him escape the exhausted sensation whether through drugs or sex, people or music. Anything that he can do to keep himself isolated and inside his own individual mind, he races toward. Head On. He's gay but not proud. He's Greek-Australian but not interested. He's young but may as well be old. History is an excuse to crap on and foster  negativity. Ari  can't contemplate love because  he's lost between the cracks of a society he doesn't care for and doesn't want to contribute to maintaining.  He doesn't trust but he yearns, somewhere deeply, for some sense of security or truth. The film follows his search for reason in the chaos of his life in a world of silences and charades. But for Ari, there can be no reason. He feels doomed. Sensation is his only food, the only way to quench an indiscriminate, blind thirst.Dimitriades puts his body and soul into the role of Ari. Its the performance of commitment and intense passion for the role.  He doesn't flinch at the frontal nudity or  gay sex scenes as other actors might have and hence brings to the role an authenticity which is the spine of the film.  But the supporting cast are equally well cast and powerful. Paul Capsis radiates every scene as Toula/Johnny, Ari's gender-bending cousin.  Julian Garner is perfectly contrast as the one person who loves Ari enough to try and show him hope rather than dismissal.  In fact, the script ensures even the smallest roles  are provided with weight through the powerful and serious screenplay.  The book from which this film was born - Loaded by Christos Tsiolka- is an excellent  expansion of the films vision.The soundtrack is split between roaring alt-rock and techno-pop with some interesting surprises.  The whole film comes together with a precision and ease which never  feels unnatural or artificial. This is a raw but tight film. It deals with issues intelligently and strongly without judgement or fear.  The loss of hope shown here is left to be dealt with in our own lives, and with the people we meet. I think the film provides a welcome opportunity to reflect on the destructiveness of  notions  like identity and truth in a world which increasingly blurs examples that aren't suitable or fashionable. "},{"Title":"Harrowing but fascinating","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Disturbing, powerful look at a few days in the life of a gay Greek-Australian man named Ari. He's very handsome, muscular, young (21), lives unhappily at home with his parents, is closeted, addicted to drugs and prefers anonymous, degrading sex. He can't find a job or any escape. Then he meets hunky, attractive Shawn who loves him. Will this change his life? The answer may surprise you.This is NOT a feel-good gay film. It's bleak and depressing but just great. Alex Dimitriades is very good in a difficult role--the sex scenes are degrading and brutal and there's a humiliating interrogation scene by the police. Dimitriades deserves credit for appearing nude (a great body, by the way) and showing frankly how much Ari hates himself and feels he deserves all the pain he's taking. Obviously this is not for everyone but I find it an incredible portrait of a thoroughly destroyed man. "},{"Title":"Fyling high with Ari.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The kettle is on the boil and 19 year old Ari is about to burst with a combination of his culture, sexuality and drug intake, colliding to create a mixed up youth with a cause. His parents migrated to Melbourne, Australia, from Greece and with them they brought their strong culture that they hang onto while back in Greece the culture changes with the times. This we don't see but it is the fact of life for every second generation immigrant who has to fight the ignorance and hypocrisy of their parents and social surroundings. This creates a monster Ari carries on his back, a destructive energy within him that is wasted in back street alleys, public toilets and where ever he can get it. And when people don't come to his side of life, he manipulates them with sexual advances, testing their moral grounds. Through his love of Greek dancing, Ari yearns to keep part of his ancestral culture intact for identity purposes, but with his own freedom of passion. Can the two mix? That's what he's journey is. A journey for self expression without any rules of repression. This is Alex Dimitriades' cake as he eats Ari up and plays the character with conviction. Director Ana gets right into the heart and soul of Ari, via the camera with a confronting script dealing with  issues aimed at any migrating culture. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly Disconcerting","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After getting thoroughly discouraged by the (lack of) quality of films that hit the gay circuit/film fests, this one reaffirmed my faith that a film can include gay subject matter and shed light on the human condition without compromising artistic vision.  GLAAD's bevvy of media Nazi's hasn't completely destroyed cinema, but you do have to look outside the US to find it.  Of course, the fact that it's a straight woman from Australia that directed this gem should surprise no one.  In fact, it seems that the only good films that include homo themes are made outside the US.  Most US films on this circuit are made & consumed by bourgeois gay men, for whom the ideal life & dramatic interest is replaying The Big Chill but with a gay twist (the straight version wasn't any good, why would a gay one be worthwhile?). Head On succeeds because it presents its subject matter (the pain & difficulty in dealing with one's sexuality as an ethnic minority) honestly. In spite of the existence of many social & political organizations, the gay community (a misnomer if there ever was one) is hardly a welcome wagon for ethnic minorities, suffering the consequences of racism, economic disenfranchisement, etc.  Let's face it, gay men spend more time in bars & seeking casual sex than they do  in helping someone find a job or housing, so any comments that this portrayal is negative are clearly missing the point of the film. In spite of the development of many organizations in this day & age, men have become sexual objects more than ever before (moreso for ethnic minorities who are often fetishisized for their  ethnicity).  This makes Ari's character quite appropriate. The world  of gay running clubs & PFLAG meetings are just as invisible to Ari as he is to them (except of course if he were to take his shirt off). He bounces back & forth between the world of johns & drag queens/drugs with the world of his family........neither of which he finds comforting.  In such a scenario, sex is more of a release of frustration or an attempt at bonding which was doomed before it  started.  He blows the one chance he has to change this precisely because he never had the tools/experience to handle a  relationship.  Though the film is emotionally draining (not necessarily a bad feature), it is true to its subject.  Anyone who denies this is not being truthful to themselves. "},{"Title":"Head On is Spot On","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Head On is almost certainly the best film I'll see in 1998.  I saw The Travelling Sydney Film Festival on the same weekend. So Head On is in exalted company indeed. And Head On is an Australian Film! Our strongest artistic expressions are cross cultural; those mergers and clashes that result from our second and third generation migrants growing up in Australia. Until the last few years we Aussies have tried to kid ourselves that we are exclusively Anglo Saxon people on the big screen, conveniently forgetting Eastern European and Asian migration, not to mention our Aboriginal brothers and sisters. So we've tended to wallow in vague Dad And Dave rural soapies, Horse Operas of the Phar Lap type or nostalgic, ANZAC and Breaker Morant homages to the mother country, ignoring the fact that we are one of the most urbanised countries on the planet, and that most of us have parents who weren't from within five hundred ks of London. Head On is about Ari (Alex Dimitriades), a 19 year old homosexual Greek Australian living in St Kilda Melbourne. He's a lost soul, enveloped in a broiling sea of parental conflict, drugs and sex. He's not proud to be Greek. He just is. A myriad of urban dilemmas are raised in Head On, nearly all of which are profoundly realised, but only through the briefly attentive eyes of a spaced out malcontent like Ari. I was reminded of that masterful scene in that early Scorcese film called Mean Streets; a scene which has never been bettered at showing what it is like to be drunk. But Ari isn't only drunk, he's on a cocktail of speed, cocaine and God knows what else and he's full of resentment. There's a scene in Head On where he and another unhappy soul, his cousin Betty (Elena Mandalis), slump in a toilet together, sharing their unhappiness, in a brief interlude before the madness resumes. It's a poignant, sad scene, where we realise just how desperate and empty lust and drugs alone can be. But when Ari is offered love he rejects it, violently. And that's a pattern repeated in Head On. People lurch in and out of Head On who have yet to, or one suspects may never, achieve a viable feeling of self worth. They strike out against commitment and self worth, indulging in hedonism because they can. Their parents have made the sacrifices. That looks boring to the children. Materialism is as easy as the next drug deal. Love is as easy as the next screw. Head On (the alternative title Hard On is a particularly apt Freudian slip, one  that I've been guilty of) is about the alienation of youth, particularly homosexual youth. It's also about the generation gap, magnified by Ari's Greek migrant parents. And Head On is about a dozen other, contemporary urban issues. Racism is addressed with some feeling, in the film's weakest segment, but Ari's not too concerned really. He's reasonably happy just if he gets stoned and laid; sad but true of so many. Writer/director Ana Kokkinos has masterfully introduced us to the Ari's turbulent St Kilda world. Her film is fascinating and world class. Alex Dimitriades (Heartbreak High) is fantastic. Head On is spot on. "},{"Title":"Sharp, excellent story-telling","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truly a great little movie! The story moved at a good pace through-out and kept me very interested to see what would happen next. With so many movies these days, I keep checking the time because they are so terribly uneven and my interest is not held. Not with this one--very riveting and moving story. It did an excellent job of showing what our young protagonist (someone used the term anti-hero for him--I like that) was going through. Really liked the way the drug highs were portrayed. The voice overs were sparse--this film did not talk me to death or insult my intelligence by explaining everything. How very refreshing! Visually you went with Ari where he was going whether you liked it or not. I also really liked it because it was at times raw and visceral--life is like that sometimes for us, and for others like Ari, it's like that most of the time. Hurray for the male frontal nudity! It's not only women that have beautiful bodies.   Johnny only had a couple scenes, but he upstaged Ari in every one. What a remarkable character to throw into the mix! I would be friends with him in a heartbeat. If you like movies about real people trying to figure out their place in the world, do yourself a favor and see this film.  "},{"Title":"Superb Sleeper from Down Under","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! What a powerful film! I have seen it twice and am amazed at the grip it holds on the viewer. The cast performs brilliantly. The themes are difficult and honest--our hero (who really is an anti-hero) recognizes his faults but cannot overcome them. No comic book, Hollywood film this! It is brutally honest with all its characters and so rich in acting and Greek music that I must say it ranks as one of the finest films I have seen in the past 10 years. Yes, the ending is sad, tragic, but real. Four stars for this excellent effort. "},{"Title":"Plunging Head On into a Role","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alex Dimitriades is stunning as a nihilistic young Greek-Australian on a wild binge.  This talented actor pretty much carries the film on his broad shoulders, having totally immersed himself into the antihero's persona.Dimitriades leaves no stone unturned in responding to Director Ana Kokkinos' explicit direction.  One may feel revelation or revulsion, but one cannot easily dismiss the impact of Kokkinos' graphic images and depictions.  How one values this film will depend on personal taste.  At the foreign film series in which I saw it, the audience was completely drawn into the drama, responding to subtle lines, and one could feel the deep involvement of all the viewers.Jill Belcock's sharp editing and Nikki DiFalco's atmospheric production design certainly enhanced the proeedings. At times one felt one's sensibilities being assaulted under the sheer impact of the presentation.The value of the film from a personal perspective is a quite realistic slice-of-life consideration of a quintessential looser, and being able to identify (if not fully sympathize) with his alien plight.  It is also an informative dramatization of a subculture which has become quite ingrown in its attitudes and customs. Its community has become so exclusive that its larger Australian setting becomes of secondary importance.Dimitriades brilliantly depicts the contradictions and confusions of his character, depleted of creative energy by physical and emotional abuses. It is a performance of enormous courage and conviction, which becomes almost hypnotic as the film progresses. Loosers are not normally satisfying subjects for dramatizations, especially characters who fail to grow, and who in the end are little or no different from the way they were in the beginning. It is therefore all the more commendable that Kokkinos' fine cast manages to involve the viewer in an endless series of unforgettable images and scenes, creating a powerful mosaic of lasting impact.     "},{"Title":"Flying high with Ari.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The kettle is on the boil and 19 year old Ari is about to burst with a combination of his culture, sexuality and drug intake, colliding to create a mixed up youth with a cause. His parents migrated to Melbourne, Australia, from Greece and with them they brought their strong culture that they hang onto while back in Greece the culture changes with the times. This we don't see but it is the fact of life for every second generation immigrant who has to fight the ignorance and hypocrisy of their parents and social surroundings. This creates a monster Ari carries on his back, a destructive energy within him that is wasted in back street alleys, public toilets and where ever he can get it. And when people don't come to his side of life, he manipulates them with sexual advances, testing their moral grounds. Through his love of Greek dancing, Ari yearns to keep part of his ancestral culture intact for identity purposes, but with his own freedom of passion. Can the two mix? That's what he's journey is. A journey for self expression without any rules of repression. This is Alex Dimitriades' cake as he eats Ari up and plays the character with conviction. Director Ana gets right into the heart and soul of Ari, via the camera with a confronting script dealing with  issues aimed at any migrating culture. "},{"Title":"Nice book, shame about the film!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure why everyone goes crazy over this film. Like Only the Brave, this is just another collection of controversial topics - lined up next to each other to make a film. You can almost hear the conversations at script meetings Oh, hang on! We haven't said anything about child abuse, yet!Unfortunately, the film fails to say anything about anything. Tsiolkas' novel was a bold and fresh work, but this adaptation proves that some books simply can not be filmed. The problems lie in the fact that it's a very internalised novel. And it's a little easier to have a protagonist in a novel who is not a very nice person. Dimitriades is a standout, but he is not given the motivation to work with. The sex club scenes are cliched and silly (My what great looking guys! They look like they've just stepped out of the modeling agency).Alex Papps and Maya Stange were wasted and it's a shame to see two amazing talents like them playing second banana to Julian Garner. So promising... but it just didn't deliver. "}{"Title":"Heads up","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When the booked Loaded was released the author explained that the reason he wrote the book was that there were already enough gay friendly movies and books out there to allow him to write an honest portrayal of gay life. It is not negative, it is simply honest.Ari (played by the Hunk of Australian TV and movies Alex Dimitriades) is a young Greek man who is gay but is definitely not going to come out of the closet.He desires nothing more than to have a girlfriend, a family and be normal. But he knows he can not.So we follow on day in his life. It starts with him masturbating in the house he slept the night. He then faces a day of numerous challenges.Losing his money during a gay encounter (of the wink wink, nod nod, go into the back alley for a head-job type encounter). Getting the money so he can buy drugs, more sex, more drugs, more sex, drugs (surely it would fall off with that much use), police harassment.But there are ways out. He can be a gay guy and have a loving open gay relationship, he can marry a lesbian and pretend to be straight, he can even go to the extreme and be a drag queen or he can stay the way he is.This movie is packed with messages. Every scene has a meaning and as a result it is often considered pretentious.It is a movie about being gay and the issues with it. What makes it different is it doesn't spend the whole movie agonizing over the issues and boring the audience stupid, instead it bombards you with them leaving your head spinning by the time you leave the cinema.Oh...and if you love big dark skinned, dark haired Greek guys you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"One of 98's best Oz features about real angst","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's just another product of great Australian filmmaking. Of course, due to the subject, this film's not gonna be everybody's taste. Certainly something different, a movie about a Greek gay boy, does make this film refreshingly original, some scenes hard to stomach for us homo sapiens. What makes Head On so good, is Ari's character, free as the wind, probably creating a lot of envy towards closeted homosexuals. You can't help Ari, because he says what he wants to say and does what he wants to do. A leopard can't change it's spots. You were born gay, you stay gay, that's it. One of his close family is a drag queen, who he's there for, the family disgraced by him. The scene in the taxi near the end of the movie when they get pulled over by the police is hysterically funny, an antidote of amusement amongst the heavy and depressing scenes of Ari's non acceptance, because of his sexuality. What follows when they're arrested is not so funny, objects of humiliation by a bigoted cop and a younger disgraced Greek cop, who's forced to do what is asked oh him by his peer, making him look the fool, it's easy to see this young girl, goes off at the drag queen character. Some lines stay with me in this 7 day shot film, and we see the other struggles in Greek families, and behind the back ridicule they take, that are so stereotypical, if seeing many other films around this race. The movie really creates a warm feel around Ari's families, where we share the ups and downs. One reason I loved the film, was because of Alex Papps as Ari's brother, one actor who should of gone further, where he finally ended up, where no actor would wanna end up on Play School. The full sex scene, near the end, with his new love, Sean, which I admit goes a little too far, beware out there to the easily offended. Fine Australian film making, steered by an uninhibited and brave performer who delivers a thunderous and real performance. "},{"Title":"I thought that this movie was HORRIBLE!","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie didn't do anybody who is homosexual any favors. It painted us as being promiscuous perverts who follow people out into back alleys, restrooms, etc. and have anonymous sex with anybody and everybody. I was extremely disappointed, and will never watch this movie again. I certainly hope that not many straight people view this, because it confirms what ignorant, closed minded people think about us without even getting to know us. Sure, I'm not stupid. I know that these things go on, even more often than I'd like. But to make a movie confirming the misconceptions of so many people who, instead of learning that there are a lot of us who are just like everyone else, who don't hang out in bathrooms, who don't follow people out into back alleys, who don't just walk up and get into the car with some stranger and have sex, quite frankly, really makes me angry. However, this is ONLY my opinion, and if anyone loves this movie, more power to them. "},{"Title":"Misguided would be my main summary","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Head On, Alex Dimitriades plays a troubled young gay Greek-Australian man who has LOTS of anonymous sex and takes LOTS of drugs a LOT of the time. Be prepared for lots of explicit gay sex scenes, not to mention violence and drugs. But I really did not enjoy this film on the whole. The character interaction is very over the top. Characters fly into fits of rage without explanation, people break into fights without warning, and the dialogue is completely stilted and unnatural. I can see this film's basic message, of a young man trying to come to grips with his heritage and also find love and happiness in a world of parties, drugs and sex. It's a dreary procedure, however, that portays Greeks as hysterical violent thugs who dance, literally dance, all day in any situation, even while in the middle of a fight! There are many incomprehensible decisions, actions and the film goes absolutely nowhere. Yes, you feel for this young man who just can't find his way. But it's like this filmmaker is trying too hard to make an oooh-shocking!, hard-edged indie film. It just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"In ya face film that makes you stop and think.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just come out in Belgium, Head On gives a hard and realistic picture of Ari; I think the chose of Alex Dimitriades certainly was a very good (and a gorgeous one at that).  I really left the theater with a sense of confusion about my own life and a deep sympathy with the main character Ari.  I would have liked to see Sean making a difference in Ari's live, but at the end you do realise that it wouldn't be a very realistic turn of the story.  Maybe Ari could get a second chance with Sean or maybe Sean could become the stability/acceptance Ari needs to kick off and start to live at a slower rate; maybe not ... who knows how long Ari can keep up this way of living. A great film with real issues and make-thinkers. "},{"Title":"A study in brutalisation","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've just come back from the cinema, and having read the book ('Loaded' by Christos Tsiolkas) and being British/Greek and gay I thought it was excellent. It is a rarity for a start a very good adaptation of a book, with amazing performances from an all-Greek Australian cast, including the gorgeous Alex Dimitriades himself who, incidentally is straight. I was particularly impressed about the cinematography (I looked it up later - by Jaems Grant and no, it's not a spelling mistake), all moody and dark like the plot.The whole point about the film is encapsulated in the scene where Ari is having oral sex with Sean. He was selfishly roughing up and gagging Sean who had just said that he loved him. It was the ultimate brutalisation of sex by a brutalised closeted youngster in a hopeless, brutalising society. At that moment we wince, as Ari consciously rejects love for the anonymity of the street corner suck-off, but we *do* understand why he is unable to form a relationship in his own way, he acts according to type, obeying his family's and society's homophobic and racist insults and conventions. Symbolically he looks up from his knees in the end, just as his TV friend Toula pushed him a few scenes before dismissively. The moral of the film as she says is that if you don't stand up for yourself you spend your life on your knees.That moral may perhaps be irrelevant or far gone for gays who have come out and have asserted themselves in society by rejecting the hypocrisy of a double life full of compromises, but it is nevertheless still relevant for a large number of people in many different cultures. "},{"Title":"An ex-patriot Greek Australian guy has an ethnic and sexual identity crisis over a period of 24 hours.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  HEAD ONHead On is a stunning film by Ana Kokkinos. It chronicles twenty-four hours in the life of nineteen year old Ari that begins at a wedding reception. This event contextualizes the protagonist's tortured sexual persona squarely within the activity with which the rigid, patriarchal, Greek culture expects him to play out his own life. Ex-patriot communities tend to be even more conservative than the populations they've left behind. In the multi-ethnic milieu of Melbourne, Australia, everyone hates everyone else and many find themselves with the dilemma of assimilating into the more progressive, liberal Anglo culture they grow up in schizophrenically. Add to this already volatile mixture the element of drugs, which can make anything seem possible, and you have a tortured soul who has to keep from having to make the choice of being a good Greek Australian boy, the son his parents want him to be, or amputating himself from his ethnic group and family so that he can fully embrace his unpopular desire. Ari barely manages this precarious balancing act by trying to find meaningful relationships among his vast Greek extended family, where he only runs into homophobia and is warned, in no uncertain terms, against making the choice he seems headed for. To this end he respects and spends time with his cousin Johnny, who occasionally gets stoned, dresses like a woman and throws himself into the night spots frequented by his scornful and contemptuous Greek peers. And it is through fraternizing with Johnny that Ari endures his most humiliating experience in a brutal strip search at a police station where an Anglo cop goads his fellow Greek Australian cop to even greater heights of cruelty by provoking his ethnic revulsion. Ari agonizingly poises himself between the two worlds by throwing himself into anonymous, impulsive, public sexual encounters in which he attempts, with some success, to assert his masculinity by assuming a strictly dominant role. It is in the frenetic, sexual, drug-induced moments, as Ari makes his progress through this personal inferno, that Kokkinos' film transcends its subject. Using heaving, swooning rushes of the subjective camera, placing us precisely within Ari's delirious and tormented point of view, Kokkinos elevates this film into a kind of ecstatic cinema. When Ari manages to alienate the only person who offers him love instead of just sex, he finds himself thrown out onto a pier in the early dawn hours, dancing the Hasapiko and proclaiming himself a whore, a sailor and recognizing that in this state of limbo that his life doesn't matter to anyone. It is to Kokkinos' credit as a filmmaker and to the extraordinary performances of Alex Dimitriades as Ari and Paul Capsis as Johnny that we are seduced into caring about these ailing characters. The omniscient and critical eye of the film never fails to point out the contradictions in the ideologies that drive these colliding social forces and it is because of the remarkable empathy these people are viewed with that we are coaxed to immerse ourselves into this dark and masochistic vision. After all, we're all only one or two steps away from being trapped in the same kind of predicament ourselves.  "},{"Title":"Head On as a lucid representation of the need to belong and the need to forge one´s destiny","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Head On is a movie I saw at a charity for HIV treatment in Mexico City; I guess a year has passed since it was screened in Australia.  Living in a different culture, there were things I could relate to quite easily, while others were more remote.  The alienation of immigrants, greek immigrants to Australia in this case, was something I was not aware of; on the other hand the effects of that alienation seemed to me universal, they apply to Mexico as much as they aply to Australia.  This is certainly a movie I want to see again, the pace was so fast I left the theater exhausted, and the images I saw haunted me in my sleep.  On the one hand, Ari, the gay son of a greek immigrant is such a sensual man and the greek culture in which he lives seems to relish so much bodily expression that my entire body felt stimulated by a thunderbolt.  In this sense, Head On is easily one of the most erotic movies I have ever seen.  On the other hand, Ari is so terribly isolated and marginalized, he is so painfully outside from the time cycle of his milieu that I experienced a deep sadness at his life prospects.  This recreation of human quest to belong (in its most physical expression) and at the same time to find its own destiny (with all the alienation it entails) was so lovingly crafted in this movie that it made me recoil into some of the deep recesses of my heart and ponder at that particular dilemma of the gay soul, in which its alienation prompted by ignorance spurs a heightened desire of the flesh, with all its gut wrenching beauty, only to discover that such ravishing gift makes the soul´s quest for wholeness more arduous. It is, in my viewpoint, this conundrum that Head On so masterfully explores. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully thoughtful and tough pic","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its not difficult to see why this film was the Aussie entry at Cannes in '98. It is a generally superb and intense gay film. It is wonderfully thought provoking, something pretty rare in film today, sexy and hard edged.Some scenes remain seared into ones mind. The script is excellent as a study of both the Australian immigrant Greek community and the gay leads character within that community. Dimitriades is superb in the lead. His character is beautifully drawn - a young man brimming with frustrations of his sexuality and environment.The plot may not travel very far, but neither does he. Its a terrific tough pic that should not be missed. One of the best gay films to date. "},{"Title":"Another depressing movie about being Greek and Gay","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film about Ari, a handsome, muscular, young Greek man living in Australia is a thoroughly depressing film. Ari lives at home with his parents but has not, and probably never will come out to them. It seems from parts of this movie that in the Greek mind being gay and being a transvestite are almost interchangeable. Given the way that Greek women are treated (at least in this film) it's a wonder that any man would willingly  don women's clothes. Ari is into drugs and prefers anonymous, degrading sex. He does meet a non-Greek man who offers him a more romantic existence but the self-loathing and self-destructive tendencies of Ari have stacked the deck against any happy outcome.There are interesting bits and some of the skin scenes are quite erotic but beware this is not intended as a feel good movie.  "}{"Title":"Did I see the same movie?","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just can't believe the acclaim for this film that tries so hard to say nothing. OK, the actor is gorgeous, but that doesn't make a movie. Everything is sordid in this mess of cultures. Straight audiences watching this would agree that homosexual life is a dark, full of drugs, animal sex, party all the time kind of life. I think gay community should be aware of how negative these type of films are. Depressing, dark  "},{"Title":"Not my type of film","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm Australian and i love Aussie films. However this film was really confronting. The scene with the cop in the interview room was really horrible. I don't like the way Alex Dimitriades portrays the character at all. I also find the scenes with him having his 'gay' encounters are rather nauseating. I'm in no way homophobic but i think those scenes couldn't of been acted with more class and sensitivity. Also i find this also doesn't give a justified out look of Australian Greek culture. No, in all i would have to say this movie is too full on and Explores many themes that people may not want to be confronted with. Just my opinion but some people may like it. "},{"Title":"a cry","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" it is not a comfortable film. because its ambition is not to present the skin of things but the essence of them. it is one of honest movies who represents more a testimony than artistic work. bitter, harsh, cruel, it seems be the film of one actor because the performance of Alex Dimitriades impress at whole. and not only for the talent or inspiration but for extraordinary dedication to do a complex and special role. it is not a gay movie or slice from a Greek community from Australia. it represents picture of a deep solitude of an age, an option, a society.a film who use not reasonable tools for say its story. a movie who can be perceived in many angles but who can be reduced as the powerful need to escape from yourself. it is not a comfortable movie. but that is its purpose - to say what who represents, in many situations, the domain of heavy silence. so, more than a film, it is a cry. "},{"Title":"Brilliant character study of a beautiful boy on the cusp of manhood!","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Head On is a film we should all see, if only to experience Alex Demitriades doing a start turn as magical as Fassbinder's work was in Shame. Ari, the young man played by Demitriades, is one of those beautiful young things with whom one cannot help but fall in love, lust after, and forgive; and Demitriades understands the character so very well one cannot help but fully believe his every nuanced move. He is simply movie magic in Head On. The other actors are equally skilled (further evidence that good acting must be in the water in Oz), with Eugenia Fragos as Ari's mother turning in a stand-out performance as well. See Head On, and leave yourself some time to think on Ari and his youthful transgressions afterwards. Then be glad that you've passed that age. "},{"Title":"Dramatic, conversational and moving...","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Australian screenwriter, producer and director Ana Kokkinos' feature film debut which she co-wrote with screenwriters Andrew Bovell and Mira Robertson, is based on a novel called Loaded from 1995 by Australian author Christos Tsiolkas. It premiered in Australia, was shot on location in Australia and is an Australian production which was produced by producer Jane Scott. It tells the story about a nineteen-year-old unemployed man named Ari who lives with his parents and his younger sister in the central area of Melbourne. Ari is regularly disputing with his father, and due to his knowledge of his father's view on homosexuality he keeps his sexual orientation to himself.Distinctly and engagingly directed by Australian filmmaker Ana Kokkinos, this fast paced fictional tale which is narrated by the protagonist, draws a visceral portrayal of an Australian man of Greek origins, his relationship with his father, his sister and a male prostitute and his self-damaging rebellion. While notable for it's naturalistic milieu depictions, fine cinematography by cinematographer Jaems Grant and production design by production designer Nikki Di Falco, this character-driven story about family relations, identity, the conditions of Greek immigrants in Australia, Greek culture and personal freedom where a bohemian man channels his inner turmoil and finds his own expression on the dance floor and through random sexual encounters depicts an internal and explicit study of character and contains a timely score by composer Ollie Olsen.This somewhat political, somewhat historic, romantic and overstatedly though understandably graphic drama which is set in Melbourne, Australia during the 20th century and where a dancer from a very traditional background sets out on the nightlife in Australia to consummate his innate desires and express his revolt, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, efficient continuity, scenes of dancing and the fine acting performances by Australian actors Alex Dimitriades and Paul Capsis. A dramatic, conversational and moving directorial debut from the late 1990s which is so pointedly in-your-face that it's impossible to misinterpret. "},{"Title":"Bold Greek Dancer","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't consider this a very good film in the conventional sense, but it is certainly provocative and memorable. (Apparently it was not well received by the Greek-Aussie community, and the star of the film did not become a star). Note Don't confuse this with a film by a Turkish-German director, Head-On (2004), also good but very different. Back to Aussie film My judgment is undoubtedly clouded by my attraction to main character Ari, a second-generation Greek-Aussie who is angry and has a lot of issues (one of them being heavy drug use). So what do I like besides gorgeous Ari? Several times in the film he dances traditional Greek folk dances and he is most mesmerizing in these scenes. One of the first such dances is with his father with whom he has a mostly bad relationship. Ari's dancing expresses the conflicts and contradictions of the film and of course his own. (The film is largely seen through Ari's ineffable eyes.) The ending The film seems to be careening relentlessly towards tragedy but it doesn't quite go there. It ends on an ambiguous note. Ever angry, but defiant too. And dancing. "},{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie 15 years after its release, and maybe this is a factor in some way, considering how gay men and women have been portrayed in films since then.But this aside, I don't see any internal coherence in the narrative of this film. What exactly is going on? Is it the complete confusion of an individual constantly intoxicated, with the factors at large being his sexual identity, the cultural identity of the country of his ancestry, and this in apposition to the culture of the country he lives in? On the surface it would seem so, but it seems more to to be a gratuitous portrayal of indulgence in self loathing. "},{"Title":"Head On,  thumbs up!","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This bold film concentrates on a 24-hour period in the confused muddled world of Ari an engaging nineteen-year-old. He comes from a traditionally Greek background and is having a hard job coming to terms with both his Greek background in an Australia that does not much care for its immigrant population and his own sexuality. Ari, as most guy's his age are is obsessed with sex, he is a bit of a player, having a few rampant sexual encounters during the span of this film, whilst most are gay, he does not limit himself to the male sex, half-heartedly having a sexual liaison with the sister of one of his friends. Ana Kokkinos the director is of Greek-Aussie descent, which automatically gives this tale an authentic guiding hand and some of the lines spoken by fictional characters are not that far removed from the reality of experience. This is a surprisingly gritty film, heavy on the hopeless dissatisfaction of life as a son or daughter of immigrants in a country that is no stranger to racial and economic tensions. Ari is a handsome boy; he has that rough, cheeky, yet handsomely provocative look that can melt hearts at one hundred paces. He uses those looks, along with his aggressive sexual hunger and heat to have random sex with older guys in dark alleyways, grabbing a quick fix before going back to hang with his equally dissatisfied mates. There isn't a clear road ahead for him, he knows that, yet could he be dreaming of a better tomorrow, the way most trouble teens do? It does not look like judging by a lot of the scenes and muddled moments. The film had nine nominations from the Australian film institute and received much acclaim from critics both in Australia and around the world for its harsh realities, passionate performances and authentic script. Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time. "},{"Title":"Not Coming Out","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ari is a young gay man who refuses to accept his homosexuality, and who instead chooses to label himself as a whore, while demeaning himself with grubby back-alley blow jobs with grubbier partners.The film is a 24 hour snapshot of Ari's lifestyle where he whores around binging on drugs trying to escape his ultimate life decision while rejecting his Greek parents' code of hetero-marriage, house and children and rejecting his mates who step into the code. It seems that the only person he respects is his cousin Toula/Johnny who has the guts to be who he is.Sean, is in love with Ari, who is offering him a real relationship is brutally rejected as a full gay relationship would mean coming out. Ari is a sad case because if the drugs don't get him he will end up an ugly old whore not wanted by many, while his supportive friends would have moved on. "},{"Title":"Bless Sundance Channel","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With the SKY Sundance Channel we in New Zealand provincial towns would probably never get the opportunity to see great Aussie Films like HEAD ON. I remember the Ari character from his TV series which took place in a High School.  His talent has blossomed and leads the way with this excellent film. With a largely Greek-Australian cast and Director the authenticity of the sub-culture is very real. Like many OZ films there's an understated quality and impact of real lives and real meanings.  As in Welcome to Nhill, High Tide or Cunnamulla and many many more. A tribute to Australian cinema and I would highly recommend this film to serious folks who appreciate and alternative to escapist crap.  "}{"Title":"Look a little closer","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that a lot of people missed the boat with this one.  Yes, it was brutal and heart wrenching and seemed to have a sad ending, but it's one story of one person.  This film is not representative of every gay man on the face of the earth and it is not trying to be.  Ari reaches out and grabs your heart, yanking it out of your chest with his bare hands.  At first I found his various sexual encounters repulsive, but then I realized that sex is not just romantic (okay, my film teacher pointed this out).  If I found his need to use sex as a power struggle repulsive, then it's my problem, it how I see sex.  The ending, I thought, was a step, a jumping off point for Ari.  It didn't fit in a pretty box, but he comes to a realisation that he is going to deal with his sexuality in his own way.  He is going to unite his traditional family background with his sexuality even if it's not the way the audience would like to see him do it. The point is that he's made a decision, hard as it was or it may turn out to be.  Head On is just so visually stunning, so enticing, especially with the Greek music.  It's off the beaten track, assuredly, but gorgeous.   "},{"Title":"HEAD ON is Thumbs Up!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not much I can add to the above review, except that Alex Dimitriades is amazing in this film!  He gives a very honest, very brave performance. Angry about his family, angry about his life, angry about his helplessness, he throws himself into the things that get his mind off his situation drugs and sex.I highly recommend this movie, but beware if strong gay sex scenes upset you. "},{"Title":"a clash of emotions for the viewer","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the most riveting movies I have seen in a long while, if not ever.  I found myself compelled to sympathize with the lead character and at the same time felt completely repulsed by his self-destructive actions.  I felt like I was being yanked about like an unruly puppy on a short leash! I was so turned on by the sexuality/sensuality and the seeming self confidence the lead character exhibits, yet his mindless substance abuse and self-inflicted pain left me feeling hollow and betrayed. The situations seemed almost absurd, yet in my heart, I know it is unflinchingly real and totally possible.I often rate films on the level of happiness I feel as I leave the theater. Based on that system, Head On was nearly the worst I have ever endured to the final credits.  I guess that scale doesn't apply here, because I can't get it out of my mind!  That's saying something because I saw this movie over a year ago!   "},{"Title":"Yikes! Talk about a fitting title!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK I admit it.. I'm already a sucker for Australian films, especially gay australian films (the sum of us springs to mind). I liked this very much while my partner was left cold. While the editing was annoyingly inconsistent, the strength of the characters more than made up for it. Ari is wonderfully trapped, blessed and crippled by his great looks (and he ain't badly hung) he seems unable to see beyond his limited, claustrophobic St. Kilda prison. While almost on the verge of being depressing, you're kept going by the promise that he really will do the right thing and end up with Sean.... weel kind of. Excellent acting, great script. Raw, intensely erotic. See it "},{"Title":"Brief Overview","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an extremely gritty look at the peer pressures of being homosexual in a society (namely the close greek community of Melbourne) that is unaccepting and unforgiving. Alex Dimitriades is fantastic portraying the self destructive Ari. And Paul Capsis is also someone to look out for in this first time feature from director Ana Kokkinos. A general warning that some scenes are quite disturbing and confronting, but work so well in the aesthetic content of the film. 9 out of 10 for the confronting content alone. "},{"Title":"An exhilaratingly complex 'one day in the life' of an Greek-Australian gay man.","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Head On' is a exhilaratingly sordid and refreshingly complex drama which revolves around a day in the life young Greek-Australian Ari (Alex Dimitriades). Head On rushes boldly into the usually sensitive and precious terrains of ethnicity, sexuality, drugs and gender with a raw and explicit empathy that faces the issues of identity and ambivalence without  handwringing angst. It's script, cinematography and performances and direction live up to its title; graphic depictions of  urgent and anonymous sex, casual and habitual drug use, violent family confrontations, the ambivalent bonds between family and friends and the mythic nostalgia of post-WWII migration experience to Australia may seem like grim and serious themes, yet 'Head On' manages to escape moral judgments through its strong characterisations, confident direction and exceptional performances. This movie is a 'rites of passage' film where nothing is neatly resolved. Its nihilism affirms the specific truths of lives lived rather than universal moralisms of lives that are wished for. This is a brilliant Australian film that deserves a wide audience. "},{"Title":"An unredeeming self-loathing movie","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film pretends to portray the the homophobia, hypocrisy and oppression of immigrant communities (represented here by the Greek community in Australia). But the oppression is gratuitous and unwarranted. I am not doubting the realities depicted in the movie, but I am questioning the attitudes of the main characters. Even if people are faced by such circumstances, there is absolutely no reason why their reactions be so passive and submissive other than the inherent homophobia of the film and its makers. There is nothing redeeming about this awful self-hating movie, not even the good looks of its pathetic unlikable lead. I actually felt gratified when he was being beaten and humiliated (so much for a protagonist!)--and it's not only for the nudity (trust me, I like my porn more honest!). This film, and Oxygen, are making me lose my faith in gay Greek cinema self-indulgent, gratuitously melodramatic, AND unapologetically self-loathing. Next! "},{"Title":"Over the top","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Was this supposed to be a realistic film? The main character goes around having sex with every single walking being he sees. Now, would one be able to carry so much horniness after doing all the existing drugs in a space of 24 hours? I don't think so. And then again, what's with the character doing e, heroine, joints, coke, speed, all in one day?!? This film is absurd, cliché and it shows what people want to see - gay people being libertine and junkies. On top of this the filming itself doesn't help much. There isn't anything I hate more in film then hand-held cameras (von trier seems to be one of the only people who can do that without being pretentious). It makes the whole process self-conscious and you just know too easily the message the director wants to pass. Bad, bad, bad. "},{"Title":"I wanted to so badly to like it, but it was just a ****","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like the main protagonist in this film, I am a poofter, a wog, and live in Melbourne. But after seeing it three times (I told you I wanted to like it!) I just have to come to the conclusion that this is yet another film trying really desperately to be oh-so-shocking and harder-core-than-thou. The sex scenes are completely devoid of any passion and are *so* over the top, not to mention *really badly* acted. Also over the top is the excessive drug-taking which I'm convinced was put it solely for shock value. As far as the plotline goes, it's just flat - there is no climax whatsoever, and it just ends(if you can call it an ending) on a completely depressing note. I know a lot of people will say well, not everything in the garden is rosy, but I'm just sick of seeing violent, aggressive gay films which speak nothing about my life. Only saving grace was the character of Johnny/Toula, brilliantly played by Paul Capsis (and the only hint of camp in the entire film) and the family scenes, which seemed the only thing genuine and truly touching - the only parts I could *really* rel "},{"Title":"Best Gay Movie Ever","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Why does everyone want happy lovey dovey gay movies with a positive ending? This film plays with all the stereotypes, raising your hopes and expectations and then keeps dropping you back where you started. Ari meets Sean, but misses the opportunity; Ari is drop-dead gorgeous, but still will choose the quick w**k with an older guy down the back alley. What a change from other gay movies, where two beautiful people bore us to death for an hour and a half. And the film moves so well between comic and tragic from the taxi driver scene to the police station, while Alex just shrugs it all off with that winsome uninvolved smile knowing nothing is ever going to save him. Ari is so self-absorbed and self-destructive that he is one of the great anti-heroes of cinema. And his self-recognition when he says while cruising at the docks I am a sailor and a slut and shall be to the end of time is one of the best endings of any film ever. Gay life can be harsh and brutal so you'd better get used to it! But at least it is always edgy and vibrant ... and kudos to Alex D for carrying this film so well! Being good-looking alone would not have made this character so memorable. "}{"Title":"Not so hot but has some distinction","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is basically a Saturday Night Fever re-tread. Yeah, the family is Greek, no, there isn't any disco dancing or Bee Gees, but there is a dark, brooding magnetic lead trying to break out of his family's traditions, expectations and the hedonistic culture around him. It's his ethnic culture that prevents him from being his gay self, distorting his view of what that means (very funny that the Greeks, of all people, should be so adverse to homosexuality) and a drug culture that pulls him downward.But it's a bit of snooze. Sure, there are bits of raw sexual activity but they aren't very well integrated into the rest of the film--like his main character, sex and drugs seem to be the only thing that excites this director, as the rest of the film feels flat and arid in a way that disengages the viewer. The narrative is as confused as the lead, Ari; in fact, this film ends where it really should begin. Instead it just meanders about; all we know is that Ari wants to move out but we never see what that means or what influences him to be at all aspirational. Sure, we see the push but what's the pull? Since it's obvious to the viewer from the start that Ari is in a confused state about things, how interesting is it for us to watch him over an hour and forty minutes learn what we already know? Well, since the handsome, well-built Alex Dimitriades is playing Ari, fairly interesting at that, but even his committed, intense performance begins to loop back on itself--and it's clear, as an actor, that he is capable of so much more. He's boxed in by repetitive writing--Ari is frustrated, he's frustrated, he's frustrated--get it? Yeah, got it. In the first scene.The best scenes are between Dimitriades and his friend Johnny/Tula, excellently played with and without drag, by Paul Capsis. It would've been better if the film focused more on this relationship, foregoing lengthy and obvious sequences about Ari's Greek heritage. Though revealing, unresolved, under-developed subplots about his friend's engagement and his younger sister go nowhere and make the film lose focus; these characters only exist to say something about Ari. An attraction between Ari and a very pale-featured man named Sean is unconvincing; the director takes for granted that because they're gay they'll get together when the viewer can see that they are clearly chalk and cheese--though this is obvious, their relationship, rather conveniently, isn't really explored which makes the final denouement unsurprising. It should've been the first scene. (In fact, Ari's attractions make this feel, at times, like a gay Breaking The Waves.) Dimitrades is too likable for us to feel critical of his behaviour; instead it feels more like he is let down by the people around him (save Capsis) and should really be mixing with a better grade of people that he has more in common with. Sometimes it's that easy. But the film doesn't go there.Ultimately, the film doesn't go head on with anything, though it can be credited with some subtlety and one can easily admire the work of Dimitriades and Capsis. "},{"Title":"Los Angeles","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The moral  of this film truly is If you don't stand up for yourself - you will spend your life on your knees.  ***SOME SPOILERS*****There were a lot of different reactions to this movie.  My opinion of this movie was one a total shock and total stimulation at the same time.  I mean - come on, this Ari guy is blantantly hot and I must say, has one of the most awesome looking pricks I have seen in a long time.  There was nothing on cable one night last week, when this movie started and there in bed was this young guy - naked as a jay-bird jerking off - and what's this - they actually showed his penis (hard).  And trust me - his smooth bubble butt is truly nothing I would throw out of my bed - trust me.  I have to give Alex Dimitriades credit for taking on this role and running with it. I mean the oral scenes were so vivid and real.  I mean the scene with Ari and Shawn (the cute young man that was in love with Ari) - was so graphic and the sounds of them going at it - you could actually hear the sucking and gagging sounds.  I'm sorry - this truly turned me on to no end.  I mean - have you ever seen a Hollywood picture give you this much realism.  No way!!!!!The story was of course sad and as usual in these sort of movies the guy man can never find happiness and self worth.  This Ari guy had everything going for him.  He had a wonderful family, good friends, he was a very hot looking fellow with an excellent body and he had a cute young guy who was in love with him.  But - this was not the alley he was going to go down.  He went to an entire different alley and fell to his knees and opened his mouth for the next strangers dick.What did you think?  Email me. "},{"Title":"The writer of this story has his head on straight.","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The writer of this story has his head on straight. The acting was entirely superb. The main character, Ari, I feel, represents ethnic, proletarian and gay youngsters, living in immigrant conclaves, in major cities around the world. The frank brutality of the sex in the film is not exploitive or overdone, as far as I can testify from my own experiences. A real glimpse, well done. It is not an easy film to watch. But, it is artfully done and strikes, for this writer, a deep Truth about coming of age as a gay man/son/brother/friend in an ethnic subculture. "},{"Title":"pretty good movie (literally in your face)","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My first thoughts were  OK Alex Dimitriades isn't my favourite actor nor have a seen a lot of his previous work.But I thought here is a movie that has received  plenty of excellent reviews and deserves a viewing.And to that end I was not disappointed.It is a different movie - being one that makes you think (not that common these days) as well as forcing you to confront certain issues about cultural backgrounds,drugs,sexuality etc ,all being encompassed in a fast paced,never a dull moment film.Although certain scenes were quite explicit in nature,this did not detract from the essence of the movie,which essentially surrounded the not-so-typical day in the life of an often confused young man.In general,if you're looking for a movie which gives you a break from the Hollywood blockbuster,this is it.  "},{"Title":"Simpl y Wonderful","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Clearly this movie is not for everyone. If you are not able to identify with the characters, the whole thing will just fall flat.I felt it's a very honest attempt and with sincere performances. The main protagonist of the movie carries the entire movie on his shoulders with such an ease.This movie does not give any message nor judges anyone...I felt like I got a glimpse of what's going in the few people's life. The mood is dark, but it's entertaining. Kudos to the entire cast, director, writer and producer for giving us this movie.I am giving 10 for this movie. "},{"Title":"We all scream inside sometimes. Only the way it comes out is different...","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If Guy Pearce, Russell Crowe, Hugo Weaving, etc., are proud to declare their show of versatility by having taken on roles in movies like THE SUM OF US and THE ADVENTURES OF PRISCILLA, they will have to hang their heads in shame after viewing HEAD ON. Not one of the aforementioned actors were required to make the complete and absolutely dangerous commitment to their roles that Alex Dimitriades has in this film, and for that, in a perfect world, he would (and should be) enjoying the same level of success as his contemporaries, for his skill at portraying someone whom under different circumstances, we may only want to spend time with if it involved a quickie and nothing more.Alex plays Ari, a hunky, footloose Greek Australian youth whose handsome face and taut body are as inviting as his demeanor is off-putting.  But when your days are spent stewing in a constantly boiling stew of cultural and sexual confusion, how else would you react?Torn between the need to connect to his parents and friends, and the disgust he feels at their willingness to co-opt their own dreams and desires to live a more 'normal' way of life steeped in native tradition, and the hypocrisy it often requires to maintain that conformity, Ari feels in his rage, his self-loathing and his growing sense of desperation, that the only way he can dull his inner pain is to exist in a state of greater pleasure or even more intense pain that will cancel it out.  Yet for all the drinking, drug usage and anonymous sexual encounters, he can never attain that state, and whenever he does, it lasts only as long as the high or the orgasm.Directed with raw power by Ana Kokkinos, HEAD ON contains some of the most searing images of what gay life can really be like.  Devout aficionados of Queer As Folk may want to keep the smelling salts handy this is no idealized, candy-colored version of what gay life and sex is like, or what we would like it to be.  HEAD ON could very easily be to angst-ridden gay men of predominantly ethnic backgrounds, what LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR was for lonely, unfulfilled single career women.As anti-hero, Dimitriades comes on like a Montgomery Clift for the Nineties. Heartbreakingly handsome and heedless, he goes deep into the complexities of Ari's psyche and his dilemma, and makes no excuses for the more unlikeable qualities of his character, which puts him one-up over all other actors immediately, most whom wouldn't DREAM of playing a character with unpleasant traits. The sexual encounters, both gay and straight, are for the most part, portrayed as degrading and mostly unfulfilling for himself or his partners, which is what sometimes happens in real life. Especially painful is a scene with another young gay man who wants to show Ari more tenderness than anyone has ever offered him, male or female. Yet, tragically, even as Ari acknowledges the potential for true romance, his own self-destructive impulses will not even allow for this brief respite from his torment, and you know right away that the outcome will be anything but pretty.Even more praise needs to be lavished upon Paul Capsis, who gets the thankless role of Johnny, a.k.a. Toula, who masks his own pain by dressing up as his dear, departed mother. If you thought that Terence Stamp was the last word in hard-won drag honesty, better brace yourself.There are no easy outs or solutions to Ari's and Johnny's problems, and of course, no one lives happily ever after. This is definitely not your neatly resolved, Hollywoodized gay romance, and how could it be? This kind of film would never get made in Tinseltown.What it is, is a bracing breath of fresh air in gay cinema, and we need more examples like it. The girls can get movies like HIGH ART, BOYS DON'T CRY and GO FISH.  We need to have filmmakers study HEAD ON, and learn how to make more features that embrace all aspects of our lifestyle, even those that may not paint us in the most saintly and sanitized light.  People will say I'm naive, or crazy or clueless for having that kind of view.  But if straight filmmakers like Todd Solondz, Steven Soderbergh and Neil LaBute are not afraid to show the warts-and-all aspects of boy/girl relationships, scrutinizing and even over-amplifying them to make a point, then why should we feel the need to go in the opposite direction? By all means, see HEAD ON. Learn from it. And keep your eye on Alex Dimitriades.  We haven't heard a lot from this young man since this film. But I have a feeling that we will, soon enough. "},{"Title":"Greek Australian libidinous nightmare","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ari, hunky 19 year old Greek Australian, spends a day in libidinous free fall, stoked up on every drug available, and bouncing off his family, friends and the police. I spent the film thinking alternately what a waste, what an idiot and what a lucky idiot, as he miraculously escapes serious harm. Ari possesses a ferocious libido and has a penchant for anonymous gay sex (Hard On might have been a better title). He still connects with his family, more or less, though his father regards him as a dropout. Mum is more forgiving. His friends seem to see him as one of the lads, gambling and dancing the hours away.The film is a kaleidoscope of images, often distorted as the drugs take hold, moving at a cracking pace. Never was self-destruction made to look so easy. The reasons for it are harder to fathom. Sure, the kid's parents are migrants. They haven't done well, but they've survived and brought up two more or less normal other kids. Sure, Ari's still in the Greek ghetto but the walls between it and the outside are low. Sure, drugs are everywhere, but he's really just a recreational user. So why the angst? Back to Greece maybe? Now then there would be stress.Alex Dimitriadis is stunning as Ari and there is a particularly nice performance by Paul Capsis as his mate Johnnie the transvestite. There is plenty of youthful energy in the making of the film as well as the acting and even a jaded old critic like this one eagerly awaits the team's next effort. But what on earth was driving Ari? Eros or Thanatos? Maybe you have to be Greek to understand. "},{"Title":"Stark realism on sex, violence and drugs.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sort of tells it all, doesn't it?  Having read most of the critiques of others on this controversial movie, I won't repeat much that has already been said.  I did like actor Alex Dimitriades in the role of Greek/Australian, Ari.  He's so handsome, in a dark brooding way, with an exceptional amount of passion oozing out of him.  What a turn on. And yet he seems to be turned off, himself, to the healthier sex life that could come easily to him should he choose to accept it, notably by the sweet, beautiful Sean, played by good looking Julian Garner.  Oh, well, you can't have everything.  So, our hero wanders the streets at night looking for casual sex from just about anything that can move. Some of the sexual encounters bar no holds in the graphic pictures. I must say that Ari is in beautiful proportion where it counts when the frontal nudity is exposed.  Oh, my!  Aside from his looks and good performance, I must also mention Paul Capsis as Johnny.  A difficult role to pull off, Capsis manages to do it without overdoing it.  It all seemed so real, which made it touching and believable.  You almost want to stand up and cheer his strength during an all too gruesome encounter with the police.  This scene was hard to watch.  I give Ana Kakkinos writer and director credit for the attempt.  I wouldn't want to sit through this again.  Too painful to watch.   I'm a hopeless romantic, anyway.   "},{"Title":"Blazingly Bleak Tale of Desire Vs Self Loathing","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Heads up to HEADS ON this is a story of the agonies of isolation self-induced by a tragically sexually confused young man. Few directors have the courage to write and present the truly dark side of sexuality and Ana Kokkinos deserves a tremendous amount of respect for daring to go where this film takes us.Ari (Alex Dimitriades) is a handsome, sensual young Greek man living with his proud parents and sister in Australia. They are part of a Greek conclave that holds to old country traditions every male must marry a Greek girl and 'then he can do anything he wants' according to Ari's mother. Ari is gay but cannot fully accept his lifestyle, preferring to have dangerous sexual assignations in the filthy alleys of his city. He pals around with Johnny/Toula (Paul Capsis), his transsexual cousin, but avoids contact with him in public. Ari avoids life's realities (he has no job, he is financially dependent on his parents, he cannot relate to his father's demands for his life, etc) through extensive use of drugs and macho confrontations. His life is in a downhill spiral from which he is unable to escape. He attempts a heterosexual encounter but fails miserably. Even when the possibility of a real gay relationship is offered by handsome and masculine Sean (Julian Garner) he is unable to cope and destroys that blink of salvage. Ari's only devotion seems to be to his sister and his mother, neither of whom can extend a long enough arm to pull him from his quicksand life. Ari simply cannot cope with who he truly is.The acting in this fine film is excellent. The camera work by Jaems Grant is both artistically creative and successful in capturing the atmosphere of the story. Scenes that are edgy are handled with realism but never falter into the sensationalism range. Both Alex Demetriades and Paul Capsis give extraordinary portrayals of very tough roles. This is not a film for the squeamish, but it is a fine portrait of gay life in Australia and especially in the Greek community there. Grady Harp "}]