[{"Title":"Excellent, violent tongue in a cheek slapstick horror comedy","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"46 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can only say that I never expected very much from Idle hands but luckily I watched it anyway because the film turned out to be rather a pleasant surprise. Brutal gore effects, amusing dialogue, wacky storyline and wild situation comic makes this film much better than most of the recently released horror flicks. Devon Sawa was amazingly funny in the leading role of young Anton and I have to give it to him he really performed some pretty damn skillful and terrificly successful slapstick comedy. Seth Green and Elden Henson as his silly pothead pals were highly amusing too and Jessica Alba was, well, simply lovely. This movie contains such a crazy ideas and black, wicked humor I can't help of loving it. I also have to say how very happy I was to find out that Idle hands wasn't just a bunch of teens screaming, running and hiding from the vicious serial killer but actually much more than that. I'm also a fan of The Ramones and this movie gave me a nice opportunity to hear their classic hit song I wanna be sedated as performed by The Offspring. So I suggest you to forget your ridiculous Scream -trilogy and the likes of I know what you did last summer and The Faculty and watch refreshing Idle hands instead. This dark and speedy tongue in a cheek splatter comedy is a great, captivating experience you shouldn't miss if you wanna enjoy and have some bloody good laughs. "},{"Title":"...and the best performance award for an actress wearing KISS make-up goes to...","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't care what anyone else says, I found this movie to be hysterical. For one, it's pretty violent. People get it in disturbing ways here. One comes to mind in particular where someone gets a knitting needle rammed straight into their ear. It's not nice stuff but it's so funny you can't help but laugh. A major question, first and foremost just what the hell was Vivica A. Fox doing in this movie? I've never used the word slumming before in a sentence but I think it applies here. Devon Sawa is a cool cat. I liked him here and his brand of physical comedy is pretty impressive. Watch Final Destination after seeing this and I think you'll wonder why we haven't seen more of him. Seth Green is cool and so are Elden Henson and Jack Noseworthy. And for Jessica Alba fans, she's in here, in all her pre-Dark Angel glory. I've never used the word nubile but I think it definitely applies here. She looks so good in this movie that it hurts my chest. She's one of the finer points (literally) of the movie. There's a chick in this movie wearing Paul Stanley's KISS makeup that should email me so I can give her my home address. There's parts of the movie that kinda fall flat but that's to be expected. Check this movie out if non-pc humor and bad mojo violence is your thing. Especially if you liked Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn, I think you'll dig this picture. And if you appreciate Jessica Alba in any way. Rating *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Idle Hands Do Devilishly Good Work!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Watching Idle Hands is like watching an R-rated rendition of Beetlejuice.  It has the same tone as the Tim Burton classic.  Though it is basically a dark comedy--emphasize the word dark as much as you can--there are some moments of graphic violence that the casual moviegoer might not expect out of a comedy.  But not all comedies are meant to be like Mel Brooks movies.  Peter Berg explained it perfectly on the David Letterman show when he was talking about Very Bad Things, which he wrote and directed.  He said, Just like how some people, like me, like our food spicy--some people also want their comedy spicy.  Just like Very Bad Things, Idle Hands is a grotesque, slightly off-putting comedy that won't be taken easily, but that's part of its appeal.  It gives you that dark comic rush.  And there are moments where you can't help but laugh hysterically.  Seth Green and the other boy--I don't know his name--have some extremely funny moments.  Most of the jokes have to do with scatological and drug-related elements, but they work perfectly.  This is not for the prudish, not tailor-made for the sick and twisted (though they would probably take delight), but makes intelligent use of gruesome and coarse gags.  I know that doesn't sound appealing on paper, but you'll see what I mean.  See for yourself.  Idle Hands is not for all tastes, it's not sophisticated and I would call it a popcorn movie...but you'd probably throw up your popcorn if you were to watch this flick.  As for eye candy (for the guys) we have the stunningly beautiful Jessica Alba, who never gets naked (Dammit!) but struts around in a revealing blue nightie with her beautiful cleavage on display.  She's just one of those extremely cute babes that you just want to cuddle like a teddy bear.  Idle Hands may do the Devil's work, but it makes heavenly entertainment!My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A very pleasant surprise","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As mentioned in the other comments, this movie is a awful lot better than it would first seem. Its still a rather brainless teen slasher flick, with the usual array of 2D characters ( the goofy friends, gorgeous love interest, aggressive hunk etc) and situations (school Halloween dance), but the great dialogue and great visual effects elevate it above the majority of other movies in the teen slasher style and doesn't do too much talking down to the audience. Where most other movies of this type give the audience 2 answers before a single question is answered Idle Hands has no fears about leaving things unanswered, where the viewer can make their own mind up (for once). Devon Sawa makes for a convincing and cute Anton, while Jessica Alba is all thats needed to keep the target audience of under 20's males glued to their seats. Don't get me wrong, this isn't up there with the likes of Lawrence of Arabia, but it never sets out to be; it's hilariously funny, satisfyingly gory and one hell of a lot better than you'd ever think. Go rent it, you'l be pleasantly surprised. Also, the soundtrack is great. "},{"Title":"A horror spoof that doesn't forget the horror","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Usually, when you watch a movie that sends up the horror genre, the movie sacrifices the scares in favor of the laughs. But, in Idle Hands, the movie makers remembered to keep all the creepy touches and startling frights that make a horror movie when they mixed in all the humor.Not nearly as heavy handed as, say, the Scary Movie franchise, Idle Hands has all the normal trappings of a good teen horror flick The unstoppable killing evil that has come back, the buddies of the main character who don't understand the danger until it's too late, the horny girl who main character must protect and a brave hero who is a bastion of all that is good in the world to defend us... OK, so I was lying about that last one. And that is one of the best twists of the film, the main character is a screw-up and doesn't act very heroically until very, very late in the film. In addition to really revving up the laughs, this feature is also what kind of makes this movie stand out from the usual horror fare.Now, here's the key While Anton struggles with the evil in his bumbling way, egged on by the wise-cracks of Mick and Pnub, the film delivers actual horror. We get shocks, we get creeps, we get gore and we don't get the ha-ha got ya! joke right afterward that you get in most parodies. The scares are real, the deaths are real, the danger are real. And, surprisingly, so are the laughs. "},{"Title":"Great mix of horror and humor","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For reasons unknown, I couldn't see Idle Hands when it was released into theatres last year in 1999.  I didn't get a chance to see it until it came out on tape in August later of that year.     The plot centers around Anton Tobias(Devon Sawa), he's 17, he hasn't been to school in 6 months, he's in love with Molly(Jessica Alba) a girl who has lived across the street from him for lord knows how long, and he smokes pot with his friends Mick(Seth Green) and Pnub(Elden Henson).  Anyway, Anton wakes up one day to find that his parents have disappeared, (although it takes him about two days to realize this).  This goes to show you should stop smoking pot all the time.  It isn't long before Anton discovers his horribly mutilated parents and that his right hand has been possessed by Satan.  His hand soon kills his best friends Mick and Pnub.  With the help of a priestess Debi(Vivica A. Fox) and a local headbanger (Jack Noseworthy) Anton comes up with a few odd ways of keeping his hand occupied from its homicidal tendencies such as listening to heavy metal and needle point. Let me just say that this movie is hilarious.  I should also say that this movie is also one of the grossest and goriest movies I've ever seen.  There are quite a few hilarious moments as well as a few shocking ones. Vivica A. Fox's name says it all and Jessica Alba isn't bad to look at either.10/10 "},{"Title":"Comedy & Horror Seem To Work Well Together","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I thought this was going to be just another dumb teen comedy. After watching the first 10 minutes, I was convinced it was, and was ready to try something else. Well, I am glad I stayed with it. It was very funny and a combination comedy and horror film. Yes, it's humor geared more for teens but people far older than 15 should still get a lot of laughs out of this.Warning some of the scenes are pretty gross, at least for a comedy, but that's what made those particularly scenes funny. Comedy and horror mix well together, anyway.The film reminded me a bit of American Werewolf in London with the undead kids. Despite the absurdity of it, there are a couple of good message in here....but, generally, this is purely escapist fun and nothing else. "},{"Title":"Horrifiying and Hilarious!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    I rented Idle Hands and I have to say that it was a GREAT movie! It was kind of like Scary Movie, but better! It was VERY funny!! Devon Sawa, Seth Green, Eldin Ratliff, and Jessica Alba were SPECTACULAR! This is a very funny/gorey movie. The acting is funny and great, and the directing is great! This is a smash-hit! I loved it! I highly recommend this film to horror fans and comedy fans for that matter! I give this film a perfect 10 out of 10!!!!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Fun story, much blood and &#150; oh yeah &#150; a very yummy Jessica Alba","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands isn't priority viewing for horror fans but it's a very entertaining little gem, nevertheless. Cast and crew were smart enough to put the whole horror genre into perspective a bit and therefore this feels a lot more like a light-headed spoof than a sickening gore flick. Ever since that dreadful Scream, the teen-slasher flicks are going through a revival and Idle Hands picks into this in a funny way with a very exaggerated plot, eccentric characters and outrageous situations. Devon Sawa (Final Destination) stars as an offbeat teenager whose goal in life is too sleep late and smoke dope. It takes him quite some time to realize that his right hand is possessed by evil forces that force him to kill. With the help of his stoner-friends (killed as well, but too lazy to reach for the light at the end of the tunnel), he has got to prevent that the beautiful muse across the street gets killed by the bloodthirsty hand. The storyline is ultra-thin but don't let that keep you from having a good time watching the well-elaborated gore effects and funny one-liners. Very creative (but especially comic) butchering in this film, as it for example contains one of the potheads getting stabbed in the head with a beer bottle! That same bottle than remains embedded in his skull for the rest of the movie, which is a pretty cool sight. There are terrific tributes to horror titles that featured the same idea of a murderous hand earlier (like Evil Dead 2 or Oliver Stone's The Hand) and an excellent soundtrack with songs from Mötley Crüe, Rob Zombie and The Ramones. The best acting performance is given by Seth Green who has an undeniable talent for comedy roles. And then there's Jessica Alba who portrays one of the most gorgeous horror-heroines ever! I've seen a few episodes of her Dark Angel TV-show but she definitely didn't this good there! Idle Hands is an overall okay film...not good enough to be named among the better horror-comedies but surely a lot better than the so many other pretentious spoofs. "},{"Title":"Really Good Film","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i am particular about my films and usually don't go for stoner comedy but i thought this film was hilarious, i mean the story was a little thin but and the main star isn't a star but what makes a movie is how it plays out and it played out brilliantly even though the acting was poor in places it didn't matter cos u couldn't stop laughing long enough to notice Jessica Alba played a very cheesy yet funny part my favourite line being mmm, your Kinky the look on her face and how she said it made me collapse into laughter, and being a great fan of the offspring made it even more of a bonus though Dexter's acting was terrible.i was a great fan of Sam Raimis Evil Dead Trilogy the hand scenes reminded me a lot of Bruce Cambells Hand trying to kill him the hand scenes in Idle Hands were very well done Please see this movie, u wont regret it "}{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What more can I say about this movie? All I knew about it was that it had quite a few elements of teen comedy and that I've only seen the tail end of it a few times. Now that I finally saw the whole thing, it's now one of my favorites!It's a welcome change from most of the horror movies I've seen.Great music, great acting, and gorgeous women (Specifically speaking, Jessica Alba)... what more do you want?This is one of those movies that you can watch and understand it perfectly... whether or not you're stoned. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Decent comedy staring the Devil's Plaything","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSThere's a famous phrase, used to some degree most recently in Britain's adverts for Virgin Mobile, that idle hands are the devil's plaything. This sets up this novel idea of a lazy bum who does so little with his day that one day his hand is possessed. It's a clever idea which is never taken particularly seriously, and the film benefits as a result of this laid back attitude.In Idle Hands this lazy waste of space who spends his entire time watching television and smoking pot is Anton Tobias (Devon Sawa). Waking up one day, Anton follows his regular routine of walking downstairs in the clothes he slept in, getting some cereal, putting cartoons on (ignoring the news, late quoting that I hate that show) and slowly getting stoned. Added to this equation are his two stoner friends Mick (Seth Green) and Pnub (Elden Henson). As events unfold, these three team together to defeat Anton's possessed right hand and to save Anton's girlfriend Molly (Jessica Alba).The beauty of Idle Hands is exactly that it doesn't take itself seriously. With a relatively intense first five minutes, in which Anton's parents are killed in an almost Halloween (1978) style demise (the film itself being shot on the same neighbourhood as it's predecessor), the film lightens up and retreats to a position of fun, the second Sawa's stoner appears on screen. From this moment on, Idle Hands features some brilliant lines, a LOT of extreme gore, a gorgeous woman in revealing outfits, and a huge ammount of marajuana.As well as such beautiful lines as My work here is done. Time for the ritualistic sex and Yeah I was a little bitter about the getting killed by my best friend thing but I've had time to get over it, this film has an amazing soundtrack. Actually featuring the Punk band Offspring live on stage at one point, the film also features music by Blink 182, Rob Zombie and the awesome Motley Crue. If anything, Idle Hands appears to be a film dedicated to the Horror Genre, rock music and the stoner lifestyle. It never gives the impression, from five minutes onwards, that it wants to be taken seriously and at times it feels like it actually wants to be added to that distinguished list of cult films which stoned people actually watch after a couple of spliffs.Perhaps the one final point worth mentioning about this film is the amazing variation in the casts future. Whilst nobody can really be pushed forward as an example of superb acting on this occasion (perhaps Seth Green deserving the best praise), the main cast have lead remarkably variable careers. Whilst Seth Green, Vivica A Fox and Jessica Alba have both featured in television and film heavily (Alba being signed up to play Susan Storm in 2005's Fantastic Four), the contrasting disappearance of Devon Sawa, Elden Henson and Jack Noseworthy is remarkable. Sawa inparticular manages to have gone from staring in this film and 2000's Final Destination to unheard of films with practically none-existent box office potential. It's strange how Idle Hands appears to be both a leaping post for certain actors, and an acting graveyard for others.To sum up Idle Hands therefore. For the first five minutes, this film gives a strong indication that it will be a typical tense, horror film which will have an element of originality but nothing special. The second Sawa appears on screen and begins to get stoned however, the film takes off as it suddenly begins to pay tribute to different topics ranging from horror to marajuana. Idle Hands is a brilliant film with some classic lines. It might never be critically acclaimed (but it never seems to have wanted to be), but for a group of teenagers sitting around at a weekend, with or without drugs, it's a sure fire hit. Well worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Great movie to break up a horror movie marathon.","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Every year around Halloween I put on a long horror movie marathon for me and my friends. We play many of the classics but I like to throw in some modern or more obscure titles that we haven't seen to keep it interesting and prevent us from spending yet another two hours quoting every line of dialogue in Carpenter's Halloween. I use Idle Hands to break up the marathon with a bit of humor and levity when the serious and somber horror films start to take their psychological toll and depress everyone. It brings everyone back into the mood of the marathon and refreshes us with some laughter. It is to my marathon what the porter is to Macbeth you might say.In this context, the film is great. I don't know if I would rate it very highly on its own however. It is worth watching and if you like campy gore mixed some black humor you will have a good time watching it. Try pairing it with a viewing of The Evil Dead 2 or something similar. "},{"Title":"Great music, hot girls, nasty gore (what else do you want?) *spoilers*","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anton is a stunning example of mediocrity. He skips school nearly everyday, he wakes up in mid-afternoon, and he smokes himself stupid. But one day, he gets some motivation when his right hand starts acting up and doing things he doesn't want it to (i.e. grabbing Jessica Alba's butt, killing people). After Anton decides his hand has done too much killing for him to deal with, he comes up with the brilliant idea of chopping it off. Only, the hand doesn't die, and now he must stop his hand from killing everyone at his high school. The movie is flat out hilarious and is meant to be nothing but pure entertainment. It has all the right ingredients for the perfect horror comedy great music, hot girls and some nasty gore. Devon Sawa (Final Destination) plays Anton and Jessica Alba (TV's Dark Angel) plays his love interest (her butt also co-stars in some strategically placed tight-white panties). Seth Green (Austin Powers) and Elden Henson (Butterfly Effect) play Anton's burn-out buddies, who have some hilarious dialogue and scenes -- one particularily disgusting one involving a microwave burrito. To me, this is the perfect movie. It is always fun to watch and it has everything you could ever want in a movie (well, this kind of movie at least). I don't know how some people can trash it; although it is a horror, it is good natured and it is just a blast to watch.10/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining flick ~ please read","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  To the reviewers that bash this movie, all I can say is get a life. To those who say that this is a weak horror movie, again get a life. This is more of a comedy, but of course with the violence & gore, it gets the 'R' rating. This is a very entertaining movie, that is definitely a popcorn film. Just enjoy it for what it is; entertainment. Yes, the possessed hand is copied from The Evil Dead 2, but who cares. Great comedy & acting (especially Seth Green) make this one fun movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had rented the DVD and i loved it. This is one of the best movies i have ever seen. Horror and Comedy are the perfect match. Devon Sawa was great for this  movie. I hope that other people like this movie.Its has a great cast and Christopher Hart was really great with the hand. "},{"Title":"A very funny and freaky movie.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the promo's for this movie, I hated the idea, but several weeks ago it was on TV and I decided what the hell and watched it. I loved it and vowed to rent it the following weekend.So I did (somehow I can pass for 17) and watched it about a million times over that weekend. I even forced my friend to watch it too, and she thought it was great. Devon Sawa has been one of my favorite actors since I first saw him in Casper and he was great in this movie. So were Seth Green, Elden Ratclif, and Jessica Alba. The only complaints I have about this movie are that they didn't use the forget that man, it's too far in the movie and the two songs I really liked from the movie (the one playing when Anton and Molly first meet and the one playing near the end just before Anton gets crushed by the car) were not on the soundtrack.Anyway, go rent/buy this if you have a bizzare sense of humor, like me! ) 9/10 "},{"Title":"Why does everyone hate this?","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be on of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  And I honestly can't say why.  The plot was stupid, the jokes were dumb, and it was kind of disgusting.  But I was laughing out loud after the first 10 minutes.  And I couldn't stop.  I honestly can't say why I found this so funny, and such a great movie, but it was.  10/10 and **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really great movie all around.  Funny, gory, scary, awesome, and fun.  All the acting was great (especially Jessica Alba, who absolutely rocks, like on Dark Angel) and I recommend everyone go rent/ buy it.  FUN FUN FUN!!  You'll like it.     "},{"Title":"The best film of 1999.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  That's right, I've said it.  I don't care how good American Beauty is suppose to be - Idle Hands is the film that I go to the theater HOPING to see.  It's got all of the elements for the perfect horror/comedy (1) Great dialogue (2) Great gore/great make-up (3) Great performers/ Sawa and Green shine (4) A hot chick/Jessica Elba insert panting and howling here (5)...and a barrel full of laughs. Loving a film like Idle Hands takes a certain mind-set, understanding and intelligence.  If you didn't love it, you're a stupid douche bag and you should drown yourself. "}{"Title":"Death to the Todd sisters!","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands Or should I say, How Brian wished he was dead.  This ultra assbackwards comedy horror flick should serve as a good example of the limits the human body has. One can only take so many poorly written jokes, one can only take so many unimaginative splatter shots, and one can only take Devon Sawa for more than 2 seconds.  His raspy vocals coupled with his, probably, meth-enhanced performance is appalling.  This coming so quickly after I was sure Jimmy Tuckett's Clubland performance was the worst of the year. This is the kind of film that believes more is more.  I haven't seen a film that played at such an aggressive note in some time. It's assaultive to the senses.  Using Dolby shocks more than you would like to believe, director Rodman Flender pretty much shows he has nothing up his sleeve.  Idle Hands is supposed to be funny, but it's not. Idle Hands wants to scare you too, but it can't.  Both are due to the laughably bad screenplay.  It would be easy to accuse it of stealing - which it does in large amounts - but the screenwriters (this actually had two people's contributions) can't even make the elements that have worked before work for them. It's all just a big waste of film stock. Reliable talent like Seth Green just can't make this awful film any fun.  And I love stoner humor too! Future Jennifer Love Hewitt, Jessica Alba, shows she nothing more than a pretty (real pretty) face. The rest of the actors are stuck just trying to scream above the soundtrack. While this isn't, this should be the last of the Scream type postmodern horror films.  It's an idea that has run it's course, and an idea that didn't produce one good film.---------- 0  "},{"Title":"goofy,bloody,fun!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  idle hands is very funny.it's  entertaining,and cool.it's not for  everyone's taste.the only way you will like  this movie is if you like goofy comedy.in  this case goofy horror/comedy.idle hands is  about a lazy pot-smoking kid,and one day  his hand gets possessed,and he can't  control it.his parents were killed.then his  hand kills his two best friends.they come  back to live,they start partying again as  they did before they were killed.he also  finally gets with his dream girl.from  across the street.his hand  is always getting out of control.also a  women tries to hunt the evil hand.it's a  fun,bloody,and goofy movie.a lot of comedy  in this movie.but you have to like goofy  horror/comedy to like this movie.i give  idle hands *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Acceptable, but hardly great","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" IDLE HANDS is a late-'90s comedy horror flick that comes across as a cross between the self-knowing humour of SCREAM and the bodily dismemberment of EVIL DEAD 2. Unsurprisingly it's nowhere near as good as either of those movies, although those with a penchant for '90s horror might get a chuckle or two from this one.The worst thing about this, for me, was the main characters, who are a trio of the usual slacker/stoner types that I don't think much of. Devon Sawa, of FINAL DESTINATION fame, was never much of an actor and he struggles to bring any charisma to the part here, although Seth Green is always reliable. The idea of having the two buddies helping him out seems to have been borrowed from Peter Jackson's superior THE FRIGHTENERS.The whole 'possessed hand' thing has been done before, and better, most notably by Bruce Campbell, so there's not a whole lot of entertainment value there. Still, there are plenty of splattery and gory moments which are handled nicely, and it's always amusing to see actors in pre-stardom roles (step forward, Jessica Alba). The final denouement is a bit silly but overall IDLE HANDS is an acceptable film for what it is, just not one I found particularly funny. "},{"Title":"Too dumb and gross.","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can't figure out who this movie is for. The humor was too juvenile and disgusting, so you'd think maybe it would appeal to 13 or 14 year olds, but it was very R rated with a lot of drug use, innuendo, and a fair bit of nudity. But viewers over the age of 18 or 21 would most likely find the humor too immature to really find it funny. I chuckled a couple times just because I was supposed to, but the characters were so unlikeable and the scenes so disturbing and ridiculous, it just wasn't that funny. I think I lost a few brain cells just from watching it.Jessica Alba looked great in this but her character was completely implausible... how could she possibly have been attracted to Anton? Every encounter with him he was acting like a complete nutjob. To me, humor works best if it's believable. The closer to real life, the funnier it is. This movie was so absurd I just couldn't find it funny, and it was gory to the extreme, with blood and gibs splattering everywhere, things getting impaled or sliced up. Monty Python can pull that sort of thing off and make it funny, but here it was just sick.I wanted to like this movie. I like the era it's from, late 90's, I like the actors, it had great music, and the idea of it was funny on the surface. The trailer made it look good, and I found a few writeups on the internet listing this as a must-see for Halloween. But for me, it goes into the junk pile along with movies like Joe Dirt or The Core. "},{"Title":"Excellent horror spoof the right way","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Waking up one morning, a teen-slacker learns his parents have been murdered and his right has been possessed by the Devil and is carrying on a murderous spree across town, forcing him to find a way of stopping it.This was quite an underrated horror comedy with some enjoyable elements. One of the better features here is the fact that this one still manages to be an extremely effective horror outing while using the comedy to its most effective points. The drug humor with his freak-outs, hallucinations and misconceptions about reality contort with the actual horror set-ups that result when he's sober again as the big revelation scene about his parents to his friends which leads into their own attack throughout the house that's insanely hilarious while being utilized by gruesome actions throughout which causes even more great fun in the scene. As well, there's a lot of fun to be had from the film's last half which again features plenty of hilariously gruesome and horrific moments here as there's the rather bloody encounter with the cops, the main sequence of the group dismembering his hand and then going around trashing the house trying to stop it and the few odd interludes of him chasing after the truth about his condition all feature some rather enjoyable comedy while still trying to be scary. The best segments are the finale, as the dance is interrupted and causes nice confusion and chaos as well as the frantic stalking through the tunnels provide this with the appropriate suspense while bringing back the comedy and horror aspects as it winds through its final resolution. All in all this gives the film some rather bloody deaths to go with this fine mix of horror and comedy which manages to be quite the effective mixture, and is able to hold this up against the film's only real flaw. The big issue with this one is the fact that there's no real reasoning given for the rampage behind the hands' motives. This one states that there's a purpose for it as for how it goes about the different sprees around the country, and all we get is a throwaway line when she connects the pieces on the map, yet that's all in here and leaves this one feeling rather underwhelming. There's a minor issue here as well with the film's opening half featuring so much drug humor and comedy that it might seem a bit over-the-top for those who are completely underwhelmed by such inclusions as this is a take-it-or-leave-it feature which potentially makes this section completely bland and lifeless. Otherwise, this is quite a bit of fun.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity, a brief sex scene and pervasive drug use and humor. "},{"Title":"Idle Hands","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Insane horror comedy is all go-for-broke nonsense, but its energy and stoner hi-jinx are often (or were to me, and obviously a cult audience that has accepted this into their fold; I can see fans of Pineapple Express enjoying this specifically) irresistible. The main heroes of the film have lives almost consistently devoted to weed and television. Anton (Devon Sawa, with an exhaustively physical performance) awakens to find his hand uncontrollably violent and always looking to kill...it is possessed by an evil that has been moving from lazy body to lazy body, waiting to take an innocent soul to hell. That plot alone will certainly leave a chunk of people cashing their chips, but with a pace which doesn't take a smoke break (although the stoners always look to take a smoke from any kind of bong pipe (whether it has tits or was built in auto shop class)), add enthusiasm in the performances, and remove any remote sense of pretension; Idle Hands could very well be an alternative on Halloween. Set during a long Halloween day for poor Sawa, he unfortunately has a psychotic hand that kills his parents (he doesn't even realize it!) and eventually his two best stoner friends, Pnub (Elden Henson) and Mick (Seth Green). Setting in motion the serious threat to anyone it comes across, eventually Anton severs the damned hand from his arm, but all that really does is allow the cursed body part to move freely. Meanwhile, the hand sets its sights on choosing the smokin' babe next door (Jessica Alba) as the victim to take to the netherworld. Also Vivica A Fox shows up in the plot as a type of spiritual warrior with a dagger that will eliminate the hand if stabbed by her. She calls herself a druidic high priestess to a metal music loving gearhead (Jack Noseworthy) wanting to get into her pants; he also wants to get back his ford truck stolen by Anton so he (along with Pnub and Mick) can rescue Alba from the hand at a Halloween high school costume dance (with musical group The Offspring performing I Wanna Be Sedated, by the Ramones).Hectic is a word I'd apply to the plot shenanigans, as Sawa starts his day innocent enough just trying to score some weed. Alba digs him; eventually, after Sawa somehow subdues the hand, Alba even makes out (having invited him into her room) with him! But after burying a broken beer bottle in the skull of Green, and sending a spiraling saw blade from the basement that decapitates Henson, such a make-out seems rather fitting to the whole crazy movie. I mean, the two dead pals decide to give Heaven a pass, returning to their corpses, re-animating with their same loose, chill personalities intact. This alone should let you know what kind of movie this is. One scene has Henson's body holding his head upside down while he weeds out with the smoke exiting the neck wound! Deciding to use duct tape, eventually Henson's head is sort of re-attached!Getting to see the lead singer of The Offspring scalped, two incompetent cops sewing-needle stabbed and face-shocked by a taser, a hand being cooked in a microwave, and a poor cat hurled by its tale out of the window of a house all are indicative of the kind of madcap horror silliness you are in store for. If anything, the talking, decaying corpses of Sawa's friends quipping up a storm while he's frantically searching for a severed killer hand on the loose provide enough incentive to determine just how much absurdity in one movie you can stand. Evil Dead II is echoed here, no doubt. This was right before Sawa would participate in the beginning of the popular Final Destination franchise. Here, Sawa tirelessly moves about, really getting into his demanding role which asks him to be on the go almost from the get-go. Green and Henson's slackers will certainly appeal to a type of audience. Alba was right on the cusp of being a regular fixture in the fantasies of a masturbating generation...she is even in just bra and panties at one point. When Alba opens her house to a rather bloody Sawa, in just a robe and undergarments, I could just visualize the slobber of quite a few horny guys. Sawa's work making the hand seem alive before lopping it off (Green obliges his wound with a hot iron because that's what friends are for) is spirited to say the least. The old school practical effects and some CGI as finesse are impressive; Green and Henson are quite a pair for such effects. "},{"Title":"Idle Thinking.","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands (1999) Dir Rodman Flender / Cast Devon Sawa, Jessica Alba, Seth Green, Elden Henson, Vivcia A. Fox Tasteless and gross horror comedy about a teenage male whose hand becomes possessed and able to kill people without the owner's control. No explanation is given as to why his hand is possessed but Devon Sawa is advised to keep it busy. He murders his parents, his two best friends, a couple of cops, and other locals. Even cutting his hand off doesn't help for it escapes, after a violent incident in a microwave. Pointless and stupid with director Rodman Flender trying to be clever. He gives references to An American Werewolf in London and Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn but to a far lesser degree. Special effects should please gore fans, but there is something terribly corrupt about the whole film. Sawa's reaction to the murders of his loved ones is unconvincing. In reality one would think that a reaction to something like this would be horrifying with a severe sense of loss, but that isn't indicated here. Seth Green and Elden Henson play his mutilated friends. Jessica Alba plays his damsel girlfriend and she is about as interesting as a pencil with a broken tip. Vivica A. Fox even shows up as a woman who believes that she can correct the problem but she only renders the film more ridiculous than it already is. Concluding result is a pointless barf film that is hardly funny. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"A really great funny movie!","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a very funny dark horror comedy film directed by Rodman Flender and it focuses on Anton Tobias (played by Devon Sawa) is the laziest laz-ball you will ever meet. He refuses to go to school, doesn't have a job, and smokes weed with his buds Mick (played by Seth Green) and Pnub (played by Elden Henson) and watches TV all day. Anton has the biggest crush on Molly (played by the gorgeous Jessica Alba) but then his hand gets possessed by Satan. Idle Hands was released by Columbia Pictures on April 30, 1999. and bombed at the box office making only $4,152,230.The film has a great soundtrack from Rancid, Static-X and even an appearance by The Offspring at a Halloween concert. This is a very funny movie that is required viewing if you like Devon Sawa and Jessica Alba. I give Idle Hands a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Funny stoner horror comedy","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lazy Anton is too stoned to realize his hand has become possessed and murdered his parents. Despite blood on the floor and pieces of them like their eyes scattered about the house, he's completely unaware and it's business as usual for Anton - getting high from his makeshift bowl that he turned his asthma inhaler into and laying on the couch eating poorly and watching TV. His two dim bulb friends, one of which is a miscast Seth Green, aren't much help figuring out what's going on and quickly meet a gruesome end by the hand. An inspired gag is that his two friends return as rotting corpses, because it was too far to walk through the bright tunnel to heaven. Devon Sawa does some good physical comedy, the film is never serious for a second and there is a substantial amount of gore that is well done. A concert at the school dance with Offspring, hasn't aged well and didn't exactly scream quality back in '99 either and Vivica A. Fox could basically be cut from the film and not much would be impacted. Idle Hands is gleefully ridiculous and it's unfortunate critics had their knives out for this one and it tanked at the box office. "},{"Title":"Horror spoof that's low on plot but has is bright spots","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands has it's high and low points and ultimately it's not bad!. The film is pretty shallow in terms of plot and character development but then again a horror comedy spoof like this it was never going to be deep in either of those aspects. It has a lot of cliché 90's teen themes; High school buddies, a slacker main character, two weed smoking side kicks, the hot girl next door etc, etc so originality is not really one of the films fortes. Whilst not hilarious there were a few scenes which I did laugh at but this isn't a film I'd expect to be as funny on a second or third watch for example. There were a few amusing kill/gore scenes but this is more slapstick then out and out gore. The cast were okay on the whole but the main character wasn't a great performance but the support cast were good enough for a film like this. It's by no means the best film of this genre but if you just want to sit back and watch a film that's light on plot but a fine for an evening in front of the TV then give it a go. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Really funny, lots of fun, worth watching","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is hilarious and for many reasons. Not the least of which are the special effects that just cracked me up most of the time. Truly inventive and well done.For those of us guys who demand eye candy in the movies we watch, there's Jessica Alba looking perfect and feminine, even dainty. There's also Vivica Fox looking tough but beautiful. But the real home run for me was that the director would sometimes inject scenes in to the fray with the thought 'let's see how really disgusting I can make this'. Absolutely fun to watch. Watch it with your girlfriend, she'll be grabbing you often and hiding her eyes while she clings to you when the truly gruesome and disgusting scenes come up. "},{"Title":"good comedy horror but 20 mil o on the budget ?","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie quite a bit im a big fan of horror and comedy and when they do it together just right it turns out pretty well. This is a bloody well written horror but I just don't see how they spent 20 million dollars on this. Its strange when you see some horror movies with about 5 million dollar budget and they look the same as this one a shame to see this be such a box office fail This movie is about a very lazy guy named Anton who pretty much just sits home all day watches TV sleeps and smokes weed. Then all of the sudden his hand becomes possessed by the devil as it kills people he tries to control it.This movie is nothing too special but it is definitely worth a watch for most people considered "},{"Title":"A Much underrated Comic Horror film","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, this film is very underrated. It also deserves far more media attention that what it receives. The plot was simple yet effective featuring a lazy boy named Anton having his right hand possessed over Halloween and thus his right hand becomes a villain. Anton must fight against the stronger of him in a very funny filmThe main actors in this film were great. Devon Sawa, Jessica Alba, Seth Green and Elden Henson played their roles extremely well. For one thing, the plot was unique and there was much comedy. However, unlike other horror classics such as Nightmare on Elm Street, Child's Play and even Friday the 13th, where supporting characters do not believe of a villain running around causing destruction, this film was different. A range of characters get together in this film, unite and attempt to destroy the demon inside of Anton's right hand. I found it funny how Molly continued to joke around about a killer on the loose.Overall, I found it a pleasure. A unique horror film which deserved a sequel. "},{"Title":"Funny and Gory","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first seen this film I was very young and never really understood it because I was just a kid. But I still loved it because I still found it funny, now that I am an adult an fully understand it, I love it even more.The film follows a young, lazy stoner guy played by Devon Sawa, whose hand ends up getting possessed and goes on a killing spree. The fact that the guys hand gets possessed just cracks me up, like the stuff that he does had me in knots laughing, like when he grabs his cat by the tail and starts spinning it around and trows it out the window, that particular scene had me almost falling off the couch.The film also has its scary moments too, it has a fair bit of gore, but it always finds a way to be funny, this film really knows how to balance the horror and the comedy, and the comedy always breaks the tension when it gets suspenseful, especially during the final scenes when Jessica Alba's character is about to get crushed by a car, and when you at the edge of you seat, you start to crack up laughing because when they are suppose to be saving her they stop to take a hit out of a bong.This film is a great horror comedy with lots of laughs and gore, I highly recommend this movie, if you want to be grossed out and busting a gut laughing at the same time. "},{"Title":"Go! Go! Buffalo!","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands is a classic 90's comedy/horror flick which although swooped a little under the radar - it is still a must-see film for fans of horrors such as the Evil Dead series (especially army of darkness) and/or teen comedies like American Pie.Idle Hands works well by striking the perfect balance between comedy and horror and this works extremely well. The cast are brilliant especially Seth Green who is always great to watch in comedic roles. Reletavely unknown actor Devon Sawa plays the lead character 'Anton', who's hand gets possessed by an evil entity and goes on a murderous rampage! Though I have never seen Devon Sawa in any films prior or since Idle Hands - he is excellent in his role and the way he makes his hand move wildly and mis-behave really makes it look like it is not controlled by himself! In fact, one of the funniest scenes is a make-out scene between 'Anton' and 'Molly' (Alba) in when his hand keeps trying to strangle her! It's hilarious!!!American skate-punk band, 'The Offspring' also make an amusing cameo in the film and also play a tune off with her head from their debut self-titled album which was a bonus! I won't give away what happens to singer Dexter Holland but it is pretty amusing!In conclusion, Idle hands is a great late 90's comedy/horror flick which should have been bigger than it was.Most definitely worth a watch! "},{"Title":"No, no, no, no Kevin Costner speeches okay? Let's just go.","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A teen horror comedy featuring a stoner, slacker leading man (played by Devon Sawa) probably sounds like the stuff of actual nightmares for fans of well-done, proper horror. Throw in other cast members Seth Green, Elden Henson, Jessica Alba, Vivica A. Fox and Jack Noseworthy and it may start to look better or worse, depending on how you feel about those involved. The Offspring making a small appearance and contributing to the soundtrack? Fun with puppets? Whatever preconceptions you may have after reading the above paragraph, try to put them aside and view Idle Hands through fresh eyes. It's an immensely entertaining horror comedy that may aim a little low at times but it's full of some great comic moments and manages to throw some decent scares in there too (especially the impressive opening sequence).The basic story is all about lazy Anton and the terrible realisation that his right hand has become possessed. How can he curb its killer instinct? Knitting? Or will he have to cut it off for the greater good? Killer hand movies are often a lot of fun (see . . . . . almost any Amicus movie ever made for a prime example) and this one makes the most of the premise. It has a few mis-steps here and there (Sawa's interaction with Alba's character doesn't ring true in the slightest and starts to feel like something from a John Hughes movie) but, all in all, it's a wonderfully offbeat, slightly subversive, consitently entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Idle Hands are the Devil's playground","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anton Tobias ( Devon Sawa ) is the laziest guy in the world. Still living with his parents, all he does is watching TV and smoking weed. He ran out of weed and unfortunately his friends won't bring it over so he has to get out of the house. At his friend's place he realizes he hasn't seen his parents for days, and it doesn't take long for him to find out they have been murdered. After some investigating he finds out he is the killer, although he has zero memory of doing that. That question will be answered soon because he finds out his right hand is possessed, living it's own life and it's out of control killing everyone. And so after his parents he kills his 2 best friends, really funny dudes named Mick played by Seth Green and Pnub by Elden Henson. But they get back, because they arise from the earth half dead, half alive to help Anton getting rid of the devilish power inside his hand.I have to say, I dig stoner movies ( I'm from Holland so do the math )and this one just rocks ! Anton takes you with him on his adventure against his possessed hand and together with his 2 stoner buddies it's just one hell of a ride ! It has it all. Gore, Comedy, Romance ( did I mention Jessica Alba is freaking hot in this flick ). Also Seth Green is the star in this movie in my opinion. His one-liners hit the spot every freaking time I watch this movie.If you dig Dark Comedy or stoner flicks like Pineapple Express this one is for you ! "},{"Title":"Absolutely ridiculous...absolutely hilarious.","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands is an absolutely ridiculous film. The plot is ridiculous, and everything else that happens is ridiculous. But the film is incredibly funny and awesome. Idle Hands was The Evil Dead of the 90's and it's great. I can't even begin to say how funny Idle Hands is, but most people don't appreciate what it is. Idle Hands is intended for stoners. If you've seen it, it should be pretty obvious that it's intended for stoners. The film has a great cast, which has Jessica Alba in her second film, Vivica A. Fox, and Seth Green. I think most people don't appreciate it because it's intended for stoners. Sort of like with Spongebob, which I like too. Idle Hands is a ridiculous comedy, but I think you should see it anyways.The Plot Many bizarre murders have been occurring all over the world. One woman is trying to figure out who it is. Lazy Anton happens to be one of the people behind the murders. But Anton can't control it, his hand is being possessed, and he starts to kill people off. "},{"Title":"Drugs, violence, Jessica Alba, and a killer hand.","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Devon Sawa from 'Final Destination' and Jessica Alba from 'Awake' star in this funny and drug filled horror movie known as 'Idle Hands'.This movie has something that most horror movies don't have a lot of.What this movie has is humor, lots and lots of it.You'll be chuckling and screaming at how entertaining and fun this movie is.The movie is about a teenager named Anton.He sits on his sofa all day, watches TV, and smokes lots of pot.Things suddenly go wrong one day.Anton finds out that his hand is possessed by the devil, which accidentally makes him kills his two friends.His 2 friends actually come back to life for some reason and they are willing to help Anton with his problem.Now it's up to 1 pot smoking teenager, his 2 undead friends, and his secret crush played by Jessica Alba to save the day.You're probably saying to yourself that this movie sounds kind of stupid.Let me tell you that this movie is certainly not stupid.It's a campy and funny horror movie with lots of drugs, lots of violence, and a very sexy Jessica Alba.I'm giving 'Idle Hands' two very big thumbs up.In fact, I might as well give it two hands up. "},{"Title":"Jessica Alba is HOT!","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There. I've always wanted to say that, but I figured myself too distinguished to do so.Anyway, what we have here is another horror-comedy, and a damned fine one too, if you ask me. Things become pretty insane and outrageous when stoner/loser Anton's hands become possessed by some undefinable evil. It must be the devil's work. People die gory deaths. Some of them come back as ghosts. A kick-ass goth-chick shows her admirable breasts. Seth Green is funny. IDLE HANDS sort of is in the same horror-vein as Peter Jackson's THE FRIGHTENERS. Only, at no point it becomes equally frightening and the target-audience are mainly teenagers. Either way, I think I mentioned enough reasons for you to go and have fun with this little film. "}{"Title":"Bulging eyes (DVD)","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Thanks to Jessica Alba to make me discover this little gem, because without her, I don't think I would have picked this movie, and it would have been a great error! It's a funny horror movie even thought it seems opposite! But, don't be afraid, it's above all a comedy. I have my best laughs since Mr Bean, six months ago! The scenes with the pets (dog and cat) are hilarious! The idea of the demonic hand is original, and the actor played it for real! The director is very talented he knows where to put a camera and finds great angles for the shoots! He pays attention to the colors (the wood walls of the house are as orange as the pumpkins!). His commentary with the cast is really interesting! He loves the cinematographic language, puts a lot references. For sure, he has gained a fan with me and I will follow his work! I would end with the same question made in my Valkyrie review Where's my native french cinema? Why movies for teens aren't made in my country, or so scarcely (see Sheitan). Enlightments without imagination is a void shell&#133; "},{"Title":"Much better movie than its reputation would have you think.","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first heard about this film, I was singularly unimpressed. I knew that it had suffered a disastrous opening week, and that it was consigned to the Bermuda Triangle of video stores out there, places where bad movies often disappear forever.Then I watched it. Okay, there's no question that the Columbine Massacre and imagery thereof damaged the film's chances-- panicking teens at a school dance, the floral memorial for two murder victims being run-over. Utterly tasteless. Check. We all get it. As to when the film was released, it was a bad call on the part of marketing, but they likely had no choice but to go ahead and release it. The longer it sat in the can, the less chance it had of doing ANY business.Today this movie deserves to be evaluated on its own merits, all these years later.The film concerns the intrusion by the supernatural into the non-life of Anton Tobias, motivation-less, clueless, dope-smoking, TV-addicted, addle-pated teen. I'll admit to having had a heavy crush on former teen throb turned has-been Devon Sawa (I used to think he was really cute-looking, unlike now) but I personally think his acting in this was somewhat overblown. This is NOT to be seen as an attempt to lambaste him completely, since much of what he does actually works-- I laughed out loud as the hand throws him over the porch-railing of Molly's house and he jack knifes to his feet, as well as the battle-for-the-TV-remote (and if he didn't use springboards for the porch scene, Sawa must have been very athletic at this time in his life.) Anton seems to inhabit some bizarre alternative dimension, where stoning and slacking and television addiction are regarded as perfectly normal pursuits for a teenaged boy, as is walking down the street in his underwear and entering a friend's house via a basement window. Meanwhile, the kid's parents are completely uninterested in what Our little Scooter (as Mrs. Tobias calls him) is up to, presumably content for him to do nothing for the rest of his life.In terms of humor, it is left to Seth Green and Elden Henson to really carry the film as Anton's understandably laid-back and later undead slacker friends Mick and Pnub, respectively, and due to the fact that they are such good actors, they do it easily. In fact, even critics who unreservedly hate this movie usually acknowledge their contribution to it as being head-and-shoulders above the rest. Even before their zombification, Mick seems to be the more easygoing of the pair while Pnub is delightfully snide-- the big guy (Henson is built like an icebox) even takes a sneering slap at the group Hanson, as the film was made when the three Okie boys with girl hair were still inexplicably popular.Jessica Alba as the love interest was a very good choice for obvious reasons, and I was amused by her obliviousness to the fact that something is seriously wrong with Anton when he goes to her house.Anton's truck-mechanic neighbor and buddy, Randy, is played by Jack Noseworthy, looking considerably more muscled-up than he did just two years earlier in his turn as Justin, the overly-enthusiastic engineer on the Lewis & Clark in the movie Event Horizon. Noseworthy, a professionally trained actor who is well known for his work on the stage, has no trouble here, and has plenty of good lines-- my favorite exchange is when Anton pleads with Randy for information about the devil because Randy listens to Devil Rock and You MUST have picked something up about the guy! Randy, by now probably realizing that he's dealing with an idiot or a lunatic (or perhaps both,) reminds Anton that it's JUST MUSIC. If anything, Randy joins Mick and Pnub as the collective voices of reason, for all the good THAT does.Vivica Fox is Debbie, the druidic priestess who has dedicated herself to finding and capping the demon, now made all the more urgent by the approach of a demonic sabbath of sorts. She is the spirit of tough-as-nails determination personified. Given her language and toughness, one wonders why she doesn't just go into the infernal regions and challenge His Infernal Majesty to a no-holds-barred wrestling match. I get the feeling that Hell would have a new sign replacing All hope abandon, ye who enter here, and it would read UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT, MORONS! Let me add here that Anton's statement that the hand makes him do things he doesn't want to do is almost a verbatim repeat from the Night Gallery 2nd Season episode The Hand of Borgus Weems.What else is really good about this film? I'd say that the visuals are excellent-- the inside of the Tobias family's house, for example, looks weirdly paranormal and menacing from the start and with its dark woodwork, dark green walls and narrow spaces upstairs, imparts a feeling of claustrophobia-- perfect for a film in which a killer is on the loose in town and no one knows who he is (yet.) The photography outdoors, particularly in relation to the sky, looks desaturated at times, but this just emphasizes the action.Personally, I liked the soundtrack, as well. One of my favorite funny scenes involves Anton awakening to the strains of BTK's Peppyrock, throwing off his earphones in disgust, and putting on his Sony tape player, which begins blaring the exact same music. He smiles, satisfied.I bought this on the strength of its negative reputation and was, as the cliché has it, pleasantly surprised. Expecting outright garbage, I stumbled on a horror comedy gem that I'll be watching many times. And remember, as Randy tells us, Idle hands-- are the Devil's playground. "},{"Title":"It's so stupid that it turns out funny!","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" IDLE HANDS is horror teen comedy that definitely is not to be taken seriously; otherwise I couldn't score it more than 1 or 2 out of 10! But it's so stupid that it turns out funny! The plot is too simple an evil force possesses a boy's hand and forces him to kill everyone around him. The boy cuts his own hand but it still continuing to kill, by its own! Hunting to the hand will start&#133; The main idea of the plot (the possessed hand) is clearly taken from a horror classic, EVIL DEAD. But in this film it turns out funnier because of the characters and the jokes. As I said this film is not to be taken seriously. That's the only way to enjoy it and laugh with some great jokes it has (most of them teenage jokes, but funny anyway!). "},{"Title":"keep those hands busy!!!","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" IDLE HANDS may not be a movie for all tastes but it sure is a delight. DEVON SAWA (FINAL DESTINATION) stars as Anton, a stoner teen who has definitely got to much free time on his hands. One morning he wakes up and he can't find his parents. This doesn't seem to concern him too much as he makes his way over to his friend's house to score some dope. He doesn't get any and goes home where he decides to smoke some oregano. Apparently, this messes him up and gives him the munchies. Upon sticking a butcher knife in the mayo for the sandwich he is making, he notices something is not right (there is blood on the knife) and starts to freak out. Oh yeah, before I forget, the news around town and on the television is that there is a killer in town. Okay, where were we? Anyway, he freaks out and realizes that the killer is or was in his house. This causes a very funny part as he pushes his dog out in front of him to make sure the coast is clear. It is. When he finally does find his parents, they are dead. His friends, Pnub (ELDEN HENSEN) and Mick (SETH GREEN) come over and see that Anton's parents are dead and quickly realize that Anton is the one who killed them. Seems Anton's hand has become possessed and taken on a mind of it's own. I'll stop right here and just tell you to watch IDLE HANDS. It's a nice, little movie. "},{"Title":"The Offspring","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you're a fan of The Offspring...this movie is a must see. The scenes with them in it are totally worth renting this movie. The movie itself is mildly entertaining...but the bonus of Dexter Holland makes it really cool. Seriously...offspring fans...watch this movie. Not only do they perform, but they act, well at least Dexter does, with his little line. The first song they do is an I Wanna Be Sedated cover from the Ramones and then they do Beheaded. Beheaded is a little shorter though because the time had to come when Dexter is scalped. Poor Dexter. Great scene though. Along with the Offspring, there are other great songs featured in this movie. Push it by Static X. Shout by Motley Crue. Its all good. "},{"Title":"Sick and Twisted--Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands, a horror/comedy that sadly debuted only ten days after the Columbine massacre, is one of those films that, due to the circumstances surrounding its debut, was pushed under the proverbial rug, almost never to be seen again. Which is really a shame because this was one hilarious, terrifying film. A perfect blend of horror and hilarity, this film scares the pants off of you then makes you laugh at something else (usually completely unrelated to the horror) right away. This is the story of Anton Tobias, a 17- or 18-year-old high school senior who hasn't been to school in the last six months (according to his equally-as-lazy friends, Mick and Pnub). All he does is watch TV (in his boxers), smokes pot, and...well...I guess that's all he does. Until one day, his right hand (which he never does anything with, other than scratch himself) becomes possessed by Satan, causing him to go on a killing spree, killing anyone unfortunate enough to cross his path. A movie filled with plenty of laughs and enough gore to make even the most iron-stomached of viewers sick (not to mention an awesome cameo by The Offspring), this is one cult favorite that, if you ever encounter it, you shouldn't even try to run from. "},{"Title":"All Time","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that Idle Hands was a very good horror film. It wasnt scary horror but funny horror. Devon Sawa and Seth Green i think were perfect for Anton and Mick. The fact that I think they are cute has nothing to do with it. This film was so funny i had stiches whenever I watched it. Classic. "},{"Title":"i wet 'em","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sick as hell and hilarious. If you have a warped sense of humor and don't mind dope this is your film.If, however, the language spoken by most people (ie-profanity and sarcasm), thoughtless drug use or random nudity (female only-this IS Hollywood) is beyond you or offensive, stay home and watch Masterpiece Theatre.Other folks here are spot on about the bearable lightness of this movie- try not to take it as some cinema experience and no one gets hurt.my only *OOOOOOOOOONLY* problem with the film is that the Offspring are money grubbing 'punks' who should NOT be allowed to attempt the Ramones. It's heresy. And they messed it up anyway. Cover band. "},{"Title":"it rocks!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, I just gotta say that this movie kicks ass!!! You have Seth Green, who makes every thing that he is in 1000 times better. (Example- Airborne. If you have saw the movie then you know what I'm talking about!). Devon Sawa does a great physical job. The fight with the hands over the remote control was excellent. The movie doesn't take it self seriously so the movie snobs should stop doing so. Personally I think the comedy comes from the fact that the events are so wack and unreal but everyone is playing it straight! Idle Hands Rocks!!10/10  "},{"Title":"a laugh riot","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  it was a cold winters day i felt rather bored so i went to the video shop to get out some movies upon walking in i saw a new movie on the shelf.idle hands.in a rush i quickly rented it i took it home and boy was i surprised.I thought it would just be another stupid teen movie but i was wrong.As soon as the movie started i was laughing myself to a pant-wetting state.i think that the makers of this movie deserve an emmy or something.although its not that original i enjoyed the average amount of slapstick gore just like evil dead 2.If you want to see a really funny movie,are a teenager and have a sick sense of humour rent out this movie "}{"Title":"A scream!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands may be a very guilty pleasure, but it's hilarious from start to finish.  I have to echo other comments about Devon Sawa's performance, which is really outstanding as physical comedy goes.My vote for best exchange of lines in recent American filmmakingAnton I got in a fight with my cat.Molly He sure kicked your a**.Anton (defensively) I did OK. "},{"Title":"So stupid.......it's funny","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone that watches this movie because they want to be scared or they are expecting some slapstick comedy, will be disappointed.  The movie is funny because no one in it takes anything seriously.  The people in the movie don't seem to mind the fact that the people in their neighborhood are being murdered, or that they might be murdered themselves.  The humor in Idle Hands resembles the humor in the 1993 film My Boyfriend's Back.  These kind of movies aren't for everyone.  However, if you want to watch a movie that is fun, and don't expect it to be serious, you should see Idle Hands. "},{"Title":"LIGHTEN UP! and LIGHT UP!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film doesnt take itself seriously, so why people are reviewing it as anything other than a bit of fun, who knows...  get some mates round, have a smoke, laugh at the comedy bits (there are enough Laugh Out Loud moments), go eeeew at the gore, jump at the scary bits... not too over complicated, just a decent film that achieves what it sets out to do.  And you dont have to be a teen to enjoy it... Im 30+ "},{"Title":"Comedy gem that will be considered a classic","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very silly and gruesome within instants of each other. I would not call this a parody of horror movies nor a funny horror movie (like the scream movies) This is definitely a comedy with lots of horror elements which are done very well making this a very crazy-feeling but definitely very silly movie.I would say that it takes both its horror and comedy ingredients pretty seriously making it rather unique in my opinion.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not Remotely Scary, But Still Totally Hilarious","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   This isn't a movie that I would put on my top 50 list, but it's still good. Yet another movie that I have seen courtesy of my sister, and when she put it on, I started thinking that this was another of her teeny-bopper 80's movies, but I was proven considerably wrong. I will actually give it credit and say that the opening credits are pretty freaky, despite the rest of the movie being tongue-in-cheek humour. Anton (Devon Sawa) is a lazy layabout who doesn't go to school, and basically his day is consistent of getting stoned and watching TV. This life is turned upside down when he finds his parents dead, infact killed by his right hand - which has been possessed by the Devil (Idle Hands Are The Devil's Playground - hence the title), and after cutting it off, the hand continues to wreak havoc on his town. Also starring Seth Green, Elden Henson and Jessica Alba, this is a terrific comedy that everyone should at least see, and possibly own. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mick and Pnub, will you ever get a spin off ???","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i enjoyed this movie, it took me a couple of times to get into it, the first time i saw it i wasnt really in a laughin mood so it was just annoying, but after viewing it a second time i saw it for what it really is, a standard horror comedy with a few bits of funny hillarity, but i think with out mick and pnub, it would have been rather boring, they had all the best lines and were good solid co-stars without them there would be no idle hands "},{"Title":"spread out","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands is perfectly balanced out. We have a plot full of horror, while not actually seeing the killings take place. This is balanced against the comedy genre. With a full hit of drug humor, Idle Hands is close on being a dude movie but with the horror, it rests firmly on the line.With a cast of Seth Green, Devon Sawa and Jessica Alba, we are able to see the talent of future great films with these actors/actress'.The Irony of a Bong killing the creature is very poor, but it's near enough a dude movie so its allowed...I give this classic film 9/10. Its great on first viewing but second time round you may not stay to see the end of the film. "},{"Title":"A movie with Style","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just great.The opening is really really good and makes it so you really wanna see the rest of the movie, and the soundtrack is just totally awesome! It's not a good movie to watch if you are not in the mood for twisted horror comedy, but if you are, this one is a killerA must see!9/10 "},{"Title":"Sickeningly Funny","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie, expecting it to be another gory slasher flick, but it turned out to be very entertaining. It had many laughs, although most of them seemed to come from the excessive gore and the two undead, best friends Mick and Pnub. It's the story of a lazy teen, Anton, whose hand gets possessed by the devil. Devon Sawa plays the unlucky teen that must go to any extremes to keep his hand out of trouble and cover up it's previous murders, including his parents and two best friends. Sawa is wonderful at keeping his right hand doing random, crazy things while acting normal. Seth Green is hilarious as Anton's undead friend, Mick,(Look at me! I'm Leatherface! Ha Ha!) and Vivica A. Foxx and Jack Noseworthy are extremely humorous as Debi and Randy, devil hunters that must destroy the hand. *A particular scene where Randy, (a supposedly good friend of Anton's) watches Debi try to stab Anton and comments, Isn't the knife a little extreme, kitten? but ends up pinning Anton down for stealing his beloved Ford truck.* The laughs are endless, but mostly brought on by comments about the extreme gore. Not for those with weak stomachs, but still very funny and entertaining. I gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"Best film Ever Made","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Idle Hands' is the best film ever made. It mixes the two genres of comedy and horror perfectly, without crossing too far into either. With the likes of Seth Green and Devon Sawa leading the cast you couldn't have gone far wrong. I bought the DVD back in October and ive watched it a countless number of times. Ive even watched it through the cast and director commentary which was quite interesting. The soundtrack to the film really excels with the live cameos from 'The Offspring' and many other songs including 'Peppyrock' by BTK.I recommend this film to any teen who enjoys a good laugh and a bit of a comedy gross-out.Ross Trigg "}{"Title":"Amazing movie, but....","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very funny movie from start to finish.  It is very interesting how the actors interact with the hand.  I like how Devon Sawa did very well manipulating his hand the way he did.  I notice in films and on TV that actors sleep with their socks on.  I like the way that Devon slept in bare feet and put his bare soles on the table for us to see.  They were dirty bare feet which was also realistic because after walking across the floor, your bare soles do get dusty.  I think an added piece of humor would have been if someone popped up and smashed a pie onto Devon's bare feet.  It would have been interesting to see him react to his bare feet being covered in pie.  I think Seth Green should have been in his bare feet in his house too.  All in all, this was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Give the director a hand!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Rodman Flender really made a terrific movie here. His other works like 'Leprechaun 2' were atrocious. This features Devon Sawa playing a teenage greb who likes to sit around all day smoking pot and watching T.V. Him and his friends Seth Green and Elden Henson get caught up with a killer. The movie has some great comic moments like the lead singer for 'The Offspring' being killed and Sawa realising 'Hey, I haven't seen my parents in a couple of days' and Elden Henson saying 'Maybe they're dead, Party at Antons!'. The film gets great near the end and more mayhem follows. Jessica Alba is really sexy in this and so is Vivica A. Fox. 'Time for the ritualistic sex, you comin' Rent or buy and enjoy! Yeti says Yes! 10 out of 10!'Spoilers' * What kind of a name is 'Pnub'? * Notice how Seth Green doesn't smoke anything throughout the movie even though he is an apparent druggie like the other 2. * Where are Pnub or Micks parents throughout the movie? * Why do Pnub and Mick think the school dance will be crap when 'The Offspring' are there? * If there is a killer on the loose, why are there no cops at the school dance? * Why did they get Jack Noseworthy to play a hard-ass? "},{"Title":"Brilliant! Need I say more....","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is definately one of the best I have seen this year.  I always thought it would be a typical teen horror but I was wrong.The film is fast, funny and gruesome; a perfect combination.  I'd definitely recommend it to anyone who hates the typical teen slashers and of course Seth Green is another good reason to see it.   "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie three times and I never get sick of it! Devon Sawa is a hottie and a wonderful actor! Jessica Alba is a great actress too.Some scenes are hilarious and although the sex scenes are crazy,it's still a great movie.My words cannot express how awesome this movie is,and Devon's latest movie Final Destination is just as great! I give this movie two thumbs and a perfect 10,even Final Destination! "},{"Title":"super movie...don't miss it","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  its not cheesy (VERY important to me), really funny, freaky in parts, the acting is pretty realistic (as realistic as u can get in such a movie )...all in all, one kool movie. too bad the horror/comedy genre is pretty much ignored these days.  "},{"Title":"Gore, violence, sex, language, humor, and a almost nude Jessica Alba.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle hands is one of the weirdest films I have ever seen. The gore is non-stop, the violence is everywhere, sex, language, and humor can also be found. This movie just gets weirder and weirder. Seth Green is hilarious, and as always, Deven Sawa is great. The movie pokes fun at death, murder, and drugs. And for that reason, is not a kid movie AT all (plus the gore and nudity and stuff). The SFX were amazing for a low budget film like this. Lets take a look at the plot (SPOILERS)Deven Sawa's character has a hand possesed (or something) that makes it kill people, even though he doesen't want to. He kills both of his friends, and his parents. His friends, rather than going to heaven, become the UNDEAD. Then Anton (Deven's character) kills more people, and then realizes he wants to stop this. So he cuts his hand off. He realizes that was a bad discision when it goes after his girlfriend (Jessica Alba) and tries to bring her to hell. On top of it all, a woman who's purpose to stop the hand, shows up and tries to kill Anton. The film ends with a big chase scene and some really funny lines, along with action, gore, and Jessica Alba almost nude...SCORE!Now, I won't give anymore away, and believe me, there's more. So, I think you should deffinatly see this movie, because its entertaining the whole way through. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Think Bill and Ted meet Texas Chainsaw Massacre","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As someone who generally doesn't appreciate horror movies, Igotta give a double thumbs-up to Idle Hands. It's a stylish, witty,well-produced film that's about as far from Jason Part XXII (orwhatever they're up to now) as you can get in terms of intelligence,unpredictability, and even self-mockery. I hesitate to use the word,but what the heck, this movie is just plain brilliant. The effects,cinematography, and acting are all first-rate. And Jessica Alba hasnever, ever, looked better. A definite A+ rental. "},{"Title":"Pretty fun.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although it doesn't quite know what it wants to be at times, its still a pretty fun movie. Devon Sawa is pretty good as the teen with the possessed hand. Seth Green and Elden Ratliff are pretty funny as his Zombie friends. Jessica Alba provides solid eye-candy. There's an out of left field breast shot in there too. I felt Vivica A. Fox was wasted though. Overall, a movie that doesn't quite know what it wants to be at times, but its still pretty fun and decent. **1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"A hilarious gore slap-stick film.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Today,  the only real semi witty horror movies you can find are either Scream rip-offs,  or in the dusty areas of film stores.  Through an asle of old classic horror comedies you see favourites like Evil Dead 2,  Troma Films,  the contemporary classic Scream,  any maybe you say, I have seen all of these.  Then you randomly pick a movie without looking and pick up something like Robot Holocaust.  F-this? Horror films are becoming less original, more brainless, and more aimed to a teen audience of people with an IQ of 80.  Well, Idle Hands may be brainless,  but it is one of the most entertaining,  horrific masterpieces, I have seen in a while in our modern film period.  Not to say its better than what I claim as the classics,  but it is an impressive work itself. It will never get the recognition it deserves because people who walk into a video store may confuse it as a stupid teen movie or obviously a stupid teen movie.  I only agree with them 50%,  because,  sure,  it may give an impression of a stupid teen movie,  but at least it is one with some class and the film realizes it is in that category and still is able to succeed as entertaining.9/10  Devon Sawa is excellent,  and I NEVER thought I would say that. He may be a little more than a teenie bopper icon after all.  "},{"Title":"Hilariously stupid","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What is it about marijuana jokes that always seem to be universally hysterical?This movie is basically a punk-horror flick with (other than the perfect music) side-splitting laughs and a little too much gore to add to the unbelievable wackiness of the story.Anton is the slacker we've always secretly wanted to be, who just doesn't care if he's walking around his neighborhood in just a shirt and boxers... he has to get his weed!  And when his hand gets possessed and kills his friends (while still attached to his body so of course he has to live with the guilt,) his friends come back from the dead to still have some kick-ass fun with him, and his life gets weirder and weirder every second.Mick and Pnub are just like my brothers, with their lackadaisical look on the trip to heaven and their constant ribbings of each other.  Seth Green did an awesome job, almost too awesome...makes me wonder about his personal life...Good, semi-clean fun with enough drug references to make your Hippie parents blush. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  See this film! I don't know why this film was a straight to video release in Britain-it's amazing. Especially Seth Green. The make-up is excellent, its a great story-hilarious and scary at the same time.  Look it up! "},{"Title":"Good special effects!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT A boy gets his hand possessed which wants to kill people and involuntarily kills his parents, friends, and some other people, and his friends come back after they die. The boy likes a girl who he gets in the end. Good SFX! OK to rent! "},{"Title":"i Just Brilliant!!! /i","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is just SUCH a good film. the characters are well played i especially love Pnub and Mick as Anton's best friends who are also killed within the first 15 minutes of the film but are still in it till the end as the Undead. The make-up is amazing and the effects are cool and the one liners dont stop with the visual jokes that are constant. this is a must see film i dont know iANYONE/i who doesnt like this film or doesnt find it funny.     If you can, get this film on DVD as it has bLOADS/b of extra stuff on it including an alternative ending which they decided not to go with as it was too serious compared to the rest of the film.   rediAlso Seth green rules in this flick. /i/red "},{"Title":"Just Brilliant!!!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie advertised on a video I rented, and I thought it looked really cool from the trailer.  The only problem I had was finding out when it would be released near me.  I managed to find a copy and sat thoroughly entertained by the whole movie.The cast are fantastic (especially Seth Green & Devon Sawa - they crack me up in this! And molly is hot too....) and the possessed hand jokes, although reminiscent of Evil Dead 2, are fantastic.After renting this movie about 15 times, I finally managed to buy an ex-rental copy for £4.99 - what a bargain!I seriously urge you to watch this if you are a horror or comedy fan, and especially if you enjoyed the Evil Dead movies!  This film definitely gets 10 out of 10 from me! "},{"Title":"Somewhat lame, but hilarious!!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I originally rented this movie because I have a huge crush on Seth Green (Mick). I laughed so hard I almost threw up. I admit, it's sort of lame, but if you aren't looking for a really serious movie, check this one out.In other words, don't rent this movie expecting something like Saving Private Ryan or American Beauty. Rent it if you like to laugh. (By the way, I now own the movie..hey, it was cheaper than renting it so many times.) "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud hilarious","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands is a great movie for the teen audience, with sex, drugs, and humor you can't help but enjoy this movie.  This is a horror/comedy that everyone should see at least once.  very enjoyable and very funny, a great film to watch with your buddies or your girl.  I give this movie a 10 out of 10, you just have to see it, if not for the film itself, at least to see Jessica Alba! "},{"Title":"Non-stop laughs and screams","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for Idle Hands, I thought to myself, Self, maybe we should go see that, it looks funny.  But on the other hand it looks like senseless humor that nobody would enjoy.  So I ended up not getting to see this film in the theaters.About 8 months later, on it's VHS/DVD release, I picked it up at my local video rental store.  From the moment the movie started, I was either on the edge of my seat with suspense, or on the floor laughing so hard I thought I was going to have an accident.I ended up buying this film on DVD.  After watching it with the Cast and Director commentary, I realized how much effort everyone put in.  Devon Sawa apparently improvised 75% of his comedic scenes, and had no stunt double for the physically demanding scenes (where he fights his hand).  One scene, in which he fights his hand for control of the remote to his television, in particular shows his true ability at making his hand an entirely different entity from the rest of his body.Seth Green once again blew me away with his ability to make me laugh out loud when no one else was around.  Elden Henson, who I had not seen in action before this, was surprisingly funny for someone who has so little of recognition.  Green and Henson have the best chemistry together for comedy, I could have just watched them sitting in their house making fun of each other and smoking pot all day.Bottom line, this horrific/comedic attempt at showing what happens to a high school slacker and his friends when his right hand gets possessed by an evil force, scored a perfect ten.  I just wish there was a sequel. "},{"Title":"A fun, goofball horror romp.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a surprisingly enjoyable little movie. It's a horror movie that's really more of a comedy. Yes, there are several gory bits typical for slasher movies, which turns some people off.  In fact, I suspect that those who rated this movie poorly did so simply because of that.But this isn't a gory film really--the death and gore scenes are so outrageously fake and silly, as is the rest of the movie, that you almost can't help but laugh and chuckle all the way through.  The writers and director are playing with us, the audience, and as long as you feel like you're in on the joke, it's a hoot. The actors are all funny, and the script so outrageously silly, that you can't possibly take any of it seriously. We're meant to sit and enjoy and laugh. This isn't great cinema, but it's sure fun. It'll make a great rental for a Saturday night with friends, popcorn, and other recreational substances. Unless you're easily grossed out, give it a try, and by 20 minutes in you'll realize this is one fun little movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, gross, great fun!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A good horror comedy should make you laugh and want to throw up at the same time, and this does it! Great physical comedy from Devon Sawa, good undead support by Seth Oz Green and the kid who plays Pnub. I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would! I'd probably enjoy it even more if I was a high-schooler, but even with my advanced years, I liked it a lot! (7/10) "},{"Title":"A comedy and a horror movie in one","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard about Idle Hands, it sounded like just another horror movie, with the cliche of an uncontrollable hand that kills people. However, the makers of Idle Hands have managed to use this basic idea and turn it into one of the funniest and scariest movies in ages. The story revolves around a teenager called Anton, who does nothing but watch TV and smoke pot all day. He spends so much time avoiding his parents (even though he lives with them) that it is almost three days until he discovers that they have been murdered. His friends discover that it was actually Anton that killed them, and this starts an incredible string of events involving Anton's possessed hand trying to kill as many people as possible. This could easily be a bad movie, if it simply alternated between scary and funny scenes, but thankfully, Idle Hands blends both together perfectly for a hugely enjoyable film. "}{"Title":"a cool movie","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this was funny & kind of scary. I labeled this horror. This did have awesome special effects that make the hand really look good. Even though some scenes has a easily fake Eldon Henson's head but oh well. This movie is cool. Sawa was great in FINAL DESTINATION, this 1 & F.D r his only good movies that he has been in so far. Watch 4 camoes by bands like THE OFFSPRING. its worth seeing if u r a horror/comedy fan that loved the EVIL DEAD series. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!!!!!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie! It's a great movie about a lazy, pot smoking, and a bit perverted guy named Anton. His hand gets possesed by the devil and he ends up killing his best friends and parents. But I won't tell you the rest because if u haven't seen it your going to! It is starring the gorgeous Devon Sawa, the major hottie Seth Green, and that guy from Mighty Ducks. This movie is really funny,  and really bloody. I can't stand blood and usually have to close my eyes when someone is getting killed, but in this movie all the killing looks fake, not corny fake, but not real either. And it doesn't show a lot of the stabbing and stuff, just blood spirting in every direction. Its an awesome, movie and Devon and Seth look really hot, and its really funny. So I suggest you see it if u haven't already.  "},{"Title":"Fairly good horror comedy.","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good.  Like Evil Dead 2 it's not for the person who wants to see a pure horror movie.  It's for a person who would rather see a horror movie that's more for fun then scare factor.  One of the things I really liked in this where Anton's friends before and especially after they were zombies.  I also liked the hand yanking Anton around, or throwing sharp objects everywhere.  If you liked the possessed hand scene in Evil Dead 2 you will probably at least like this movie.  But everyone's tastes are different.my review 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Resemblence to The Frighteners","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Very amusing comedy, about a guy´s preception of a perfect life.  Just smoking weed, watch tv, and having a girl cook for him. This movie has some resemblence to Micheal J. Fox´s movie (see above), but only in certain aspects. It´s a cool movie for the younger generation who likes to have some laughs, cause we don´t have it much, since the only comedy´s around are like Sleeping in Seattle, You got mail etc. Rent it, see it. "},{"Title":"Stupid and Gory and Highly Entertaining.","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  From a first-time director who has obviously seen Dead Alive, Evil Dead 1-3, and far too many Cheech & Chong movies comes Idle Hands, a movie that wears these and various other influences on its blood-soaked sleeve.The lack of originality shouldn't stop a true horror fan, though.  You could do a lot worse than this silly story about a boy and his demon-possessed right hand.  There's a good deal of backhanded irony that make this a lot of fun to watch -- the main character, Anton, uses his asthma inhaler as a marijuana pipe, for example, and in one scene he meets the girl of his dreams, who fawns all over him even though he's covered in blood and twitching maniacally.The hero of the movie, however, is the always-great Seth Green as a stoner-turned-zombie with a bottle stuck through his head.  Stoner comedy can sometimes be hard to sit through, but the laughs come fast and furious here.Don't expect this movie to make much sense in retrospect.  Don't expect it to have a serious commentary on the fleeting aspect of modern life.  Don't expect it to make you a better person.DO expect a certain amount of visual style, some very bloody killings (comical in their excess, like Dead Alive), a cameo by The Offspring covering I Wanna Be Sedated, and to laugh until you fall off the couch (especially if you've been smoking what everyone in this movie smokes).   If that's your idea of a good time -- and why shouldn't it be?  Enjoy.  You can rent Citizen Kane some other time. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Much better than I expected!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. I expected it to be really good, and it was much better than I expected. It has a great cast and it was made really well. The idea of a boy with a possessed hand is great. One of the main reasons I love this film is because it mixes horror and comedy and doesn't screw it up like many other movies have done in the past. If you haven't seen this movie, I recommend you do so as soon as humanly possible. "},{"Title":"Bloody good!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I'll be the first to admit that the story is totally ripped off from Evil Dead II. In fact, Idle Hands is 3 minutes of  Evil Dead II rolled into a full lentgth film. Now let's forget  that fact and review the movie in it's own right.  THIS MOVIE RULES! The special effects are really cool and look  great, the acting is allright. This film was meant to be funny  and it is Funny with a capital F. The part where the two dead  friends explain why they came back it's hilarious. And come on, a Satanic Metalhead wearing a QUIET RIOT shirt??? If that isn't  funny, I don't know what is!  Anyway, who wouldn't want to see a movie in which The Offspring get butchered and Jessica Alba is just being HOT in skimpy outfits. If you enjoyed braindead, you'll enjoy this too. Bloody  funny, bloody bloody, bloody funny "},{"Title":"Great horror/comedy","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When a lazy teenager finds out that his hand is possessed by an evil spirit and is killing everyone in sight you might get a bit suspicious and tend to leave this movie alone. But idle hands is the best movie I´ve seen in this genre since Braindead. It has the same wacky humour and bloody effects. If you like to get a laugh and still get an adrenalin rush, this is the movie to see. "},{"Title":"HORROR + COMEDY = GREAT MOVIE","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle hands mixes horror with comedy and the result a great movie. If Idle Hands was just a horror movie it would be a complete bomb but the comedy saves the movie and make it a very enjoyable watch. Credit has to go to Seth Green and and Elden Reatliff who give us most of the laughs as Devon Sawa pot smoking, lazy, TV watching friends. i especially like the part where Anton parents are dead and he gets them to come over and he says look at that, they walk in and see a film clip with girls dancing and they start dancing and singing along. saying I didn't know they still showed this Jessica Alba is hot and plays Molly the girl Anton has had a crush on ever since he first saw her. Although not original (short story in a movie exactly the same) Idle hands is a great, and fun watch. I would recommend this to anyone who want a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Quite inventive and clever","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A very original idea (I guess) and some pretty good acting (especially by Devon Sawa's hand) make this a better than average horror comedy. It doesn't take itself seriously (unlike Carrie 2) and because of this it is a pretty sick and twisted movie. But thats better than watching a girl with special powers (ala Carrie) for 90 minutes! The hand in this movie is probably the most devilish creature since gremlins took to the screen. If you have the chance go see this film coz it beats crap  "}{"Title":"A great comedy with some horror in between","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just bought Idle Hands yesterday on DVD and i must say it was worth the money. The film is a great comedy which will make you laugh your a$$ off, and horror which will give you the chill. If you like movies like evil dead and scream, this movie is a must.Great young talents in a great movie. The guy with the hand does a fantastic performance.  "},{"Title":"Sometime funny, a tad scary but a whole hecka lotta fun","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I didn't get around to see 'Idle Hands' in the movietheaters, but since it looked like an interesting teen-horrorflick, I checked it out on video. Overall, it was pretty cooland I liked it. The plot is a little fantastical (a boy's hand is suddenlypossesed and he can't control what it does, like MURDERPEOPLE!), but it's a movie so suspend disbelief and go with it.The movie does have some funny parts (mostly Seth Green, likeLook at me, I'm Leatherface!), plus there are some gory, bloodyand NASTY parts to it too ( I won't spoil it 4 ya) and you havegot to see the cameo by one of the bestest bands ever... theOFFSPRING!! Watch out for Dexter's hair! My rating7.5 "},{"Title":"if you like black humor, prepare to laugh","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So many people will complain that this movie has no character development, too much gore, bad messages for teens,etc. To them I say you're missing the point. This film makes fun of itself by purposely being over the top. That is part of the charm. High school stoner's hand is possessed by the devil. You really expect lots of plot development?THIS IS NOT A HORROR FILM. It never pretends to be. Sure there is a lot of gore but it is presented in a comical way. Nothing about this movie should be taken seriously. If you can understand that, you will enjoy yourself.This movie has some serious laugh out loud moments. Some of the deaths are the funniest parts. Watch for the principle. Throw in an appearance by The Offspring and the totally fiiine Jessica Alba and you have a movie that entertains up till the credits. It won't disappoint.  "},{"Title":"Get ready to be sick (spoilers)","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"       Get ready to be sick when you watch the outrageous horror/comedy IDLE HANDS. The movie includes a beheading, dismembered body parts, a girl getting hung by a noose and then chopped up by blades - and so on. In short, it's a film that would make Wes Craven go running to his mommy.      But it's also funny. Devon Sawa stars as a shiftless ne'er-do-well who discovers that his right hand is a tool of Satan. Chaos soon erupts. The hand (whether attached to Sawa or not) perpetrates more than half a dozen murders before the end credits roll, albeit in fanciful ways (beer bottle in the head, scalping, impaling a cop on knitting, etc.). Sawa brings a certain measure of sympathy as he plays a character who is his own worst enemy. The actors who play Sawa's hapless buds and his seemingly-doomed girlfriend also do a good job.      I have two complaints with this movie. First, Vivica A. Fox is very early on identified as the only person who can put a stop to the bloodbath. Unfortunately, her character gets very little screen time and is upstaged by the other performers. Second, the ending seems rather grim for what is supposed to be a comedy. Just when you think things are going to be all right for the hero - after he has resurrected his two best friends, saved his girlfriend, and banished his evil hand to the depths of hell - a car falls on him, crippling him and his already maimed right arm. How morbid. I guess that was part of the black comedy, though.      Anyway, the movie was a ghastly funny romp into the world of horror, right up there with BEETLEJUICE or any sci-fi B-movie. If you can stand the gore and you like black humor, I highly recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"A Little Too Gory, But Still Funny","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I finally watched this on video, and found it extremely amusing with several laugh-out-loud moments. Yes, there is a plot; yes, there is some amusing dialogue; yes, there is some characterization. It's no American Beauty, but for what it is SUPPOSED to be, it does a reasonable job.Seth Green deserves a lot of credit for his performance here, as does Devon Sawa. An earlier review commented on his physical acting, and I agree; when he still has the hand, his interaction with his possessed self is magnificent.A number of people commented on Evil Dead 2, but this is actually more of a spoof on The Crawling Hand, a B/W sci-fi movie with a hand running around murdering people, and a young man being the responsible party. "},{"Title":"Absolute comedy is standing it's ground.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't laughed so hard since Baseketball. I've always been a fan of 'Stupid Humour,' enthralled with movies like Caddy Shack, Spaceballs, and Strange Brew, and it's good to know that my generation can keep up with previous generations of slapstick comics like Mel Brooks.Seth Green And Devon Sawa are an absolute riot. They compliment each others style and attitude so well that it's scarry! Even their bloody, gory antics are so ridiculous that the most uptight parents couldn't complain about the violence that this great comedy/horror film is generously endowed with.Hats off! "},{"Title":"Silly, goofy, brainless...and surprisingly funny","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands is the story of a teenaged slacker who inherits a curse, if you will.  The laziest person's hand is possessed and goes on a murderous rampage.  I have a feeling this movie was meant to capitolize on the Scream craze, but instead it ends up being more humorous than maybe even it intended.  Fortunatly, it works well for this movie.Devon Sawa, who I have never liked, plays the title character and delivers a performance that is suitable enough for this subject matter.  Don't wanna spoil anything, but the bit where he cuts off the hand rivals the humor of the (almost) same sequence in Evil Dead 2.Seth Green delivers a good performance as the friend who ends up dead by his friends hand.  He takes what little he was given and makes it funny.  Reminds me a lot of his Can't Hardly Wait character in his mannerisms.The only gripe I had was with Jessica Alba's Molly...the character was only there to be a great body.  While she succeeds very well at that (she's a beautiful young woman), I feel they could have tried to be less obvious about simply making her eye candy.  Almost the same situation with Vivica A. Fox's character....not much development, and wearing tight clothing.This movie clearly is meant to be a good time...while I dont find the drug usage favorable, it ends up being the solution to the problem.  I'm not sure what kind of message that sends, but overall its easily enough overlooked.  If you want something to make you laugh, and maybe a cuddle from a girlfriend, Idle Hands is a sure bet.2 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Just the physical acting was enough for me!!!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"       Reading over the reviews, it is apparent that more people disliked this movie than liked it. Well, that's their perspective. I personally am NOT a horror flick fan, so you can take my review with as many grains of salt as you wish.       I enjoyed it! The plot was not complex (most aren't) and quite easy to follow, but still a decent story line. Seth Green was his incomparable self, always knowing how to deliver a good line. But Devon Sawa was the stand-out. For those who don't know who he is (and there seems to be quite a lot of you), watch Wild America for his turn as a pain in the @** older brother. But here he surpassed anything I expected of him. The physical acting alone required for this role was intense. The scene where the hand grabs the porch rail in front of the girl's house and he somersaults onto the porch and right to the doorbell was an impressive piece of movement! Keeping his hand going while acting, it was like watching a drummer behind a trap set. Have you ever tried to get your hands and feet to do 4 totally different things at once and keep it going? It's NOT easy. But Devon Sawa was wonderful at giving his hand a mind of it's own.      Most movies require some suspension of belief to view and this one is no different. But I didn't mind at all. It was good! "},{"Title":"mixed feelings","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As before mentioned the best reasons to watch idle hands would be for the always great Seth Green's performance, and (from a male point of view) newcomer Jessica Alba. Aside from that, it was really difficult to tell if Idle Hands was actually paying homage to a few previous cult horror classics or whether or not it was blatantly ripping them off.  Just about everyone has pointed out the possessed hand similarity from the ever so great Evil Dead 2, but there are quite a few others as well. Most obviously to myself was the burrito scene that had taken the idea of feeding food to a severed head from the dinner scene of Peter Jackson's classic Braindead/Dead Alive, however in braindead it was ten times more hillareous. If i knew that it was intentionally making reference to a couple of these great movies and not ripping them off i would rate it much higher, however that isnt the impression i got.Overall it held my attention for an hour and a half but no more than that, i simply found it quite tolerable for the new breed of horror films aimed solely at a teenage audience (and since when did the offspring play at highschool dances?).. but i also found it another nail in the casket of the classic gorefilm that actually contained substance. If you want a good horror film, go rent anything directed by Sam Raimi, Peter Jackson or George Romero. Idle Hands is really only worth renting if you have seen everything else out there and need a decent movie for the night. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, i must say, i did think this movie would have been better than it was. But, overall it was still good. When I was 12 I had a huge crush on Devon Sawa (anton) so it was really cool seeing him in another movie. I think this movie is really funny. Maybe it's because I have a wide sense of humor. The ending is just kind of stupid (the whole try and rescue thing) But I think the actors were great. I like the fact that they were all Slackers and pot-heads. Kinda reminds me of my friends and myself. Well, if u happen to have some free time I recommend this movie..if ur a real hard critic who wants an academy award performance movie...dont watch this. It was not made for you.  "}{"Title":"The coolest movie of 1999!!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, listen. So what if this movie wasn't nominated for an Oscar, and so what if it didn't win over critics worldwide. What makes a good movie, is 2 hours that entertains it's target audience. Well Idle Hands is that and more. It is funny, it is scary, and it was good enough to make me go out and buy it. The acting was very good for a horror movie, especially Elden Henson, who kept me laughing the whole time, and Jessica Alba, the most beautiful teen actress in Hollywood. Idle Hands was a kick-ass movie, and it is definitely worth renting! "},{"Title":"FAN-tastic comedy-horror (emphasis on the comedy)","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands was an incredibly funny movie that succeeds in making fun of old slasher movies without actually trying to be a horror film in itself...I think calling it comedy-horror might even be stretching it.  This movie is an all-out comedy, with a bit of gore (OK, a LOT of gore) and occasional horror element thrown in there for variety.  People who go in expecting a horror film will be disappointed, because I really don't think that was the idea behind Idle Hands.  I got what I expected--A silly, hilarious movie with strong performances by Seth Green and Devon Sawa.  If you want a serious horror flick, skip Idle Hands.  But for a disgusting, fun comedic gore-fest, rent Idle Hands!!!! (And don't forget to watch the burrito scene at least twelve times) "},{"Title":"I liked this movie for it being a teenager movie.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about a kid with a possesed hand that killed the boys parents and a whole bunch of other people.Even though the movie was made with teenagers I still liked it. The girl who played Molly has the nicest body and is the prettiest girl I have ever seen in my 14 yrs I have lived.Seth Green is the funniest 25 year old out there ever. In one of the parts in the movie when he chuckled then laughed and saidOh,look at me look at me I'm leatherface when he said that I laughed so hard I neerly laughed until I peeed, I mean tell me about how many times I laugh in movies?Never. I mainly saw this for Jessica Alba, the hottest girl in the world tell me about it, if I were next to her I would get down on my knees and I would ask her to marry me. I also saw it for Seth Green, if you like Seth Green you would like him in Enemy of the State,Airborne,and Buffy with that ugly girl Sarah Michelle Whorer she is so ugly she fell of the ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down. If you get in the way of the Iron Dragon you better sign a death warrant because he is coming after you.See Y'alls later,If you're not down with the Dragon you are considered Daboosh "},{"Title":"Off the wall comedy that tries hard, and comes close.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You have to be in the right frame of mind to enjoy a movie like Idle Hands. It certainly carves (literally) a unique place for itself in today's movie landscape. When it first came out, it was unjustly avoided because of the violence that had occurred in Colorado. But honestly, a movie like this has nothing to do with real life. Idle Hands tells the story of a young slacker (Devon Sawa) who wakes up with a serial killer inhabiting his right hand. This, of course, has dire consequences for his parents, not to mention his two stoner buds (Seth Green and Elden Ratliff) who happen to be hanging out with the angry appendage. His newfound confidence does, however, aid him in the pursuit of his dream-girl neighbor (Jessica Alba). Several gruesome slayings follow, all played with satirical humor by the actors. A movie such as this requires you to abandon brain power as you enter the theater. Many questions arise as you watch, and if you try to figure out the answers your enjoyment will suffer. I advise you to see Idle Hands for 3 reasons1) Very funny sidekicks (especially Seth Green) 2) Beautiful love interest (Jessica Alba) 3) The Go For Broke attitude of the writers and director       (Rodman Flender) Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Devil's Playthings. . .","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a girl, I'm young, I like smart movies, (2001 is a masterpiece!) I don't like horror movies or teenager-oriented movies (God, that cursed term!)and rarely like stupid-fun flicks. But let me tell you, I laughed like madness when I went and saw this movie. Is it a particularly good movie? Well, no. Is it a funny movie? Hell, yes! Lots of people hated this movie, and guess what? Those of us who dug it were laughing at you, too! The whole point was not just to take movies too seriously, but to not take movies seriously at all. It was gory and silly and filled with inane dialogue, but that was intentional. The beginning scene is so overdone (on purpose) that is was hilarious. The actors were all in on the joke, even if some of the audience wasn't. Every last one of them camps it up for all he or she is worth. If you liked the Evil Dead movies but don't hold them sacred, Idle Hands is that kind of movie. This movie is, in a way, review-proof. If you liked it, great! If you didn't, too bad, but it wasn't made for you anyway.    "},{"Title":"Fun, stupid, hilarious! What else were you expecting?","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Granted this movie is not for everyone, I still don't understand many of the bad reviews on this page.  If you've seen the previews or read anything about this movie, then you should be able to discern the following  of course the movie takes its plot from Evil Dead 2 (as well as from the dozen other killer hand movies); yes, it is stupid; yes, it is gross; yes, it is teen oriented.Knowing these things, which I thought seemed obvious from the previews, there should be few disappointments.  This movie is a horror/comedy with little horror and all comedy.  It starts out as a parody of an '80s slasher movie, and unfortunately abandons that quickly.  From there on it is primarily about pot, with a little zombie humor worked in, and it's really funny.  The acting is great as far as the leads go.  Seth Green in particular pulls off some really dumb lines with charm.The movie fails as a horror parody, but is surprisingly funny.  the dialogue is often weak, and the leading female character is a bimbo.  But you do get to watch the Offspring die!  The director has a stronger style than I expected (his top credit to date is Leprechan 2), and Greame Revell's music is wonderful sometimes industrial-horror, sometimes cheesy slasher music, sometimes alluding bluntly to other horror movie scores.Overall I was impressed, though the movie did have its share of flaws. "},{"Title":"One FUNNY horror knock-off","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a slap in the face of the '80's generation of horror films, such as Friday the 13th and Child's Play.  Evil Dead came to mind a lot while watching this, what with the hand crawling all over the place. The only other movie I've seen trying to be funny and scary at the same time was Scream, but those films went for the scares more with incidental laughs.  In this one, the comedy was put up front and there are some pretty scary parts to it too, though scary in an '80's horror sort of way.I'm getting to be a fan of Seth Green, who is always good in the roles he's given, kind of like Steve Buscemi.  He plays one of two friends of main character Devon Sawa, whose hand becomes possessed and kills them, so they come back as zombies.  They are both pretty laid back as far as zombies go and try to help their friend with his hand problem.The death scenes were very gory, and I couldn't help but laugh in a sick sort of way when someone is pulled away and gallons of blood pour out of there.  I was relieved when nobody in the theater noticed, but I'm just weird enough to laugh at that sort of thing.  As a horror fan, I never pass up an opportunity to see a good death scene, but I think the guy getting hit by a big rig in Bride of Chucky still holds the gold medal for the close-up gruesomely detailed Faces of Death-esque death scene in a movie. And Drew Barrymore still wins for intense I-don't-want-to-die death chase scene in Scream, but this movie is full of very worthy runner-ups for each category.  If you've seen Scream, you'll notice that all three rules are broken and punished (Don't have sex, don't do drugs, no I'll be right back.)  For anyone who saw any of the '80's horror films, whether or not they liked them, this is a film you need to give a chance, if you can stomach the gore.  If you know someone who can't, watch it with them. Their reactions are priceless.  This movie, perfectly achieving what it tried for, gets a 10 from me. "},{"Title":"What a great flick","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest films, visually and Creatively this year.This is one film for all yu fellas out there who want a great laugh.Many in-male jokes. "},{"Title":"Juvenile?  Yes.  Intelligent?  No.  Amusing?  Yes.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK.  Elvira will eventually have this one on her show, but hey!  What better movie to watch when you're a bit down in the dumps and need a bit of slapstick, some cheap puns, and the living dead?  Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Go see this movie!!!!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of if not the best comedy/horrors I have seen since well ever.  The movie plays itself off as pretty much a Scream meets Saved By the Bell. In the movie the main character, Anton, who is a real big stoner, gets his hand possessed by Satan.  This movie was real stupid, but it was to be that way.  After all how much can you expect out of a movie with a tag line like  the touching story between a boy and his hand.?  "}{"Title":"Funniest movie I've seen in years","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've been looking forward to seeing this movie for months but still didn't actually expect it to be good.  I normally loathe horror movies.  I figured Seth Green would be funny and Jessica Alba would be really attractive. Was he ever and was she ever but the movie delivered so much more than I expected.  The portrayal of slackers, the grossness of the zombies, it was just so funny!  I just feel like spoiling all the good jokes.  Every year there are 2 or 3 movie that I consider to be must-sees and this one is definitely one of them. I know no one's gonna go see it 'cause it got such unfavourable review by idiots but if you go in there with a good attitude I guarantee you'll have a great time. If you want to see a well written deep movie then go see some crap like Driving Miss Daisy.  If you want the most entertaining movie that's well under 90 min then go see Idle Hands. "},{"Title":"decent waste of time","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that I like most comedies that others, typical teens, hate (i.e. Rocky Horror, movies I've commented on, Troma, etc.).  I also like horror movies that do not take themselves too seriously.  I hated The Exorcist, but I loved Halloween and Friday the 13th.  So, this movie is right up my alley, not your typical movie.  I had somewhat high expectations, lowered only by the fact that it is a rip-off of the best comedy, and horror flick ever, Evil Dead 2 Dead by Dawn.  I enjoyed myself.  This movie is a good waste of time for those who have nothing much better to do, although see it with friends.Acting Devon Sawa cannot act interesting for two seconds.  Out of everybody in the whole movie, I hated him the most, and he was the lead!! I loved his friends, on the other hand.  I also liked Vivica A. Fox in this role, simply because it was forced, contrived, fake, and insanely bad.  I could not have seen a better person in that bad of a character in this type of movie.  The only reason to see this movie is Seth green and the other guy, who are cool.  Green takes laziness to a humorous level, and makes decent comments.  He is actually really funny in this role.  The chubby one makes a party animal look like someone obnoxiously fun.  No oscars for either of them, the role is not that hard, but it looked like fun anyways. The reason I hated Sawa so much is he was boring, and unmotivated. However, this, I guess, is appropriate for the role, but the his friends made it look better.Plot Rip-off of Evil Dead 2, luckily does not steal many of the same jokes, although the movie progresses much like the 5-minute SEGMENT from ED2 did.Movie, funny.  See it.  Not for those who liked Mary, it is for people who like bad movies, that take themselves a little seriously.  The effects were the same as in every other horror movie, but there is not much you can do with blood.  The movie is too slick for its calibur.--------6 "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the film.  It's not going to win any awards, but it was entertaining.  The cast is talented and they did a good job.  It is pretty gory though, so anyone with a weak stomach should probably steer clear. "},{"Title":"It's the Comedy, stupid!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands is funny.The horror is just a vehicle for the humor.  It doesn't take itself seriously, and neither should you when you watch it.  I admit that it is a bit uneven, but there are enough clever gags and lines to make it a lot of fun.It's not for everyone, but if you enjoyed An American Werewolf in London, I think you'll enjoy Idle Hands, as well. "},{"Title":"Great stoner horror flick...","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Much better than I anticipated. There are very few good films able to combine the horror and comedy genres, and this is one of them. Acceptable performances from all the actors, and one of the best-written comedies in a long time... Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Something Wickedly Funny This Way Comes!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands isn't Scream.  Let's establish that right off the bat.  Scream was a horror movie with jokes about the horror genre.  Idle Hands is a blatant comedy with gore about killing; a schlock-fest of knives and blood made to leave you disturbingly laughing.OK, the writing is not phenomenal.  Most of the jokes are actually very lame and are only saved due to brilliant casting.  Devon Sawa was mighty impressive.  He maybe Hollywood's weirdest creation  a heart-throb that looks like Leo but acts like Jim Carrey.  I know the hand thing has been done before(I repeat, Carrey in Liar, Liar), but making it an evil hand just makes it all the more refreshing.Speaking of Evil, the second best part of the movie was Seth Green, a.k.a. Scott Evil of Austin Powers.  He made every line, every look just drop-down funny.  The bottle sticking out of his head didn't hurt the laughs any either.  But why only second best?Jessica Alba, that's why.  Call her the next big thing in the list of beautiful teens in movies.  Last I checked Yahoo, she already had 10 sites devoted to her.  Expect that number to grow quickly thanks to this movie. I know I had a tough time paying attention to the movie when she was on.As for the actual movie itself, it worth going to see.  The climax was one of the best ones ever (I won't spoil it, but remember, the killer is a hand) yet the ending seemed a tad contrived.  Take a large group of friends, including a few loud funny ones.  It'll make it even funnier.  Now, if you'll excuse, I have some pictures of Jessica Alba to download. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly fun horror-comedy","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike Go, I was expecting nothing out of this movie, but I ended up laughing quite a bit, and appreciating what is likely to be an overlooked horror-comedy gem. It isn't perfect (some scripted moments between the two romantic leads are downright unbelievable, though that's hardly surprising in a movie like this), but it's one of those movies that is good to see if for no other reason than it's not being overly hyped (a la Go), and it's a hell of a lot of fun.Seth Green is obviously having a great time here, and the lead, Devon Sawa (with whom I'm completely unfamiliar) is actually pretty entertaining in a Jim Carrey-esque role. And the third guy (not sure which actor plays him, but he's the guy who loses his head) is also pretty damn funny. A real solid set of actors that worked well together comedically. The romantic interest is a young little hottie (17 playing 17 for a change... but 18 real soon) who is perfect for the part, even though the writing for her is pretty weak. Supporting cast is fine, though nothing extraordinary (Vivica A. Fox isn't killer as the evil-slaying priest, but she has a lot of fun with it, and it's interesting to see her in a role like this).The real kudos go to director Rodman Flender for creating a vervy movie that manages to be hysterically funny at times and shockingly violent (but not explicitly violent) at others (and sometimes simultaneously). The whole concept is reasonably pretty out-there (lazy pot-head's idle hands become the devil's playpen), and some of the gags are fantastic. There's a fun, irreverent mind at work on this, and if you have an afternoon to check this out, it's worth the money. "},{"Title":"Fun movie deserving more respect.","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay guys, this is not Taxi Driver. This movie doesn't have Al pacino being a gay bank robber, or Marlon Brando being a mobster...but damnit it has Senseless violence, a lot of pot smoking, and hot high school breasts being molested by a severed demon possessed hand. That's gotta be worth a viewing. Where else can you find a handless Devon Sawa sharing bonghits with a dead Seth Green who just happens to have a broken soda bottle shoved in his forehead? That's just a flippin' good time folks. I mean from the get-go you should realize this movie takes nothing seriously and is willing to compromise good horror for a good laugh if necessary, and it achieves its goal. Okay so it's not a drama infested masterpiece and there are no plot twists. But rent it, grab some popcorn and prop your feet up on something because this is a movie-night movie and deserves a 6/10 "},{"Title":"It's a comedy, and it serves it's purpose, it made me laugh.","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like this movie. It's not the best of the horror or comedy genre, but it has good elements from both. It's funny, and it's the kind of movie I can kick back with some friends, have a few beers and laugh at. It is not a complicated story...it basically entails a pot smoking kid named Anton, (who is quite possibly the laziest lead character or laziest hero i've seen lately) Anton ends up discovering his hand is possessed by the devil and that it is trying to wreck mayhem on all other people within it's grasp. I originally saw this movie a few years ago, and then just last week I saw it again. A couple of familiar faces in it that you will also probably recognize stick out such as Seth Green, Jessica Alba, Fred Willard, Vivica A. Fox, and a couple others. Simply put, this movie is for laughs, it doesn't take itself seriously...so just relax and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated Comedy/Horror.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anton Tobias (Devon Sawa) is One of the Laziest Teenagers Around. Which Anton love Television, Junk-Food and a Couch Potato Burn-Out. Anton finds himself in deep trouble, when he can't control the murderous impulses of his recently possessed hand. Once his hand murdered his parents (Fred Willard & Connie Fox) and his friends (Seth Green & Elden Henson). He tries to get control of his rampaging devil appendage and it's now ruining his life. Now with the help of his recently Zombiefied friends will try to help Anton's Possessed Hand before ruining his chance with his sexy neighbor (Jessica Alba) before an hunter (Vivica A. Fox), who knows a thing or two about Hand Possession to kill anyone who is possessed.Directed by Rodman Flender (Leprechaun 2) made a hilarious, sick, twisted black comedy that should-been a cult classic got nipped in the bud by its unfortunate primarily to the Columbine Tragedy. Now the film is a forgotten genuine film. Amusing Performances in the film, especially the talented lead role of Sewa.DVD has an sharp Pan & Scan (1.331) transfer and an clean-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an great commentary track by the directed and actorsGreen & Henson. DVD also has the Original Ending with an Introduction by the Director and With/Without Commentary by the Director. If you love Widescreen, try to get the Original 1999 DVD Release. Idle Hands is a tribute to another horror films likeOliver Stone's The Hand (1981), An American Werewolf in London (1981), Re-Animator (1985) and Evil Dead 2Dead by Dead (1987). If you are a Horror Fan, don't overlook this film. Good music score by Greame Revell (Bride of Chucky, The Crow, Freddy Vs. Jason). (****/*****). "}{"Title":"this movie rocked","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this movie rocked, it was really funny, Seth green was class as well as Devon Sawa but in all fairness Jessica alba was so hot.i recommend this movie for anyone who likes comedy horrors. in all fairness the ending was really good but i think i prefer the alternate ending on the DVD. also Eldon and Seth as the sidekicks where so funny and would like to have seen them in more films together. i really think they should make a sequel to this but only if Devon is in it unlike final destination 2 which kinda sucked but probably because i think he was class in the first film and really should have been in the sequel and not killed off which totally sucked. "},{"Title":"Seth Green and Elden Henson steal the show!  Great Movie!","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not your everyday slasher. It is one of the few movies I have seen that succeeds with Blending horror and comedy. The acting is great. Jessica Alba is so beautiful in this movie, and Devon Sawa as the main character did a fine job. However, some say Seth Green and Elden Henson steal the show. They could be right.Idle Hands is about a lazy pot-smoking teenager Anton, who finds out his hand is possessed. With the help of his two stoner buddies, they find a way to solve this problem, or so they think. Anton tries to solve his possessed hand problem, smoke weed, win over Jessica Alba, take Jessica Alba to the prom, and try not to be killed by a druid priestess whose destined to kill the possessed.The acting is great. The chemistry between Seth Green and Elden Henson is awesome. It is very funny. It is also quite scary at times, as a movie about a possessed hand should be. One thing about this movie that is overlooked is the soundtrack\score. If you can, from beginning to end, listen to the music of this movie. From the opening credits, to the very end, this movie delivers huge in the music department. The movie itself also has a cameo by a famous rock band during the prom! I wish my prom was as interesting as this movies was. "},{"Title":"A great teen classic...","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is definitely worth watching if you are into teen horror.Or as some prefer to refer to them as, Teen Scream. Devon Sawa is hot as usual, and my personal favorite, Seth Green is hilarious, and bootylicious, like he always is.  He's a great asset to the film and I don't think it would have been the same without him.Jessica Alba surprisingly enough has a large role in the film, which now, she probably wouldn't make a film like this considering that she's a bigger star now, and you can tell it was a bit of a low budget film.  However, the special effects and make-up people were very successful because they make the un-real, appear real.So, if you like the afore mentioned actors and actress, you will most likely enjoy this film....and besides, who wouldn't want to see Devon Sawa get it on while tied up....now that's a good movie!  "},{"Title":"i luv this movie","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie sooo much. Deven Sawa and Seth Green are sooooo hott. I also luv Deven in Final Destination. He is such a believable actor and he is gorgeous!!!! I totally luv him!!! This movie is well scripted and has an awesome cast.  Everyone works well together and there is awesome chemistry. I recommend this movie to all Deven Sawa fans. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  idle hands is a piece of genius i have found allot of people not to understand so well =/it's a shame, if you notice inside of the movie nearly everything is explained.  you just have to look very closely.  awesome acting all the way through the movie projects a sense of style just in the casting itself.  brilliants performances all across the board, it's just such a shame jessica alba's part wasn't given a little more depth, ah well.the graphics, including the open intro sequence (courtesy of 'the attik') right through to the soundtrack of the movie is a typical teenagers delight, and is well worth the purchase for the mixture alone.highly entertaining movie, well worth the watch )i give it a 8/10Ben "},{"Title":"It's a guy flick","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An original teen horror/comedy about Anton and his right hand, that has a bloodthirsty mind of it's own!The four teen leads - Devon Sawa, Seth Green, Elden Hensen and Jessica Alba - are not new to teen movies, they starred in Now And Then, Can't Hardly Wait, She's All That and Never Been Kissed respectively. Also in the cast is the wonderful Vivica A. Fox.But anyway back to the movie. When gruesome murders plague the town the characters live in, Scooter (who only smokes dope and watches TV all day) finds out that the culprit is his right hand!!But is a guy movie. From the laziness of Anton to the pot-smokers to the seriously sexy Jessica Alba, this was meant to be played late at night at a party when you're mates are around wasted. No, I'm not kidding.It is a very funny movie and genuinely gross and the four leads all give great and fitting performances. Vivica A. Fox, on the other hand let herself down by appearing in a film much too different from her other characters.All in all, it's a great teen film. If you like horror and comedy (preferably mixed together) or you're a fan of rock band The Offspring, then you'll love Idle Hands. 8/10By the way, Jessica Alba starred in Never Been Kissed with her Idle Hands co-star Sean Whalen and has appeared in the same TV show that Seth Green once appeared, Beverly Hills 90210. "},{"Title":"Good horror comedy","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I started watching this, I thought 'Oh no, a bad teenage version of The Evil Dead', but this film eventually graduated to a higher level. Wasn't really funny, it was just really cool and gory, and it had good music. Sometimes the possessed hand jokes got a bit tiring at times, mainly for people who thought The Evil Dead 2 was excellent, but for those who haven't seen it, it should be great. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Idle Hands give slasher films the finger","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands was a pretty good comedy, mocking the conventions of horror films rather than paying homage to them, like Kevin Williamson does. When the movie concentrates on the comedy it shines, but when the horror element are brought to the forefront it loses some steam. I didn't like it too much, but the guy I saw it with who likes cheesy horror movies loved it. We did agree that the two stoner zombies were the best part about the movie, and they alone would make this movie deserving of a rental.  "},{"Title":"Hilarity and horror ensues","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am turned off by smirky teen slasher movies. Tired and boring. They are a drug on the market, and tend to be bland as heck. This does not apply to merely the latest ones, but ones going back for many years.Enter Idle Hands. Christmas present to myself. Why not? Was told it was a fun blend of comedy and horror. But YOW! I was NOT told that I was in for a wild ride! A previous review mentions the first 5 minutes looking like the typical cliché, until the fun kicks in. Well, the first 5 minutes came and went, then when devon appears, the movie threw the clichés out the door and settled down into an insane and goofy pace playing on the comedic talents of some seasoned child star vets who are armed and dangerous with comedy and not afraid to use it. The end result is an absolute delight. Not smirky, not self referencing this movie is genuine fun with genuine horror as well. A wild ride, ups and downs, giving you screams of fright and laughter.A 10 out of 10 for me, this one is a keeper to show friends for parties. "},{"Title":"9.5/10","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this on TV in 2001(I think), and loved it, so I decided to purchase it. It tells the story of Anton(Devon Sawa),a lazy teenage lad who's hand gets possessed. Him and his two best friends Mick and Pnub(Seth Green and Elden Henson) try to save their town, in particular a girl named Molly(Jessica Alba), from a horrific end,with the help of Debi(Vivica A.Fox),who has been trying to trace the the 'idle hand'. Idle Hands remains my favourite comedy horror. I highly recommend it to anyone who wants an enjoyable movie. "}{"Title":"The best stoner, possessed hand, comedy/horror film ever!","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands stars Devon Sawa as teenage pot-head Anton, whose chilled lifestyle has made him the perfect host for a demon that&#x97;as druidic Priestess Debi LeCure (Vivica A. Fox) puts it&#x97;possesses the laziest f**k-up it can find. With his right hand under the demon's control, Anton is unknowingly responsible for a spate of murders in his local neighbourhood (including those of his own parents). After slaughtering fellow stoners Mick (Seth Green) and Pnub (Elden Henson), who come back as zombies having been too lazy to walk into the light, Anton finally realises that he is the killer and tries to end the problem by cutting off the demonic appendage. But his troubles have only just started, the severed hand going on a killing spree, its ultimate target Molly (Jesica Alba), the girl of Anton's dreams.Idle Hands is probably my favourite 'possessed hand' movie (confession time I prefer this film to Evil Dead II); it is also the funniest stoner horror/comedy that I have seen, although given that the only other examples I can recall are the Scary Movie series, that's not surprising. Not only does the film boast a very likable cast (and in the case of Alba, very lickable), but it also benefits from lots of well-executed splatter (including death by rotary saw blade, knitting needles, beer bottle, and ventilation fan), a sharp script that delivers plenty of laughs and quotable one-liners (I needs me spinach), an excellent rock soundtrack (punk band the Offspring even have a cameo, lead singer Dexter Holland having his scalp pulled off by the murderous hand), and an unforgettable finale that features a stoned hand-puppet and Jessica Alba in her underwear. "},{"Title":"Seth Green and Elden Henson duo funny","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anton Tobias (Devon Sawa) is pot smoking teen slacker. He's so oblivious that he doesn't notice his parents had been killed on Halloween. His slacker friends Mick (Seth Green) and Pnub (Elden Henson) tell him about the serial killer on the loose. He's in love with Molly (Jessica Alba) next door but he's too shy to talk to her. Debi LeCure (Vivica A. Fox) is on the hunt for the killer, a demonic killer. Anton discovers the bodies. His right hand seems to have a mind of its own.Devon Sawa is not the most compelling lead. He does this pathetic slacker character well. The comedy duo of Seth Green and Henson is terrific. There's a young hot Jessica Alba. It has some funny moments. It just needs more of them. It's a junior take on the Evil Dead hand and there's nothing wrong with that. "},{"Title":"One hell of a fun movie.","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was another re-watch, I seen it once before, I didn't remember much from the last time I watched it. I forgot how fun this movie was, it was a lot of fun, there wre action comic moment in this movie. I really liked the plot of the movie,A hand taken over by demon that killed his mum and dad. There are crazy over the top silliness in this movie, which fits perfectly with the rest of the movie. There some great gory moments and some really cool kills scenes, I loved the dead friends come back dead, was so funny. The acting was great from the whole cast. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Gimme a break!","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" People use to classify this movie as a comedy/horror picture, but in my point of view, it's none. For instance, filmmakers try all they can to deliver some fun scenes, but they turn out to be just normal and never really funny! Horror scenes surely don't scare, considering the movie's main subject-- a killing hand with a mind of its own. Sometimes it's pleasant to see Devon Sawa straining to make his job, but script is too poorly written to deliver any good material. The one-- and ONLY-- thing to praise about the movie is the originality of the plot, since nothing besides that ever satisfies! If you're looking for funny horror movies, maybe 2000's Cherry Falls is a better choice, albeit not perfect film as well. Just pass Idle Hands. I couldn't even make it to the end. "},{"Title":"Idle hands are the devil's playground.","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~Idle Hands is a horror film that is absolutely a picture of the times. It was made in the late 90's and everything about the film lets you know that. Looking back on it, this thing was dated the day it was released. But it's still a fun little movie and that really just adds to the overall feel. The plot mainly consists of taking a 10 minute segment of Evil Dead II and stretching it into a feature length project. It seems because Anton (Devon Sawa) is the laziest putz in the neighborhood his hand becomes possessed by a demon. He accidentally kills his parents and his two best friends (played by Seth Green and Elden Henson) before deciding to cut the damned thing off. Unfortunately that's not the best idea because the hand escapes and Anton must stop it before it kills his new girlfriend (an early role for Jessica Alba). On top of this, his two best friends come back to life Griffin Dunne style to hang out with Anton and smoke weed. The Offspring make an appearance as well. The whole thing is played for laughs so if you like a little horror with your comedy you will dig Idle Hands. There are some laugh-out-loud moments here, but they are few and far between to make this one a classic. It will be interesting to revisit this one in 10 more years. "},{"Title":"Silly horror comedy, alright for what it is I suppose.","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle Hands is set in the small American town of Bolan which is being terrorised by a serial killer & is also where lazy teenage slacker Anton Tobias (Devon Sawa) lives with his parents. However something strange is happening to Anton, his right hand becomes possessed by a demon & starts killing people & Anton realises that he is the serial killer the entire town is in fear of. After killing his best mates & cutting his own hand off with a meat cleaver Anton's problems are just starting as the severed hand now separated from Anton takes on a life & mind of it's own & goes on a killing spree...Directed by Rodman Flender this odd mix of teen slasher, zombie, possession & comedy spoof is alright for what it is & sets out to do but I think it will only appeal to a certain audience, for instance I couldn't see it's mix of horror & comedy appealing to the average person. The script is a bit of a rip-off of several other concepts from much better films, for instance the whole possessed evil hand thing is nothing more than the same scene from Evil Dead II (1987) drawn out to feature length proportions right down to someone fighting their own hand, cutting their own hand off & it developing a life of it's own which is exactly how it plays out in Evil Dead II. Then there are the two zombie buddies who come back from the grave, surely that's an idea taken right out of An American Werewolf in London (1981)? The whole teenager slacker & dope-head character's seem only to be interested in sitting around all day smoking drugs & there's a fair amount of drug related humour here but like most of the horror related it's not that funny. I would say Idle Hands is amusing at best, I certainly wouldn't say it's really funny as I didn't openly laugh once although I did raise a smile on a few occasions. If you think lines like 'Call 911, what's the number?' or 'I know CPR I saw it once on Baywatch' or scenes where people drink washing up liquid after taking bad drugs or seeing people on phone sex lines are funny then I guess the chances are you will like Idle Hands. I know Idle Hands is meant to be a silly comedy but why didn't Anton remember killing his parents or any of the other victims? Why did he just suddenly realise his hand was possessed?Apparently delayed upon it's original release because of the similarities between events in the film & the real life events of the Columbine Massacre. The DVD features a rough cut of an alternative ending which I actually think is dramatically better than the one that was re-shot & eventually used in the final film. There's some alright gore, some severed ears, a severed hand & plucked out eyeball, a decapitation, headless bodies, bodiless heads, someone has their scalp ripped off, someone has a long knitting needle stuck through their head although surprisingly there isn't much blood splatter in the film. Idle Hands certainly isn't scary, it's far too light hearted & silly for that & the impact of the gore & violence is also lessened by the spoof tone of the film.Apparently Idle Hands had a $20,000,000 budget which sounds like a lot of money considering what ended up on screen & when it opened in theatres it bombed spectacularly taking just over $1,800,000 across over 1,600 screens during it's first weekend so don't expect a sequel, according to the IMDb Idle Hands was at least partly shot in the same neighbourhood as the original Halloween (1978). The acting is alright, the only real cast members of note are Seth Green & a pre stardom Jessica Alba.Idle Hands is a fairly amusing & entertaining horror spoof but it does feel like the hand scene from Evil Dead II drawn out for ninety minutes. I didn't love it but I didn't hate it either & it passed the time I suppose. "},{"Title":"A Harmless and Fun Little Horror Comedy.","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" **1/2 out of ****Anton(Devon Sawa) is a pot smoking slacker whose hand is possessed by a demon. On top of that, his parents are butchered in the opening scene, his two best friends(Elden Henson and Seth Green) are now zombies, and a warrior druid(Vivica A Fox) is trying to kill him. The film is fun. It works as a spoof for the most part. It certainly isn't good, but it's a decent waste of time. What helps the film are some good performances from Seth Green and Devon Sawa. I'm not a fan of drug films, but this one isn't bad. I especially loved the druid time gag at the end. The film is very bloody, but there isn't much about it that is particularly scary even though the film is about a teenage psychopath who butchers people all over the town. This film will probably get teenagers who see it more interested in similar, and better, films such as the EVIL DEAD films, DAWN OF THE DEAD, SUSPIRIA, BRAINDEAD/DEAD ALIVE, and RE-ANIMATOR. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"hysterical>horrible","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is absolutely horrible. its got horrible acting(then again i think were all used to that in Jessica Alba movies). The characters have bad roles. Also contains an extreme lack of characters. There's very few that actually say lines. Maybe a total of 6 that actually somewhat matter. The plot is absolutely horrible. A guy whose hand is possessed by an evil demon or perhaps the devil itself, and it travels from 1 lazy slob to another. But quite frankly none of this matters for how freakin hysterical it was. This movie is definitely in my top 10 due to sheer comedy itself. many things in this movie are so stupid their funny, such as Anton pointing out his dead parents and his friends are too worried about the music video on the TV. Or perhaps when he asks the cops for weed. Id advise anyone to watch this movie only because its about the funniest movie i have ever seen. If it wasn't for how hysterical this movie was, there's no doubt in my mind it would be on the bottom 100. "},{"Title":"There ya go","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The problem with horror films is that they are all copies of a few good movies that cannot ever be re-made or spawned off from. There is just no way that some one is going to make a great film like the Exorcist, or like Alien, or like The dawn of the Dead. These are milestones of horror and suspense. These film have integrity and everybody who tried to work off of those movies, I mean you tell me, there is not one film that comes close to these. The problem is that people will go watch re-makes and rip-offs because they hope that it will come close to what they saw in the original films. So they spend money going to see a piece of crap, they really don't wanna see it but they give it a chance. And that's what the movie studios target! That's just lame and it shows that the film industry is an industry and not an artdustry. very very sad! "},{"Title":"Little scares, lots of demented laughs, and lots of Jessica!","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why did you not see this movie back when it came out in 1999? My excuse? I was a senior in high school and was focused more on finishing school, how about you? This movie is a great excuse to give Devon Sawa something to do. As much as I enjoy Seth Green, Elden Henson, and Jessica Alba, all I asked myself while watching this movie was Why the hell did they choose the guy from Wild America? The special effects are gory in a comedic yet sick way. Examples include --a character pulled under the bed and being squashed in a under a second --severed body parts ears, hands, heads --lots of weed, bongs, nutmeg & oregano I would describe the rest but its too funny to give away. As much as I think Devon Sawa is kind of wrong for the part, he pulls it off better than he did in the god-awful Final Destination.Not much plot is given towards the actual hand. It just sort of happens and when it does, it just rolls along and we just have to accept the fact that Devon's hand is possessed by something. By what you ask? The hell if I know! I dare ask anyone to tell me about the hand subplot! Seth Green is great away from his Scotty Powers role and gets the chance to show his natural comedic talents. Same goes to Elden Henson. These two give this flick the comedic touch outside of the goofy gore. And may I mention Ms. Jessica Alba! Out of all the movies I've seen with her (Paranoia, The Sleeping Dictionary, Dark Angel, Sin City, Never Been Kissed), Jessica actually gets to shine with that sexy smile and that great body. Even with the limited amount of screen time that she has, you never take your eyes off that thing. Just watch the scene where Devon tries to retrieve his cat from her house and just watch as she scorches the scene the whole way through.But in hindsight, this movie is NOT to be taken seriously! If you watched this movie and hated it, that's because you expected too much from it. This is the Charlie's Angels (the McG version) of horror films. It takes homages from different films and twists it in its own way. I enjoyed it in a silly way and I expect you to take note. This movie should make you laugh not writhe in horror (although it does that at times). "}{"Title":"A bloody, gory black comedy in the form of a slasher movie","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is your everyday slasher, with a twist; the killing is all done by a hand that has possessed by a demon. This makes for some truly hilarious scenes, as the boy the possessed hand is attached to struggles with the murdering hand. Unfortunately, somewhere they ran out of ideas, and it soon gets a bit stale and boring. Fortunately, it picks up again near the end, and it has a satisfying ending. This has some pitch black comedy in it, and is definitely not for all tastes. I wasn't offended by it, as I try to keep an open mind, but I think the movie could have done without all the pot-smoking. The blood and gore are also quite extreme in some scenes, but not really anything new, in this genre anyway. Overall, I guess mostly fans of the slasher genre will enjoy it, and unfortunately not many others. If you can stand the violence, the humor and the drugs, however, I would definitely advise you to give it a try; most people will find some of the main characters struggling with his right hand hilarious. I'd recommend it to anyone who likes black humor as well. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Albamania Continues","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is pretty lame but the best or only good thing about this movie is Jessica Alba. What more can I say? I`ve seen this movie like 3 or 4 times just for Jessica Alba. So guys this is just one of those films you see late at night drinking a few beers. "},{"Title":"Hand-le with care...","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The everyday story of a perpetual stoner who discovers that his right hand has become possessed by an evil force that causes him to do things he'd rather not do, e.g. kill his parents, murder his best friends, etc. This horror-comedy is short on real scares (and the scene where a young lady meets an end involving a rope, a shoe and the propellers of an air-conditioner vent has no business being in even a purported horror-comedy), and doesn't quite manage to deliver many laughs either; the script is also as boneheaded as its main characters - hands up everyone who went Oh for heaven's sake! or words to that effect when Vivica A. Fox found out the link among the murders and their locations.But on the other hand (so to speak) the movie does, unusually for Hollywood, come out pro-recreational drug use (I'm not a druggie, but it's nice to see users not be demonised - oops, there I go again - for a change). On a more justifiable note of approval, Devon Sawa gives it his all as the guy with the unfortunate hand, the Thing-type effects are fun - Christopher Hart and VCE (the man and company behind the evil hand) both worked on the two Addams Family movies - and the Offspring provide an energetic take on I Wanna Be Sedated. Plus, Seth Green and Elden Henson provide plenty of entertainment as our hero's deceased friends who give him aid and encouragement throughout the movie, right up to the Halloween dance climax (I did my own makeup). As for Jessica Alba... (thud of user fainting from pleasure and hitting the floor) "},{"Title":"Not Great, Not Bad...","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't a great movie, but what makes it worth watching is two of the supporting cast members, Elden Ratcliff and the brilliantly hilarious Seth Green. These two guys made the film much funnier than any of the other characters, they had all the best comedy lines and delivered them hysterically. If not for them this film would have been a complete piece. Don't get me wrong, I like some of the other cast members in the film, but they just didn't have the same perfect set up lines that the two demonic guys in this flick had.  "},{"Title":"Pass this one up next time when you are at Blockbuster....","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly, I thought this film was not all that scary, and not all that funny. Plot falls flat at the end. If you wanna see a funnier movie about the effects of smoking weed, check out Half-Baked. If you wanna see funny scary stuff, see Scary Movie. "},{"Title":"good... but somewhat dissapointing","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i really love both Seth Green and Jessica Alba, and the others in thecast were great as well. the plot was okay, and the movie washysterically funny,but the first time i watched it i missed thebeginning. what i didn't appreciate about this film was their classicmis-interpretation of the pentacle. this symbol does not mean thatwhoever uses it worships the devil. i myself am a Wiccan, and idissaprove of hollywoods popular versions of so-called witches andcalling us devil worshipers. other than that the film was amusing andentertaining. Seth Green as always was the light of the film,putting ina wonderful performance. "},{"Title":"If anything out there is worse than this, I haven't seen it","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is the worst movie I have ever seen in my life. Thank God for HBO - it made me feel better to know I didn't actually SPEND anything at Blockbuster to rent this piece of junk.I am not a big fan of horror movies, let alone horror-comedies (almost a contradiction in terms). But I enjoyed Little Shop of Horrors way back then (the '86 version). Hey, we're talking about half of the Saturday Night Live cast!! Can't go wrong on that one. In Hands you get nothing of that. It is just the absurdity of the thing that tries to make you laugh. Plus the gore, the special effects and the pot jokes.Well it couldn't make me even smile. I will grant one thing to the producers and director though it made me stay up till 1 a.m. on a Tuesday - I had to figure out if it was going to change into something less ridiculous, or be sure that it would win the award for Stupidest Waste of Hours of Sleep.It won the award. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, excellent","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most brilliant movie i have ever seen. Everything are so perfect.The story is comical and can be violence but it has been show to the public the right way. Special effect is so real, no string attached, the skin colour is wonderful and the eyes, gosh, wish it can be make longer.The sounds are too amazing, the stars, funny and sexy as well. The dog gives a very good performance too. "},{"Title":"Jessica Alba is the only reason to sit through this one.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would never have given this movie even the slightest notice if it weren't for Jessica Alba, who plays Molly in it. To be fair, the movie does have some really cool special effects, funny moments, the hilarious Seth Green, and a couple great songs (i.e. Motley Crue's Shout at the Devil and Ace Frehley's New York Groove). But Jessica's the main reason to actually sit through this trash. She is unbelievably hot and she can act, too. Any guy out there who doesn't think she's hot is not heterosexual, plain and simple. Now let's see her in a much better movie than this one.  "},{"Title":"What a mess!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Is this movie a complete joke? My God, this film was absolutelyterrible. Devon Sawa tries to do an impersonation of Jim Carreywhich did not at all work, and all he did is run into pedestalsand smoke weed throughout the flick. Only the performances ofSeth Green and Vivica A. Fox saved this turd from being totallybashed b "}{"Title":"Jessica Alba is worth renting it.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the cheesiest, lame movies that I have ever seen...but I still can't help but recommend it. The seductive Molly (Jessica Alba) is beautiful enough to make all the lameness of the movie worth it. The movie has some cool death scenes, but that is all I can say for it. Only watch it if you are seriously into marijuana jokes and slackers. "},{"Title":"An Hour and half I'll never see again.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Granted, this movie had it's moments, but I'm never going to see the hour and a half I wasted with this movie again. The movie's funniest parts were with Seth Green and that other guy. They obviously had the most fun. Devon Sawa annoyed me in this movie. I don't know why...but, I think I want a refund on my hour and a half please. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Dreadful","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe the producers paid good money for this script.  This stab at a comic gorefest is dull, derivative and largely dumb.  Maybe I'm getting too old, but I didn't find the clueless slackers who pass for characters here the least bit amusing...they were just stupid and obnoxious, I would have killed them myself!  The film's most inspired moments are often lifted wholesale from other BETTER fright flicks of years past.  Credit at least is due to director Rodman Flender, who does his best to inject some energy and style into the witless, lifeless body which is this movie.  Even an appearance by The Offspring comes too little and too late to make this worth wasting your time with.  If you want to see how good, gory, sophisticated fun is REALLY done, rent Fright Night or The Re-Animator instead. "},{"Title":"I've seen some bad horror comedies in my time, but this...","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was honestly surprised at how awful this movie was. I've seen some bad horror comedies in my time but this one took the cake. When a movie tries that hard to be funny it doesn't deserve half the laughs it gets. Also some of the campiest acting I think I've ever seen in a movie this side of the USA channel.One thing I was constantly thinking throughout this film was that it could've been made in like 1984 and no-one would have noticed. Maybe some type of odd collaboration between Joe Dante and Jack Hill? As for the actors, Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe and shoot why not Pam Grier as Debi?I really hate trashing movies, but this one genuinely deserves every bit of it. IDLE HANDS, a movie made fifteen years too late. My advice, wait for it to come on cable. "},{"Title":"Copy","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just a copy of Evil Dead II (1986).  In Evil Dead Ash the main character's hand gets possesed and tries to kill him.  Sounds familiar doesn't it?   "},{"Title":"I laughed myself silly!","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poor DEVON SAWA, his characters hand won't behave itself, it's got a nasty habit of controlling itself & doing things that he doesn't want it to do, like butcher his best friends & school mates in cold blood, eventually this guy comes to his senses & cuts the thing off, but after trying to destroy it, it escapes to the high school Halloween dance where it attempts to really liven up the party! IDLE HANDS is an extremely funny, though often gory Horror/Comedy that usually winds up being trashed by film critics & at the time of it's release, unfairly by the media itself whom along with some critics, compared it up to the high school shootings in Littleton Colarado (Which I for one find to be quiet odd, since not a single gun is drawn in the film) the special effects are really awesome, especially the work done on ELDON HANSEN & SETH GREEN, his two lazy pot smoking buddies, whom wind up returning from the dead to hang out with him, American WEREWOLF IN London style, mainly due to the fact that the stairway to heaven was to far to climb! & attempt to try & help him dispose of the hand that caused their death in the first place & to prevent it's further rampage. JESSICA ALBA turns up as Sawa's love interest & the film is overloaded with plenty of humor & zaniness to keep you watching. Fine acting & directing by all involved, especially from VIVICA A FOX as a hunter always going undercover to root out evil spirits. Began life as a project for B movie film maker BRIAN YUZNA, whom turned it down because he was looking for something more serious, when he was planning an anthology of films based on the seven deadly sins. The writers of this film were hired & given the job of coming up with a story for sloth, hence the characters behavior in this movie. So please ignore all the big shot critics, like Roger Ebert or Leonard Maltin & see this movie, don't take it to seriously & you just may find yourself enjoying it, especially if you like this sort of thing or if you're a big fan of EVIL DEAD 2, SEVERED TIES or THE ADDAMS FAMILY. Got to love them evil severed hands!**** stars "},{"Title":"Intentionally Bad?","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is a rare thing for the director of a major motion picture to be given complete and unfettered control over his project. When it does happen, the result is often a cinematic masterpiece reflecting the director's innermost thoughts and ambitions. Orson Welles was given complete creative control with Citizen Kane, and the result was a cinematic masterpiece. Stanley Kubrick was turned loose on A Clockwork Orange, and a beautiful, provocative, and sometimes shocking opus unlike anything before seen was unleashed upon the world. When this is allowed, we are presented with a singular artistic statement of the director's vision without any influence or restrictions. The movie Idle Hands belongs in this category. Do not get me wrong, Idle Hands is not a great movie. In fact, it is a terrible movie. Just God-awful. But, as I watched it, I got the unmistakable impression that this was intentional, that it was intended to be this way by the director. As such, Idle Hands succeeded perfectly in its objective. It is the movie that was meant by its creators to suck, and succeeded fantastically at it.The film stars Devon Sawa (I've never heard of him either). Sawa plays typical stoner dweeb Anton Tobias, living in the small town in Beaver(sic), Utah. At the beginning of the film, we witness Devon's parents, Fred Willard (A Mighty Wind) and Connie Ray (About Schmidt) being murdered in their bedroom by an unknown assailant. This is unfortunate because I like Fred Willard, and he is dead right off the bat. Anyway, the next day, Anton wakes up to find his parents missing, so he decides to smoke pot and watch TV all day. He finds that he doesn't have any weed, so he goes across the street to score some more. There we meet Seth Green, who plays Seth Green, and his buddy Pnub, played by some anonymous guy. These are two loser stoners who live in their parent's basement. While there, he admits that he has a crush on the scenery living down the street played by Jessica Alba (Dark Angel). Alba gives an excellent performance as the community bicycle who apparently goes to bed with anyone who comes to the door, even if that person just chopped his own hand off.Anyway, long story short, Anton discovers that his right hand is possessed when it involuntarily kills Seth Green and the other guy. It turns out that all the unexplained killings were caused by his hand. Unfortunately, Green and the other guy come back as zombies somehow, so they continue to pester and annoy throughout the rest of the movie. After Anton realizes this, he chops off his hand using a meat cleaver with the assistance of Zombie Seth Green and Zombie Other Guy. He sticks the hand in the microwave because it is still moving and might run away, then runs across the street to meet with Jessica Alba and go to a school dance with her. (He asked her out earlier after throwing his cat at her house. I skipped over that part.) Anyway, he goes to the dance, only to discover that his hand escaped when Zombie Seth Green tried to microwave a burrito. The hand runs around like Thing from the Addams Family, killing a few people making out in their cars outside before going in to wreak havoc in the gym. This is thwarted by this other girl who is chasing the hand, played by Vivica A. Fox. (I forgot to mention her earlier too) She drives an Airstream motor home and is accompanied by this weird Gothic redneck guy in a black monster truck (built from a 1978 Ford if I'm not mistaken) whom she met at a bowling alley. From the dance, the hand eventually chases Jessica Alba through some surprisingly clean ventilation ducts and into the school's auto shop. The hand then somehow manages to tie her to the roof of a Crown Victoria on the hydraulic rack. Anton runs in to find the car slowly rising to crush Alba against the ceiling with the undead hand on the lever. Anton rushes over to pull her off the car, but, in what may be the best part of the movie, only rips her clothes off to reveal her beautiful figure scantily clad in a bra and lace panties (oh yeah). Then, in a sequence of events to embarrassingly stupid to describe, Anton stops the hand, and gets Miss Alba down, only to have the car fall on him after Zombie Other Guy bumps the lever while fighting Zombie Seth Green over a bhong. In the final scene, Anton is in the hospital in a body cast a la Clockwork Orange with Jessica Alba leaning over him kissing on him.So, it appears that we took a bad idea for a movie, wrote a bad script for it, salted it with bad jokes, then hired some terrible actors to play the parts. The director looked at this and realized that he could never make this a good movie, so he intentionally made it a bad movie. And he succeeded admirably, making this movie truer to the artistic vision of its creators than anything else ever made, with the possible exceptions of Citizen Kane or Road House. "},{"Title":"It has it's funny moments","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I actually was surprised when I first saw this movie. I thought it was going to be lame. But I am a big Seth Green fan, so I sat down and watched it. And I liked it. I went out and bought it on DVD, and I saw the alternate ending, and other scenes that were cut out. I was a little disappointed in the ending they chose. But I still enjoyed Idle Hands.7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible trendy movie","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucks in every way possible. It is a ripoff of countless horror movies and I found nothing remotely funny or cool about it. No wait. I found the whole Molly the poet falling for a total loser funny. This movie tries to hard to be outrageous and appealing to teenagers. Devon Cheesey Actor Sawa stars as Anton, a pot smoking loser who's hand gets demonically possessed. He kills his family and has this whole look at me I think I'm funny when I'm idiotically playing with my demonic hand. His friends get killed by him as well. Seth trendy as it gets Green and his fat friend come back as Anton's undead friends. The trashy neighborhood Satan know it all plays a pivotal role. Avoid this crapfest at all costs. It's not even good cheese. The only good thing is Jessica Alba shaking that booty to trendy music. Thing from the Addams Family is more threatening than Anton and his hand. * out of **** "},{"Title":"Heart Cooks Brain- check it out, its an awesome song","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Garbage movie, not fun to watch. Another movie where Jessica Alba is forced to be a sex symbol by quasi-rapist culture Hollywood, good job you wealthy rapists, way to force your bile down everyone's throats. Kind of movie that is written by mistake- like when the script was done the misguided author looked at it and said to himself, that can't be right. Billed as a dark comedy, but never delivers a single joke. Another Devon Sawa performance of a slacker-hero where he comes off as utterly undeserving of anything he has, hooray. It's a movie filled with a sinister hollowness that it passes on to the viewer, an unwelcome empty cold that has nothing to do with genius and more than likely everything to do with lines of cocaine. "}{"Title":"A goofy horror-comedy from early in Jessica Alba's career.","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you're a Jessica Alba fan, Idle Hands is going to appeal to you much, much more than the average viewer. We're talking about a movie where a woman who's basically made a career from being incredibly hot, is at her absolute hottest. If you're anything like me, that sole reason is more than enough to make Idle Hands required viewing. But some of you probably care more about the quality of the movie, than how hot young Ms. Alba was. Weirdos. Idle Hands is extremely dumb, and that's completely intentional. It's probably the most light-hearted slasher/horror movie I've ever seen, and there's a mix of stoner comedy in here, as well. A slacker's hand gets possessed by an evil force, and most of the movie involves him trying to keep it from murdering people. His bumbling friends often get in the way, and the hand's obsession with killing the girl he's interested in also complicates matters. Obviously, this isn't Hamlet, but I think it struck a decent cord between dumb humor and campy, 90's horror. I found it strangely enjoyable, in a very B-movie kind of way. Give it a shot, if you ever get the opportunity. Just have a cool drink handy, so that you won't melt under the hotness of Jessica. "},{"Title":"My work here is done. Time for the ritualistic sex!","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's too bad that there really wasn't any ritualistic sex in this movie. In fact there wasn't any sex at all, just a bunch of lame jokes. This is a slacker-zombie movie with zombies that don't do anything when they come back but sit on the couch like slackers and yak. One even had just a head on the couch, while the body was rummaging around the kitchen, Now, that seems like too much activity for a slacker to me. The joke about the out of control hand got old after 60 seconds, which is what I wish I had given this film.Maybe some would think that seeing Jessica Alba and Vivica fox was worth it, but believe me you don't see much of either. "},{"Title":"BeSt  MoViE I've SeEn iN a LoNg TiMe!","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Idle hands is now one of my favourite films of all time it oozes with humour and horror which i really appreciate in films.The story is about a teen lad who's hands gets possessed by a devil or demon and he cannot control it and it makes him do things that he really doesn't want to do.There are also some very talented actors in it that make the film what it is!Its hilarious and very enjoyable to watch, i recommend it to anyone who enjoys horror-comedy films like scary movie! 10/10 This film really deserves the title CLASSIC! "},{"Title":"Booo.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Worst movie ever. I've seen a pile of films, and beyond all shadow of a doubt, this is the worst movie I have ever been exposed to. I'm insulted that it even made it's way through the film industry machine to appear on a television in my home. What were they thinking? How someone could allow their money to be spent on this film is beyond my ability to comprehend. It sickens me to think that there is anyone in the movie industry that makes there living brining films like this to the screen, not even straight to video or made for TV, ON THE SCREEN. Nauseating. Blech. "},{"Title":"Horribly generic.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What makes IDLE HANDS so bad its good is a question I have been wanting to ask for so long. Its because the movie has stupid witt. Its not funny, clever, or even remotly original. The gore is what I liked about it but it got stale. This is not a movie that most will enjoy but it won't really make you sick. My Take 5/10 My MPAA rating R for strong comic violence and gore, perverse sexuality/nudity, non-stop drug use and for language. "},{"Title":"Sometimes funny, sometimes scary...otherwise, not worth your time.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  IDLE HANDS is a film that can never seem to decide what it wants to be. First, it starts with a sequence that tries to be scary, but isn't (what horror movie ever is?) and then, about ten minutes later, the film turns comedy on us. And then it repeats this pattern. One of the only films out there that tries to mix the only two genres that usually do NOT mix. The comedy genre and the horror genre. Thrown together to create IDLE HANDS.The cast includes Devon Sawa, Seth Green, Elden Henson, Jessica Alba, and Vivica A. Fox. All of them who are only there for no other reason to provide star power and to earn themselves a big fat paycheck. Here's my final verdict If you want something funny, see RAT RACE. If you want something scary, see PANIC ROOM. This film was only made for no other reason than to try and score with the basic childish humor and the parts of the film that try to be scary. IDLE HANDS does not score on very many levels. It is alright to see a couple times, and then, once you are tired of it, forget about it. The film earns an OK. But that is about all.....IDLE HANDS gets 2/5. "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Please, don't see this movie if you don't like stupid-trying to be  funny-horror flicks.  There's nothing but blood and gore, sex, and strong use of drugs (sound like a normal horror flick).  I only saw it because Jessica was in it.  My opinon...it sucked.  "},{"Title":"If your bord as hell, Watch this movie","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If your bord as hell and dont care what movie you watch as long as you watch something.. then watch Idle HandsOne word describes this move- SUCKS Devon Sawa is Anton a boy who's right hand kills people without Anton's control. The movie people are just trying to make The hand thingy in the Adam's Family look bad cause Anton's hand kills people. Wow im scared mommy.. Yea right. This was probally Devon's first movie cause he did Much better in Wild America and Final Destination.. He then cuts of his hand so he dosnt have to worry about it. The hand then writes with the blood Bad Move Anton.. MOMMY THE HANDS GONNA KILL THE BOY AH! Again yea rightSo once if your bord as hell watch Idle Hands "},{"Title":" a horrible movie","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't expect an award winning movie but i thought i could live through it. The movie is a comedy/horror but it was neither funny or horrifying.The special effects were terrible it looks like they came from some one's back yard. Not even seth green and devon sawa could save this movie. Why are they wasting their time on crap like this?Vivica A. fox's talents were wasted also, she didn't have much screen time.so you ask what was this movie about?well it's about a guy(devon sawa's character) that gets his hand possessed and then goes on a killing spree. It kills 2 of his friends and his parents and then goes afrter his girlfriend(jessica alba's character). The worst part of this movie all around is the script and jessica alba presance. It's unbelieveable but she gives an even more terrible performance then usual.i give it a 0/10 "},{"Title":"Stupid, bloody 'Idle Hands' gets the finger","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In this extremely stupid and bloody horror outing, a lazy pot smoking teen (Devon Sawa) has a hand that is supposedly possessed by evil, causing him to kill his parents and his two stoner friends (Seth Green, Elden Henson).  After cutting it off at the wrist -- ala Evil Dead II -- the hand continues to kill.  The hand also has a thing for the girl next door (Jessica Alba).  It's up to a pseudo priest (Vivica A. Fox) to end the rampage.  Writers Terri Hughes and Ron Milbauer try to reinvent old genre, but goes for stupidity and gore; for this, they get the finger.  Fox (Soul Food, Set It Off), has no business starring in this awful mess.  My evaluation (no stars).  "}{"Title":"Poorest movie I ever had the displeasure of seeing","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands- I found nothing I liked in this movie.  There was no plot, the dialogue was empty, and there were no surprises.  The actors didn't act but merely said their lines for 90 painfully boring minutes.  The ending was empty as well.  I for one hated it and hope there is never a sequel. "},{"Title":"Waste of time for people over 13","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Just don't bother with this. How on earth do films as weak as this get funded and given the go ahead?The only good thing was the good looking girl, but the rest of the film was about as interesting as watching a kettle boil.The actors will probably be very very embarrassed about taking part in this mess in years to come, and so they should. "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Waking up one morning, teen Anton Tobias, (Devon Sawa) finds that both his parents have mysteriously disappeared, and after noticing they've been gone for a while, friends Mick, (Seth Green) and Pnub, (Elden Hanson) convince him to throw a party. Using it as an opportunity to meet crush Molly, (Jessica Alba) he manages to get the job done. When a mysterious killer suddenly starts to terrorize the community, the clues point to him yet he can't remember doing anything. As he leaves a trail of destruction through the town, he comes to realize that it was actually his hand that was possessed by the Devil and was causing all the murders. With investigator Debi LeCure, (Vivica A. Fox) on his trail, he discovers the real reason why the hand's possessed and together try to stop it before it continues it's quest.Attempt to mix late 90's teen comedy with teen horror is a total wash. Good turns by both Sawa and Seth Green can't save this turkey. Lousy script, rotten ending and slack direction are just a few of its problems.Rated R for Graphic Violence, Nudity, Profanity and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Avoid, Unless Really Desperate","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I picked up this movie hoping for black comedy. What I got was a horror movie that wished it was a comedy until it was time to get gory. It doesn't end up pulling either the role of horror movie or comedy off. Whatever rules it creates regarding the demon in the hand it immediately breaks, just serving to confuse the viewer more. This is a movie that had potential, but missed it's mark. "},{"Title":"Gruesome, tasteless unfunny","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Brain dead teenagers will love this movie. Anyone with any self respect won't. A lot of gory murders and unfunny jokes make up this twisted mix of black comedy and horror. The characters are completely unlikeable. The only thing that saves the film from a zero rating is the luscious and nubile Jessica Alba in her underwear. "},{"Title":"Oh, wow, did that suck!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the most stupid movie I've EVER seen!  Jessica  Alba is the only thing that made the movie good.  The acting was horrible and the jokes weren't even funny.  Take it from me, do NOT see this movie.  I give F- "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A teenager wakes up on Halloween to find his parents murdered and his right hand possessed. The hand eventually forces Devon Sawa on a murder spree. Attempt to mix late 90's teen comedy with teen horror is a total wash. Good turns by both Sawa and Seth Green can't save this turkey. Lousy script, rotten ending and slack direction are just a few of its problems. Rated R; Graphic Violence, Profanity, Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"tsc tsc tsc...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll be brief 1) The movie has a great opening scene (except for the fact that the bed jumped a lot...) 2) Devon Sawa was not excellent, but he did a good job playing with his hand.3) Vivica A. Fox is really a fox.. but, so what? She was ridiculous in that movie... I don't understand why a person who made a blockbuster as ID4 (I'm not telling it is a good movie, just is a blockbuster) agrees to join such a horrible movie. 4) To be fair, I laughed in some scenes, but in overall the movie is really awful. 5) If you do not like Offspring, stick with this movie and be satisfied with what the hand does. 2/10. Addam's Family is so much better...  "},{"Title":"Starts out funny but the comedy doesn't last.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now I'm not sure what to call this movie. A horror movie or a comedy? It confuses the viewer in many ways. When you expect to burst out laughing, a woman is pulled under a bed and a bunch of blood bursts out from underneath it. Its like Whoa! And even worse, the events are extremely corny and you lose track of what's happening. The main character, Dope-smoking, tv-watching, Anton's hand is possessed by Satan and it causes him to do things that he wouldn't normally do, like shove a glass bottle through his friend's head. He gets the girl way too fast and it doesn't even leave you time to think how he scored with her in the first place. He drops off her lost little journal thing at her house and runs away when she answers the door. When he comes back to her place on Halloween, she grabs him, throws him down on the bed and starts kissing him. The comedy is completely stupid. The movie expects people to laugh when heads are sliced off and when girls are cut into pieces with a fan. Don't expect to be amused by this horrible excuse for a comedy-horror. "},{"Title":"Funny, but also juvenile & dumb.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  From the trailer, this looked like a very promising horror/comedy.  Sadly, when it came to viewing the whole thing, the horror aspect was played more prominently than the comedy.  This a the major tragedy because the so called 'horror' was so very lame and the scope for physical comedy was barely tapped.So, despite some sublime moments of black and/or physical humour (most of which was seen in the trailer), this was just another gormless collage of tiresome in-your-face 'scares' & body count, lame dialogue, and juvenile innuendo.For tasteless teens only -- 3/10 "}{"Title":"A Movie That Could Have Been Better","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Deciding not to read the other reviews, I may merely be regurgi--um... saying stuff all over again.But this was not a terribly great movie. Expecting a funny movie that really pokes fun at the horror genre, but instead getting a horrid movie that pokes more fun at the characters with bad jokes, etc.Generally, the performances were almost there, but not quite (although i still found Seth Green entertaining). Devon Sawa was damn good, considering this is the first thing I've seen him in.The initial idea was good boy's hand becomes possessed, he kills people. But it went downhill from there. Really.The funniest points in this movie, albeit one of four funny points, was the manner in which the hand was finally destroyed, and the spectacle as it was destroyed.There are better things to spend your money on if you want an entertaining evening. Otherwise, this is a good movie to spend $8.00 on to just talk while it plays. Um... yeah... "},{"Title":"if i wasn't smart","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  okay. i laughed. a little. but only at seth green's look at me i'm leatherface. this movie was a big waste of my time. though the two guys i went with loved it to death. if i were you i'd wait till it goes on video, then get your friend who works at the video store to get it for you for free. i think i'd be more mad if i had actually paid to see the movie.  "},{"Title":"Cheech & Chong meet Freddy Kruger Nobody wins.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Seth Green was much better used in both AUSTIN POWERS and CAN'T HARDLY WAIT. Even low expectations can't save this poorly paced, unevenly toned, scattershot comedy.  Hey, even Fred Willard can't provide a smile. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously lame horror-comedy","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  My, oh my, what a lazy waste of time is Idle Hands...did the filmmakers even TRY?  I wished that the screenwriters had done something else with THEIR hands other than write Idle Hands, like write a long letter, or make a really big sandwich...as long as I wouldn't have had to be a part of it.Not even in the category of 'so bad it's fun'; it's a mix of outlandish comedy with gory thriller that fails miserably.  A lazy, pothead teenager, for no really sufficient reason finds his right hand possessed by an evil demonic force.  All sorts of mayhem ensues as bodies begin piling up.Devon Sawa delivers some nice physical humor; and, as his friends, Elden Henson, and the always funny Seth Green do their best...but this normally engaging cast can't do much to rescue the movie.  (Although, the sight of a lovely  17 yr-old Jessica Alba is enough to make this 26-year old blush).Besides an inspired moment involving a hand puppet...I was bored by Idle Hands.  The comedy is too lame to be funny...the thrills too ridiculous to be thrilling.  Maybe...MAYBE this material could've worked in the right hands...or as an all-out spoof.  Instead it's embarrassingly unfunny for the most part, and desperate.My least favorite movie so far this year....HANDS DOWN.  "},{"Title":"Nope","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What's wrong with a scary horror film?  What's wrong with a film that has great camera angles and a fuzzy shaded killer lurking menacingly in the background?  Or how about a killer that stalks you almost religiously and then kills you when you are least expecting it?  Where have all those films gone?  Because this film is certainly not one of the better horror films that I have seen.  It is not even a good film.  This type of movie is the kind of film that every Nightmare On Elm Street was after the first and before the last.  It is all humour and no scares.  And that bothers me.  I am a starving horror fan.  I grew up in the 80's and perhaps I was spoiled with Halloween and Nightmare and Texas Chainsaw and Friday and Jaws, because the films that are made now are not really scary movies.  They are thinly disguised slasher flicks that rely on borrowed time on another man's memories ( can you name the 80's horrror movie that line is from? ).  It also relies on gore and that is fine, if there are the scares to go along with it.  Remember Jaws and Halloween?  Very little blood and all atmosphere.  Now I know it is hard to be Spielberg and Carpenter, but this doesn't even come somewhere on the right side of the middle.  This is just pure trash.  But as a few others have commented in here, maybe we are just getting too old.  Maybe being 27 is a little old for a film like this. Maybe if you are under 20 you can enjoy this more.  But if that were true, then that would mean that people that grew up in the 60's and enjoyed films like Rosemary's Baby would not enjoy Jaws and Halloween.  But that isn't the case.  Those are true horror films and they are damn scary.  This film is a high school project with great special effects.  It's not scary and it's not enjoyable.  It's actually something that I would put out for the horror garbage men to take away and burn at the stake. "},{"Title":"hmmm some kind of sad excuse for a horror movie","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  maybe there was a good concept to the whole idea of a hand being possessed - but besides that? hmmm - someone shouldn't have bothered trying to mix horror with comedy - in my opinion - they should have stuck with the idea of comedy as it would have given it a better outcome.. for all of us. The idea of adding some pointless scenes - *minor spoiler* such as that of one when someone gets killed while halfway in the nude in a car is a very lame excuse to attract viewers. The ending wasn't much better either - Seth Green's character even states how lame and short it is too - they could have at least added a little extra to the end or not made such a clean conclusion to keep us on the edge of our seat - which we weren't... at all. Flaws were also found in this movie - that of which when a character dies... *minor spoiler* she doesn't seem to die quite in content. She dies through one of those air fans - but instead of the rope around her neck being cut - it somehow manages to survive the chopping fan blade to pull her up high enough for HER instead to be sliced to bits with it. A disappointment to the say the least. "},{"Title":"trash","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was the worst film I have ever seen! It is quite a shame, because these actors are not without merit, and should not have wasted their time on this piece of garbage. It is boring, and the special effects are pathetic. Avoid it at all costs! "},{"Title":"Honestly, the worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a warning to all of you out there who might be tempted to see this movie.....DON'T!!!!! Please spare yourself!! Such a waste of money on the producer's part, such a waste of time on the actor's part. I have sympathy for anyone whose name is associated with this movie, they shall forever bury thier faces in shame. WHY!!?!??!!?!? WHY does this movie suck so much? Why can I not bare to see another soul spend $2.00 to rent it? Well, 1)plot none. 2) charcters they could have spent thier time making better movies (Austin Powers, Final Destination) 3) scripting I haven't heard more nonsensical gibberish come out of anyone's mouth since the Nixon Admin. 4)Do I really need a four? Come on.... DONT SEE IT!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"A Bad Black Comedy","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A lazy guy named Anton(Devon Sawa) that spends all of his time smoking pot and watching television with his two friends Mick(Seth Green) and Pnub(Elden Henson) turns out to be a killer when his right hand becomes possessed by an evil demon. Now Anton's hand is killing everything and everybody that's in his way, and with the help of his two friends(who are now zombies) and his gorgeous next door neighbour(Jessica Alba), Anton must try to get rid of his evil hand. This movie started out good, but then it just got ridiculous. I would give Idle Hands 4/10 "},{"Title":"Lame horror / comedy.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A teenage boy finds out that the devil has token over his right hand and is forcing him to kill people. This is a rather lame horror / comedy, with most of the comedy failing to provide any laughs. And there is no scary moments what-so-ever and most of the cast overacts. Only standout is Seth Green in a good performance. 4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Horrifically Hilarious","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie oozes with style from the opening credits to the closing scene. The cinematography, the soundtrack, the editing, the screenplay, the acting were all grade A material.  I would have to say Idle Hands is a cinematic masterpiece, an  instant horror-comedy classic.  The movie is eerie, gory, scary and downright utterly hilarious.  Devon Sawa, Seth Green and Elden Henson were brilliant in portraying wacky, horrific individuals with utterly serious characterizations.And Vivica A. Fox... well her names says it all.10/10 "},{"Title":"A movie that dares to give smart moviegoers the finger.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not even worth dignifying with a long review.This is a movie with no plot, acting, writing, or production value. It is simply about a slacker teen whose hand gets possessed and makes him kill people, among other things. How's that for originality?But blood & guts fans need look no further, this is the movie for you. Enough blood, guts, sex talk, and sex jokes to make any  teenage boy feel at home. It's just a shame it's rated R.If you have seen the entire trailer, you've seen the entire movie, basically. Do yourself a favour, rent Evil Dead 2 instead "},{"Title":"I'd give my right hand. Someone take it please!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a gruesome, comedic horror tale about a pot-smoking slacker that can't control the murderous impulses of his hand that is possessed. Sick humor and some pretty gory F/X. This is a strange showcase for some promising young talent like the absolutely gorgeous Jessica Alba, Seth Green and foxy Vivica A. Fox. Also featured are Devon Sawa, Elden Henson, Fred Willard and Connie Ray. This off beat comedy probably limits its own viewing demographics. "},{"Title":"A Horrible Movie!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands wasn't released at any cinemas over here in the UK and I'm not surprised. I brought Idle Hands on DVD, not knowing that much about the movie, The story sounded okay and I knew about the cast, including Devon Sawa who I think is a good actor. But, not even he can save this movie. This movie is just awful. A fan of Devon Sawa? See another one of his movies, Final Destination, maybe. Now, that is *great*. "},{"Title":"This Movie was horrible","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So it's supposed to be funny, not really scary, well this movie was scary very scary.  The beginning is also very confusing..  It wasn't very funny either you would call it stupidly funny this movie was horrible.  They were supposed to be making fun of the horror movies, well all they did was mess up everyone who was in this movie's reputation.  The plot of this movie was so dumb, i'm not even going to go into detail with it, it was horrible. That's all I have to say!Why it was rated R?Language Tons of profanity and many F words, and they were not used comically either.Adult content  Tons of this too there's always talk of penis and sex. Also feeling on some people by Anton's hand that is very unsuitable.Sexual situations Anton and his girl come very close to having sex at her house, but mostly a comic scene.  Also there is a make out session in a car where a woman takes off her shirt.Nudity  During the make out session her breasts are exposed for about 15 seconds.Violence/gore Tons of violence and gore such as a needle through a guys hand, a hand in the microwave while blood was squirting everywhere, a bottle through the head, a headless friend, 2 dead parents, ears in cup, a cat licking an eye, someone getting murdered under the bed, someone get sliced by a fan, getting sliced chopped and gutted is also seen in this movie.Drug use tons of pot smoking and some drinking they are constantly smoking pot.By Ryan  Grade F "},{"Title":"These guys can't even cast correctly; a total waste of time  *1/2 out of ****","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I sat down to preview the new horror film called Idle Hands, I thought to myself Wouldn't it be wonderful to finally give a teen slasher movie a positive review for once. I had my soda in one hand, my notepad in the other, I was at the height of my weekend. Then, once I saw the movies premise, I knew all was lost. It starts off great; (except for a few false jump scenes that are beginning to be quite the standard material) two characters were brutally and mysteriously murdered at night in their home a few days before Halloween. Their killer is unknown. But soon after, the film shows signs of weakness. It becomes blunt, bland, lacking suspense and irony. All my hopes went down the deep, dark drain.The film's heroine is a young, fit and strapping teenage boy. In the shape that he is in, however, you probably expect him to spend most of his hours in the school weigh lifting room, when he is not trying out for sports team. But the truth is that he doesn't even go to school. Anton (Devon Sawa) sits around all day, chowing down on junk food, smoking hard core drugs, and watching perverted television with his two friends that do the same, Mick & Pnub.When he finally discovers that his parents have been killed, several days after the occurrence, he also discovers that the psycho killer that has been around is not the neighbor next door, but him! For some reason that is never fully explained, a demon has possessed his right hand and forces him to do things against his will. He then brutally kills his friends, and arranges a date with his would-be girlfriend, Molly.From this point on, none of the story makes any sense, not necessarily because the film is far fetched, but because the movie also tries desperately to be a comedy. Yes, a comedy. Now, I am not saying that I would not call this a horror film, I'm just saying that most audiences will either go to a movie to laugh, or to be scared; the two categories seldom blend together and work. This material would have surly been much more successful if it had been played out straight.Another problem I had with the movie is the fact that I didn't care about any of the characters. All the main characters were either doing drugs, dead, on the verge of dying, or killing someone. All the side characters that didn't have a place in the movie for an instant were predictable future victims of the killer hand.And oh, that hand. It just appears everywhere now, doesn't it. So, lets say that you do buy into the fact that finger walking can take you place from place apparently quicker than any form of transportation. Can you understand that the hand can meltdown in a microwave and still be in perfectly good condition an hour later, that it can fly though the air like a bird, that it can tie a grown person on top of a car in minutes, that it can know exactly where to attack its victim but has no eyes? Lets face it, by the time this movie is over you'll be thinking to yourself Give me a break.And after all this, the filmmakers still have the audacity to force a recycled high-school love subplot in the movie. One that shows no actual sex, nudity or kissing. If you're going to put this type of element in this type of movie, don't hold back. These bodies are beautiful here, and we don't even see the main characters in an actual love scene.Even after I add in the stylish soundtrack, the realistic gore, the fact that the hand could act better than anyone on screen here, I still come up with a marginal one and one half star rating out of a possible four. However, when you waste two precious hours of your life on a beautiful weekend day in a movie which progressive gets worse, and has an ending this week that even the film's characters complain, you begin to feel charitable. "},{"Title":"Absolute crap except for Jessica Alba","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the epitome of the vulgar, lewd, coarse teen movie. The dark humor is not funny. It is depraved. What's worse this movie was released shortly after Columbine. The only saving grace of this movie is the gorgeous Jessica Alba. Unfortunately she is in far too few scenes. Avoid this movie. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Amazingly unoriginal horror comedy","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Idle Hands is a tasteless mishmash that steals elements from better films such as The Hands of Orlac, Mad Love, Evil Dead 2, and American Werewolf in London. Utterly derivative and without any merits of its own, this film is a complete waste of ninety minutes. Avoid at all costs. "}]