[{"Title":"2/3 of a really good character study, results may vary","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Marc Levin's Slam, perhaps the greatest asset he and cinematographer Mark Benjamin bring is the documentary-style to this urban-based drama. For the first few minutes of the film, I thought this would be a documentary. In a sense, when I realized when it wasn't it was a letdown, because even though this is a close-to-life depiction story of a kid in the ghettos of Washington DC, somehow if it really was a documentary it might've been even more compelling. As it is, Slam is a very naturalistic first-person drama, and the film deals with a protagonist that isn't hard to identify with, even when things seem a little over-done or even when it's a little naïve.Basic story in two sentences &#150; Raymond Joshua (Saul Williams, also one of the film's co-writers) is set up to go to prison for pot, and while in prison he meets a few people that recognize his skills as a writer and poet.When he gets out he wants to hold on to the freedom he knows he can attain, but he doesn't know how. With this conflict, Raymond is a character that is recognizable and identifiable with the audience. And with this, Williams creates a constantly believable performance even when his character may not sound entirely believable or realistic.Although the performances are a plus for the film's success, such as Bonz Malone as Hopha, and Sonja Sohn as the writing teacher/poet Lauren, for me the style over-passed the substance. Though the poetry was inspired and the poets in the film who spoke them were very good, some of the story elements were not as effective as they could've been. For example, there's a blind-men analogy when Raymond gets out of jail and sees that his pot-dealer friend, who got shot, is now blind. Raymond is morally in the right in their final scene together, but it's a little too thick of a message for my taste when Raymond says, 'I once was blind too, now I can see.' Williams' poetry (which I assume he wrote himself) is interesting, although it's his delivery that catches my ear over the content. In a pivotal scene his poetry saves him from a beating in the prison yard, yet somehow it doesn't feel as real as some of the other scenes, like with him and Malone's character.As I said, the style was what held the film, especially for such a low budget. I loved the use of the hand-held, shaky mis-en-scene, as though someone was allowed to peek into the atmosphere of DC. And from a psychological standpoint, Levin seems to extract what the essence is of Raymond and his neighborhood. Through his usage grainy color and then to a 8mm camcorder for flashbacks from Raymond, I felt the emotional impact that Levin was going for, the mix of disorientation and of being in a free-fallin' kind of society where you don't know what can happen next. I just wished that I saw more of that with the characters and the story. Cool ending though. B  "},{"Title":"Powerful!","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fantastic performances, a good story and interesting photography make Slam a very good movie; realism makes it a great one. I was in awe of the utter authenticity of the people, the situations, the energies in this film. I was suitably impressed by the emotions expressed and how effective it all was, for essentially a minimalist message (the odds are stacked against young black males in the inner cities) but even more impressed once I listened to the commentary on the DVD. I highly recommend you get your hands on the disc, and listen to the commentary after watching the film. Sure, it's a bit too self-congratulatory (what a beautiful shot! it was only nice) but the insight on the people involved--the writers, actors, poets... adds an incredible amount of depth to the experience.To quickly generalize if you appreciate Spike Lee's work, you'll probably like Slam. Although Spike might be a little upset that a white Jewish director brought this to film -)  "},{"Title":"Something Old is New Again","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is responsible for a lot of things and after finally seeing it I now know why. What it lacks in polished film making it more than makes up for in honesty, passion and ambition. From the performances through to the writing and cinematography everything is raw and beautiful and vibrant with life in a way that we never see in Hollywood films. And I'll be damned if the subject isn't poetry and how it exists in and what it makes of real life. How it is real life. In many aboriginal cultures there is no separate category for art that differentiates it from the rest of life and this movie hearkens back to that cultural tradition. A young Saul Williams defines his life, takes action, heals himself and saves others through his poetry. All of the acting is fresh and real but Saul Williams and Sonia Sohn especially shine, as they should. There is something real going on that is being captured here and the rest of America better know what it is. "},{"Title":"A Film Not Afraid to Tell the Truth","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I happened upon Slam quite by coincidence one evening.  I just got an updated cable system with all of these channels and movies and music.  So I was surfing and I came upon Slam.  I had no idea what it was.  I had never heard of the movie before, but I was familiar with Saul Williams and his work.  I had seen him on a documentary a few years ago. I thought the film was brilliant in the sense that it took a familiar topic and refreshed it. Slam was intense and real.  It was preachy without being trite, redundant, cliche, or just plain corny.  The actors were totally believable.  I bought it.  I bought it all, hook, line, and sinker.  And in the end, that's all I can ask of a film, to take me somewhere I want to go, but haven't been before.  This film was not afraid to tell the truth.  And again, more importantly it was not afraid to also tell us that there are no easy solutions or easy roads out. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Really good and believable script, atmosphere and flow, very well acted. It doesn't even matter if the camera crew is totally visible in many pictures in one guys mirror-sun glasses. This is definitely one of the best hood movies of the nineties. It's also shows you a different kind of hood that you're used to OK there's some drug selling and rapping, but that's the reality, and reality is what these movies are about. But that's only the beginning This film grows to be really deep and interesting story about generations, art making (=self-expression), life goals, and the Tragedy of the contemporary world. In this film, for example the rapping thing is portrayed quite funnily; It's more real, in other words also more sad and also more serious, than in the other movies. This film shows what rap, and any kind of art and self-expression is It's about salvation, it's about ideals, it's about dreaming, it's about rising above. It's about creating your OWN world inside or outside, or above, the world which you don't like and don't wanna support. It's about prisons of the mind that you or some other people have created in your mind which you gotta grow out of to be free. It's a story of courage. It's about miracle of life. This film really shows what it's all about, if someone already don't know. It's a PEOPLE's culture. The MTV and money sh** don't have and will never have anything to do with it. It's a people's way of expressing themselves in their communities. And this film shows it all real beautifully. One of the best movies about artist's life too. It also grows to be a beautiful love story. In all ways it's better than all it's parts combined and all hopes imagined.It's not the best acted film in the world, like some reviewer said, but it might at the top level among the other best. The film is also very nicely shot. It doesn't actually feel like a documentary, but more like what it really is Quite cheaply and simply (=that means freely) made self-expression. You can feel the joy of the making. I don't have to even mention that the soundtrack is great One of the best. The world needs this kind of movies. (Or does it?...) At least somebody's world does. Somebody else's world might need movies that glorify violence. This is not that kind of movie. This is not 50 cent. This is not death. This is life. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I didn't know anything about this movie except it had poetry and was about urban african-americans.  I enjoyed this movie alot.  I loved the poetry in the movie too.  It shows that people can change and have many different sides to them.  Plot A poet, Ray, is put into jail for possession of 1/4 pound of weed.  He can compromise, plea for 2-3 years, or fight and get 9-10.  However, the movie is really about his struggle with himself and what he knows.  He changes and wants to change.  He does not want to end up like everybody else, and will change the world.Acting  I really liked the acting.  I especially lied the poetry that went into this movie.  I think that the movie is great for its poetry alone, although the rest of the movie rocks as well.  Ray is especially good, but that is in my opinion.Presentation  A documentary-like film.  This is a good style for its content.  I think that the topic and its style are both ultra-realist, so the melt together perfectly.  All in all, this is a great, thought-provoking movie that contains a lot of good poetry. There isn't much to talk about without giving the film away.  I like the inner struggles.  All of the characters are shown to have histories and presents.  The film tries to show how they got from start to present.  It doesn't imply how everything will end, and I don't want to know.  I like to keep guessing..............10 "},{"Title":"Saul the poet","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A movie that will move you in every possible way. A 'black gangsta' movie that doesn't rely on mindless violence to give you the 'message'.The 'message' from this movie is beautiful and the poetry is mindblowing (especially the last poem). The acting is excellent throughout and the funny thing is that all the acting is natural and it seems like you are a watching a gritty documentary. (Look out for the jail riot and you will understand what I mean).A highly recommended movie, do not miss it.  "},{"Title":"Flawed but powerful film &#150; nicely different from the usual `black youth' movies","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ray Joshua is a rhymer who survives on the streets of Washington by dealing drugs.  When the leader of his crew is killed right in front of him he is arrested for possession and sent to jail until the trial.  In jail he finds that the world is as violent inside as out and that his prison is in his mind and not the real world.  Inside he uses his skills to stop violence and meets Lauren Bell who sees potential in Ray and encourages him to better his situation and get out of his cycle.I am a major fan of HBO's Oz and one of the more interesting actors on there is a guy called muMs who does beat poetry.  When I saw Slam coming on it reminded me of him and I thought I'd watch it.  I like hip-hop which has strong lyrics so it's a little like that, although I do dislike the more pretentious side of street poetry &#150; so I could have gone either way on this.  Happily I really liked it on the whole.  The film is energetic and doesn't just focus on `using the gifts to get you outta da hood' type message that I expected it to.  Far from it.  Instead it looks at the prison Ray is in both inside and out on the street and how he needs to get out of that.  I was surprised but impressed by the writer/actor's message of accepting punishment for what you've done wrong but then make yourself free after your time is done.The film isn't perfect and the director does like to have tonnes of sunsets and stuff in his films which take away from the real feel to it.  Likewise Ray is written far too soft.  Rather than focus on a youth is really is trapped in a bad situation and engrained in it, the film makes Ray very soft.  He is `only carrying a few grammes' of stuff, he is kind to kids and doesn't see the need to take sides in prison.  The film would have been better if the character had been less `good' at the start.However knowing a little about how it was made, made me like the film more and respect it.  It was made in 9 days.  The rough scene structure was laid out for each scene, but it was all improvised rather than run off a word for word script.  Knowing this I was impressed by how well it all worked and how good it looked.  Williams is really good as Ray and carries the beat and the emotion really well.  His skills are good and when he feels trapped and wronged &#150; you believe him.  He has a good chemistry with Sohn, even if her character is a little too clean looking for the past she rages against.  The support cast are all pretty good save a few gangsta roles.  Those in prison are believable and the poets/rappers are all pretty tight except a few pretentious ones in the show at the end of the film.As a ghetto movie this is well above the norm and delivers a brutally honest message for black youth to accept what they are doing, bare the consequences but then to move on with their lives.  This is refreshing and does more than a lot of the black comedies that we see a lot of rappers doing now &#150; this film may help.  Even if you're not into rap or beat poetry this film has enough power in it to keep you watching. "},{"Title":"Moving, thought-provoking","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best films, in my opinion, are those which challenge your conventions and beliefs and really make you think. Slam did that in Spades. I was completely lost in it. The cinema-verite style (the film was shot remarkably like a documentary) completely drew me in. Slam will stick with me for a long time to come.Also, anyone who knows Washington, D.C. will recognize that this was a great use of D.C. as the setting for a movie. Usually D.C. is used as just a pretty backdrop, but in this movie you saw real sites like the Projects of Southeast and Capitol Hill's Eastern Market, and recognized that D.C. is a city of real people and not just a place aliens blow up. "},{"Title":"Slam vs. Bamboozled","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Now, here are two films I remember watching many moons ago, and for some strange reason was compelled to watch again. Of both, I remember slightly unusual techniques and styles, feeling more like home movies than big-budget films. But, neither is particularly big-budget; both controversial in their own way and quite experimental, designed to create emotion more than they are to entertain. Both, therefore, are not great films, but interesting ones nonetheless, perhaps not fully getting their ideas across, but based on good ideas.Starting with 'Slam', we see young Raymond Joshua living in D.C., working as a small-time drug dealer, occasionally writing the odd verse of poetry. Caught in a gang-land shooting, he sees himself arrested and trapped with the choice of going to prison or going to prison on a drug possession charge. Angered and frustrated, he again finds himself trapped in the middle of a gang dispute in prison resulting in him letting out his grievances in the form of poetry in the prison yard.If you like, 'Slam' is a musical; not so much a film, but a vehicle to showcase the talents of the cast as poets and emcees. Much of the cast are poets and/or rappers appearing in a debut acting role, or one of their few and had a big hand in the writing. Saul Williams plays the lead role, with Sonja Sohn, Bonz Malone and Beau Sia taking up supporting roles, among others. The acting and story, therefore, are never fully polished, with writer/director Mark Levin known more for his documentaries than feature films.The story moves on a little too quickly in parts and character motivation is not always fully explored, beyond William's character. But with the low-budget feel, this has that trapped-in-time quality, feeling isolated from the rest of the world. There is nothing Earth-shattering here, but some interesting social comment and, at times, powerful performances.Spike Lee's 'Bamboozled' is a satire of modern television and what those watching the 'idiot box' have come to expect on the small screen. Damon Wayans plays Pierre Delacroix, a sit-com writer criticised by a 'more black than black people' network executive for writing shows that are 'too white,' featuring 'white people with black faces.' Pushed to deny the existence of a middle-class African-American, Delacroix works to create a show so 'black' as to shock America into realising the stereotypes that are portrayed on every day television. Ticking-off every racial stereotype imaginable, he creates 'Mantan The New Millennium Minstrel Show'. Amazingly, the show is a success, working only to further stereotypes rather than destroy them; leaving Delacroix viewed as a sell-out. Success and fame are predictably the downfall of those involved resulting in tragedy.'Bamboozled' is an interesting film for Lee to have made at the time; rising in his career and choosing to make a film that is quite low on a number of things. To start, the cast is low on out-and-out actors &#x96; and you can include Damon Wayans and Jada Pinkett-Smith within that &#x96; using rappers and comedians in many roles. It is also a film low on any nice Hollywood gloss and sheen &#x96; an effect probably desired considering the subject matter. The one thing it is high on is camera numbers, using numerous handhelds to take shots from various angles, such as audience reactions to a new breed of minstrel show. This creates a claustrophobic and documentary-like feel to the film.But being a satire, the film is more about the point it is trying to make; the use of footage from old television and film portrayals of African-Americans throughout and montaged at the end highlighting this. References are made to various moments where art and politics have collided, as well as using real-life figures vocal in such areas.But ultimately, 'Bamboozled' ends up a little messy in final execution. The lack of any real acting talent leaves performances a little wooden, as well as the characters they portray a little too extreme, notably the Mau Mau, led by Mos Def, who feel a little unrealistic despite Mos Def's usually charismatic on screen performances. A little too much can be rammed down your throat at times, with all imagery and dialogue geared towards one thing.Neither 'Slam' nor 'Bamboozled' will ever be regarded as great films, nor will they probably be remembered by many. But both are interesting examples of more creative film-making. Big budget effects, state-of-the- art camera-work and even actors are not required, as long as the film is based on a strong idea and purpose. They are portrayals of writers, trapped in different situations as they struggle to overcome stereotypes, relying on the talents of their non-acting casts. Well- executed at times or not, both still offer more than the endless big budget sequels and re-makes that make-up the majority of box office takings.politic1983.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"Slam is the way out of post-slavery segregation","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Washington DC at the end of the twentieth century right in the middle of gang wars and the very systematic trapping of Negroes in drug dealing, street violence, vain aggressivity against the establishment, the government, justice, the prison system, you name the authorities and you have them all. It was the time when hip hop and rap were slightly moving towards a new trend, slam which was poetry, oral (in fact written most of the time, at least in the poet's head) and uttered in public, to an audience without music. The only tool was at most a microphone.That's the film and its argument. A young chap meets another one in some down town area and when he is doing his business with him, that man he is meeting is shot in the head. He runs. The chap did not die and hence could testify the person he was speaking with and who ran was not the killer. The charge being dropped, naturally though this has nothing to do with nature, he is charged with the possession of some illegal substance, in that case some marihuana. That's how justice is in many cases. Everyone is not DSK.Prison while waiting for the court hearing or the paying of an important bail. The description is brutal and totally unrestricted on the violence and the circles of influence, though modest on some more intimate forced dealings. He is then noticed for his slam poetry in the yard one day and that gives him the possibility to get out on bail and to meet another slam poet, a woman this time who was teaching the inmates how to read literature and write creative pieces of their own.On the day before or two days before his court hearing that is going to send him back to prison for a small stunt of two years or so, he is able to have some direct discussion with the poetess he got acquainted to and she introduces him to a slam club downtown where he is able to perform to an audience for the first time.Then we are left with the suspended question of what he is going to do on Monday go to the court hearing or run on his bail.The film has been heavily in favor of the first solution and not some magic door out. It is hard to be convicted for a minor crime as a police compensation for the major crime he was accused of but did not commit and could not be prosecuted for.Remember American justice does not look for the truth or justice itself. It looks for what can go through a court, i.e. get to a conviction, or what can get the local attorney reelected. Remember DSK. The facts are proved and reported including by a hospital report but there will be no trial because of some shady elements in the personality of the victim that may bring a jury to a non-guilty decision. So the culprit runs free though not cleared of the accusation that could not and did not go through court. A cleared culprit that will never be convicted nor tried. This small film will remind you of this simple fact.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"The goods about a SLAM","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fernando Terrero Sarah Leibel English 12 May 24, 2010Living in society, you must strive to succeed. Slam directed by Marc Levin is a story about a young man who is in the streets of Washington DC and is involved with drugs and bad influences. The young mans name is Ray Joshua and gets accused for killing a friend of his and gets sent to jail. There he learns that violence is not always the answer but settling it is. This story is an inspiring story that many students should watch to see how it is to live in the ghetto. This film is trying to critique about society is that African Americans are trying to get a good reputation back. Due to society in general many of society seems to not privilege the rights of black and accuse them for many wrongs. Many forces seem to define Ray such as; stereotypes, cops, and jail mates. As many of the people in the story define themselves with fist, Ray defines himself through poems. Throughout the story he raps his poem little kids who are interested to hear his words, resulting in a poetry night. ' My favorite part was when ever he rapped everyone would stop to pay attention. It seems like he would grasp there attention. I could relate because when ever I speak to my family I feel like I have to scream for them to listen to me. The message is sends is to viewers is to stop the violence and speak words out. Honestly, I would give this film a 9/10 due to lack of attention at certain parts did not keep me and other film viewers interested. I did like the majority of the story it kept me engaged and wanted to write my own slam poem. "},{"Title":"Above the Violence","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie Slam directed by Marc Levin is a moving story about a young man who rises to be above the violence. Ray Joshua played by Saul Williams is an average black man who is trying to survive in the streets of Dodge City by selling drugs. Unfortunately, one day Ray was arrested when his drug dealer was shot. When arrested the police found on Ray 1/4 pound of marijuana. He is then sent to prison while he decides if he wants to plea himself guilty or not. In prison Ray decides instead of being involved in more gang conflicts he will be better than that. Instead of throwing punches he speaks up with powerful words. Like when he stopped a fight that was about to break out between two gangs in the prison, but he used his slam poem Amethyst Rocks, and that immediately ended the soon to be disaster. He demonstrates that problems can be solved without violence.Things like growing up in the ghetto are what try to define Ray. People that grow up in the ghetto are known to be drug dealers and being in gangs. They are never seen as people that can do anything successful in life. In the prison there were two different kinds of gangs that try to recruit him. Since Ray grew up in the ghetto the gangs thought that he will accept their offer and become one of the members but they were wrong. Ray didn't want to become just another member. He doesn't want to be involved in the conflicts or violence that gangs create. He instead shows them with his poetry that he doesn't need to be in no gang to survive. As he says So while your out there serving the time I'll be in sync with the sun while you run from the moon (Slam) This means he will not be another gang member stuck in prison like the other ghetto folks he will instead be in harmony while they are running from problems. One of the themes that I see in the movie is to accept consequences. When a person does something bad and gets caught they end up with a consequence. Some people accept it but others try to avoid it. In the movie Jay was caught with marijuana and he deserved a consequence because he knew what he posed was wrong. Selling drugs is a crime and Jay knew this but he did not want to face the consequences at first. But at the end no one can ever ran away from their destine consequences. It will eventually catch you. It's better to accept it at once and not try to run away. The best parts of the movie I would say are when Ray would recite his slam poems. Both the lyrics and the way he recites them are very powerful. If you notice both his poems talk about the history in slavery. He shows how slaves were stolen and had to work hard and did not live easy lives. This shows that slaves were hard working and when he looks back at that history it inspires him to do better. Even now black people are sometimes judged and treated badly because all other people think that they will cause trouble. Ray doesn't want to be another statistic; he wants to exceed the standard. He doesn't have to settle with what society hands him but instead try to become something better. This is something that all people should know and try. Everyone should watch this movie because there are many things you can learn from it. "},{"Title":"how a black young man goes through the jail process","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of your close friends is shot right in front of you; do you run or stay with him and get interrogated by the cops? Ray Joshua, the main character in slam decides to go with his instinct and run but is caught by the police. The author of the movie slam is Marc Levin and Richard Stratton. The movie is about a young black man who is a trying to be an upcoming rapper but is imprisoned for possession of marijuana. Throughout the movie it shows how he tried to find his individualism inside a prison where you're not supposed to have a self identity.There are various issues that come up in the movie that critique our society. One of the major issues that caught my eye is how people who are innocent are falsely accused and judged because of their skin color. A lot of forces try and define ray, for example when he is in jail everyone is telling him he has to choose a side. One of the leaders in the jail tells him that inside the jail you just have a number and that while he is there he is not going to have any type of identity at all. He doesn't accept this answer and he makes an identity for himself. He uses music as his main source to define himself that he is a human with feelings and not just a number. Throughout the movie it shows how he successfully keeps his identity even when people constantly try and take that away from him.The movie as a whole is very good. There are many parts that I enjoyed watching. The most memorable part of the movie for me is when he goes into the jail courtyard for the first time. As a gang that does not like him start to circle him he starts free styling and leaves them with their mouths wide open wondering what just happened. One part that I can certainly relate to is when little kids start following him one by one until he has a group of kids all around him. This reminds me of when I am at a family cookout my little cousin's start forming a circle around me until I am surrounded by them. I would defiantly recommend this movie to someone else. It is very well written and all the actors are on point with everything. "},{"Title":"Slam","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Do personal emotions bring out the poet in a person? There are many situations that occur in our daily lives. Most of the time we tend to keep things to ourselves and hope that it will wash away, but others use different methods to release those situations and let people know what it is that's happening and what is the solution. In the movie Slam directed by Marc Levin and written by Marc Levin and Sonja Sohn is a story that takes those situations and turn them into spoken word poetry. The movie is about a young black man named Ray Joshua played by Saul Williams, living in Washington DC that hustles in the streets selling weed while he has a bunch of rap verses running in his mind. When he is caught by the cops and is in jail for an amount of time, he discovers the poet in him with the help of a woman he falls in love named Lauren Bell played by Sonja Sohn. While in jail, he makes a decision to not get involved with murder and drugs anymore for the reason that he wants to change. Lauren Bell is a poet and performs at different Spoken Word cafés and when Ray Joshua gets released from jail, he goes out and finds her and she introduces him to Spoke Word poetry. This film does critique many things about society. The movie shows the gangs and drugs movement in our urban society. It also shows how one person can change the outcome of many people. Many things define Ray Joshua for example the streets and all of the drug problems. While in jail, he decides to change and quit the gang but he is sucked in back by force by the gang leader in jail. But after many things, he succeeds in getting out of the gang and making a change in his life and the other gang members. Stealing us was the smartest thing they ever did. This film shows many things and suggests us to take considerations in many aspects in our society. One of the things that this film is trying to get to us is that if we look deep in our hearts and we find our true selves, we could make the right choices. I strongly recommend anyone to see this movie, especially if they are into poetry. It also might change your views on society. "},{"Title":"Good but only if you can get by the nit picky problems","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" SLAM movie review SLAM! This movie shows us the harsh streets of Washington D.C. in a new way as it follows the young man Ray Joshua played by Saul Williams as he has to make the decision of his life. After going to prison for having illegal drugs on his person after witnessing a drive by shooting of his friend Ray is given the choice to either confess do the court, fight in court, or to rat out main people so that he will be set free. While in prison he meets the beautiful love interest Lauren Bell (Sonja Sohn) a prison teacher who runs a poetry club in the prison. When he is free he seeks her out and learns how poetry can be used to express his feelings and his thoughts. The message of the movie is definitely one you will remember, just as long as you can relate to it and can get over the mediocre acting and cinematography.Ray is young man living in the slums of Washing D.C. and his main source of income is selling illegal drugs to the people in the ghetto. Ray also has a passion for the world of rap, throughout the movie he spits rhymes and says poems about how he feels or what's on his mind. Ray also does not show signs that he is part of the violence that torments the city, he minds his own business and even hangs out with kids and helps them with their own rhymes. But after witnessing his friend Big Mike (Lawrence Wilson) being shot in the head by a drive-by shooting, ray is caught by the police with the very drugs he used to sell. While in prison he sees the same violence inside the prison as well. He is later set free as one of the main gang leaders in the prison pays his bail, but then has the decision to make, to either confess to having the drugs so that he only serves a few years, to try t fight it in court and potentially risk more years, or snitch on some important people and possibly serve no time at all. We do not know what choice he makes which not only leaves a huge cliff hanger at the end of the movie but also leaves you with lack of discloser.Along with the lack of discloser there are a few more problems with the movie that could possibly steer you away from the main message. One of which is the plot that doesn't feel hundred percent complete, at one point in the film Ray convinces Big Mike to lay down his weapons and not seek revenge, but after he does that part of the story is completely dropped, like it was just added to lengthen the film a bit longer then an actual plot point. The terrible acting and cinematography that take you out of the film, it almost feels like it was done by a high budget high school. Slam is a movie that could possibly speak to you of you can get around the problems enough to relate to the characters or the story of the movie, but Slam is not a movie worthy of losing sleep over. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When growing up in the ghetto one of the hardest things to do is find yourself. Slam written and directed by Mark Levin, is the story of a man named Ray Joshua (Saul Williams). Being surrounded by gangs and drugs he gets sent to jail when a drug deal goes bad. While in jail he realizes his passion for poetry. This inspiring story of a man overcoming the ghetto, turning his life around, and discovering his passion is a story that shows if you have a good head on your shoulders you can do anything you put your mind to.In the movie there are many things that try to define Ray society and race and the justice system are some of the major ones. Somehow with all the forces against him through expression and poetry Ray defines himself. After getting arrested for a small charge of possession of marijuana because of the justice system he is forced to either confess or go to court and fight it which would wither way get him 3-10 years. There was no winning for him.With the themes of race, drugs, gangs and jail this movie makes it easy for people to connect to. One of the best parts of the movie was at the end when Ray finally finds his way and performs in a poetry slam. It was a powerful scene full of emotion. This movie sends many different messages. One of which is when you find something you are passionate for you should find a way to show others and express yourself through it. For example when Ray performed at the poetry slam; it wasn't his usual scene but he got out of his bubble and went for it. "},{"Title":"Slam","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Slam movie review A Young Mc trapped in a neighborhood of poverty directed by Marc Levin Slam. Ray Joshua who is a young talented poet living in Washington D.C gets arrested for drug dealing to his friend who gets gunned down. He is sent to prison where two gangs union and thug Life want him to join them as a team member. But to Ray he is only one.Drug dealing, Violence, and living in the ghetto is forces that try to control Ray amongst living in his society. These forces try to control Ray because growing up in the ghetto people expect you to sell drugs, kill people and go to jail. Ray defines him self as one individual and not like everyone else. He did sell drugs and go to jail but poetry was his talent and not killing people. He was successful at this and was known as a poet. He used his poetry to define himself at the end of the scene of the film when he explains he doesn't have to be in no gang to protect himself or kill people. He defines himself as one individual that he is one, one, one.My favorite part of the film was the very least scene. This is my favorite part because here he is expressing himself to both gangs leaving them speechless. I think I can relate to the part of the society being poor because I have been to a society where people are very poor and drug dealing was a major problem. I think this film sends a good message to viewers that doing drugs and violence can lead you to prison but relying as yourself and being good can only help your self for your own good. I would recommend this film for someone to watch to see how when you're trapped you can always find a way to escape. "},{"Title":"SLAM movie review","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What is your form of expression? In the movie SLAM by Marc Levin a young man by the name of Ray Joshua expresses himself through spoken words. Ray grows up in a community where selling drugs is very common. Ray gets caught by the cops and has some drugs on him. He goes to jail and ends up attending a poetry class that makes him want to become more positive and not be doing anything bad anymore. He expresses all his feelings through spoken words, his words are strong and inspiring. He met a girl that helps him do this. Ray is ended up with the choice of either going back to jail or staying free. You would think this is an easy decision but for Ray Joshua this is very hard.This film shows how bad a society can get. How it can turn into an unsafe place where almost everyone is set up to fail. The forces that try to define Ray is his lifestyle. His friends and drugs. Everything is there for him to fall into. He does but he also falls back out and becomes smart. Ray expresses himself through spoken words. He tells his life and how he feels about it through these rhyming words. He is very successful at defining himself. Never question who I am god knows and I know god personally and in fact he lets me call him me This is one part of the scene where Ray uses spoken words to the prisoners. He tells them who he is and he is successful with this.My favorite part of the movie would be when he uses spoken words to speak to the prisoners. And they actually listen to him. My least favorite part of the film would have to be when him and the girl he is interested in fight. They are really good for each other and should be together for a while. This film sends the message that even when times are tough you can find a way out of it. Find something that will be your escape to something better. For Ray Joshua spoken words was his escape what's yours? "},{"Title":"SLAM Review","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many give in to the pressures of their surroundings but some are just stronger. The movie SLAM by Mark Levin is another typical story of a young man who gets into trouble and by doing so finds who he is. The issue isn't hard to identify making the audience put less thought into what is going on. A shooting while making an exchange of drugs puts Ray Joshua (played by Saul Williams) in jail where everyone wants a piece of him. Violence and drugs make him decide on different roles in his surrounds but he tries to stick to his own beliefs. When threatened in the prison yard instead of fighting he retaliates with words to also try to open up everyone's eyes to the real enemy that is holding them down instead of each other.In this film society is showing the idea that when a problem arises people can be torn apart and start to fight each other instead of going after what the real cause of the problem is. The law is trying to make Ray accept his punishment for possession of pot and even for a crime he did not commit, shooting his close friend. He is forced to choose sides in prison on the current situation just like everyone else has. One side believes that Ray set his close friend up while the other knows he did not. By expressing his talents in the prison yard with a poetic rap he tries to define himself with his own views on the situation at hand and makes no attempt on joining anyone. His rap got him out of trouble that day as well as convincing the leader of one of the side to bail him out to reunite with his close friend who happened to have only become blind. He did this so he would make the others understand that the fighting need to stop to end the cycle. The retaliation from the shooting stopped when his close friend understood that he didn't want anyone else to get hurt or to even lose him.My least favorite part of the film even though it may have been inspirational to some would have been anytime there was rapping going on. I honestly could not follow or understand what they would be saying when they did. With all of the drugs, violence, and jail time going on I could not relate to this story in any way that I could think of. I don't even think there was an exact time in my life that I could say that I found myself. The film sends out the message that you need to accept the consequences for your actions and move on. I would only recommend this film to people who can relate to it. As for the people like me who can't or don't think they can relate to it will not find it interesting. The film would have been better if Ray would have been more of a bad guy in the beginning to show even more how he has changed. "}{"Title":"Inspirational!","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Where can we draw the line between poetry and rap? Both extraordinary ways to express oneself, but in between the two is a combination of both which is spoken word. In the inspirational movie SLAM written by Marc Lavin and Richard Stratton spoken word is a way for release of one's emotions. This movie follows Ray Joshua throughout some period of his life where he was caught in the wrong situation. One evening while selling drugs to his friend just to get some money a drive by occurred and shot his friend in the head. In shock Ray flees the scene and the cops catch him then arrest him for possession of drugs. While in jail Ray is in jail his prison mates are not so fond of him and bully him but one day Ray silences the violence with his spoken word piece called Amethyst Rocks. Had he mentioned earlier to someone that he would use spoken word to silence other people's negative actions that person would have thought he was crazy to think that could work. Letting out his emotions left the other men surprised with his actions. While this event happened a poetry teacher named Lauren observed from a distance and admired Ray's bravery. After a flirtatious moment Lauren asks Ray to attend her poetry classes. These classes inspire Ray to do more so once he gets out of prison he changes his act and who he hangs with as well.In this film the authors are trying to critique the prisons effect on society. They do this by showing how unfair the justice system is towards Ray. Ray gets into trouble with the law because of one force that defines who he is, this force is dealing drugs and it is his way to make a living; it's just a way for Ray to get by in life. This force defines him negatively because it gets him into the wrong situation thus lading him straight into jail. A positive force that has affected Ray is spoken word. He uses this as a way to vent as well as express himself. With the negative and positive influence Ray chooses to define himself in a positive way and is successful with it. He gets out of prison and makes a point to his friend that an eye for an eye will just make the whole world go blind. He also starts to hang out with a different crowd of people including Lauren. When spending more time with her he learns a lot about her past too.One theme that occurs in the film is no matter how tough things go there is always an escape from the negativity. For example, Ray gets put into jail because possession of drugs and everything turned out so unfair for him. If he went to court and tried to prove himself innocent then was pleaded guilty then he would have to be in jail longer. Although he did commit a crime he was not responsible for the shooting. Once Ray is in jail he encounters many dilemmas with the other prison mates but in the end he finds an escape through spoken word. The negativity of others rash actions made him seek for a positive escape. Consequently Ray was let out of prison only if he could stop the war between his friends and the real perpetrators of the crime. His friends all want revenge but Ray preaches otherwise and his friends begin to accept it and decide not to fight back. Also Lauren lashes out on Ray because she thinks he doesn't know what she's been through or who she is. While this is occurring we find out that Lauren used to be a drug addict and a prostitute. This harmful lifestyle did not stop her from becoming a healthy person and staying away from the bad habits. In the end Ray attends a poetry slam and in his spoken word he says, I would stand there and whisper memories of my children's future I would let their future dwell in my past so that I might live a brighter now (Sha-Clack-Clack). These words mean a lot, and to me I believe they say he will remember his past and the past of his ancestors to allow himself and his future children a better and brighter life. If Ray and Lauren kept letting the negative forces define them then they would have never made it to a more positive lifestyle.Throughout the film many inspiring events occur but my favorite part was when Ray stopped his friends from going to get revenge on who shot his other friend. I could relate to my favorite part because I try to be kind of a mediator and I like to try and get the message of peace out to the world. I can also connect to Ray and his escape through writing, whenever I am upset I take it out on a piece of paper and let out all my problems which relieves me. This whole film I believe has a great message and to viewers it shows that you can never let negative forces define you because there is always a positive escape. This film was very inspirational and I would most definitely recommend it so other people could be just as moved as I was. "},{"Title":"Not one of favorites.","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Slam, the typical tale of a black man living in the ghettos of Washington just doing whatever he can to survive. Marc Levin embarks on a film where a young black man Ray Joshua, played by Saul Williams, gets caught dealing after the man he was dealing with is shot. Ray later gets sentenced to jail for four years where his natural gift of slam poetry is embraced. In one encounter he finds himself developing feelings for Lauren Bell, a woman visits prison for poetry sessions, also shares a passion for slam poetry. Together, they find out how similar they really are, while Ray makes a decision of staying in the place that got him in the mess he's in now, or he takes a different way, the way that could free him from all his daily misery.The story is bland, far from what I hoped it to be. To me the most exciting scenes in the film were towards the end when a bunch of characters from the movie recited slam poems. Unfortunately, the film is just trying to show us how people who live in the ghetto, stay in the ghetto for the most part. They don't have aspirations of leaving because being sufficient to them means selling drugs to make a living. Ray, like many others have many forces that define who he is. For one, the poverty from where he is raised and currently lives is a force that is carried out throughout the film. Another force would be the because you are black and poor, there's no place for you outside of the ghetto. The negativity that discriminating people have for African-Americans triggers Ray. Even though I believe that this film was a repetition of what struggling black people in the ghettos go through on an everyday basis, I feel like the integration of poetry into his life gave a little piece of hope that many could have just thrown it away.All in all I didn't think the quality of the film was all that great. It seemed like I was watching a live documentary being shot from a regular video recorder. I personally don't like movies that finish open-ended, but for others it gives them a way to imagine how the film would have ended having had them as the director. In part the message of the film is trying to tell us is that no matter how poor conditions you were brought up in, there is a way to break out and find that good-positive path that deep down inside everyone wished they had. Sadly, the message is never really concluded because we don't know what Ray ends up deciding on. If you like the typical lost and confused boy who doesn't know where and who to turn to in the beginning, ends up ruining his life in the middle, and ends up somewhat saving his life again&#x97;then you'll like Slam. "},{"Title":"A young man gets caught up in the war zone of gang life and uses the power of slam poetry to set himself free","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Words make sense for a world that won't- (SLAM) In the movie SLAM, written by Marc Levin, Richard Stratton, Saul Williams, Sonja Sohn, and Bonz Malone, directed by Marc Levin, a man named Ray Joshua, played by Saul Williams, is arrested after a drive by shooting for being assumed as the shooter and for having marijuana. Throughout the movie we learn that Ray Joshua is a talented poet that uses his words instead of muscles and guns to make a point. While he is in jail, Ray is faced with a decision to make. Two gangs are trying to force Ray to pick a side, but Ray will not hear of it. Publicly, Ray makes his point by reciting a poem, Amethyst Rocks, and stating, So while you're out there serving the time I'll be in sync with the sun while you run from the moon. Ray's poem not only baffles the other inmates but it makes the leader of one of the gangs realize that life is too short to keep playing the game.When Ray is released from prison, he gets a shocking surprise. His friend, Big Mike, who was shot during the drive by, is alive. However, returning from the grave isn't so sweet. Big Mike is blind from the gunshot wounds and wants revenge. But with Ray's newfound aspect on life, he declines Big Mike's plea. Instead he persuades Big Mike to end the gang and explains to him and the other people within the gang that the war zone-like environment they live in is dangerous and needs to stop. By changing the views of his friends I find that Ray Joshua is a force that defines himself. Although he falls for one character, Lauren Bell, he does not let anyone, even her, influence his ways.Ray Joshua is a character that uses slam poetry to express his emotions and let out years of anger that surpasses his time. For example in his poem, Sha-clack-clack, Ray touches on the history of slavery and how it has continued to enslave all black men and women and that time is continually repeating itself. Instead of Ray ignoring his past, he confronts it head on, stating I am that timeless nigga that swings on pendulums like vines through mines of booby trapped minds that are enslaved by time. By identifying himself with the past and elucidating how stereotypes have grown stronger through his poem, he enlightens the minds of the people around him, maybe even motivating a need for change within them.The movie SLAM has struck me with its powerful poetry by Saul Williams, but has also left me shaking my head in disapproval of its cliché interpretation of The District of Columbia. I do not live in Washington DC, but it seems that whenever a movie wants to discuss the hard life of a black man, the stereotypical views are splayed across the screen. There is always a typical drug obsession, gang affiliation, jail sentences and sometimes the occasional complicated relationship. It is because of these aspects of the movie why I hate to admit I can relate to it. My life is not a drug bust waiting to happen, nor is it infected by gang violence, but I do share a love for words; words that can evoke emotion when written the right way just as Ray Joshua's character did. To me, this movie sends out the message that time repeats itself and that we cannot move forward unless we acknowledge its repetition or its history.Time is something that cannot be erased and Ray Joshua makes that very clear, Ray Joshua also demonstrates how time repeats itself. His words convey the idea that time has not changed, it has only morphed itself to look different, but it is still the same. In his poem Amethyst Rocks, he states, STEALING US WAS THE SMARTEST THING THEY EVER DID. This line makes me wonder if in some metaphorical way, that the 276,000 males that are in the DC Jail were stolen; not because they weren't guilty, but because their ancestors were dragged here and forced to live a life they did not agree to, just like a prisoner is forced to live in an environment that they wish to be freed from. Overall, I would recommend this film for the poetic genius of Saul Williams, but would advise the viewer that they must get through the stereotypical movie magic first. "},{"Title":"Slam review","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Slam filmed by Mark Levin is a inspirational movie about a young man named Ray Joshua who finds a way to get himself away from the violence in the ghetto streets of Washington D.C. through his lyrics. After a drug deal gone bad Ray ends up in jail and is in a situation where he has to pick between two groups to hang with; but Ray doesn't want to belong to one group he wants to be independent. Sitting in his cell thinking about what decision he's going to make he writes a poem and raps it to the jail community. He expresses himself through his words and tells them he does not want to be a part of a click; he wants to be an individual. After Ray expresses what he is thinking he bumps into a young lady who watched him do an outstanding poetry performance and invites Ray to her poetry class. While he was still in jail Ray realizes that he does not need to be involved with violence. Living in the ghetto and hanging out with the wrong crew defines him as this violent and careless person. Ray wants to be different and defines himself as a violence free individual. I believe he is successful in defining who he is in the movie and what type of person he is. In the movie he shows that when he his released from jail and he goes back to his hood and talks his friends out from getting revenge for the drug deal situation. I think this movie wants to send a message to society that violence is not the key. It wants to show how Violence can sometimes define the black society is because they live in the ghetto. I also think this movie is trying to say that violence is what is making them weak and not successful in life. Violence is what's keeping the black community trapped and they need to try and change that wrong impression that society has of them. "},{"Title":"Slam movie review from Blackstone student","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the remarkable racial film Slam by Mark Levin shows firsthand how other forces define us. In the movie a young man named Ray Joshua gets caught up in this stereotypical generation, while gang violence and drug dealing causes Ray to become another statistic in his society. This inspirational tale lets the viewer see how people in different surroundings can be faulted so easily based on their race, neighborhood, and level of threat to society. Ray makes the best of it when he stumbles upon a passion for slam poetry which changes his whole perspective on life.When Ray participates in a drug deal gone bad and is arrested for possession of a controlled substance and suspicion of homicide, he starts to realize the odds of him fighting this and winning his freedom back is slim to none. While in jail he is defined as a typical African American drug dealer but he begins to fight back when he finds a way to resolve a fight between to gangs by blessing them with his free written poetic rap which talks about the forces that try define him. Ray fights back and attempts to change the way he lives his life by trying to end the revenge between the people that shot his friend in a drug deal gone bad. Not even the violence can define Ray as he uses his imagination to express all his feelings through poetry. He begins to go down the right path when he gets out of jail and does everything in his power to live above society's definition of him and try to better his surroundings. He does this when he stands up to his enemies and explains that revenge is pointless and they should just squash their beef.Extra Credit One theme I saw replay itself in the movie is how the public views people like Ray and how these people fall right into societies trap because it's the only way they know. Nobody expects for these Washington D.C. punks to ever grow out of the ghetto and make something better of themselves. Ray really proves his society wrong when he shows everyone that he can be a good person and he expresses this through his poetry which opens up a whole new group of people who teach him the typical or expected way isn't always the way to go. Society views Ray and his community as public enemies number one because everyone assumes they will all just become drug dealers or killers and end up in jail. This is a horrible stereotype that is seen everywhere in the world and can define the people in the ghetto. It takes a strong man to live above this definition and try to make something better of himself.My favorite part in this movie is when Ray attempts to stop or delay a fight about to break out in the jail yard. I loved this part because anyone can write a poem and make it rhyme, but it takes a strong motivated individual to use his poetry as a way to make people think about the decisions they make and ultimately put a stop to a deadly situation. I can relate to when Ray was meeting with his public defender and he was given the ultimatum of either going to trial and fear losing or pleading guilty for less time even if he was guilty. When I was in eighth grade I worked at a concession stand at a football field where I was accused of stealing money. I denied stealing the money and I was told either I admit to stealing the money and giving it back or they were going to call the cops. I told them to call the cops because I knew I was innocent. About a week later I got a call from the woman who runs the concession stand and she explained that another worker and her own son had admitted to stealing the money. I felt helpless when I was given an ultimatum because I realized that when people don't believe you, you could be paying the consequences for another person's wrong doing. I could tell that Ray felt helpless and trapped in between two negative outcomes. This film sends the viewers a message that if you don't try to better yourself from the people around you, then you will fall into societies definition of a typical ghetto troublemaker. I would recommend this film because it urges the importance of living above what's expected of you and I think a lot of young kids these days don't realize that. "},{"Title":"an unbiased perspective","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After reading some of the comments on this movie, I felt the need to express my thoughts on this film from very factual perspective. Most of the comments are positive of this movie, as they should, but some of the more negative comments I've read are a bit overbearing.This film looks gritty and appears to be shot from a documentary perspective because it is an independent film. It was a winner of various contests, including the Sundance Film Festival in 1998. The plot diverges from time to time, but the message is strong. The film brings attention to something that not many are familiar. Slam poetry has become more popular, but has not gotten the attention it deserves. This movie helps that. The movie is full of slam poets. The small part of Jimmy Huang is played by Beau Sia, a recognizable figure for those who follow slam poets. Even Taylor Mali, a 4-time national slam poetry champion, performs briefly in this film. Keep in mind that it is still an independent film and not a major Hollywood production. This is not an excuse for anything that this film lacks, however, it is an important factor to consider.The message of this movie is much more important than the plot and the characters. It showcases how powerful poetry can be and how slam poetry is a competitive sport.Of course these are my viewpoints of the film, but you must make your own judgement. "},{"Title":"Very riveting piece of art work like no other.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film over and over again.  Each time that I watch it, it is as if I have never seen it before.  There are many poets in this film but the two poets that really stand out the most to me are Saul Williams and Sonja Sohn.  The words that they speak and with such articulation, seem to send chills down my spine like a thunder bolt striking a tree.  I cry when I listen to the words, and there are many, that express pain and love all ravelled into one.  I could go on and on about this artwork but whatever I say is only in the opinion that I see fit.  One has to see Slam to know the effects Slam has on a person.  See the movie, listen to the outward cries from the other artists in  the movie, and then you will know why I have this perception of the film.  Get in touch with your inner self.  I know I did.  Peace! "},{"Title":"hopefully this movie gets shown in high schools eventually","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is my pick for best modern african american movie that I've seen.First of course there's Saul Williams, who is not only an amazing poet to witness, but a great actor as well.. hope he does more movies... But the most important aspect of the film is the sequence of events that occur after he is arrested, the dread of seeing your freedom taken by a rigid system of bureaucracy that you NEVER want to run into. There were a couple instances that i thought were out of sync.. the chinese passenger was a little over the top, and the backdrop for saul's character going to jail was somewhat contrived as well.. but I don't think the director really focused on that anyway, the other 99% of the movie that he did focus on was superb nevertheless. I was certain the director was a documentary maker.. turned out he was! i'll have to check out his other work......... this is one of the top movies of '98 "},{"Title":"Fascinating, Fantastic, Fabulous","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Words.  Words.  Words.  This movie is so remarkably excellent because of its story, and the words which make it up.  The story revolves around a black man in Dodge City, D.C., who write, raps, etc.  He is arrested and from there in prison the audience is first introduced to the words of Ray Joshua, the words of a fierce lion with veracity and velocity.  His linguistic treasures, and those of later introduced Slam poets, are what set this amazing work above the rest.  He rhymes spouting lines of truth to bewilder minds and suspend time, speaking of stars that shine, troubles we find, and troubles of the human kind.  The writing is outstanding, but credit can not be passed up when it comes to actor Saul Williams, who played Ray, and all of the other poets.  These actors make the words come alive off the paper and gave these collaboration of letters life and meaning.  So in that regards it can be truthfully stated that this film was skillfully crafted and beautifully acted. The directing is a style which I also really liked. It gave me the feeling of more realness and feeling like I was there traveling along with Ray, being witness to his wonders.  This is a terrific film which contains some of the greatest dialogue and words recently written in a movie.  The final shot and its irony simply put an exclamation mark on an adventure well enjoyed and unpossessing of any clichéd and often deployed scenes of void in cinematic features.  I could go on forever and never stop speaking of Slam's powering inspiration and inspiring power for any one willing to select Play.  This movie was breathtaking and worthy of any positive Words . . . Words . . . Words. "},{"Title":"Sometimes great films come in surprising packages...","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that initially I was quite apprehensive about watching this film. But I decided to checked it out anyway, based on my cable guide's description of the film. And I am so glad that I did. This is clearly one the best films of 1998, without a doubt.As a huge fan of independent films, I prejudged it to be another trite film about urban life in an inner city. What turned me around quickly was the almost documentary flavor the film displayed within the first few minutes. Also, as a DC native, I was glad to see South East, DC portrayed with such honest depiction.The acting was first rate, the poetry was especially poignant and complementary to the story. The only flaw that I detected (in m opinion) was the casting of Marion Barry in the role of a judge.If your looking for a glimpse of realism in film about one person's journey through the trials and tribulations of life in the inner city, this is a must see! "}{"Title":"a little too easy.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Over all, this was a very good film.  I was reluctant to rent it at first but then i got it.  The start of the movie was very trite in my opinion. The acting was really good but it did not catch my interest until the introduction of the character Lauren into the movie.  The revelation that Ray (Saul Williams) comes to in the move seemed a bit too easy.  After one conversation with Lauren he is a changed man and that seems to be a bit unrealistic.  The second half of the movie is absolutely amazing.  The poetry read at the end still gives me chills.  The movie is worth watching for the poetry alone, but the depth of acting is worth watching as well... "},{"Title":"Black Ginsberg ?","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Impressed by one take dramatic acting, flowing poetry that does tend to mimic itself but has a resonating energy, the poetry cafe lives in sharp contrast to the grim reality of prison, I can't believe live changes that easy and we ride into the sun. For a white English guy it is harder to relate and living in Liverpool a major site of slavery it does touch a sore point. I have worked in Africa and thought about that through the film. Overall, a movie I strongly recommend and lived up to being a challenging piece of film-making, more European in style than the usual American models-great work. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Slam was almost perfect. Some of the scenes in the prison were awesome (The rap scene in the cell or the outburst in the courtyard) and everyone I watched it with (and I) insisted we rewind it a few times (Same thing was true about some of the poetry scenes). Saul Williams rules. The one imperfect thing, I thought, was the female character's little spiel about knowing what it is to be blah blah blah. Truth is, Ray doesn't have anything to reproach himself, he's right. And her little diatribe is misguided at best. I'll be looking for Saul Williams. The shortcoming of this movie is far overshadowed by its great great scenes "},{"Title":"A powerful, if limited, film","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though not the best film of 1998 (my vote goes to Bang, another one word wonder), Slam is one of the better films that came out in a year filled with movies about insects and space debris.  As far as I can tell, it's one of the only really important films of 1998 (aside from Bang, Smoke Signals, and maybe Bulworth).  The only limitation (which one reviewer has already nabbed) is that there simply wasn't enough of this film.Saul Williams (Ray Jacobs in the film) has the chance to play the poet/prophet of the Washington D.C. streets and does so with immense power. He's no pacifist (when it comes to emotion) and his voice, while perhaps not authentic, is ideal to shout rap/poetry, and he does so in a way that really makes you see that the words only come out because there's no other place for words that powerful to go.The story, contrary to the video box, is not about salvation but about struggle with the tentative promise of salvation.  The difference between those two ideas is the reason behind the brilliance of Slam.  No one knows how it's going to end up, or if it will.  It's a thinker and, hopefully, will refuse to lie dormant in your brain. "},{"Title":"All in line for a slice of devil pie.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw a review of this film here on the  IMDB that was not very flattering.  I was amazed.  This was the best movie of 1998.  This film worked on many, many levels.  I'd like to give the director more credit for this success but I think this film is also the confluence of every positive factor imaginable.  Wow!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Urban Fairy-Tale","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I firmly believe Slam to be the best film that I saw in 1998.  The acting, especially on the part of the two leads, was superb.  The story was a stale concept redone masterfully.  The script brought a musical quality to the concerns of Urban America.  Allow me to explain Slam's beauty This year was a year of three trends 1. Asteroids. 2. Fairy Tales (Something About Mary, Life is Beautiful) 3. Weak endings (A Civil Action, Saving Private Ryan) So here you have it  Slam was the flagship of this year.  (except for the whole asteroid thing)  It was a fiery tale with a strong ending that left you looking for answers that, with luck, we find in our everyday lives. It's part of a rare breed that doesn't give you the answer, just the means by which to get it.  Slam (and films like it) makes me glad that movies exist to teach us. "},{"Title":"Pointed, Important","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I feel the need to comment after reading the glib and superior chat of a person who focuses on the technical aspects of filmmaking and completely misses the power of the whole piece.Any American who has seriously thought about race relations, and more specifically the Black experience in this country, must take this movie to be a powerfully realistic portrait of one Black man's attempt to escape the negativity that surrounds him.  There are high stakes, there is inescapable conflict, and there is no easy solution, only that greater negativity will not answer the question.  As real as a film can be. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Slam is an excellent movie and an intriguing character study. Ray is a young black man who deals marijuana and writes slam poetry.  His life changes when a tragic event occurs right in front of him and he is caught with a packet of marijuana.  He faces jail time and there is where the movie draws it's amazing strength.The movie does not blink at the violence, factionalism, and bureaucraticness of today's prison system.  Ray is just a man trying to survive and be left alone.  Though he finds that to be nearly impossible. An all too quick to develop romance develops and Ray has to figure out how to deal with finding a new love in the very brief time between his being bailed out and the beginning of his sentence.It is a fascinating story with excellent performances.  The major criticism I have with it is when it tries to stretch itself out to become a non-violence message to all black people instead of sticking with its strength which is the poetry, the romance, and the utter desperation felt by Ray.  It is in Ray's utter desperation that the film's manic energy is truly felt. "},{"Title":"Slam One of few movies that can change your world view","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is amazing! If you haven't seen it yet, run to the video store and snag it. If they don't have it, demand that they carry the movie (call them ignorant and say things like, don't you know this is one of the most important and poignant movies of our time, you uncultured @sswhole?). The movie, about a young, Washington DC native, black poet who sells marijuana to finance his writing, combines politically charged slam poetry, hip-hop, and slick cinematography to paint a compelling portrait of the struggles of poor black males and the United State's prison system. It does the best job of any movie I've seen at highlighting the racism and injustice of our country's prison system. Some may be discouraged from seeing this movie because they may find the double meaning of 'Slam' cheesy (slam poetry and the sound the prison doors). Don't be one of those people! If you're like me, Slam will move you, turn you into an instant fan of Slam poetry, and, most importantly, force you to think about issues bigger than yourself. It is one of the few movies that can change the way the viewer sees the world.  "},{"Title":"One of best acted movies ever.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I started watching this movie, I expected it would be another of the I don't stand a chance because I'm black movies.Instead it dealt with the full breath of human feelings in situations where some are very much deprived. I have never seen a movie where the acting was better down to the most minor character. The director undoubtedly brought out the best in each. All the acting was great and especially the main character performed by Saul Williams. If anyone said that they enjoyed this movie I would conclude that they were mentally deficient. It is a movie that everyone would in discomfort, be glad they saw. The only fault I found, was during the only sex scene where for 7 seconds the director felt that he had to comply with what must be a Hollywood law in showing candles burning in the background during sex. Does Hollywood think this is necessary for romance?Why get corny when the rest of the movie was so realistic? "}{"Title":"No accounting for taste?","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm shocked to hear all the glowing commentary about this film. It's unfortunate that i'm limited to a thousand words to describe how bad it truly is. The basic plot is a character named Raymond Joshua, a rapping drug dealer played by Saul Williams, gets arrested for drug possession, then bailed out by a fellow prisoner - SERIOUSLY - then must decide whether to go back to prison. For starters the quality of the film is poor, a good twenty minutes could be cut out removing these slow motion flashbacks that are just time killers. Yes it was low budget, but many other small films don't look this ridiculous. In particular the chase seen in which Joshua picks an arbitrary point to climb up a white picket fence, despite being chased by overweight 50 something detectives that randomly burst into song, literally.The biggest problem with the movie is the unrealistic character of Joshua, amongst other problems. He is not a typical drug dealer or rapper despite whatever the poor black men have no chance message this film is going for. When asked if was guilty of the possession of the marijuana Joshua responds I mean I don't know, yet throughout the film he breaks into poems/raps that clearly display his tremendous vocabulary, you aren't just born knowing these words. It's clear that he was well educated, yet not very educated in basic laws, or the principals of using your education to get a legal job.While in prison, Joshua breaks up a inmate riot by yelling a poem. The poem is pretty entertaining, it goes on to blame whitey for everything and his inspiring words stop everyone from stabbing each other. He then meets a female poetry teacher who happens to see the riot stopping poem, a foolish plot device an indie film fan would never forgive in another situation, but hey THIS IS REAL. In the one poetry class Joshua goes to, which is the last one due to budget cuts of course, his instructor goes on a whiny diatribe about how good the people in the prison are. This despite the previous poem by an inmate being titled I shot three mother you can guess the next word and I don't know why.A very interesting and entertaining character named Hopha, a prisoner who goes around in a lab coat for some reason, then bails Joshua out. Joshua then goes and hooks up with the poetry instructor, and has a week to decide whether accept his guilt, or flee or something. The films climax is him performing a poem to a small club that goes wild afterward. Once again the bad editing is at work here as he rattles off 20 seconds of poem, then starts over, I'm fairly sure it wasn't meant to be that way they just didn't feel like doing another take. Then a member of the audience yells an expletive that clearly should have been deleted because it makes the whole scene look ridiculous.I really worry about people being inspired by this film or wanting it shown in public schools, the latter a possible sign of the apocalypse. It seems a lot of commentary's from outside the U.S. like the film, I really hope this isn't the only vision of America you have. Film is not reality, the best it can do is present a situation that might have some truth in it, something this film does very little of. If you want a better film about prison injustice try Brubaker, it cuts to the heart of matters more and is of much better quality. I could go on about other errors in the film. A first time offender getting ten years for a small amount of weed. The screaming character Jimmy Huang who is billed high on the credits for yelling briefly, to his credit his scene is worth watching. The abundance of over and underacting. The intentional, yet not clever, cameo of Marion Berry. I could go on for hours but lets just say my rating for this film is ONE ONE ONE. . .ONE ONE ONE. "},{"Title":"kid from the ghetto is locked up for a crime he did not commit","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the movie Slam directed by Marc Levin, we see another story about a young man named Ray Joshua who grows up in the ghetto. Ray makes his living through selling drugs in the neighborhood, as some kids often do when they live in urban areas. As Ray is receiving some marijuana from his friend, his friend is shot. When Ray hears the shots fired and the sirens of the cops he begins to run. He does not run for long because he is quickly caught by the cop, who searches him and sees the marijuana he has on him. He is sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. Although Ray is imprisoned, he does not want to make himself a part of the gangs in the prison. At one point in the movie, two rival gangs approach him and Ray begins to say various rhymes. He catches the attention of both gangs and of a female who is watching him from the gate. Ray wants to show that he was different from the other prisoners, and he does that through his poetry.The forces of living in the ghetto and being sent to prison try to define Ray. Although Ray is innocent of the crime he is being punished, the fact that he has grown up in an urban neighborhood full of drug dealers it makes him more of a suspect. When the rival gangs in the prison try to get Ray to be on their side he separates himself with his words. Right after Ray says, I am the sun, and we are public enemy number one&#x85; (Slam), all the prisoners look around as if they do not know what just hit them. He catches all the prisoners off guard because they expect him to be just like any other kid from the ghetto, reckless and hardheaded. Through his poetry Ray is able to show the other prisoners that he is not the ordinary kid from the ghetto and that he does not need them to survive in prison; he can do that just fine on his own.Even though many people enjoyed this movie I personally did not. I felt as if I was watching the story of another kid from the ghetto that is exposed to drugs and is quickly locked up. I see these things daily where I live, and I did not want to see it on screen. I cannot relate to Ray in the sense of being in prison or blamed from a crime I did not commit, but I can relate to him because of the surroundings he grew up in. I constantly see kids and friends go down these paths that lead them nowhere in life. Some people may argue that Ray did what he had to do by selling drugs, but I disagree. My parents work extremely hard to put food on the table, and that is what I consider doing what you have to do in order to survive. Ray could have separated himself from the drugs just as he separated himself from the other prisoners in the prison yard. Although I know it is not always easy to get away from the drugs and violence we see daily, we must try to not give in. Despite the fact that I was not into the movie, I would recommend it to others. I would recommend it to kids who think selling drugs is the easy way out, so that they can see that by selling drugs and being a kid from the ghetto, you are automatically looked at as a suspect by society. "},{"Title":"Spike Look Out!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without Saul Williams this film could not have been made. Its as if it was tailor made for William's awesome rapping talents without which the film would be pointless.This film is definitely a milestone in black cinema. Its fresh, breathtaking, original, powerful and 'takes no prisoners' (mind the pun).And a couple of word about the soundtrack - the ever excellent DJ Spooky takes the credits combining the most powerful hip hop outfits around, to create an intensive soundtrack which completes this film and leaves you open jawed. "},{"Title":"One of best acted movies ever.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I started watching this movie, I expected it would be another of the I don't stand a chance because I'm black movies.Instead it dealt with the full breath of human feelings in situations where some are very much deprived. I have never seen a movie where the acting was better down to the most minor character. The director undoubtedly brought out the best in each. All the acting was great and especially the main character performed by Saul Williams. If anyone said that they enjoyed this movie I would conclude that they were mentally deficient. It is a movie that everyone would in discomfort, be glad they saw. The only fault I found, was during the only sex scene where for 7 seconds the director felt that he had to comply with what must be a Hollywood law in showing candles burning in the background during sex. Does Hollywood think this is necessary for romance?Why get corny when the rest of the movie was so realistic? "},{"Title":"saul williams is amazing","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sohn and Williams are absolutely beautiful together! A very real and incredible movie. It made me think of all the wrongful things going on in the world that i don't usually personally witness. Saul Williams is amazing, his words are beautiful, moving, and insightful. This movie is interesting right up to the very end. If you like poetry and the truth, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Good intentions, but subtle as a elephant's ass","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My friends and I had a bitter dispute about this movie with me against all of them. I had some expectations about this movie that it didn't meet at all. The dialogue and script of this movie was amazingly melodramatic and unbelievable. Maybe in a kid's comic book, but in a supposedly critical film, this movie was just utter boredom and an eyesore for my eyes, taste, mind, and soul. I can't believe that this is the best an intellectual urban film can be. None of the characters had any character or soul (except for Muggs or whatever the convict/friend's name is that befriends the main character in jail). The filming was awful and pretentious. It's good if you want to showcase your talent for MTV with all the grainy blitz-and-shake documentary-style footage but it feels too much like a cheap commercial. The symbolism at the end of the quick sequences and at the 3 or 4 critical points in the movie were so cheesy I could make fifty double-double hamburgers with it.Altogether, a pathetic excuse for an independent flick. Watch Fresh instead.Oh yeah, I might be biased 'cuz I hate spoken word nonsense. And I didn't click with the showy references to hip-hop vocabulary. The main character was like a lame English-major freshman in college trying to show how cool he was.  "},{"Title":"A cut above the usual black thug flick","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Slam tells of a young black rapper, poet, and project street punk who's busted for possession and may have to do time. A cut about your usual Afro-Am street crime flicks in its humanness, Slam weaves slam poetry and rap into its drama creating a sense of hope through sublimation. An okay watch, especially for those into Slammin', rappin' or just contemporary poetry and issues. "},{"Title":"...............","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i was pretty captivated by the story - i think i especially liked the end of the film.  it made me want to know what happened afterwards to this poor fellow.  it is a terrible story and one that has not been told enough i think.  it is very nicely shot as well. "},{"Title":"Slam is excrement in the form of film and needs to be properly wiped and flushed FOREVER!!!","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot believe that all the people on this comment section are actually praising this grotesque piece of horrid cinema!  Where do I start?  What the hell was the plot of this movie?  The main character, Raymond Joshua, is an amateur poet and drug dealer who gets sent to prail(prison and jail, which I'll talk about later) after making the moronic mistake of attempting to jump a fence instead of running away from the fifty year old doo-wop cops. He then gets in the patty wagon with arguably the best character of the movie, an unknown convict named Jimmy Huang or some sort of phallic name like that.  He screams, yells, gets beaten, and earns the third credit in the film for his three seconds of brilliance. Mr. Joshua then meets with his la la la lawyer who is obviously smoking some of the drugs that our star was caught with.  Comprehending what the hell the lawyer was saying is like trying to throw a snowball into an elephants mouth at a hundred feet... Now he is sent to jail, which for some reason is made out to be like a prison, you might make it out of here...you might not.  Dying for a quarter pound of weed seems a little excessive for a jail, however, if only that had happened the suffering could have turned to slight laughter with mild nausea.  He meets another street pharmacist in jail, the for some reason free roaming Hopha, who is aloud to have his cell door open, maybe he has appointments with some of the bigger prisoners for conjugal visits or something, they don't really explain that.  Raymond then meets a disgusting woman teaching poetry (go figure) to the troubled murderers and rapists with artsy souls dying to get out. I'm not going to say any more, I wouldn't want to spoil the filth for you entirely.  Let's just say this movie is wonderful.  In the way that having a catheter and an enema at the exact same time your limbs are being sawed off one at a time with a piece of looseleaf paper is pleasant.  Do yourself a favor and watch Breakin 2 Electric Boogaloo, the Mountain Men, and Slam, and then try not to kill yourself, I dare you. "},{"Title":"BECAUSE I'M PUBLIC ENEMY NO. 1","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You can count the good hip-hop films on one hand. Well this is one of them.Williams is excellent in his first lead role. The film has ghetto issues, prison, slavery and love all covered.One complaint is that Williams isn't allowed to preach his poetry more. "}{"Title":"Over-hyped","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Slam, with all of its promises of being a life-changing event, is mostly a severely over-hyped little film that had the luck to catch the eye of a few important critics.  I expected the movie to be centered around the creative wordplay of the protagonist, but this only comprises a small amount of the 100 minute running time, the rest of the story being little more than another entry into the tired genre of inner-city-youth-making-his-way-into-the-world films.  Simply put, there just isn't enough poetry.The directing, by documentary filmmaker Marc Levin, is mostly sophomoric, employing grating montages of zoom shots in the streets, and stagy action. The dialogue, too, even though it would seem that the hand-held camera would add a sense of reality, seems stilted and scripted.The acting is good, especially in the case of Saul Williams in the lead, although his speech is far too refined for a D.C. drug runner.  Sonja Sohn radiates a few minutes of power as his creative writing girlfriend, although she seems a tad too self-absorbed to be the caring individual her character is supposed to be.  The rest of the cast is mostly comprised of amateurs, and it shows.Overall, I found this film to be boring and pointless, but for some reason it has a strong following.  Go figure. "}]