[{"Title":"Note This is a review of the collected short films of Francois Ozon, with particular reference to the collection's centrepiece, Regarde la Mer (See the Sea).","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's not until a feature filmmaker reaches a certain status that their short films are released beyond the festival circuit. Now the short work of Francois Ozon is available on DVD after a short cinematic release.Ozon offers impressive tapas here, with concise, impeccably structured short films. Plot twists are reminiscent of Roald Dahl, while the sensual undercurrents approach Anais Nin's erotica, without being nearly as explicit.In Summer Dress (1996, 15 minutes), two gay teenagers are on holiday at French beach community Isle d'Yeu. While wasp-waisted Sebastian mimes to 'Bang! Bang!', by chanteuse Sheila, his lover Luc begs him to be more discreet. Until Luc dallies with the older, knowing Lucia at the local 'beat'. After Luc's forced to wear her dress home, he comes out of the closet. The cinematography is flashback 1950s, with azure sea, bronzed boys in swimming trunks and rose-red lips. But this nostalgia avoids sentimentality, instead increasing the dreamlike quality of Luc's experience. And the interplay between the characters demonstrates an essential sexual fluidity present in all Ozon's films &#150; although his characters may have definite sexual orientations, there's no guarantee they'll follow them. In addition, as gay auteur Ozon's focus of desire is men, it liberates his women from the 'male gaze' and allows them to be more interesting. Sharing the same island setting as Summer Dress, the standout film of the collection is See the Sea (1997, 52 minutes). Englishwoman Sasha (Sasha Hails) is holidaying alone with her baby daughter when ill-kempt backpacker Tatiana (Marina de Van) pitches her tent in the backyard. From the first, something is not quite right about Tatiana, but lonely Sasha wants someone to babysit. As the suspense develops, Tatiana becomes more repellent but also fascinating, an earthy id to Sasha's ego. At the same time, while Sasha may be clearly normal, she is also a careless mother. While, the relationship between the two is reminiscent of Ozon's Swimming Pool, the outcome is much darker. ****/***** stars. "},{"Title":"Truly frightening","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I taped this due to the recommend in the NYT television section and it was right. I kept getting apprehensive from the moment the backpacker turns up. The suspense of approaching terror reminded me of the growing sense of horror in Chabrol's Le Ceremonie.Two quibbles what mother would leave her baby in the bathtub for only a few seconds. And what mother would leave her baby alone on the beach? The mother obviously had a dark side to begin with; she was lonely (trying to reach her husband for several times without success) and was an easy prey to the backpacker. While the ending horrified me, it shouldn't have surprised me. What was great is the movie didn't drag on and was short.Definitely worth watching and it left me shaken for a long time after-wards. Like Le Ceremonie, it will remain in my memory. Horror doesn't mean slash and gore. "},{"Title":"A scary short film from France.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  See The Sea is one of those films that's truly horrifying. This is oneof the few movies that gave me a true scare, not a cheap one. A motherand her child live in a cottage that's located by the sea. Her husbandis always on a lengthy business trip, leaving the two alone for longperiods of time. One day, a female drifter comes into their lives. Thisis when the fun begins. Mere words cannot describe what happens next.But the end results are down right scary. If you want a nice scare orif you enjoy a real good thriller every now and then, this one might beyour cup of tea.Highly recommended.A- "},{"Title":"Catch it while you can","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is flat out brilliant film-making - right up there with Hitchcock, Kurosawa, Ford, or anyone else you can name. It functions on multiple levels, the simplest of which is as a thriller which will keep you on edge for 52 minutes - and stays with you a long time after. It's done in a traditional French style - minimal dialogue, almost no music (1 pivotal scene), maximum use of visuals to tell story. The director doesn't need to tell the audience where to go emotionally with heavy handed music cues or dialogue - he knows exactly where he's taking us and lets the images speak for themselves. It's ironic that French films are sometimes thought of as pretentious, because this film is made so simply and fluidly. I heard it said that the best way to tell a story is to get out of its way and let it tell itself. I'd put this one in my top twenty of all time. "},{"Title":"Be afraid. Be very afraid.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Francois Ozon once again demonstrates his confidence in his intensely brilliant story-telling abilities, creating a downright unsettling atmosphere where you, as the viewer, aren't sure what is going to happen but you sense it's not going to end well. And then afterwards, you are left thinking about what you've seen and realizing that the 'clues' were there all along, some subtle and some not-so-subtle. I would say this movie is basically a cautionary tale, about what can happen to one who is carelessly focused on one's own needs, who doesn't pick up on what is going on in a potentially dangerous situation. -=- SPOILER ALERT -=- The mother has all the signals that something is very wrong with the backpacker, particularly when she sneaks into her tent and finds the extremely disturbing book with her insane scribblings and drawings, but she is so consumed by her OWN needs that she overlooks these signals. Big mistake. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, Creepy, Short film","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Francois Ozon has proven himself an unflinching observer of the human animal's dark side. Its amazing how Ozon can infuse a short film about a seaside vacation with this much oppressive atmosphere and fright. The two characters are very human thanks to Ozon showing the good and bad of all parties. A film this gritty should never be called gratuitous. Rather it puts a good person and an evil one in a fishbowl for us to observe and although neither is perfect you are left with no question as to which is which at the end of one hour. Without a doubt worth your time and possibly purchase if someone else can speak to the quality of the DVD's available out there.  "},{"Title":"A disturbing and effective film","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of horror movies, but it has been a long time since a horror movie actually horrified me.I didn't know See the Sea (or Regarde la mer) was a horror movie when I began watching it. I knew only that it was a perhaps mildly suspenseful, but probably boring fifty-two minute French film being shown on Cinemax. I didn't expect much.I didn't even bother going on-line to look for reviews.So, how was I to know I shouldn't have watched See the Sea very late at night?  As I said, I was prepared to be bored, figuring if I were bored to the point of nodding off on the sofa, I could turn it off and toddle off to bed, no problem.An hour later, having finished watching this amazing, subtle, disturbing film, I was wide awake and disquieted -- and another hour passed before I settled down enough to go to bed.The film's horror is psychological. It's in the relationship between two very different women, and it builds to a stunning conclusion.The last film that made me feel this creeped out was Repulsion in 1966, when I was a teenager. And that was a French film, too. Hmmm... "},{"Title":"Intriguing drama","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The story begins with a crying baby and ends with a crying baby (but under very different circumstances) and in between we become involved in a intriguing and somewhat sinister drama about two very different women.   The beauty of the beach location with its golden sand contrasts in an interesting way with the ugliness of the tragic events.   Simmering not far below the surface is the sexual yearning of two women, each of them lonely in their own way.Baby Chiffre is a great little actress - smiling, gurgling, crying and doing all the right things at the right time.   The two women made a nice contrast in  characters - Sasha Halls as the lonely elegant wife and Marina de Van as the intruding back-packer.   The development of the plot as the cunning back-packer with her insensitive questioning manipulates the wife into accepting her presence inside her home is an exciting thought somewhat frightening aspect of the story. There are a couple of details I would like to question Firstly, would the obviously well-bred wife put the toilet roll at her feet on the bathroom floor?  Secondly, whilst admitting she was very hungry, would the backpacker pick up her dinner plate and lick off the gravy with her big fat tongue?   While the toothbrush scene might offend some people,I found it quite acceptable in the context of the desperate character.Husband Paul appears late in the film as a businessman returning from Paris.   The shocking scene which he discovers on arriving home stuns him into absolute silence, hand over mouth to stifle his cry.  I think a cry of terror, panic, disbelief - call it what you will, would have added more dramatic impact.Summing up  top quality film, interesting, exciting and disturbing.   I am still trying to understand the significance of the title. "},{"Title":"Yes, its shocking ... and so?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  To paraphrase David Letterman on Madonna I have a theory about Mr. Ozon - he wants to SHOCK us.Ozon gives us a nice set-up - domesticated housewife meets her suddenly (re)emerged anarchist-vagabond shadow on a remote isle - and allows his own inner rampaging adolescent to trash the whole business.Rather than simply follow out the ominous dance initiated between these two characters, Ozon decides to step in every few minutes and punch the viewer in the face the plate-licking scene, the bit with the tooth-brush (I think its a measure of Ozon's juvenality just how quickly it winds up in our heroine's mouth), the sex scene in the conveniently located Forest of Men. No doubt this is to jar the viewer out of his/her bourgeois complacency. However, I think the presence of this aggression more truthfully reflects Mr. Ozon's discomfort with his own un-exorcized spirit of domesticity. As with most pseudo-rebels (or posturing enfants-terribles) art becomes a game of projecting into others, and then attacking, what we can't tolerate in ourselves. Thus the inability of Mr. Ozon to let the story play itself out and the quite apparent intrusiveness of the scenes I mentioned. And if this lack of continuity (or eruption of absurdity) is to be justified as a play of surrealism - PLEEEASE! As every director from Clair to Bunuel to Lynch to the Coen bros. who has worked with this palatte has known, such a world must maintain its own inner consistency (whether this is done through lighting, gesture/stylized movement, dialog, what have you). Ozon does not even make such an attempt, therefore his imaginative leaps appear merely arbitrary GESTURES of artistic abandon rather than the real deal. Clearly Ozon has some growing up to do before he can sail with those who truly chart a course on unknown seas (rather than play pirate in their own bathtubs). 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, like an extended 'short'","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Saw this film on the Sundance Channel a couple times now. It's really not anything new, but it's still a haunting story of frustration, need, and (mis)trust. Sasha seems to be happy (and even says so) with her current settled life, yet there are displays of her boredom and frustration throughout the film (the baby keeps her occupied, yet at the same time it also won't let her sleep, read, etc.). She is also in need of some sex, as a couple scenes prove.I suppose probably being as bored as she is more so than being polite, she befriends Tatiana after being wary of her at first. Strangely, she starts to place way to much trust in this person (leaving her to watch the baby, etc.), but that just shows Sasha is so pent up that she'll take any chance she gets to have some relief. As they get chummier, Tatiana starts to show to the audience signs of being a bit unstable (you got to see one such scene for yourself!), and later Sasha finds her weird notebook drawings but doesn't seem to think much of it (we all doodle, right?). Later when Sasha offers her most trusting friendliness, Tatiana finally does what she has to do, starting with a scene that at first looks more a return of friendship than what really happens. (Even though what finally happens is a bit predictable, it doesn't take away from its impact since such a thing is always disturbing and tragic.)Overall, this was an enjoyable film, if you are into concise, well shot and acted drama with talented actresses. Also, for this particular film, it's length was just right, at just under an hour.  A- "}{"Title":"Shows Ozon's talent, but too easy","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Ozon certainly has talent. It's obvious from See the Sea (it's even more obvious from his infinitely superior Water Drops on Burning Rocks). See the Sea is impeccably shot and directed. If only some of the other areas were better. Rarely does such an obvious thriller come along, where you can tell from second one where it is going. Ozon might as well have not showed the final shot. It's mostly the fault of the actress playing the camper (apparently the two women had names, but I don't remember them ever being said), or, more correctly, the casting agent who cast her (or Ozon himself, if he's responsible, which he probably is). It's just far too easy to hire this scowling goth chick whom the audience can boo and hiss at - she might as well tied the mother down to a train track and played with her curling mustache. When the mother finds the book with the drawings of gallows and skulls, I had to suppress a laugh. I liked the scene in the graveyard better - it was more subtle. Why didn't Ozon just leave it at that? And I really liked the angle of the mother's sexual frustration. That was excellent, and there are two very explicit, very erotic scenes involving her (although I don't quite believe she'd leave her baby alone on a beach; of course, Ozon does do a good job developing this woman's motherly instincts throughout the film). The end is just cheaply shocking. See the Sea is a decent stylistic exercise, but it is rather a forgettable film. 7/10. "},{"Title":"...everything bad Americans think about French movies","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Ever since I've started writing comments on IMDb I've been writing about European movies more than about American, and I've suggested readers to watch most of them. I gave good marks to French movies, though many others (mostly American) movie-lovers found them pretentious, false artistic or boring. But now here's the movie that expresses everything bad people have ever thought about French movies. Too short for a serious standard movie, too long for its weak story. Too much nudity for prudes, too little to be a soft-porn. Too many unimportant scenes, too little developing of characters. If Americans often make cover versions of French movies, this one shamelessly steels from US movies and still succeeds to make it boring, because we can expect in advance every important event and the revealing of secrets doesn't surprise us very much. Finally, the shocking end of the movie is in fact the only logical one.What's good in the movie? Photography maybe, but it is so common in French movies that it's not necessary to emphasize it (no better, no worse than average French photo). The acting is also far below French standards. Paul as character might have also been omitted from the movie, he might have been left just as a person somewhere far away it would have been intriguing for us to think if he existed at all. But it would be too, too much for writers to understand that. "},{"Title":"Quite good, but slightly overextended","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is a good shocker, using something of a Wuthering Heights scenario in miniature. It would have made an excellent 30-35 minute short, but  was unnecessarily extended for probably commercial reasons. If some scenes appear to add little to the story, try to think about the link between-What Tatiana says about the consequencies of women ripping during childbirth-Tatiana's disturbed personality-the toothbrush incident-Tatiana's knowledge of the men in the forest, yet lack of interest in joining Sasha for oral sex there-The closing sceneThe director nicely sets up the atmosphere of foreboding, which after all, is what horror movies depend on. I though the rope on the victim was a clever and disturbing touch; it's something I've never seen before, although I admittedly haven't seen many horror flicks. While you can guess how it ends fairly early on, the twists and turns in getting there, and the denouement, are quite unexpected. Compared with Ozon's other shorts, this has some substance mixed in with his usual puerile, tedious obsession with the dark side of human sexuality.I like films like this (e.g. 2001 A Space Odyssey)where you have to think afterwards about what you've seen, and maybe see it again, to make complete sense of it. Your mileage may vary. "},{"Title":"Lost at Sea","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A woman living with her small child at a remote coastal location allows a vagabond woman to stay with her for a couple of days. This is a curiosity piece. While it is somewhat interesting, it is not clear why Ozon even bothered with this one. At 52 minutes, it is too long for a short film and too short for a feature film. Despite its short length, it drags a bit. It is basically a bizarre collection of scenes that don't add up to much of anything. There's no rhyme or reason to the things the women do except that both display odd behavior that is left unexplained. The only point of the whole exercise seems to be to justify the end, which is disturbing but not surprising. "},{"Title":"Decent (Yet Extremely Predictable) French Shocker Short...","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" SEE THE SEA is a well made short (52 minute) film that works on most levels. I wouldn't go so far as to call it a masterpiece or anything (as some reviewers have...), especially being that the film's ending is completely predictable - but even so, the good acting, suspenseful atmosphere, and swift run-time keep this one from ever being boring or too self-indulgent...A young mother lives in a small sea-side community with her 10-month-old daughter. Her husband is off on business and the two are left alone in their small cottage. A young female drifter/back-packer wanders into the community and stops to ask if she can set up her tent on the woman's property for a few days, and the woman reluctantly agrees. We soon find that this was not such a good idea, as our wandering friend turns out to be a little off...Everything in SEE THE SEA was handled competently and confidently by the director, building a sense of tension through the interactions of the mother and the back-packer. Also, the mother's lacadaisical treatment of her baby (leaving her alone in the tub and on the beach, leaving her alone with the back-packer that she just met as she goes to drink wine at a restaurant, etc...) adds another layer to the story and almost makes you wonder if the ending of the film was almost justified - or if this was perhaps what the director was trying to convey. Speaking of the ending (which I will not give away here...) - that is my one major problem with the film. The sense of tension in the film was well-built, but led up to an EXTREMELY predictable (if still somewhat satisfying ending. A decent short film overall - worth a look to those that dig darker material in their films...7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Shocking feature debut from one of France's greats!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" My main reason for seeking out this film was due to the fact that it's directed by one of the great filmmakers of today, Francois Ozon. You can always count on Ozon to deliver a well observed tale of the unexpected, and even though he lacked experience at the time this film was made, it's still a great way to spend 52 minutes of your life. From Ozon's later movies, the one I would say this one most closely resembles is the seductive thriller Swimming Pool, as Ozon captures the meeting of two very different women and the resulting absurdity that stems from that meeting. See the Sea is a lot grittier than Swimming Pool, however, and if his objective with this film was to make an impact; he definitely succeeded in doing just that. The film focuses on Sasha, a young woman living a peaceful life with her baby daughter in a beach house. Her life is disrupted one day when another woman by the name of Tatiana asks if she may camp out on Sasha's land. Sasha agrees, and the film follows the relationship between the two over the course of a few days.This film is very short, running at just 52 minutes; but Ozon makes great use of his time, and overall I've got to say that I'd have been happy for him to drag the story out more. The pace of the film is very relaxed, but it's always obvious that it's leading to a sinister conclusion. Ozon builds the tension between the characters well, and by constantly hinting that there's more to the eerie stranger that meets the eye, the director skilfully entices his audience into the central situation. The build-up to the final resolution is never terribly shocking (toothbrush scene aside), but it's always foreboding and this bodes excellently with the shock climax. The style of the film is very down and dirty, and the film doesn't feature the picturesque settings and cinematography of the later Swimming Pool. The way that the director finally shows his hand is absolutely superb, however, as the character that has been referred to but never seen until the end comes home to survey the damage to his family home. Overall, See the Sea is a distressing and damaging film that leaves the viewer with something to think about, and while the director has done better; this early film is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Plenty of deviant behavior for everybody","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's short, but there's a surplus of sexuality and deviant behavior in Francois Ozon's See The Sea, a strange tale about a lonely mother of one who lets a filthy drifter girl camp in the backyard of her island home. When this woman needs a break from baby, she wanders into the nearby forest to get her vagina eaten by one of the local gay boys (or should that be bi boys?) Ozon, who directed the excellent Criminal Lovers, has a skill with material about marginalized characters; he's not averse to strange sexuality, either. You know this film is going somewhere weird, and it sure does, but it manages to stay interesting for the most part and is quite erotic. The island location is stunning and the final revelation is a welcome shocker. "},{"Title":"A very unpleasant little film","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" MAJOR SPOILER ALERT--Don't Read This if You Haven't Seen the Film! This little picture is slightly less than one hour long, but due to its being a rather disgusting little picture, it seemed longer--I simply didn't enjoy it at all and found it tough going. It's the story of a screwy young lady and her baby at the beach. They meet a very strange female drifter and they become friends, of sorts. Then, rather out of the blue, the film has a very, very bloody and unsettling ending--complete with very explicit nudity and violence.The very end of the story I found to be very confusing, as it was hard to figure out exactly WHO murdered WHO (I am sorry for the spoiler, but this is a truly confusing film). Apparently I got it wrong who perpetrated the attack when I first reviewed the film, as an alert IMDb reader noted. And while I usually don't make these sort of errors, I tried re-watching the film just to see how I could have made this mistake. And, even the second time, I could see how this occurred, as the body and perpetrator were only VERY briefly seen at the end. This ambiguity may have been intentional--I just don't know. Another reason I think I didn't exactly understand who did what is that what DID occur didn't make much sense to me at all--it seemed like a gratuitous and senseless ending and the motivation for this act was unclear. "},{"Title":"Predictable and Ultimately Dull","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  After quite a good setup of the sparse seaside landscape and the frustrated housewife with baby it degenerates into a thriller that delivers a few shocks (or more correctly disgusting moments) but no true surprises or twists.The drifter is a stock character with no depth or distinguishing characteristics from other such characters (nor is any added by the actress in a flat performance) so ultimately there is no menace to sustain even a film this short.  The housewife fares better, particularly in the first half, with a little more depth but even that is discarded for the surprise ending.  And if you were surprised then you weren't paying attention (probably because you were nodding off).The film is shot in a harsh, minimalist way that tends towards realism which intrigues during the initial setup but is betrayed by the often unrealistic (or at least they felt that way) goings on that are played straight with no stylistic touches whatsoever.  And in such a short film several scenes really have no bearing on the plot and really add nothing to the characters. As such the film ultimately lacks depth and tension and ends up being just, well, dull. "},{"Title":"Moody, Horrific, Ultimately Aimless","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If your idea of suspense is waiting for a sullen, unhinged character to finally snap, then I suppose this qualifies as supsenseful. But I found this film to be a pointless string of evocative imagery without much of a soul. I was waiting for something awful to happen, and after 50 minutes,  something does. I walked away feeling deadened, and  cheated. Or is that how I was SUPPOSED to feel? oooh. "}{"Title":"Regarde la porte","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  See the door? If this movie is on in your vicinity, perhaps now would be a good time to open the door, step outside, and close the door, making sure it's locked behind you. It's just that bad. It's even worse than another François Ozon film I've seen called Water Drops on Burning Rocks.At 50 minutes, this film is excruciating. Some may call it a brilliant art film, but to call it a film is to simply say that anything that IS filmed can be considered a movie. Which is true, to some extent, but that is far from saying that everything on film is a something that people would like to see.The concept of this film seems to be one of Oh boy, cynicism! The characters are empty glasses at the start, filled a bit with their actions, only to be emptied again at various points so that completely unbelievable things can occur. And these unbelievable things... They advance the plot, right? Nope! They're just thrown in there to remind us all that the world is a horrible place and everyone in it is potentially going to despoil your like-new toothbrush and perhaps do a few other things that aren't very nice for no particular reason.This is a film that asks the audience to draw their own conclusions, I suppose. But when all is said and done, what conclusions can even be drawn from it? Not many, and those few that can be drawn aren't too remarkable. This is an empty film. Out of a 10, I give it a 2. "},{"Title":"Quelle horreur!","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I had seen Under the Sand before watching See the sea so I had my hopes high while waiting for it to start on TV. What a mistake that was! Any mention to François Ozon turns my stomach upside down these days. There is so little logic in the story( i.e a lonely mother lets a perfect creepy stranger in her property, she leaves the baby in the beach and bathtub all alone, she lets the stranger babysit her child, after finding the notebook on the tent she still invites the backpacker to stay in the house and ends up having sex with her etc...) that it is hardly believable. Every single impossible mistake the mother makes makes you wanna cry ' not again!'. After a while it looses credibility completely only to become the most disgusting nightmare one can have. Any and every deranging shockers are used. From fecal matter to teeth cleaning with feces dripped toothbrush, from oral sex with gay prostitutes to child-birthing details, from lesbian sex to lesbian kidnapper-murderer-psycho the director welcomes them all. And all this in 50 some minutes which is the only good thing about this film it's short. The only other movie competing with this one on the disgust-meter is the hostel. If that is art so is this. Quelle horreur! "},{"Title":"Horrifying French suspense about curiosity, desire and identity.","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The film is directed by the controversial François Ozon. See the Sea is also his first long feature, as that said; the film isn't very long, only 52 minutes.See the sea is very short and very powerful, but it's also very minimal. Like, there are only three characters in the film, and only two of them can talk, and they barley do. And there is no music or sound effects, everything is quiet, and it's stylistic photographed. It kind reminds me of Roman Polanskis masterful film Knife in the Water.See the sea is a good and very rarely film, but where the film totally failed is the shocking end, because it isn't shocking, I saw the ending just after five minutes.. So the surprise effect is totally gone, and that ruin the film a lot. But still worth watching. "},{"Title":"An intriguing, compelling, and ultimately chilling film","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  An Englishwoman named Sasha is living alone in an idyllic French seaside location with her ten month old baby while her husband is away. A woman arrives named Tatiana, and asks if she can pitch her tent on Sasha's garden. She reluctantly agrees. The stranger is slightly scruffy and coarse. She doesn't say much but seems okay. Sasha must think this because she leaves her baby with her while she goes shopping. The film builds slowly to its shocking climax. Tatiana asks Sasha about her child birth and tells her she has had an abortion. There is also a scene in some woods frequented by gay men, where Sasha indulges herself. The film works because of the threat and menace that the viewer senses, almost knowing what will happen, but watching intensely all the same for its entire length of fifty-two minutes. "},{"Title":"Truly disturbing. My last Ozon.","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Call me a sociopath, but after watching See The Sea I took out the DVD (a short movie anthology) and threw it away. Okay, the movie is done excellently. You have this uneasy gut feeling about the woman from the very beginning, and it slowly creeps up your body until the pretty disturing resolution.This is the emotional equivalent to having someone kick you in the stomach and vomit into your mouth. I honestly don't know why Ozon would want his audience to feel that way. I was impressed enough by 5 X 2 to give this one a try, even after the letdown of ANGEL. But I don't think I will go and watch another OZON after this one. Okay, §$% you've accomplished your goal. You've gotten your reaction. Now leave me the §$% alone. "},{"Title":"Yeah, this proves it...we Engleesh can speak French","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's amazing, an English actress playing a moody, sensual French young mother, hiding an enigmatic darker side, unleashed at the end of this film. Sasha Hails walks the walk and talks the talk, strangely unfazed by the threatening presence of a course, uncouth backpacker, initially camping in her backyard, but before long babysitting, almost playing the role of au pair, which had first borough Sasha to France. The visitor, Tatiana, played by Marina de Van (surely it should be vin, given the amount of wine they consume?) is obviously the unsettling element - initially. But as with all good French movies, even short ones like this, you're left wondering who, in the end, is stranger, Sasha, having sex with strangers in the woods while leaving her baby on the beach or Tatiana, with the apparent nihilism of her diary, dark hangmen, twisted doodles and a propensity to ask strange, detailed questions about childbirth? I was flumoxed by the ending; who had done what? In the end, I deduced with Sherlock Holmesian logic, it must have been Sasha, how else could the ropes have been tied? But then, going on a boat, uncaring, nonchalant, as her husband arrives home from his business trip to Paris, unzipping Tatiana's tent, making a discovery enough to put him off camping for life? Ah, yes, now I know Sasha is really the dark player, the other girl, merely the mixed up backpacker. I think. Not horrific, not a masterpiece, a 52 minute vignette of Anglo French foibles and sexual deviance. Forgive me, I must go and lick my plate clean. "},{"Title":"See The Sea a prelude to real life infant kidnappings....","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When watching See The Sea on DVD recently, I saw a trend from the movie that was actually done a few times in real life since its 1997 release. In the United States, there were reports of mentally unstable women, usually those who had a bad experience with the birth of a child or the child was aborted for some reason, who broke into homes where other women lived with their newborns, leading them to murder the mother and kidnap the child. In those cases, the kidnapper/murderer was arrested by the authorities. However, in one other incident, the kidnapper/murderer committed suicide.When Sasha Hails character invites Tatiana (Marina de Van) into her beach side home, she invites her own death and the kidnapping of her little Samantha (played by Hails' real life daughter, who was born prior to the making of the film). What Francois Ozon does well is to slowly unravel the Tatiana character's intentions as the film progressed. Even Sasha finds out late in the story about the real person behind the backpacker who admitted that she had lost her child. To make matters worse, Sasha is a victim of her naivety.Amazingly, this film lasts only 51 minutes. You would think that this thriller would go, at least 90 minutes, but not enough material was written to extend the movie's length. However, I would have been happy to have seen the kidnapper/murderer get caught by the police to put closure on the case. But the film ends with a crime committed, the perpetrator running free with the baby. Apparently, European films deal more with unsolved answers to problems than finding solutions. How sad. "},{"Title":"Very Strange but somehow engrossing","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This movie holds your attention for some reason. However, let me warn you it is very strange. 1.) What mother would leave her child with a stranger she JUST met while the mother goes shopping? 2.) What mother would leave her baby hundreds of yards away ALONE on a beach while the mother gets oral sex from a gay man in a gay assignation wooded lot? 3.) Nice bodies on the two women - ugly face on the backpacker though. 4.) What is the story for the backpacker? The short conversation between the backpacker and the mother about the birth process for the mother is revealing but does not seem to really develop the backpacker's rationale. 5.) The ending would seem logical for a suspense/horror film if there had been more background earlier in the film. 6.) This film could be considered a short due to its low level of character development - but the film is almost one hour. "},{"Title":"Extremely disturbing, albeit in a subtle way","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The visual sequence of this film is excellent as for any other film by Ozon. I don't know where he gets the camera people, but they all are top-notch.The scenes that might seem illogical at the beginning keep providing more substance to the characters, and the final (I liked it a lot that it wasn't in the list of the possible outcomes that I had in mind) everything suddenly snaps into places.The dilemma with this film is that watching it early in the day will probably keep you uneasy for the rest of it, and watching it late in the night might easily make your sleep less sound. The choice is up to you.Yeah, and Ozon is brilliant in shooting women with cigarettes.9/10 "},{"Title":"fabulous","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I just loved this film. I was thinking about it for a while and it made me feel sympathy for Tatiana. I really liked the fact that the characters never speak about their feelings just the way it happens in real life. That's something you can pnly find in european or asian movies. Everything is unclear in this movie. We never really understand if the married woman is happy, if the travelling woman is happy, why she finally does what she does, whether she had it all planned or if she was testing the woman. This film is pure poetry.  "}{"Title":"Shows the  more glib aspect of Ozon's rarely absent desire to shock.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A scruffy girl backpacker Tatiana (Marina de Van) shows up at the beach house of a Parisian young mom, the English Sasha (Sasha Hails), who has a 10-month-old baby--and demands permission to pitch her tent in the back yard. The dad is working in Paris and only shows up at the end of the film's 52-minute running time. (De Van was to appear again in Ozon's Sit Com). The mom precedes to trust the obviously suspicious and ominously aggressive and affect-less outsider far too much--to the torment of nervous viewers. A rather minimalist horror flick, this shows Ozon's characteristic visual elegance and economy but leans dangerously far toward the more glib aspect of his rarely absent desire to shock. One of the hardest of his films to watch, but not one of the more convincing ones. Various elements strain credulity and others are not even really made clear. Roger Ebert wrote a very good (if typically over-kind) review.. This was Ozon's longest film so far. Though not well reviewed in this country his Criminal Lovers/Les amants criminels (1999), with the naturally combustible couple of Jeremie Renier and real-life girlfriend Natacha Regnier, was longer (96 min.) and a huge improvement. "},{"Title":"I'm still scratching my head, days later...and I can't bring myself to brush my teeth anymore.","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie on HBO at 200 a.m., and watched it thinking it would be porn (an actress' name like Sasha Hails suggests that). Instead, it was without a doubt the most baffling, odd movie I have ever seen.This is a bad movie, but that's okay. I've seen bad movies, and  this ranks right up there with the worst of them But the things that make this movie stand out are the completely random, bizarre scenes that seem to have no purpose other than to make you scratch your head.-- The scene when Hails gets intimate with the chair.-- The grocery store.-- The toothbrush incident.-- The strange questions asked by the traveler about Hails childbirth, etc. (How far did you rip?!? WTF?)-- The licking of the plate.-- The scene when Hails goes into the woods.-- The scene just before the end when the traveler gets naked in Hails bedroom.Maybe I'm shallow, but these scenes make no sense. Otherwise, the movie explains itself well, as you understand the basic natures of the characters and why they do what they do, i.e. why Hails is so inviting to the stranger, why the stranger ultimately is there, and why the ending is what it is.But when you get right down to it, this is just another inexplicable, odd French art film. I don't really get the point of it, but, then again, I don't get Jerry Lewis either, so all I can say is thisHey, Lady! Avoid this film! "},{"Title":"One of the creepiest movies I've ever seen","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The sheer inexplicability of the characters' actions throughout the film was more unnerving and suspenseful than any other film I can think of.  Not being able to figure out why these women did and said what they did, and the subtle but relentless sense of unease that it gave me, makes this a truly memorable and impressive film.Maybe not a great date film, though...that's for sure...  "},{"Title":"disgusting","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie may not be poorly made but it is the most disgusting move I have ever seen. One must particularly enjoy viewing fecal matter to enjoy this. This is worse than any pornographic move that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The title See the Sea suggests the same lack of creativity and substance which makes this film a huge waste of time. An austere,  bleak so-called thriller, See the Sea is so devoid of anything and everything is simply isn't worth the time it takes to watch it. Bottom line? Some freaky weird broad shows up at a woman's house and they sorta get to know each other and the freaky weird broad begins to act more freaky and weird...blaa, blaa. See the Sea is one for the dustbin. (D) "}]