[{"Title":"It's a COMEDY folks","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"86 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love watching this movie. I love this dialog in a horror film. I got myself a copy on DVD and watch it at least a few times a year. There are some classic lines between the city folk vs. the bumpkins. Fonda's line about the sarcasm being too subtle is great (while spraying RAID in the middle of Maine). Betty White is building her career these days being the tart-mouthed old broad (see Boston Legal - another David Kelley production). Also, the interplay between Oliver Platt and the actor playing the sheriff are priceless.Contrary to what others have written - I think the special effects go just fine with the overall campy and comedy feel of the movie and the amount of gore is also appropriate. More would change the tone of the film from the comedy which I enjoy, to one more of a gross-out nature.Just a favorite of mine. Try it if you, for example, liked Love at First Bite - you will probably like this too. "},{"Title":"Fun, tongue in cheek monster B-movie","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"65 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When a diver is cut in half by something under the water of a quiet lake in Maine, Sheriff Keough calls in the Rangers, Jack Wells and a New York palaeontologist, Kelly Scott to investigate a tooth found.  Wealthy crocodile hunter Hector Cyr swoops in to insist that the creature is a crocodile.  A claim that looks increasingly likely when the body count begins to rise.You really need to be in the mood for a film like this or else you will likely hate it.  If you love Tremors then you might be the sort of person that lake Placid is aimed at.  The film's strength is that it is a big silly B-movie and it knows it. The film lets us know very early on that it is not 100% serious and this then frees us up to enjoy it rather than moaning about the sheer unlikelyness of the whole affair.The plot is daft of course, a Jaws rip off from opening sequence to final attack.  The fact that the script has a great sense of humour makes this OK &#150; so when an old woman feeds a cow to the croc then it's fine because that's just what you'd expect in this film.  Likewise the humour gives rise to plenty of funny lines which add to the feeling that the film is about fun more than scares.  `Is this the man who was attacked?' says Cyr, holding a toe found by the water `he seemed taller' replies the sheriff.  Of course at some point the ending must come and it is as overblown as you'd expect, but even then it has it's tongue in it's cheek (fishing with a cow!?).The crocodile effect is a mixed bag.  In some instances it is good while in others it is over animated and not realistic.  For the most part though it works well enough.  The cast are not that good but deliver wooden performances in a good way (if that's possible).  Platt steals every scene he is in by getting all the funny lines (`yeah well they conceal that sort of information in books' being a put down I fully intend to use given the chance).  Pullman is given a less glamorous task of being the leading man while Fonda is like Ally McBeal in the woods!  Gleeson is great fun bouncing off Platt and Betty White is so crazy that it's hard not to laugh!Overall this is a big budget silly B-movie that laughs at itself.  If you are not in the mood for that, or can't accept it for what it is then you'd do well to avoid this film.  For all others there is enough good lines and silly fun to be had here to help you enjoy it, even if you do forget it shortly after watching it. "},{"Title":"A really good trashy movie","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this dopey movie. Funny,with an absolutely hilarious performance by Betty White, an appealing Bridget Fonda (for the first time in memory), and very likeable Brendan Gleeson and Oliver Platt. Bill Pullman was fine but the least of it. What's not to like? I mean, who wouldn't want to save an alligator that's biting people in half in an unspoiled lake 25 miles from anywhere in the middle of Maine? There are so many BAD time wasting movies out there, so much violent, or inane, or vulgar, or sadistic junk that this tongue-in-cheek tale with its dotty characters and clever ending just has to be viewed as one of those times to sit back and smile broadly without guilt. This is hard to pull off, and not to be minimized. "},{"Title":"Finally, A horror movie that's not......a horror movie, I guess.","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is one of my all-time favorite movies ever. The dialog is sarcastic and funny no matter what's going on, which keeps it light even with all the people getting eaten every now and then. All the lines between Hector and the Sheriff are especially noted. Most of the comebacks I use whenever possible in everyday conversation. Hector's dream is awesome, though. I love Oliver Platt.The best part is that it isn't trying to be a scream-out-loud sort of monster horror movie, it's just having fun. The acting isn't the best, but the way all the lines are delivered makes up for it, and adds to it's charm. It really reminds me of one of those cheap Sci-Fi channel monster movies with the horrible effects, only 10 times better and the effects are more real, of course. Not perfect, but better then the Sci-Fi channel. It looked like a crocodile to me. So while you can sit there and try to pick out everything that's wrong with this movie, it's better just to sit back and enjoy it. It's not pretending to be intelligent and so the movie is best viewed knowing that. It tells you that itself within the first 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"One of the best-written movies I've ever seen","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"59 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love genre-bending movies, and especially those that mix horror with comedy. That puts me dead center of the target demographic of this film. The plot is pretty silly and there certainly isn't enough action for anyone looking for scares. What saves it is the script. It's witty and never takes itself too seriously. The characters are all foils for one another, setting up some of the most entertaining dialog of any movie I know.The plot revolves around a 30 foot Asian crocodile somehow winding up in a lake in Maine - go figure. What makes the movie are the characters assembled to do something about it. Bridget Fonda is an annoying paleontologist who's never before ventured out of her museum. Here, she plays both the archetypal fish out of water as well as potential romantic interest for the local game warden, played by Bill Pullman. The essential characters are rounded out by Brendan Gleeson's dour sheriff, Oliver Platt's rich and eccentric mythology buff, and Betty White as the colorful local little old lady with a secret or two.As I said, reduced to a plot outline, it's pretty unimpressive, but the verbal barbs that fly back and forth between the characters are what make the show. It's an action/horror movie I could watch with my eyes shut and still enjoy. "},{"Title":"This is a delightfully entertaining picture.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I can't tell you how much fun this movie is to watch.  The cast of characters and their interactive dialog is just terrific.  It has been called a bad B Movie.  I hardly think that this is accurate.  This film is made with skill and charm.  If you laugh you do so because it was intended that you  laugh.  That's unbelievably hard to achieve. It's an intelligent effort with excellent Directing.  I love these characters and the casting is perfect.  Bridget Fonda shows us what young actresses can really offer a film.  Betty White is at her best.  Oliver Platt is facinating. Pullman is a great straightman. The Sheriff made the picture credible. This film will last and be seen again and again.  I wish that I had made it.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Finally got to see this flick on HBO last night.  It was entertaining. These days it's tough to find a really good film because of all of the hype so your expectations of any movie can be too high.  With Lake Placid what you see is what you get.  It was fun although the closing credits with the actor's interviews would lead you to believe this was an Oscar contender. The special effects were much better than the Deep Blue Sea.  The other comments for this movie are on the mark highlighting the Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson characters.  Betty White was a hoot.  If you see this movie don't take it or yourself too seriously, just have fun. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My wife told me to get this movie.  I told her it got terrible, terrible reviews.  Well, we got it, I wound up watching it and enjoying it much more than I thought I would.  More a comedy than a horror movie, it was pretty stupid, knew it was, and treated itself accordingly.  Loved Brendan Gleeson as the sheriff, and Betty White's part, though small, was wonderfully eccentric. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"30 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" As evident from most of the other reviews, people who have connected with this movie, as I have, connected quite solidly.  It was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  I have not been scared by a movie since I was 13 years old, so horror movies that take themselves seriously, like The Blair Witch, are extraordinarily boring and annoying. But a comedy which isn't trying too hard, as a dumb Adam Sandler movie does, to make you laugh but still makes you laugh is an excellent film.  Lake Placid is it.  The best part was that I couldn't garner a single thing about how good or bad the film was from any of the reviews I had read before I went to see it.  Brendan Gleeson as the hic Sheriff really deserves most of the credit for making this film awesome.  But, of course, since he is not a big name, you don't ever hear anything about him.  Instead you hear about Bill Pullman, who is nothing special in this film. "},{"Title":"Campy monster parody","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Campy monster-movie fast-food that pokes fun at itself. Absolutely devoid of any message, but chock full of absurd parody.Any movie that opens with a gruff county sheriff listening to I Think I Love You while he fishes can't be taken seriously. And it gets far goofier than that. The dialog is a relentless parade of one-liners between the five principals a paleontologist (Bridget Fonda), a Fish & Game guy (Bill Pullman), a croc-worshiping professor (Oliver Platt), the sheriff (Brendan Gleeson), and an eccentric hermit (Betty White). Oh, and of course, a big creature with a big attitude and a big appetite.Great character development; and all of the characters are over the top except maybe Pullman's, whose routine nice guy persona balances with the nuts. It's a toss-up who has the most joke lines or who delivers them with the most punch; as they reel off sarcasm at the speed of a machine gun. You can almost see the actors winking at the audience, and they obviously had fun making this. Even the monster (which usually looks real) performs like a seasoned comic. The only complaint to note is that once in a while the endless arguing may wear you out.The story, which utilizes subtle references to big creature movies like Jurassic Park and Jaws, actually manages to go somewhere. There are a few clever surprises, and the closing scene is rather unique.No cerebral activity will be necessary in the course of watching this movie. Just settle down with some popcorn, and get ready for some good comic idiocy. "}{"Title":"what an amazing surprise!!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've just I've just watched Lake Placid on cable and I can safely say that never before in my 27 years have I ever been so unexpectantly and pleasantly surprised by a movie.  To be fair, I was preparing to give this movie 15 mins before I turned it over - but what a treat it was!!!The opening croc scene has great gore effects.  Bridget Fonda then kicks in and her sarcasm, wit and comic timing are a joy to behold - I can't believe I'm saying this, but after her first few scene's I was thinking 'Oscar winner'.  It takes the viewer three of four scene's, around 20 minutes, to be sure that this film is a p*ss take.  Its tongue in cheek and it's superb.The banter between the mad old rich croc hunter and the county sheriff is hilarious - I was laughing out load so much - and was thoroughly charmed at the same time.Anyone who slags this movie off is clearly missing the point.  Its not comedy in the orthodox sense and it certainly isn't horror.  It's very subtle and very clever.Sad it crashed at the box office - perhaps they should have marketed it differently.Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Funny, funny movie.  Highly recommended.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"32 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie expecting complete cheese.  I got what I wanted.  Any movie with slogans like, You'll never know what bit you, and If it's in the water, it's on the menu, must be completely cheesy, and, to some, bad.  The movie is so awful that it is funny.  I died laughing throughout the whole movie.  I was also rooting with the old lady for the crocs.  I think that it had more dynamics than the rest of the characters.Plot  Bad monster movie.  Crocodile found in an unusual place kills people. Can anybody say Jaws ripoff?  The whole plot was loose and had no major plot points.  However, the rest of the movie lacked any intelligence whatsoever, and it succeeded in being a good high-budget B-movie.Acting As bad as you can imagine.  No emotions or any real style.  It was pure camp.  If you don't like campy movies, then don't see this one. However, you die laughing because of the acting.Dialogue  Funny stuff.  It is not funny because of what was written most of the time, but because of the way it was written, and delivered.  The dialogue is pure camp and it is completely overboard.  Two of my favorite quotes are If I had a d!@#, I would tell you to suck it, and, I am rooting for the crocodile.  I hope they swallow your deputies whole.The whole movie is pure camp, and if you don't like campy movies, skip this one.  See Blair Witch, or something serious.  This movie is bad and it revels in it.  It knows it is bad and never pretends to be a good, intelligent movie.  It also never explains itself, and like any good B-movie, it sets itself up for a sequel.-------------8 "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is an enjoyable and escapist movie that has the confidence to laugh at itself and its genre.Despite the gore and blood of the movie, Lake Placid has its tongue firmly placed in its cheek, and ironically, this leaves the viewer with a 'feel good' perspective.Cynics may dismiss Lake Placid for its lack of intricate plot, but to do this is to miss the point and the movie's subtle irony. If you like (and laugh at)films such as Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream, you'll love Lake Placid.I'm sure that the years will be kind to Lake Placid and give it 'cult status'. The movie has a timeless quality and all the ingredients and actors for enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Truely enjoyable suprise","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Watching this movie was a true treat. I'll admit I didn't expect too very much when I rented this. After seeing it I picked up a copy of the DVD on my next trip to the store. The script was tight and the movie moved at a very crisp pace. There was truely nothing missing here. It had suspence and thrills (the part with the grizzly ruled), good effects, a bit of gore (the first victem is the worst), but what really made this movie for me was the characters and thier interaction, especially between Oliver Platt (the excenteric millionaire) and the local sheriff. Truely hillarious and thoroughly enjoyable. I could watch those scenes all night. This movie was the best suprise I've had renting a movie I knew very little about in a long, long time. "},{"Title":"a classic.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well you either love this movie or you hate it. I fall in to the first group (10/10) the movie simply rocks, The interaction of Hector and Hank make for one hell of a funny movie, add to that some great FX with the Crocodile and the Bear, mix in a great script full of humor and a great cast... Result a Classic.  "},{"Title":"It isn't meant to be Citizen Kane, and it sure is funnier...","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Quite a few complaints about this one... a shame, really. I love this movie. I saw it three times in the theater and after renting it a few more I bought the video.Oliver Platt is perpetually good in any role he takes... his Professor Cyr character in this is HILARIOUS! Brendan Gleeson is also brilliant as Sheriff Keough.You have to keep in mind that this isn't The Piano or Shawshank Redemption... it's just a fun movie about a bigass crocodile. The special effects are excellent (really beats the hell out of that horrible CGI snake in Anaconda) and the dialogue between characters is hilarious.I'll put it simply... if you liked Tremors, you'll like Lake Placid. The humor is actually more well-written and it's about the same level of gore.If you didn't like Lake Placid, chances are you're too uptight to enjoy a fun monster movie and should go rent a French film noir or anything else that's nice and pretentious.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  From the trailers compiled and screened in the UK, this was not a film I was going to go and see. As part of a group I went along and very glad I was too. Everything about this film is well done, from the casting and special effects to the direction and editing. All based on a very solid script filled with humour but without the over the top slapstick as in films like 'There's Something About Mary' and 'Cableman'. Its not a really scary horror film but does has its moments of tense 'knowing something is going to happen in a second' and any film that makes the audience laugh out loud through sheer enjoyment rather than embarrassment gets my vote. "},{"Title":"There be Dragons in this Lake","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" An amusing take on the low-budget monster movies of the seventies, this is also a kind of follow-up to the Alligator movies of the early eighties. It wasn't a success, maybe due to the title - potential viewers may think it's a documentary about a lake - but is consistently humorous, thanks to a good cast. Fonda, as a paleontologist sent to investigate a sudden death by large teeth on the lake in question, is purposely irritating in the 'fish out of water' role. She reveals a surprising knack for comedy, the city girl from New Yawk stuck in the forest. Platt & Gleeson squabble like two long-lost overweight brothers as respectfully, eccentric millionaire & sheriff. Platt is always funny, and Gleeson matches him here. Pullman makes less of an impression, underplaying as the guy in charge. Betty White is a hoot as the foul-mouthed local old lady with a secret.The monster in question, a 30-foot croc, stays out of sight for the first half-hour and when it does appear, it's strangely unsurprising, despite the suddenness. It's as if we've seen so many of these 'large animal' pictures by this point, this is just another one in a long line. It's a weird money shot as well, involving a growling bear, and is not as effective as it should be. Thanks to modern special FX, computer and otherwise, the croc is better realized than those of 20 years earlier. But that could be a problem integrated into the wilderness like any other animal, there's nothing about the creature, despite its size, to inspire awe or real terror. It's just a big crocodile, after all. Like Anaconda, this inspired a slew of big croc & alligator movies for the Sci-Fi Channel. UPDATE Speaking of which, a sequel came out on the SF channel in late April, 2007. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is an enjoyable and escapist movie that has the confidence to laugh at itself and its genre.Despite the gore and blood of the movie, Lake Placid has its tongue firmly placed in its cheek, and ironically, this leaves the viewer with a 'feel good' perspective.Cynics may dismiss Lake Placid for its lack of intricate plot, but to do this is to miss the point and the movie's subtle irony. If you like (and laugh at)films such as Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream, you'll love Lake Placid.I'm sure that the years will be kind to Lake Placid and give it 'cult status'. The movie has a timeless quality and all the ingredients and actors for enjoyment. "},{"Title":"For what its worth...","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Let us all take time to celebrate the second coming. Ahh, maybe not, but Lake Placid has some of the class needed to start a religion. The higher quality of this movie is to be found under a few inches of self-irony. One should not try to take LP serious or expect to get scared or anything like that. It is all about the laughs. I think it is great that we finally get a cover-horror that is more than just a bunch of rip-off scenes from Scream and Star Wars. I mean, we are talking of an event big enough to match female oil-wrestling, while drinking an umbrella-topped Tai-Mai. And that is quality time, folks!! So get it together and watch the darn movie. You will either love it (like yours truly) for the intense rediculous humor, or hate it for the intense rediculous humor. Either way you will be able to thank Hollywood for giving us one the greatest masterpieces in horror/comedy/stupidity known to homo sapiens. That's man. So give it try - you might end up liking it. Believe me. It is worth celebrating!  "}{"Title":"Satire and sarcasm are rarely understood or appreciated by the American theater going public.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Since satire and sarcasm are rarely understood or appreciated by the majority of the people who go to movies, it is hardly surprising that the majority of reviews of this movie are based on its success -- or lack thereof -- as a horror film or a comedy.  If you liked Top Secret, Rustler's Rhapsody, and Johnny Dangerously, rush out and get Lake Placid. If you had no clue what those movies were trying to do, save your money. As for me and my family, we'll add a few more quotes to our list of favorites.  "},{"Title":"Fun quirky monster flick","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Scientifically weak but retread plot is presented with a comedic spin. Not simply another Jaws ripoff and even once you have seen the beast a few times it still makes you jump. Lots to get excited about in the theater but not really scary. "},{"Title":"How I feel one should view Lake Placid...","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've read quite a few reviews of this movie. Let me just say, I loved it. While Bill Pullman's acting was wooden (I think that was the point of his character) the Sheriff and Mythology Professor were EXCELLENT. Oliver Platt consistently plays great characters, and every time he adds a special flavor to each character. The dialogue, particularly that between Sherrif, Paleontologist, Ranger, and Professor is VERY well-written and fun to watch.That's the point of this film. FUN. I see people complaining about various things, but sometimes you just have to LIGHTEN UP and just ENJOY a movie! This was one of my favorite movies on 1999 - I thought the CGI was very good (sure as hell better than Anaconda) and while the plot is a rehash (someone mentioned Jaws... ever heard of THEM!, kids? Ever heard of the Beast from 20000 Fathoms? Spielberg didn't create the genre!) it's still passable and if you just enjoy the filck, it's well worth the rental fee.I compare this movie to another giant animal movie I love Tremors. Similar plot, the only differences are climate and a different blend of characters. Tremors is a FUN movie. Lake Placid is a FUN movie. You want serious, go rent Blair Witch or The Insider. You want something to watch with a few friends so you can have a good laugh, rent Lake Placid. I hope Sci Fi channel or Turner picks this up... I guarantee I'd watch Lake Placid every time it appeared on cable.  "},{"Title":"","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid was a very entertaining movie that had all the things that audiences who pay for admission for movies like this come to see... BLOOD, DEATH, and good ol' fashioned gore!  If you like good movies, go see this one! "},{"Title":"Not Very Funny Or Frightening","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid tries to mix two very different genres in horror and comedy but fails to be funny enough or scary enough when it counts. To be honest I get the impression that the makers of this movie were trying to be clever but it just doesn't come off. Oliver Platt is excellent as ever but the rest of the cast are left floundering like an alligator in a trap. Bill Pullman plays his trademark everyman role pretty well but it often seems like the movie is just bad for the sake of it rather than ever really being genuinely funny. Some horror b-movie buffs will find it entertaining but I never really got into what seems a film with a major identity crisis.Tries to be clever but fails, not funny enough for a laugh, not scary enough to scream 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Good Script Spoiled","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A really funny movie, but it never resorts to jokes.  This can be attributed to screenwriter David E. Kelley, who's always had some sort of wizardlike insight into the human mind and human motivations.  What makes this film work are the distinct characters and how they interact with each other.The film is staged adequately, Steve Miner has never been anything special, again doing an adequate job with Halloween H20, and really horrid jobs with the bombs Big Bully and whichever Friday the 13th movie it was he directed.Definitely worth seeing, the dialogue is extremely amusing, and hopefully in 20 years some hot new director who knows how to be creative can create perhaps create something lasting with it; but for now, everything here is below the surface, no pun intended.Adequate performance from Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda and Miner, and A++ work from Kelley, Oliver Platt, and the sheriff... who is actually Irish and speaks with an accent.  Not bad work, eh? "},{"Title":"Camping, Relationships and Thrills","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" David Kelley knows about character development. I view LAKE PLACID as a two-hour TV show with pretty decent CGI, well drawn characters and cool lake cinematography. And I am a sucker for movies that feature helicopters, a conveyance that I would never ride in personally.If you listen carefully when Bridget Fonda's character is flying to Maine, the strains of I Love New York can be heard in the music. Subtle touches like this make me smile and when you add the scenic vistas and evocative score, well that spells good TV in my book.Wondering where in New England you can find a lake that nobody lives on, though. "},{"Title":"I'm just so Fonda Bridget!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ditto for the rest of the cast. Especially, Oliver Platt and Betty White. These two practically steal the movie away from the lead couple! If I had to guess why this movie is WAY more popular than the made-for-video clones which followed it, I would say Fluffy-not-stuffy. In other words, this movie does NOT take itself that seriously! Especially, in the zoology and geography departments. *Possible spoilers from here on out.* For instance, the sheriff's little rant about New York State stealing the name, Lake Placid? Priceless! Makes me think the movie might've been intended to take place at the real one, but that the idea probably got nixed by the local spoilsport politicos.And, I also can't helping wondering if fictional Black Lake might actually have been real-life Alligator Lake? *Supposedly so-named because the shoreline of the lake resembles one from the air.* Then, there's Platt, as the eccentric herpetologist. He talks about crocs swimming a little farther north every year. NOT TO MY KNOWLEDGE! I mean, a wild adult saltie could theoretically make it as far as, say, the Caribbean.Either island-hop westward to East Africa; circum-navigate the Cape of Good Hope; swim northward up the West African coast; and then follow whatever current flows from the Canary Islands to the West Indies. Or, island-hop eastward to Central America; then, either somehow slip through the Panama Canal undetected; or traverse overland from waterhole to waterhole (like Floridian gators). But, enter the freshwater system of Maine, on its own? Uh-uh! No Way!! More likely, Betty's character was vacationing down south, and bought some newly-hatched babies from some shady gator farmer who had them smuggled into the country.*See what I mean by, too seriously?* That's why, if you just want to enjoy a good natural-animal-run-amok-spoof, I advise you to suspend all disbelief and...just enjoy! My final rating? 2.9 stars. "},{"Title":"Very funny -- after a few beers","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I came across this spoof of the standard an underwater beast is eating all the tourists film on Netflix, so I feel no regret I did not have to pay extra for it. But I am not kidding, the film is better appreciated under the influence of alcohol-induced euphoria.Bridget Fonda, Bill Pullman, Brendan Gleeson, Oliver Platt and Betty White have fun here. Either that or all these talented actors are slumming. Which I doubt.This genre began way back with The Creature from the Black Lagoon and was best done by Stephen Spielberg in Jaws. The principal conceit is that lake or sea water conceals danger -- you never know what's gonna jump out and get you.Sit back, enjoy and don't take the film seriously. "},{"Title":"Simple creature feature","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" In Maine, Sheriff Hank Keough (Brendan Gleeson) pulls out a Fish and Game officer ripped in half. They pull a fragment of a tooth and American Museum of Natural History sends paleontologist Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) to examine the tooth. She is not happy to go out to the backwoods but once there, she is not too eager to return to her ex-boyfriend boss who just dumped her and is now dating her best friend. Fish and Game officer Jack Wells (Bill Pullman) is not happy to have her along. Crocodile enthusiast Hector Cyr (Oliver Platt) arrives hearing of the discovery. Mrs. Delores Bickerman (Betty White) is a delusional neighbor who claims to have killed her husband.This is a very simple creature feature. Oliver Platt is weird having some fun making Brendan Gleeson angry. Bridget Fonda is the flighty city dweller and does the screaming. If the attempts at joking around do not annoy you, then there is some fun to be had. There's a giant crocodile taking down a bear and a cow. The joking around keeps the tone relatively light. This is light weight B-horror movie and it knows it. "}{"Title":"Something's Lurking Underneath","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" As far as movies about giant crocodiles go this one is top notch. It does not take itself too seriously and neither should you. It is basically a comedy with a giant crocodile in it. Sure, there are some elements of horror and suspense but at its core this movie is about the interaction of the main characters and their almost constant bickering and one liners. The story is simple and does not drag out. A scientist gets killed in the beginning of the movie and a man from Fish & Wildlife as well as a paleontologist are sent to investigate. There is also the local sheriff who views city folks as annoying and sarcastic and completing the quartet is a wacky rich crocodile obsessed private citizen who tracks crocodiles and swims with them. They eventually discover that there is a crocodile in the lake and obviously there shouldn't be any crocodiles in Maine especially the monstrous 30 foot variety. After discovering it, the group is undecided as whether to try and capture it or kill it. Through the progress of the movie they also discover that an old widow has been keeping the crocodile as a pet and feeding it cows (and that her husband accidentally got eaten by the crocodile as well). Then they decide to try and capture it as it is a miracle of nature. The cast is great. Bill Pullman, Oliver Platt, Brendan Gleeson and Bettie White all add something to the mix making the movie highly enjoyable. Even Bridget Fonda is good in her role as the city paleontologist. The effects are fine and at no time did I get distracted by any bad effects. What sets this movie apart from most monster/creature features is the fact that there is a very low human body count. Almost all of the characters survive. If I am not mistaken there is one casualty at the beginning, and one sheriffs deputy about halfway through. And that's it. In most other movies of this nature there is usually a bus load of victims and geysers of blood and gore. This is not the case here, sure there are a few gruesome scenes but these are minimal and to be expected when dealing with a man eating crocodile. The crocodile in the movie does not appear every time someone is in the water or near it. It's just a huge crocodile which does not kill everyone and anyone it comes into contact with. And on top of that the ending does not have the crocodile being killed by the one lone hero with a last round of ammo (as most of these type movies seem to). So even though this is a B-movie it's still great and much better than its sequels which got dumber and dumber. It is also much better than Primeval or Rogue both of which lack the humor that is apparent in this film. So I I highly recommend this humorous horror. "},{"Title":"Maybe later you can chew the bark off my big fat log.","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" OK, this is a horror flick about a HUGE croc that somehow got to Maine from India. It is not your usual monster animal horror movie. Sure, there are heads bitten off and bloody bodies, but they take a back seat to the dialog. First, Bridget Fonda (Army of Darkness, Kiss of the Dragon) is a paleontologist from New York sent to the Maine backwoods. All the jokes about Maine and backwoods keep flying. It is a hoot! Then rich boy and crocodile worshiper Oliver Platt shows up. Now, the jokes really start rolling about backwoods people from Maine and the educated. There are just too many good lines in this film to repeat them all, but I will say I was in stitches the whole time. The only complaint I have is that Platt and Meredith Salenger didn't have time to get it on, but they were a great pair. Features a really kooky Betty White, too. Get a laugh. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Good, funny and special )","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This was a very interesting movie for me as I really had no idea of what I was going to be experiencing, this gave the film a hint of excitement and also a hint of the chills. Crocodiles are much like sharks, they are feared because of their size and ability to eat humans, however the crocodile in this film is not an ordinary crocodile. He is 25 foot long that is much bigger than any crocodile I've ever heard of and has a taste for human flesh.The story line itself isn't fantastic, there could of been a lot more work done to make it more plausible and more realistic but this is still the best scary crocodile film to see, I highly recommend you watch this fresh water equivalent to Jaws as I believe that you will enjoy it. Charlie Lutkin "},{"Title":"Better than it gets credit for. Aside from some bad dialogue.","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have to admit that I might only think this movie is not bad because I heard such horrible reviews for it, that when I actually saw it, I was like That wasn't bad at all. I'm sure if I had heard it was great and saw it, I probably would have said Really? That sucked. But I honestly didn't mind it at all. It had it's moments. The only real problem I had with it that got more and more irritating was whoever wrote the sarcastic one liners for this movie must have thought they were a lot more hilarious than they were. All of Hector's (Oliver Platt) sarcastic come back's to the sheriff were SO irritating and annoying. I love sarcasm, but whoever wrote those come back's and one liners must be an idiot who thinks that anything u say in a mean and sarcastic way is funny. Like when they're in the boat and Hector says to the sheriff something to the affect of When friends or family say things, they tend not to register, so sometimes it helps hearing it from a total stranger...you're fat. Was that really supposed to sound clever? And his Oh my, the earth is round and so should you be line he says to him was so wannabe original and unfunny. ESPECIALLY since Oliver Platt is fat too! Which makes it even more annoying. And when Hector gets surprised while setting a trap at night and they start arguing and he says to the sheriff These traps could save your life. And the longer you live, the more sex you get to have with your SISTER! He yelled that line so loud and angry and annoying, like it was supposed to be a good one. So dumb. My wish is that the writer sees this review. Lol. I want him to know what a dumb as* he is. Not for the whole movie. Just for his attempt at good sarcastic humor. Sorry for harping so long about it. Just really almost ruins the movie. Bette White has a few lines like that too. And the only reason i'm not complaining about those is because of the fact that Bette White actually made them funny. Which no one else probably could have. Aside from all that, the movie isn't that bad at all. Just be prepared to be annoyed. Unless u actually have a lame sense of humor, and confuse lame sarcasm, with actual creative and witty sarcasm. -) "},{"Title":"One of the best in the genre","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" After numerous reports of strange deaths are reported in a Maine lake, a wildlife officer and a local ranger find the cause to be a monstrous crocodile inhabiting the waters and try to stop its' rampage on the locals.This here turned out to be one of the better animal-on-the-loose types of films around. One of the better elements here is the fact that this one manages to inject such a good amount of quality comedy into the proceedings that this doesn't make it feel like an attempt to copy the style of film at the time but more about a film that just happened to feature people who had a strong sense of humor. This makes it a lot more believable as a comedy than expected, as the physical gags and outstanding verbal jabs thrown at everyone makes it a lot more enjoyable than expected with the banter between everyone is brought out instead of being glossed over and forgotten, as everyone has a few good put-downs along with several really good one-liners. When it gets down to the horror elements, this one is outstanding as well with plenty of good fun to be had had here as the switch-over is handled in the right manner, as the film is serious when it needs to be and funny when seriousness has run its course. That seriousness starts with some fine stalking scenes including one where it backs a diver halfway across the lake as it floats on the surface waiting to attack or an underwater ambush in its lair that gets a good shock jump. Among other outstanding scenes is the high-action finale that ends this in great fashion as the chase through the lake finally ends with the exciting helicopter attack, the utterly fun manner of containing and trapping the creature as well as the final shock-jump that works nicely. As well, the few other attacks in here are quite fun as well as getting in some solid gore here, as it is pretty ample. Add in some great animatronics and CGI so seamless it looks like one monster throughout for the crocodile and this one is a fine creature feature.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and violence-against-animals. "},{"Title":"Shallow But Snappy","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A movie that doesn't try to be anything more than it is. A shallow storyline with snappy patter. An intentionally light affair with a few monster scenes to add a bit of bite to the clambake with popcorn as a side dish.A sweet film that can satisfy the easily pleased and give others a reason to reject the blandness of it all, because it may not be salty enough for the connoisseurs of cutting-edge cuisine.If anyone watching this is expecting anything more they will be disappointed. There is enough humor to keep things palatable and a goodly amount of gore just to make sure that it doesn't go down easily. A movie chomping and chewing to entertain and delivers just enough to confidently say...bon appetit. "},{"Title":"One location shot, one bickering shot, one creature shot, and one halfway tense shot after another. And oh how I love it.","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" It is impossible to come out happy if you go into Lake Placid expecting a divine work of horror excellence. It is possible to go in expecting deliberately campy material and emerge pleasantly fulfilled. It's true; I have a thing for creature features, especially playful ones set in the present. Some I can develop a fondness for, some I can just smile or grin at.Recently, Piranha 3D and Piranha 3DD didn't do justice, I wasn't totally smitten with Eight Legged Freaks either, but I really found myself liking Anaconda for a number of reasons. While it's a lesser quality film, Lake Placid has some good things going for it. We are introduced to the dysfunctional police partners, Jack Wells (Bill Pullman) and Sheriff Hank Keough (Brendan Gleeson), who are convinced there is something in the muddy waters of their Aroostook County Lake in Maine. After it eats Keough's partner, the ditzy, overly-paranoid New York City Paleontologist Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) is called to investigate a mysterious tooth found in the man's corpse. It is identified as the tooth of a crocodile, and the gang later discovers the croc is over thirty feet in length, of Asian territory (how it manages to swim itself all the way to a modest lake in Maine is a mystery to me), and a frail old farmer (Betty White) claims she has fed the useless cattle to it for an upwards of six years. Another quibble I have; how have these bumbling sheriffs not heard this thing for six years? It roars, it creates rough currents, and I'm sure people fish in the lake from time to time. No man-eating croc encounters reported? Bringing logic to a creature feature is like bringing a TV dinner to a restaurant. It's unnecessary and embarrassing. You buy a ticket or rent the DVD to simply enjoy the experience, get a few laughs, and no harm is done. I can accept that, and the movie provides goofy fun, though, however, I will say the scenes featuring the croc are too few and far between. Its first appearance isn't until forty minutes in, and the film truly isn't working towards any suspense. It is just pacing around familiar territory.While the film is questionable on many levels, it does bring one thing to the table; a great cast of people who prove they can commit an act of lovable idiocy. Gleeson is definitely the star here, with his one-liners and presence so assisting as the comic relief, that my point is only furthered; we need a bit of Gleeson in every movie. Bill Pullman is welcomed here and so is Bridget Fonda. But, you can imagine, the scenes the croc is in, he is the show-stealer.Speaking of which, the effects on the croc itself are quite enjoyable too, while still presenting a nice elegance and respect for the creature feature sub-genre. It doesn't look too glossy or too arbitrarily unrealistic, either. I believe it is of an animatronic state, much like how the main anaconda was in Anaconda. The good thing about an animatronic effect is that manipulation to the creation can be done, while still occupying some realism. An example would be when Owen Wilson was swallowed whole by the snake in Anaconda. It looked a little faulty, but still, wasn't disgustingly CGI.Lake Placid's conclusion is the one factor that I was simply won over by. It's bombastic finale that truly cements what this type of movie was meant for. It, again, reminds me of the engaging final act in Anaconda, which I dare not spoil. The whole film, itself, is one location shot, one bickering shot, one creature shot, and one halfway tense shot after another. And oh how I love it.Starring Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, Brendan Gleeson, and Betty White. Directed by Steve Miner. "},{"Title":"LAKE PLACID isn't a bad choice.","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you have watched THE GODFATHER you will remember Bridget Fonda. If you have not watched it's one of the all times greatest and you have to watch it, especially for a guy, it's a MUST watch. Oliver Platt who is not Jack Black however is fiercely funny if he needs to be. More Known as The Man in Black since X MEN FIRST CLASS. Bill Pullman although has regular appearances I can recall him just from INDEPENDENCE DAY (I need to watch his work more often &#x96; note to self). Brendon Gleeson will never be forgotten for his role in BRAVEHEART just as the movie will never be forgotten. So here I have got 4 of the greatest titles, bring the star cast together mix and match and wallah you have got LAKE PLACID. Once again a movie that is over a decade old and yet a movie that is entertaining and a movie that is great for a production dated to 1999. Every movie with creatures and monsters look like a drawing done by a juvenile using windows movie maker if you compared it with the Spielberg hit JURRASIC PARK. So let not compare shall we?In the small town Maine, there has been a horrific accident. Sheriff Hank (Brendon Gleeson) pulls out his friend out of the waters of a lake (Supposedly called Lake Placid but it's not since the name is already taken) completely devoured waist down. Chief Jack Wells (Bill Pullman) of Maine Fish and Game is called in to take a look to find out what is in the waters. Far from main in the city of New York in a museum paleontologist Kelly (Bridget Fonda) has been replaced by her boyfriend aka dropped like its hot! She is then sent out to main to examine a tooth that looks pre historic which is pulled out from the lake victim mentioned before. Kelly confirms the tooth is not a fossil and whatever creature the tooth belonged to is live and very much swimming in the Lake. Heated arguments with Sheriff Hank and Chief Jack and as usual the woman wins! She ends up heading out with them to camp in the forest for 2 days in an expedition to find the cause of all the deaths. Camping for New Yorker even in the late 90s meant a hotel or an inn with a toilet and most certainly not tents. The entire party is soon joined by rich man Hector (Oliver Platt) who has a thing to swim with the crocodiles!Evenly distributed between scary and hilarious LAKE PLACID is a sure fire hour and a half of entertainment. Director Steve Miner who is an ace with TV direction does a very smart job on the production. A very well positioned directorial where the Horror &#x96; Com genre is exposed with clarity. There is very wise use of the talents of the cast. Especially those of Platt and Gleeson, Those who have seen the works of them know the potential they carry for subtle humor and yet have the persona to pull through a scary thriller. There is not a chance in hell that a viewer would walk away on this movie disappointed. Please respect that this was done in 1999 with the technology available over the decade. Comparison to it with the times of today would of course make it look a shame if not. Are you planning on kicking back and having some alone time or just relaxing with some friends indoors during the scorching hot and madly humid summer? Especially when the cinemas are sucked dry out of entertainment. LAKE PLACID isn't a bad choice.Title Lake Placid Directed by Steve Miner Starring Bridget Fonda, Bill Pullman, Brendon Gleeson & Oliver Platt Rated R for violent creature attacks and related gore, and for language Rating 06/10 82 Minutes "},{"Title":"Been to the lake.","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Well one hot summer day I did lay lazily by the lake they used in the film for Lake Placid. (or one of the lakes) I love this movie. I actually thought I wrote a review on here already for it, but guess not. Betty White, Bridget Fonda, everyone is great in the cast, so funny. They were smart in making it hilarious, tipping it to absurdity over an Anaconda tryhard type of fear. You didn't happen to lead your husband to the water blindfolded did you?.. I can't say enough about it. You all need to see it.I bought Lake Placid on DVD and have watched it enough times that I can quote it. Fav line What is everyone a museum bigot in Maine? Greatness. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable creature feature","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I was hesitant to see this movie because of the subject matter and Bridget Fonda being a major cast member. I had seen her performances in Godfather III and Army of Darkness, and frankly I wasn't the least bit impressed by her abilities.The video store I used when this movie was released offered free viewings of movies which were guaranteed to be in stock, and weren't. So when I received the voucher for a free rental of this movie, I decided what the heck, and got it. I was very pleasantly surprised.The major players of this movie are Bill Pullman as Jack Wells (Department of Fish and Game), Bridget Fonda is Kelly Scott (Museum of Natural History, New York), Oliver Platt as Hector Cyr (wealthy, eccentric dragon hunter) and Brendan Gleeson as Sheriff Hank KeoughSomething has killed a man in Lake Placid. It bit his body completely in half. This movie isn't for the feint of heart. It is graphic and gritty and has a very dark humor blended in with the breath-stopping encounters and the gruesome details of the murders. Four people are drawn together to solve the mystery of who or what is killing in the Lake.It's not easy to blend comedy with horror without falling into that dark and career-deadly pit of camp, but Steve Miner (Warlock 1 and Halloween H20 *among many others*) succeeds with full marks.The effects of the creature are realistically believable. It's hard to do a movie like this without totally going astray with the comedic aspect or the creature effects, but both are right on target in this production.You will laugh one moment and be screwed up in your chair with your knees to your chest the next. I love movies based on something which can actually happen. Those to me are the scariest. And this one has some VERY tense moments.Oh, she's whole sentence sarcastic! You two should get along! Brendan Gleeson as Sheriff Hank Keough.This production was a complete surprise. I thoroughly enjoy it, every time I watch it.It rates an 8.7/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"I waited a long time to see a movie like this ...","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, this is the kind of movie which keep you awake every moment. The humor came along with the horror. Also the filming was done very well. Nice, very nice ... "},{"Title":"surprisingly fun","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Fun and entertaining, the character dialogue is witty and amusing.  I really expected to hate this movie, but I've watched it a dozen times now.  Don't think this will be scary, although it will make you jump out of your seat on occasion, but you'll be laughing to hard to be scared. "},{"Title":"Terrific B-Movie Fun!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Interesting characters, an intelligent script and well-done effects add up to a thoroughly entertaining big-critter-eating-people flick. Not quite up to the standards of Tremors, mostly because the cast is smaller, but lots of fun nevertheless. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Lake not so placid after all...good blend of laughs and fright...","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only thing placid about LAKE PLACID is Bill Pullman in one of his blander characterizations--but he's still a charmer. Bridget Fonda exchanges some good barbs with him--as does Brendan Gleeson (as the local sheriff) and Oliver Platt (as a wacko crocodile hunter). All of them are after the crock that's been lurking in the Maine lake and hungry for the next meal.It's an uneven blend of nervous thrills (especially during any underwater scenes) and laughter--played to perfection. Brendan Gleeson's character manages to draw the most attention and the most laughs as the sheriff who tangles with an eccentric hunter (Oliver Platt). Platt is good but his character tends to be annoying at times.Betty White plays a variation of her usual stock comedy character and provides an amusing twist for the final scene. Bridget Fonda looks attractive and handles her sharp exchanges with Pullman in a throughly professional manner.An odd sort of movie that combines comedy and horror with mostly satisfying results. Not exactly a trailblazer but fun. "},{"Title":"It's Ally with teeth!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I have a feeling this movie has been misunderstood by many of the reviewers -- or it was wrongly advertised. When I saw the name David E. Kelley, I expected something along the line of Picket Fences and Ally McBeal, and I was NOT disappointed. It is Ally with teeth, or more precisely Picket Fences with some elements that might not have passed the TV censors. You have the same bucolic type of setting, with some weird characters (some of them lovable and some less so) and some unexpected horror that breaks into the (phoney!) idyll. That's what I loved about Kelley's TV series, and that's what's great about the movie. If you are looking for the other kind of movie (horror), follow the advice of the reviewers who didn't like Lake Placid. (BTW Even the title of the movie is a joke, since it does NOT take place at Lake Placid NY they would have liked to call it that, but the name was already taken!!) "},{"Title":"Positive","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a delightful surprise. Given the OTT hype that most films receive this is a pleasant change. A quiet unassuming film that contains some of the funniest lines I have heard in a long while. The role of the local police officer is played to perfection. Excellent! "},{"Title":"Funny but just too damn short!!?!?","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The film had all the ingredients to be a quality comedy/horror flick.Good humour,good effects if a little basic,Good actors well cast,funny script.However this film is far to short.You leave feeling cheated!!The film has either been edited to death or cut short for budget reasons.Either way funny as it is it left me wanting more.  "},{"Title":" Suprisingly good!!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"    Lake Placid is a hilarious, but horrific movie! Very good! I enjoyed this movie a lot. I really liked it. I rented this and watched it and at the end credits all I could say was wow. If you like comedys/ horror films such as Scary Movie you should like this one. It doesn't seem like a funny movie from the cover with the big alligator's mouth wide open, but it has it's share of comedy. Bill Pullman, Briget Fonda, and Oliver Platt had a good role in this film. If you like Scary Movie you'll probably like this one. I can't give this movie an A, but I give it a B+! I reccomend it.   "},{"Title":"The Best Horror-Comedy of 1999","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie today and thought that it was the most amazing horror film that I have seen. The animation on the Croc is great and the comedy is full of wit and charm. If you havent seen this movie yet, well I recommend that you do, you wont be dissapointed. Bill Pulmans acting is excellent and they deliver the gore in small but horrific doses. "},{"Title":"Intelligently funny","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  We occasionally take a break from our ususl fare on Bravo and IFC and overnight subtitled films, for some good old American junk.  And we found Lake Placid to be delightful.  This is a funny film, that just happens to hang on a peg of a monster in the lake.  The humour was very well done, without the pie-in-the-face slapstick devices of cartoon voices, comic costumes, or even raised eyebrows.  Essentially, a northwoods camp-out by people pulling rank and bickering.  Forget about all pretentions of anything, and just float on the surface of this picture.  It's fun and relaxing. "}{"Title":"Jaws but with an aligator?","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  the films...ok but yeah it kinda got over exagerated in places but you forget that by the end of the film. This film packs enough blood and guts to even make my own mother hold her mouth! Lake placid doesn't keep serious through the film it manages to put in some comedy and supprisingly it works! I'd advise this to anybody whos anybody as its a great little title to own but be warned it struck me as jaws but with an aligator! "},{"Title":"A different type of monster vs humans film","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Don't immediately associate LAKE PLACID with the likes of GODZILLA OR ANACONDA. Although it has some similarities, LAKE PLACID is a hilarious, funny movie with a nice twist at the end.Although Bill Pullman doesn't do much, OLIVER PLATT's character as well as the sheriff's characterisation receive full marks. "},{"Title":"A super little black comedy !!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This turned out to be a really good film thanks mainly to the cast and script. The story surrounds the goings on at a large lake in Maine, where people keep ending up dead.This could easily have been just another boring monster type movie but due to the humour of the entire cast it was never dull although the ending was predictable.I had no problem believing in the creature(unlike some films)and the juxta position of whether to kill or capture it made for an interesting debate. "},{"Title":"The Characters Outshine the Creature!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Key Words  Clever / Good Dialogue / Good Characters / Big TeethI see this type of flic as an mindless escape, and usually don't expect too much, but this creature feature rose above the pack because of the humorous and likeable characters involved and the snappy by-play between them.  Unlike many of its type, this one was quite believable, with the exception of the near-final scene with our star being transported down the highway.  The writers did a credible job of giving the creature-capture team intelligent and witty things to say while we waited to see who would be dismembered next.  And the blood-and-gore was NOT excessive for a change (oh, sure, give or take a severed head here and a wormy toe there).  See this one for some chuckles as well as for a scare or two. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Alligator","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is funny and entertaining. The only problem i have with it is that not enough people die. In a monstermovie the monster is the main character and should eat at least some major actors. Therefore I favour Alligator (1980). "},{"Title":"One of the most misunderstood movies ever made","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  People who are panning Lake Placid and calling it a horrible movie simply do not understand it. While it's certainly not the greatest movie ever made, it's a thoroughly enjoyable parody of monster movies.I thought Gleeson was excellent as the sheriff; he's by far the funniest character in the film. And Fonda is quite good as the neurotic paleontologist.The banter between the characters is hilarious. "},{"Title":"A fun movie not to be taken too seriously","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you're looking for another Jaws, pass this one by. But if you're looking for a good time with a bunch of likable characters in a funny movie that will make you jump out of your seat a couple of times, then by all means, come on in. David E Kelley continues to impress with another story that doesn't make any apologies for being hilarious (and if you don't like it, take your popcorn and go home). It's a summer movie. Relax and enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a great movie to go see when your looking to do something on a rainy or boring day. Lake Placid offers lots of laughs, great special effects, & a few gory scenes. The cast is great together, I myself found Betty White (The Golden Girls) especially funny. This movie isn't one your going be blown away with, but if your looking for a afternoon of fun, this movie is worth the money.CAST (8/10) - STORY (7/10) - SETTING (8/10)AVERAGE SCORE - 7.6 "},{"Title":"If you're looking for an enjoyable movie, definitely check it out.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid starts as a horror movie, but goes on to be much more.  The movie ends up being very funny and still scares you a little.  I wouldn't say it's the best movie I've ever seen, but if you're looking for an enjoyable movie definitely check it out.   "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a fun movie.  It won't win any awards but it had some good jumpy spots and funny comic relief.  The acting was good for what was needed (again nothing that will win awards) and the special effects were well done.  The end was a little to tree hugger and not exactly believable but it doesn't hurt the film any.  It was a very enjoyable film to go to and quite worthwhile.  I think most people should enjoy this film. "}{"Title":"Not a great story but enjoyable","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a movie for a relaxing afternoon.  Not a great story but the comedy is enjoyable.  I recommend it !  Bridget Fonda is funny in a role I had not seen her play. "},{"Title":"You accepted money from him? No! We took a check!","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" (Some Spoilers) It's when a skin diver was found floating to the surface of Lake Placid, or Black Lake as it's now called, bitten in half that alarm bells started ringing from the State of Maine to New York's Natural History Museum in that something strange was happening in the waters out there.With a very reluctant head of the Paleontology Department at the museum young Kelly Wells,Bridget Fonda,dispatched to far off Maine to determine what's the cause of this horror she's confronted by local Fish & Game Warden Jack Wells,Bill Pullman, and local sheriff Hank Keough,Brendan Gleeson. The two right away don't see eye to eye with Kelly in what's going on or in the lake. Kelly feels that both Wells & Keoguh are a big turned off in Kelly, a big city girl with a collage PHD, in her hampering their instigation. It's both Wells & Keough feel that she doesn't know squat, by never going outside of New York City limits, about the great outdoors despite her being an expert on wildlife in and out of the water.It soon becomes apparent that there's something very dangerous lurking in the lake after a second attack happened where a deputy sheriff ended up getting decapitated when boat that Wells Kelly and Sheriff Keough was riding on looking for whatever was committing these atrocities was almost capsize. It's that's the nutty Mythology Professor Hector Cyr, Oliver Platt, was called in to help in the investigation. It soon becomes evident,after an attacking grizzly bear was attacked and dragged into the lake, what what's killing off the people and wildlife in the area is A monster size over 30 foot long and up to four ton Asiatic salt water crocodile! The crocodile somehow swam thousands of miles and ended up in the re-named Lake Black,formerly Lake Placid, through underwater channels connecting the lake to the Atlantic Ocean! It also becomes very apparent that professor Cry a crocodile lover who feels that crocodiles are the highest and most noble form of life on earth is going to do everything in his power, even risk his as well as anyone else's lives,to save the monster crocodile from extinction!***SPOILERS*** As we soon learn it's old lady Delores Bickerman,Betty White, who's really behind all this carnage in and around the lake. Mrs Brickerman has for some seven years been feeding the monster crocodile the livestock on her farm as well as keeping from the police the truth of the disappearance of her husband Berney who in fact was one of her favorite pet's-the crocodile-first meals or victims! With the truth about the monster crocodile now out in the open it's decided to kill the thing by sending in the entire state Fish & Game Department and well as all the law enforcement personnel within 50 miles of the lake where the beast resides. But as expected it's the nutty Professor Hector Cyr who's love for the monster crocodile exceeds his own as well as anyone on else lives does everything his his power to keep that from happening.Exciting final with the big showdown between man and beast at Black Lake with very unexpected and at the same time, for Hector Cyr, satisfying results. It's then that we in the audience as well as both Sheriff Keough and Fish & Game Warden and Forest Ranger Wells see just how right Hector was in keeping the killer crocodile alive! Not for just farther scientific studies but, with the film Lake Placid grossing almost 60 million dollars worldwide, for up until now two and even a third future sequel! "},{"Title":"Great stuff,  oliver Platt rules","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is like Jaws with a funny twist, but this time, it involves a huge crocodile. The movie starts off with a quiet town in Maine suddenly being disturbed by a man-eating creature. Animal control and sheriff officials are tapped in to investigate, joined by a scientist.Each character in the movie has his/her own personality and charm, and all blends in to make the film a very exciting and entertaining feature. Bill Pullman as Jack Wells is a reserved, down-to-earth animal control officer who is dedicated in finding the creature; Bridget Fonda is a witty, sarcastic and dry-humored scientists from the city, who endlessly pokes fun at the townspeople; Oliver Platt as Hector Cyr delivered a corny, obsessed he-man with a personal vendetta with crocodiles, and Brendan Gleeson as Sheriff Hank Keough gave an outstanding performance who gets caught in Cyr's crocodile traps and has a dead-pan delivered one-liners hilarious. In addition, Betty White gave an outrageously wicked and devious performance as Dolores Bickerman. Known for her role as Rose in the sit-com The Golden Girls, White's performance as Mrs. Bickerman is a delightful departure from the innocent and simple Rose, foul-mouthed, cold and unbelievably funny.This movie is one outstanding humor after the next, blend in with adventure and action, and is sure to entertain you all the way.So, remember never to feed the crocodiles, or else they will wound up as big as the one in this movie. "},{"Title":"Middle of the road horror but it's a gotta see for the ambiance.","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Big bugger movie that pulls the big bugger stuff off well. Good plot, nice and rewarding story. But none of that matters.This movie runs on dialog and timing. The stars are not Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda, though they officiate their status admirably.The star is the dialog, with everyone, but nothing in the movie can compete with the verbal boxing between Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson.Their reluctantly evolving mutual respect is brilliant and hilarious. Side splitting hilarious.Betty White is a brilliant aside.All the asides meld and fuse in genius combination.The tale is mediocre but right on for this kind of film but the whole is raised to a worship-able level via the dialog and beautiful plot-tension between characters.There should have been some kind of Oscar for Platt and Gleeson's roles.Best retorts or something .... They make the movie.Good action. Scary at times.Comedy relief rules.Love the movie. "},{"Title":"A horror movie that's funny?","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" OK, this is a horror flick about a HUGE croc that somehow got to Maine from India. It is not your usual monster animal horror movie. Sure, there are heads bitten off and bloody bodies, but they take a back seat to the dialog.First, Bridget Fonda (Army of Darkness, Kiss of the Dragon) is a paleontologist from New York sent to the Maine backwoods. All the jokes about Maine and backwoods keep flying. It is a hoot! Then rich boy and crocodile worshiper Oliver Platt shows up. Now, the jokes really start rolling about backwoods people from Maine and the educated.There are just too many good lines in this film to repeat them all, but I will say I was in stitches the whole time.The only complaint I have is that Platt and Meredith Salenger didn't have time to get it on, but they were a great pair.Features a really kooky Betty White, too.Get a laugh. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A fun, summer time thriller","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a film crew that just gets it right. They don't take the subject matter too seriously, and yet don't go all out mad-cap, screwball, camp either. A nice medium between the two. We really feel the characters are put into the precarious situations in which they find themselves. Here, in Lake Placid, New York, in a remote area, some bodies start appearing. And This wasn't any motor boat accident (to steal a line from the movie this obviously pays homage to, Jaws). A museum curator is sent up to investigate the possibility of a new breed of Crocodile, one capable of sustaining a population throughout the harsh winters of the Northeastern United States. She meets up with the level headed Game and Fish rep, the surly local cop, and a very eccentric millionaire who's completely smitten with all things Crocodile. All come together to solve the mystery of how a creature like this would end up in Lake Placid, and also to capture and/or eliminate this dangerous threat to the fauna surrounding the Lake, especially the human population. The CGI effects are quite good here, and there's a neat little ending that had my six year old nephew so shocked he accidentally blurted out What the f**k was that? For a campy take on the Jaws theme, but one that entertains immensely, see this film. "},{"Title":"And throw in a giant crocodile...","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This horrific comedy scores on every level. What is it about Lake Placid that made it such a guilty pleasure to me? The cheeky dialogue, the beautiful scenery? Or the thirty foot crocodile that chomps on people in a remote lake in Maine? It must be all of that, laden with brilliant special effects and one liners, that makes this monster movie such a fun ride.In Black Lake, something is killing off the wildlife. So in come the local police, led by Bill Pullman, a stuck-up paleontologist (beautiful and charming Bridget Fonda hams it up)and an eccentric crocodile-obsessed man (awesome Oliver Platt) to investigate the scene. What follows is the uncovering of a hysterical story involving an Asian Pacific crocodile that has migrated into Black Lake from the ocean, and doesn't plan to leave.Mrs. Bickerman (Betty White, who will make your jaw drop with her side-splitting, show stealing performance) has been protecting the croc and feeding it cows in the lake. Now the rescue squad must find a way to excavate the crocodile from the area without being eaten alive in the process. With as much genuine scares as there are laughs, this thriller works enormously well as long as you keep in mind that it's all for fun. The crocodile looks amazing. Stan Winston created the realistic and startling animatronics of the prehistoric predator and the visual CGI effects are as equally impressive, if not more. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"An Absolutely Hilarious Thriller!","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is like Jaws with a funny twist, but this time, it involves a huge crocodile. The movie starts off with a town in Maine who's quiet lifestyle was disrupted by a man-eating creature. Animal control and sheriff officials are tapped in to investigate, joined by a scientist.Each character in the movie has his/her own charm, all blending in to make the film a very exciting and entertaining feature. Bill Pullman as Jack Wells is a reserved, down-to-earth animal control officer who is dedicated in finding the creature; Bridget Fonda is a witty, sarcastic and dry-humored scientist from the city, who endlessly pokes fun at the townspeople; Oliver Platt as Hector Cyr delivered a corny, obsessed he-man with a personal vendetta with crocodiles and Brendan Gleeson as Sheriff Hank Keough gave an outstanding performance who gets caught in Cyr's crocodile traps and has a dead-pan delivery. In addition, Betty White gave an outrageously wicked and devious performance as Dolores Bickerman. Known for her role as Rose in the sit-com The Golden Girls, White's performance as Mrs. Bickerman is a delightful departure from the innocent and simple Rose foul-mouthed cold and unbelievably funny.This movie is one outstanding humor-fest. Not meant to be taken seriously - just a fun flick for laughs and entertainment.Grade B "},{"Title":"Sold me on Oliver Platt's & Briget Fonda's comedic talents","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I loved this film. Bridget Fonda's best work. Her character was eminently vulnerable and both Bill Pullman and Brendan Gleeson were the perfect straight men for her comedy. Oliver Platt pitted against Brendan Gleeson was a fantastic mix. The writing is dead on and it is a very enjoyable show that you can watch more than once and realize that you've missed a joke. The special effects left something to be desired. It was very clear that they didn't have green screen technology at their disposal. However, the fake special effects are overridden by extremely strong performances by very talented character actors.I would have given the film a higher rating, despite the lack of good special effects, because the acting on the part of most of the character actors created an ensemble piece that became, by the end of the film amazing. Unfortunately Betty White's cussing scenes brought the movie down. It's the one misstep the writers and/or casting team took.However, this was an ensemble character driven movie with four VERY strong performances. "},{"Title":"Very funny, very entertaining, very good","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lets get something out of the way so that I can praise this movie properly Hollywood has a terrible habit of getting the casting wrong. Very wrong. Bill pull-man is a very irritating twit in this movie. As is Bridget Fonda, playing out the pseudo-wannabe feminist. the movie could have easily done without them and so in a strange way, they were just surplus to requirements and added little or no value to an otherwise funny and entertaining movie.I saw this movie a few years ago and just didn't get around to posting a comment then, so I am belatedly offering my 2 pence worth now...The accolades go out to Oliver Platt (Hector Cyr), Brendan Gleeson (the sheriff), Betty White (Delores Bickerman) and Meridith Salenger (the deputy) who carry the movie and make up for what can only be described as distractions by the two so-called leads.Almost from the start, the film is both laugh-out-loud funny (in an intelligent and classy way) and undeniably icky AT THE SAME TIME! The witty repartee between Hector Cyr and the Sheriff is handled splendidly and I strongly suspect that those who gave it bad reviews simply didn't get the movie. The subject matter is almost irrelevant as it - quite rightly - simply serves as a vehicle for the more interesting of the stories characters. "}{"Title":"I don't care what anyone says, I really like this movie","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" OK, it is cheesy but it's supposed to be. And I really didn't think the acting was that bad. It's a tongue in cheek movie and while it's not nearly up to Tremors standards for spoofing horror movies, I think it does a pretty good job at being what it is; a fun, check your brain at the door, movie. I really enjoyed it. And there are some great quotes;They conceal that type of information in booksHave you ever been to Maine before? I'm not allowed, I have good hygiene.You know, you really don't need to tell people you're from New York.Almost any of Betty White's linesAnd last but not least; Meredith Salinger is in it, she doesn't have a big role but, as always, she looks damn good. And she has one of the great lines in the movie;The eccentric millionaire as he's about to go diving in the lake looking for the giant croc's den; I want to see where it lives. Meredith; Then watch NOVA! "},{"Title":"I loved it!!","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies.....I hate horror movies and the kids nagged me into watching it....for once, I'm glad I gave in. It's full of funny one-liners....and the best line (in my opinion) was at the end when Pullman (the laconic hero) says to Fonda (the fast talker from New York who hates mosquitoes and is allergic to trees), I'm already missing the crocodile. Oliver Platt was just hilarious...Bill Pullman suitably wooden....Brendan Gleeson (I lied he says, hanging upside down in a tree) excellent and Bridgett Fonda, perfect for the uptight, fast-talking, never-been-beyond-New-York city girl. If you liked this, you might like True Lies or Shanghai Noon...other movies that are made just for fun. "},{"Title":"Films are targeted for audiences, not critics; but pleasure and profit.","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid was filmed brilliantly.  Should you be able to suspend belief for the requisite two hours, you will enjoy this film and it's remarkable casting.  Each player was able to capitalize on their own screen presona without appearing to reach to some place new and untried; except for Betty White.  Her character practically stoled the show; although it was losly based on her chacter from the Mary Tyler Moore Show, Lou-Ann Nivens. Bridget Fonda was able to play a low keyed adaption of a critical character- and pull it off with intellegence and force.  This is a movie that people can enjoy, and one that has the legs for viewers to see it again.  It was made to entertain, and it does. "},{"Title":"Not a sucky B movie","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't expect much, but I was encouraged by a strong cast, so I watched it. Boy was I delighted! Interesting and well-developed characters, suspense, thrills, and a healthy dose of humor really grabbed me. The antagonism between the characters is great! And the special effects are very good.Watch this movie, and I guarantee it won't just be the crocodile smiling! "},{"Title":"Superb black comedy/thriller...","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Just saw this on cable, and I thoroughly enjoyed it - gave it 9/10 rating. The jokes WERE funny, including Bridget Fonda with a running gag, Betty White as a cantankerous ol' lady with a foul mouth, and Oliver Platt as a bumbling whatever-his-job-was. The effects were credible and the acting was believable. The pace was quick - the entire movie lasts barely 120 and it's well worth your time! I'm recommending it to my friends. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid had it all. It had a little bit of romance, a little bit of drama and not only one, but two 30 feet long man-eating alligators. The movie did well OK in theaters, it did reclaim the cost to make it and a little on the side. I am really hoping that the rentals are going to make up for it. I was in suspense the whole way through the movie. The casting was good and the acting was superb.   "},{"Title":"Rare, successful blend of uproarious comedy, suspense, and terror.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The bon mots and non sequiturs just keep on coming  in this immensely entertaining outdoors film that   treads the fine line between dry wit and wet shock.   Filmmaking such as this takes courage, as regular  action fans who seek out the chew-em-ups usually  like their gore straight-no-chaser, and may sit  befuddled through the brilliantly-timed humor and  snappy repartee within Lake Placid. (Recall the  box-office failure of The Last Action Hero?)   Those who prefer seeing finely-drawn battles of onscreen wit, though, will appreciate the whole package. The interplay among the Platt, Fonda and Gleeson characters is a hoot.  Betty White's role is a bit uncharacteristic, but her lines will no doubt become catch-phrases.  And that's a tribute of sorts, isn't it?  But the best praise will come from Lake Placid's evolution into cult status, which I  predict will happen.  Remember I said that in  September 1999. "},{"Title":"Sharp, witty dialog liven up this rocking comedy","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My wife and I and my brother and his wife all vote for this picture as the best (intentionally) hilarious comedy we've seen this year. We (and entire audience with us) all seemed to get the jokes and we all seemed to laugh at the same volume. Hell, this is Tucson, not Stepford. It's all just the dialog and body and facial languages. The actors are terrific, the dialog is worthy of comparison with LA Confidential. I thought Betty White was the funniest of the cast, but you'll have to see the film to find out why. I can't type that kind of language.  "},{"Title":"Big, Scary Fun!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie not knowing what to expect. The plot felt like something from a B-movie.  It turned out to be a movie reminiscent of the Creature Feature movies that I remember as a kid.  It is filled with sarcastic humor and witty repartee. I enjoyed Oliver Platt and the colorful character he created.  He had some of the best lines.The crocodile was the best feature of the movie, and could have been utilized more.  It looked real unlike the snakes in Anaconda.  The horror story mixed with the comedy reminded me of Tremors.I was not even offended at the jabs made at my state (Maine).  It was funny to see how others think of this state.  (The 'others' being movie writers.)I thought it was a funny movie with the requisite jaw dropping scenes to provide moments of horror. It vacillated between horror and comedy quite nicely.  Keeps the viewer off balance.  Betty White was a little annoying, but who didn't laugh when she fed the crocodile? Watch this movie for fun, it must not be taken seriously, after all it was made for entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Reptilian Fun for Shallow Water Movie Goers","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  You've gotta love a movie where Betty White's character is cutesy, foul-mouthed, and cheering for a thirty foot crocodile's appetite for sheriff deputies and game wardens.Lake Placid is not brain candy, but it is an hour and a half of monstrous fun, good effect (but not overdone), and a raft of characters you can really like.In fact, unlike most monster sci-fi movies today, it's not just populated a really good guy, a really bad guy, and a monster thrown in for effect. The characters in Lake Placid are all likable, though different, and the crocodile is the sole catalyst that turns a lightweight character study into a story.It's fun.  It won't win any awards.  But it's fun. "}{"Title":"This movie is pure fun!!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  ok, i am a big horror movie fan and a lover of most movies. im so tired of people saying oh the fx stunk, oh there was'nt a realistic plot, there was no character development.......who cares!!!! i thought the point of a movie is to have fun watchin it. this movie is great fun, the humor is soooo funny..especially all the little sarcastic one-liners. the characters are likeable and not boring and the fx were awesome..it wasnt a cheap rubber thing like anaconda(although i love anaconda too). To say this is a rip-off of anaconda or jaws is stupid because since jaws has come out any movie that has to do with a creature under water is now considered a rip-off of jaws and i think that's ridiculous..and even if they intentionally ripped it off so what!!! its not like they stole it scene by scene. in short this movie is pure entertainment and is a great movie and i hope more movies are made that arent just looking for good box office and are just made to entertain us true fans. "},{"Title":"its one of the best films i have ever seen","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  O.K so what about being stupid or anything this is not no anaconda movie this is a movie that has a good beginning and it stays with you from the beginning till end. I know what you are saying are you kidding me, no I'M not kidding you I have seen the previews and the movie is worth it. if you have seen anaconda you have seen the scene where they are all in the water and looking to see where the snake is, that looked liked they knew something was there but was it, and I'M like Betty White I would be for the croc and hope that it wins, and boy I liked it where the croc pulls down the helicopter O.K I know that would not happen but hey this is a movie O.K. It might not be worth it at a cinema but I know it would be worth it at a drive in and I can't wait to see it again. don't listen to any of the critics listen to me I believe in lake placid and it's worth the price of admission because it will stay with you and you will not know what will happen. go see it and you will see for yourself that i was right. it's a comedy and a horror movie so you know you will laugh more that you will scream go see it.  "},{"Title":"Don't miss it, unpredictable, funny and chilling.","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This one has it all, laughs and chills. This movie has more funny lines than the average chiller all delivered with conviction. The story is actually plausible and Steve Miner's direction is top notch for this type of film. Brigit Fonda, Bill Pullman and Oliver Platt turn in their usual fine performances. Single funniest line in the movie delivered by Betty White. Yes, that Betty White. If you were going to skip this movie because you thought you knew what was going to happen, don't. You won't be sorry.  "},{"Title":"A totally funny movie if they didn't try to scare you with that crocodile.","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was laughing one minute and gripping my seat the next. This is a rare mix of funny and scary blended just right. Go see it! "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable horror monster comedy hoot","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A giant carnivorous prehistoric crocodile terrorizes a sleepy lakefront New England community in Maine. It's up to nice guy game warden Jack Wells (a likable turn by Bill Pullman), naive big city paleontologist Kelly Scott (a fine, feisty performance by Bridget Fonda), flaky rich ancient mythology buff Hector Cyr (delightfully essayed with off-the-wall relish by Oliver Platt), and grumpy Sheriff Hank Keough (the always excellent Brendan Gleeson) to stop the ferocious reptile before things get too out of hand. Capably directed by Steve Minor, with a cheerfully silly and wickedly witty script by David E. Kelley, a steady pace, a shivery, ominous score by John Ottman, an engaging assortment of colorfully neurotic central characters (Platt in particular is a total howl as the gloriously eccentric Hector), a good amount of tension, polished, sparkling cinematography by Daryn Okada, a refreshingly tight and trim 82 minute running time, an affectionate tongue-in-cheek tone (this film pays nifty homage to the first two Jaws pictures), a cool animatronic crocodile by Stan Winston, a reasonable sprinkling of gore, and plenty of gut-busting deadpan dialogue, this infectiously quirky and self-parodic romp does the trick in a pleasingly sly and amusing unpretentious B-flick manner. Betty White almost steals the whole show as batty, foul-mouthed old broad Delores Bickerman while the gorgeous Meredith Salinger has a nice supporting part as perky Deputy Sharon Gare. A fun fright feature. "},{"Title":"Updating of monster movies themes with good cast and especial effects outstanding","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This comedy-horror begins when a giant Croc attacks at a backwards warden causing a grisly death.A paleontologist(Bridget Fonda) is sent to Maine by his chief-fiance(Adam Arkin appears uncredited)who has other lover(Mariska Hargitay).She investigates and discover a prehistoric tooth.The scientific along with a warden(Bill Pullman),a stubborn sheriff(Brendan Gleeson),a deputy(Meredith Salenger) and an eccentric millionaire(Oliver Platt) attempt to figure out the strange events.The Crocodile is still hungry after eating a warden in a creepy scenes with gore included .This monster movie contains suspense,comedy,terror,scares,suspense and bone-chilling scenes when the large Crocodile attacks.The enormous Croc delivers the goods with thrills,screams,eerie horror with its spontaneous appearance,some scenes are made by means of computer generator though mostly by Animatronics realized by the FX master,Stan Winston.The comic relief in charge of Betty White(The golden girls) as a sympathetic and foul-mouthed old woman with a special secret.Colorful cinematography by Okada,reflecting brightly the Maine lush woods where the story is developed. Appropriate music score adjusted to the atmosphere film and known final song by Bob Marley.The movie is written and produced by the successful TV scriptwriter(Professors of Boston,The practice,LA law).The motion picture is professionally directed by Steve Miner, a horror expert(Hallowen H20,Wallock,Friday the 13th)and some comedy film(My father the hero,Soul man).It's an OK juvenile entry into monster movies,being specially remarkable for excellent recreating of the carnivorous and ferocious Croc . "},{"Title":"LAKE PLACID (Steve Miner, 1999) ***","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Despite being aware of the good reviews it garnered on its release, I never got to watch until now a 'B' horror movie at heart, this is good old-fashioned entertainment (despite the new-fangled CGI effects). Considering Miner had helmed a couple of lame Friday THE 13TH films (which I've just watched, incidentally), this is a far more satisfying genre effort from him engaging protagonists (best of all is flustered sheriff Brendan Gleeson, but Betty White's eccentric character is also memorable - with the scene where she feeds a cow to 'her' crocodile verging on the surreal), good level of suspense, thrilling action, some gore, and there's also a healthy dose of humor...though its attempt to lend gravitas to the main theme (with the crocodile considered a form of deity) doesn't work. There have been few croc films, with the most notable examples being THE ALLIGATOR PEOPLE (1959) - which I'd love to rewatch, though I guess not enough to purchase Fox's bare-bones DVD - and ALLIGATOR (1980; to which this compares quite favorably) - released as a SE by Anchor Bay UK, along with its straight-to-video sequel. By the way, while watching this I was reminded of another acquatic monster picture of recent vintage which I also missed out on - DEEP BLUE SEA (1999) - and I guess now's as good a time as any to check it out... "},{"Title":"This movie was good.","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Some of you people need to pull the stick out of your corn spitter and lighten up.This was a great movie for what it was. The characters are supposed to be lame, the humor is sarcastic and funny. There are a lot of great one liners and all the actors play their parts as they should. We aren't supposed to care about them, that's not what this movie is about.If you went into it expecting anything different, well, that's really too bad for you.If you were really paying attention, then you would know why fonda was out there in the first place and she wasn't mis-cast. Pullman was good for his character, the lamo fish and game warden that can rain on anybodies parade. I could go on, but I won't because most of you just didn't get it anyway.If you haven't seen it and you like good sarcasm and wit, then see this movie. "},{"Title":"Pure Gold","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is perfect from start to finish.  I did not get the opportunity to see the movie while it was still in theaters.  I rented it when it came out on video just for the hell of it.  I had no idea what the deal with the movie was, and figured, if anything, I could shut it off after a half hour if it was awful.  By the trailer, I thought it was a straight up horror flick.IT IS NOT.  Did you catch that?  It is not a horror film.  Not in the least bit.  It is a pure horror/comedy hybrid.  The scares are evident on occasion, but it doesn't take up too much time.  Instead, the comedy has a chance to shine.  I absolutely was in love with this movie from the first time I saw it, and have since watched it many times without any diminished appreciation.  The dialogue and interaction between the main characters is simply brilliant.  Some have said that the story is flimsy, I disagree.  It's not air-tight, but it certainly isn't just plain ridiculous. My review will not help you determine if you will like the film, you have to see it to decide for yourself.  I used to put stock in the user comments on this site, but now I decide for myself before reading any reviews.  If you look at the reviews, you will notice that the people who hated it, hated it a lot, and the people who liked it, loved it and raved about it.  I am of the latter group.  I tell everyone to rent this movie, some like it, some don't.  A very simple test to see if you will like this movie is this. Did you see the either of the first two House movies? Did you like them?If you answered yes to both questions, you will absolutely love this movie.  Steve Miner, who directed the original House, directed Lake Placid.  He has a great sensibility for horror/comedy, and it certainly shows in this movie.  Seriously, whatever anyone says doesn't really matter.  I love this film, and I don't see why anyone wouldn't like it.  It seems that most people that don't get it, consider it a poorly made horror movie.  While, the truth is, this is an expertly made comedy film.  Go rent it for yourself, you won't regret it.  I promise.   "},{"Title":"Hmmm..A Bridget Fonda movie, or what?","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Not at all what I expected, but not all that bad either.  Fonda, Pullman, and Platt provide excellent performances.  I was surprised to see Meredith Salenger in there.  But then she didn't even DIE!  I mean, it's a vicious crocodile.  Is Miner going for mainstream?  Because since it is directed by Steve Miner I sort of expected something, well, scarier.  I'm not in to comedy much.  But this movie was a total cop-out.  Do me a favor, Steve, and direct Jason X.  Don't try the mainstream.It deserves a solid 7.  That's all.  "}{"Title":"A Movie Stands Apart From Its Genre","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Usually, this type of movies have few - if not a lot - boring moments, but the characters' snappy lines toward each other is not the routine blah-blah lines we often see in this type of movie.The first twenty minutes of the movie allowed more character development than any other movies of its kind.  Bridget Fonda's snappiness & sarcasm works brilliantly & Brandan Gleeson's comments on others' sarcasm makes him that much realistic to me.  Bill Pullman is the cool-headed one where every movie of this type must have such a leader, yet, he has a softer appeal than the macho/hero usually seen in this type of movie.  Brilliant, and I wouldn't mind seeing it again which is extremely rare for me in for such genre. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, first of all, what is wrong with you morons? Didn't you watch the movie? It is not an alligator that is eating the people, it's a crocodile! Get it strait. And second, how can you people say that this movie was not funny? I laughed myself silly strait through the whole movie.Yeah, there is some cheesy acting and some of the dialogue is a little bad, but the movie is pretty good, in my opinion. The whole man-eating creature plot has been done a billion times before, but there is an entire new twist on this, because this movie is actually GOOD! Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, Oliver Platt, Brendan Gleeson, and Betty White star in LAKE PLACID, the man-eating crocodile creature flick that came out right around the same time DEEP BLUE SEA did. That is probably why DEEP BLUE SEA flopped so bad, because of this movie, which was a hell of a lot better.Fans of action adventures, the best movie of the genre has arrived! This movie is one of my favorites, and I will stand behind my claim that this movie is good. I guess the whole thing is just a manner of opinion.LAKE PLACID gets 5/5 from me. "},{"Title":"Very scary.","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie could some people out of going for a swim. This a very scary movie. It has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. Lake Placid 2 is scarier. But still this is one of the scariest movie to come out before 2007. Two crocodiles show in a lake this not know to have crocodiles. This a very scary movie. If this movie does not scary you then no movie will scary you. This a great horror movie. Bill Pullman is a great actor. Bridget Fonda is a great actress. Oliver P.l.a.t.t is a great actor. Brendan G.l.e.e.s.o.n is a great actor. Betty White is a great actress. David l.e.w.i.s is a great actor. This movie is a must see. Lake Placid 3 is a scarier. But still this a great movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty Decent!","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Spoiler Alert! I caught this film on sci-fi and remember some scenes and I got to tell you I'll always remember the opening scene where the diver gets bitten in half. I like this film for being a cheaper monster film. The sequels were horrible and nowhere near as entertaining as this film. The only thing I didn't like was Bridget Fonda's acting. If she was killed off earlier I think I would of liked it a lot better. I also liked the scene where that guy gets his head bitten off by the gator in all honesty I didn't even see that coming. This really isn't too bad for being a sci-fi film and I give it a 6 out of 10 because it's still the best alligator film I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is not so much a horror film as a comedy in my opinion. The sarcasm is so good. The acting is very good, the plot is okay, and the acting is actually well done. Betty White is great as the outre croc feeder who not only feeds the super crocs her cows but has even lost her husband to one of them. (Turns out there are two). Oliver Platt is excellent as the flamboyant, rich, eccentric who swims with gators and crocks all over the world. He believes he is safe, until he meets this one anyway. The interaction between him and the sheriff is hilarious as it skirts the bounds of homosexuality with double entandres all over the place. Bridget Fonda is the paleontologist sent out by her museum because she and her boss lover have broken up. The scenes are usually funny in a macabre way. When the crock is finally trapped in the helicopter, it is saved by Platt and Fonda who get the rest to go along with the plan. It's mate is killed when it comes to see what is going on. At the end the movie closes with Betty White feeding some baby crocs. Gee think there will be a sequel??? "},{"Title":"Good Mix of Characters","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Having just been dumped by her boyfriend (who is also her boss) for another colleague at work, Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) is then sent from New York City all the way to Maine on the flimsy reasoning that there might be something of interest up there for the museum in which she works. When she gets there she meets a frustrated county sheriff named Hank Keough (Brendan Gleeson) and a puzzled ranger from the Department of Fish and Wildlife who goes by the name of Jack Wells (Bill Pullman). Not only do they not understand why Kelly has been sent but neither of them thinks she belongs with them on this dangerous mission which has already resulted in the death of at least one person. However, they are in for an even bigger surprise when a rich but extremely eccentric crocodile hunter named Hector Cyr (Oliver Platt) shows up unexpectedly. Anyway, rather than reveal any more of the movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this film turned out to be somewhat entertaining all things considered. I liked the mix of characters and I thought all of the actors did a fine job. I also liked the special effects and I thought the giant crocodile was certainly better than those displayed in some of the other films involving similar creatures. However, the humor wasn't nearly as fine as it could have been and the inter-relationship between Jack and Kelly lacked passion. All in all this wasn't a bad movie and I rate it as about average. "},{"Title":"Paved the way for today's fun giant monster B-movies","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If I had to pick one movie that I believe jettisoned the current craze for schlocky creature features to where it's at now, it would be 1999's Lake Placid. Full of ridiculous characters, gory killings, and a cameo from Betty White in which she swears not like one but several sailors, it paved the way for today's fun B-movies in the vein of Sharknado and pretty much any film in the Asylum catalog. A group of investigators are called to a remote lake in Maine after the mysterious death of a police officer occurs in the usually calm waters. Upon arriving, the team discovers that a crocodile has somehow made its way into the lake and is feeding on anything big enough to satisfy its appetite... whether it be animal or human. Where did the beast come from and how can they stop it before it kills again?Lake Placid boasts an ensemble cast of actors who looking back now would consider this slumming it by how they're viewed today. Bill Pullman portrays one of the crocodile hunters and puts forth every effort to take the material seriously. Bridget Fonda is a paleontologist who delivers an emotional performance completely unnecessary for such a lighthearted adventure romp. Brendan Gleeson plays the local sheriff and you'd never know he would grow into such a respected British thespian of cinema. Oliver Platt fully embraces his role as an eccentric rich boy obsessed with the oversized scaly lizards.Lake Placid is rated R for violent creature attacks and related gore, and for language. There's no nudity but plenty of conversations about sex and innuendos. If you have a weak stomach when it comes to on screen carnage, you might find yourself hurrying to close your eyes at points. Clocking in at an hour and twenty-two minutes, Lake Placid is a great example of the term less is more. It doesn't overstay its welcome and accomplishes what it wants to within its run time. I think its legacy of made-for-TV sequels speaks for its appeal to monster movie enthusiasts who enjoy a little humor and cheese with their severed limbs and decapitated heads. "},{"Title":"The quiet, serene Lake Placid is filled with giant, man-eating crocodiles.","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" As far as '30ft. crocodiles in a lake' movies go, Lake Placid's kinda good. It's actually plain good. A successful B-movie. Yes, while Lake Placid may be across the board inferior in many movie aspects, it makes up for its lesser qualities with a gnarly and capturing, very well-streamed plot line. The 30ft. croc is always lurking. It's a well edited and shot movie. Lake Placid thrives on the characters battling the 30ft. croc. Bridget Fonda, Bill Pullman, Brendon Gleeson and Oliver Platt together comprise the good, strong cast. Bridget Fonda stars as the lead. Bridget is so, girl next door, really hot. She plays Scott a little on the intense side, but her guarded personality is really appealing. She does a fine job. Bill Pullman possesses a masterful acting skill for B-movies. He's really excellent and he's really appreciated as Jack Wells. Brendon Gleeson brings his strong presence to his character. He plays Sheriff Hank Keough nearly too well, almost taking from Placid's B-movie nostalgia with his chiseled acting skills. Oliver Platt really makes the movie, supplying a good dynamic with Hector Cyr, some kinda wild crocodile hunting cowboy. Platt has such an affectionate persona. Betty White is funny as the wacky old cuck feeding the 30ft. crocodile as a pet. Lake Placid is a good horror in the sense it's a light horror. The gory parts are presently lucidly in counterbalance, nicely done. At some point in time, Lake Placid's well worth watching. It's such a good B-movie, it's an A-movie. "},{"Title":"A Decent enough film!","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Found this on the shelf in Hmv & decided to buy it due to it interesting me abit!It was a fairly decent film! Had a similarity to Jaws a little bit! Only they didn't Kill the 30ft Asian Pacific Crocodile in the end!The body count was abit disappointing! Although I kind of expected it to be not that gory or have a high body count due to it, being it was a late 1990s early 2000s film! Not that that mattered but you know...The goriness was also low but at the time it must have been shocking sh*t! Also because I myself, like my goriness to be, Over-The-Top!I liked the 30ft Crocodile! It was actually a pretty good concept! Giving I haven't seen a Crocodile attack film before!I overall liked the story-line & was glad it wasn't one of those Female Sole Survivor Films which do my head in because it's so overused! Especially in this day & age!But overall! 8/10 A Decent Film which any Horror Guru must see! "},{"Title":"Biting comedy...","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I had no idea what to expect when I saw LAKE PLACID, but I was pleasantly surprised when it turned out to be one of the better tongue-in-cheek chillers. Betty White, in particular (a woman known- and revered- for her love of animals), was brilliant as the 'gator-feeding granny-type. I agree with the reviewer who felt that the cheesy cgi were in keeping with the overall tone of the movie. (Here's a quick real-life horror story for you I was driving a cab one night and had picked up a fare- a couple from Virginia- and we were at a stoplight just across the street from the Screen Gems studios. Beside the studio is a road about a block long that curves into the woods and dead-ends in a swamp. I was watching the light, waiting for it to change, when both of my back-seat passengers leaned forward. I looked at them and they were staring straight ahead, just beyond the intersection where the light was. That's the biggest dog I've ever seen in my life, the guy whispered. I looked. That's not a dog, I corrected That's an alligator. The 'gator we were staring at had risen up and was walking slowly from the studio side of the street to the far side. It was so big that it's snout was on one side of the road and the tip of its tail on the other. The light changed, but I didn't drive off we sat there and watched that present-day dinosaur slowly move across the road and into the weeds on the far side. I joked that I was going to have to charge them extra for the show, but I've had more than one encounter with alligators hereabouts and I know just how scary the real thing(s) can be. Not long after the incident, I had to make a hasty pit-stop one night- any port in a storm- and found myself on that darkened road taking care of business when I heard, very distinctly, the sound of something very large moving very stealthily through the surrounding forest. I hopped back in my cab- after carefully doublechecking underneath for signs of saurians- and took off. In one front-page, top story of the night on the news, a 'gator was feeding off of cats in a local neighborhood. In another, a 'gator stopped traffic on a bridge in mid-day. Yet another 'gator was shown on the beach, leading some to speculate that some of the shark attacks reported nearly every summer hereabouts, now, might be the work of alligators. I picked up a workman working on a local bridge one day when his entire crew was sent home because they were wading through waist-deep water that turned out to be literally crawling with hungry 'gators. If you're thinking that this is one weird place, you're right.) "}{"Title":"Very good tongue-in-cheek monster movie","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" People start going missing around Lake Placid, and police and scientists investigate - is there a mysterious predator out there somewhere? Well yes, of course there is, and we know what that predator is right from the very start as this monster movie follows a tried and tested path. It has a very good cast and a decent script - exciting, amusing, suspenseful, with well-drawn characters - and the action and effects work is first rate.In short, if you like well-done gory monster movies, this will give you exactly what you're looking for. "},{"Title":"A good thriller to get engrossed in without disturbing your conscience.","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The actors and actresses of this movie do a fine job of playing nearby common people handling a catastrophic emergency. I think they were chosen well as portraying simpler folk dealing with such a Herculean task. There are very heated disputes between them about how to proceed to their goal and risky feats are attempted to control the beast which happens to be a displaced giant alligator. This story has the feel of the first Jaws movie on a local, home level. The show is action-packed and has shocking elements throughout. One can also enjoy this movie for its odd suspense and exaggerated peril as well as the interesting scuffles among the human group. No heroic savior clichs nor extraordinary event really takes place in this movie to solve everyone's crisis but there is a climax whereby they rig up a trap to beat the monstrous animal. These townfolks' efforts produce a satisfying ending that gives us faith in ordinary people's ability to answer such monumental challenges. To me, it always seemed that the upper hand belonged to the ferocious creature. It is a serious but also spoof-like fantasy movie if you ask me but it does present itself realistically. "},{"Title":"This movie is silly... but it knows it.","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Expect a weak plot. Expect the laws of physics to be maimed beyond recognition. Expect deliberate behaviour from a non-sentient creature. It should be common sense stepping into this genre of movies, really.Don't watch this movie looking to be scared witless, that road leads only to disappointment no scene is truly intense. The core of this movie very much lie in the relationship between Platt and Gleeson's respective characters, Betty White's short appearances and the needlessly saucy female deputy.The rare appearances of the crocodile are relatively well-done. The beast is no masterpiece of CGI and it isn't used perfectly, but it's a far cry from the terrible cardboard shark of Jaws 4.All in all, the mild humour, decent CGI and a cast that seems to enjoy itself all serve to make Lake Placid a palatable pop-corn flick. "},{"Title":"Bridget Fonda passed the time","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I found this movie interesting for the first 20 minutes of plot buildup, but it became uneven after that. There was an odd mix of gore and injected humor, making you wonder if it was fully designed as a comedy, or they decided to go more that route during filming.Hard to figure out what they really intended to do. Mostly entertaining, but lacked flow in many parts. Couldn't take the fat guy seriously as a crocodile expert and the lady (B.F.) was a bit prissy for someone in an earthy field. Also, the scenery clearly wasn't in Maine; mountains and trees had the wrong look.To be honest, I spent most of the time trying to catch glimpses of Bridget Fonda's remarkably-shaped pants. Those who know what I mean will probably find this film worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Decent monster movie.","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" 'Lake Placid' is among the many underrated monster movies. Examples of these include 'Deep Blue Sea' and 'Blood Surf'.For a monster movie, 'Lake Placid' is actually a pretty good movie with some good special effects and even some humor.Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, and Oliver Platt are the main characters in this movie, and they all did a wonderful job as a cop, paleontologist, and a crocodile hunter.However, there is a downside to this movie.What the movie needed was more kills.Only 2 characters in the movie were killed by the crocodile.If there was a few more, the movie could've been a little better.At least the 2 people died in a gory fashion.Add in a surprise performance by Betty White from 'Golden Girls' and you have a monster movie that makes a great treat.You'll be laughing at it's sense of humor, screaming at the scares the crocodile delivers, and clapping at how much you were entertained. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is not a bad movie when it comes to 'croc attack movies'. I'm usually not a fan of this type of movies, but Lake Placid is an exception.And why you ask? It's hard to pinpoint it down to one aspect. For one thing, the acting is good enough. Nice dialog and a decent of amount of humor too. The croc is not bad either. Oops, I am getting ahead of myself here.The story is about a giant crocodile attacking and eating people. Simple eh?Back to the croc, it's well done and doesn't look unrealistic. Yes it is usually CGI, but in this movie that's not a bad thing.This movie is not entirely a horror movie. I think you can classify it as a horror comedy. If you are a fan of those movies, check it out.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most enjoyable Killer Croc movie?","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Having seen CROCODILE, KROCODYLUS (BLOOD SURF) and PRIMEVAL, to say nothing of ALLIGATOR, I would pronounce this as the most enjoyable Killer Croc film I've seen. The amusement derives chiefly from the Sheriff, the loony croc researcher and Bridget Fonda with her delightful penchant for the wrong collocation of words, a characteristic she shares with one of my star pupils.But, but, but how did 2 gigantic crocodiles appear and survive long enough so grow so huge in such a non-tropical climate as Maine's? And why was Betty White so conscientious about feeding them? As in ALLLIGATOR, was one of them brought by her husband as a tiny pet and released into the Lake? "},{"Title":"A $30m B-Movie.......                   ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ...But this time it's intentional, Lake Placid is a Horror Comedy, a genre which doesn't seem to make it at the box office, Filmgoers prefer to watch a Funny movie or a straight Horror movie, not a mixture of both, unfortunately Lake Placid didn't change that perception as it was overlooked and barely broke even at the U.S Domestic Box Office.A man is eaten alive by a giant man-eating Crocodile in a seemingly Placid Lake (Well Obviously!) so the dopey Sheriff (Brendon Gleeson) sends for local game warden (Bill Pullman) and a Paleontologist from NYC (Bridget Fonda) to catch the beast.This is really funny and it's all done very tongue in cheek, I especially loved the fowl mouthed old lady (Betty White) who feeds the Crocodile like a pet after her husband got eaten & Oliver Platt who always good as comic relief.***1/2 out of *****Follwed by a seemingly pointless 'Lake Placid 2' a Straight to Cable name only sequel by the Sci-fi Channel, which I haven't yet seen, but seems to go the same route with barely 10% of the budget and has the usual overly harsh reviews that every sci-fi channel production gets. "},{"Title":"betty white","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I would love to see how many takes betty white had to do, when she spoke to that sheriff! ''this is the part where i'd tell u to **** it! yes, ROFL... We were rolling on the floor laughing!! omg...I actually used her line a couple of times! I would buy the movie, just to record that on an answering machine. OK, so some people are really offended---whatever. Laugh a little. Why, don't they do more realistic accents though, when filming in Maine? The home of my father.....I'm just used to his accent I guess. ayuh! IMD; 'betty' is a spelling error?? Betty??? betta? Looks nothing like our lake placid though. I would watch it again, just to see BETTY. "},{"Title":"6 out of 10","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is a decent homage to ancient B-cinema. In the good tradition of films like Tremors, we're presented a silly and light-headed tale of an offbeat American region plagued by an exaggeratedly over-sized animal devouring the local rednecks. In this case we have a giant Asian crocodile claiming a Maine-lake as his own and, immediately after eating his first victim (a diver whom he bit in half), a team of weirdo-specialists gathers around the lake to investigate the creature. Everyone slightly familiar with this type of insignificant horror films knows that they're a lot more comical than they are scary, thus Like Placid is a large buffet of witty dialogues, eccentric characters and over-the-top special effects. The characters are constantly arguing and throwing insults at each other and  unlike in many other nowadays creature features  it works and this film really qualifies as good, brainless amusement. Especially the interactions between the local, lesser intelligent, Sheriff Brendan Gleeson and the wealthy professional croc-hunter Oliver Platt often make you chuckle. There are a few very grotesque (but ingenious) twists in the second half of the film and I really enjoyed the visual effects (ever seen a crocodile battle a bear?). This is director Steve Minor's first experiment in the monster-movie field, after a whole lot of slashers like Friday the 13th and Halloween sequels, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who's looking for 80 minutes of pure amusement.Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence and Profanity. "}{"Title":"pretty good movie, Very funny","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie when i was like 10 and i loved every minute of it, i still enjoy watching it to this day. One of my favorite things is hearing Betty White drop the F-Bomb. Did not see it coming. The crocodile in this movie was animatronic, making it very lifelike. I wish i could get a hold of that crocodile. This movie was the perfect combo of comedy and horror. The sequel on the other hand S-U-C-K-S!!!! I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes comedy, horror or both. The CGI was pretty good for a 1999 made movie. I don't think this movie could be remade or made better. I don't know why but this movie, no matter how bad it gets at some times is excellent. "},{"Title":"Popcorn movie trash at its finest!","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is a wonderful piece of popcorn movie making. A simple, straightforward, no brainer of a comedy-horror, that stretches the boundary of believability to the realms of incredulous, but masks its absurd premise behind funny, crisis-driven characters, sharp, witty dialogue, and a splattering of A-grade sfx. Never one for the accolades of filmic awards, or to grace the top ten of critics columns it nevertheless delivers on the most important of audience expectations - entertainment. A stellar cast produce memorable, if not technically outstanding, performances, for no more reason than their unique character-led perspectives and ideals that are wrapped up in ever-increasingly conflicting dialogue. The sarcasm flows with almost non-stop regularity, and the 'fun' of this movie is as much to be found in seeing how the characters overcome their differences with each other, as with the 'will they or won't they' capturing of the crocodile. Lake Placid won't stretch your grey matter any, and it surely won't give you anything perplexing to debate after dinner, but it will leave you smirking from ear to ear, and recounting some marvellous one-liners to entertain your more cinematically reticent friends with. On a cold winter's night, with a bottle of bud, a bag of popcorn, and your better half at your side, it'd make a good start to (hopefully) a thoroughly entertaining evening! "},{"Title":"If Stephen King and Jay Leno collaborated on a horror movie, this is what the result would be","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Take a killer-crocodile movie, and spice it up with some biting sarcasm and humor, and you get Lake Placid. Basically, a 30-foot long crocodile gets loose in a lake in rural Maine (of all places) and starts eating the townsfolk. You've got all your monster-run-amok clich charatcers here -- the crocodile expert who thinks he knows how to take this thing alive, the sheriff who hates the crocodile expert and doesn't want him telling the sheriff how to handle everything, the male and female leads who have crushes on each other. However, Betty White steals the show as the keeper of the crocodile, who, unbeknownst to everyone until about halfway through the movie, has been feeding Mr. Croc a steady diet of her livestock. She hasn't been this funny since Match Game was in its prime. If you like shock value, Lake Placid has that too the scene in which the croc takes down, drags a huge black bear into the water and kills it is probably the BEST scene in the history of giant crocodile movies. My only complaint -- and I didn't realize this until I saw the cast list recently -- is that the beautiful Mariska Hargitay has a bit role in this movie (I am, sadly, assuming she got eaten early on). Mariska should have gotten the lead role in this movie (I think this was made right before she landed her role on Law & Order SVU) over Bridget Fonda, who just didn't seem like she was that into it. Fonda is better in more serious movies like A Simple Plan, which was the last movie she had been in prior to Lake Placid. Good movie to watch if you wanna see a horror movie but don't want to be too scared. "},{"Title":"A SCUBA diver is killed by a Crocodile in a lake in New England. A gang is organized to try and eliminate this creature.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a very action-packed movie. I like it very much. Except for animal cruelty is the one things I think spoils it! I felt very sorry for the cow that got fed by that devil of a woman who lived near the lake. Other than that, this movie was very, very good! Bridget Fonda acted great I think. Same with Bill Pullman and Oliver Platt. I thought it was great. And the beginning bit where that SCUBA diver was eaten in half, that was freaky!! But it was very good. You see, the reason I felt sorry for the cow, is because...I love animals! Except for that crocodile, I hated him! But still, continue on with this fabulous movie-making!!! "},{"Title":"Best horror comedy since Gremlins","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is a simple yet very effective movie. It plays out as a horror comedy which is just as well as the premise is the stupidest of the year but the again thats the beauty of it. The story is reasonably straight forward. A paleontolagist played by Bridget Fonda, is sent to Maine to find out more about an attack on a diver. The diver was attacked by some kind of large reptile, which is later revealed to be a 30ft crocodile. On arrival she is accompanied by the local towns sheriff who is wonderfully played by Brenden Gleeson and a water reserve person played well by Bill Pullman. However the star of the show is Oliver Platt who plays an obsessed and very sarcastic scientist. The four set out to solve the mystery with what I can only call hilairious results. The Crocodile when he appears is convincing enough and at times is rather scary. The acting is surprisingly good for this kind of movie but then again its a surprisingly good cast. The film runs at a mere 82min and that is without a doubt a problem as the crocodile only features strongly for about the last half hour. Looking back on 1999 it was a good year for monster movies with the equally enjoyable Deep Blue Sea also released. To conclude Lake Placid is funny and scary even if it is a somewhat brief experience. "},{"Title":"It's not a total croc, but it's not the greatest either.","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Less a thriller than a quirky character piece, this tale about a formerly quiet Maine community that's terrorized by a 30 foot crocodile offers up a few laughs and a few scares, but doesn't really add up in the end. Fonda plays a museum paleontologist who is sent to Maine to investigate the finding of a dinosaur-like tooth embedded in the victim of an underwater mauling. Petulant and uncomfortable outside the city, she immediately clashes with the local sheriff (Gleeson) and the game warden (Pullman.) Complicating matters is the arrival of adventurer and croc-expert Platt, who sweeps in with much fanfare to announce that he's going to trap the creature. The foursome, assisted by various deputies and other authorities, seeks to locate the creature while arguing whether it should be captured or destroyed on sight. White plays an old lady who lives alongside the lake who may know more than she's letting on about the whole matter. Writer Kelley has fashioned an unbelievably lazy script full of unanswered questions and illogic, choosing instead to pepper the dialogue constantly with sarcastic and witty remarks. Viewers' tolerance for his type of writing will dictate how much enjoyment is to be had with the film. Those expecting a straightforward and tense film, will be let down by the almost light atmosphere as the characters bicker, debate and snipe at one another. Those who embrace his quirky, nearly surreal approach to things will doubtlessly find much to love here. In either case, the story rarely makes sense and often doesn't even try to! How a creature like that exists (especially in that location) is glossed over and why it suddenly chooses to eat everyone, even when it's being fed regularly, is never touched on. The setting and the story are nothing more than a backdrop for the main cast to flap their gums even more than the beast. Pullman gives a fairly subtle, appealing performance and has little to do, really, except react to those around him. Fonda actually manages to incorporate a moderate amount of appeal into her grating character who has a penchant for falling out of vehicles and getting heads thrown at her. Gleeson gives the most affable and believable performance. The audience is invested in his well-being which is more than can be said for Platt. Sporting a ridiculous hairdo and a porcine physique, he's about the last person one would expect to see as a crocodile hunter. It's a real shame that lovely and bright Salenger (as a deputy) is forced to interact with and appear to be romantically interested in this ass. (Salenger, as a matter of fact, is even far more appealing than Fonda and could have played the leading female role quite well.) White steals the show in a tiny part laced with several shocking epithets, but her character makes no sense. SPOILER Why would she protect a creature that killed her husband, especially when it's killing other humans and is robbing her of her livestock? It makes no sense as presented here. All this isn't to say that there aren't some enjoyable aspects to the movie (and it's mercifully brief!), but even a movie with snappy dialogue ought to make some sort of sense at it's origin. The finished product here feels half-baked at best. "},{"Title":"If you liked this, try House or Warlock.","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Steve Miner may have got his start on crap like the Friday the 13th sequels but he has nailed the horror/comedy genre several times. Lake Placid is a lesser example of that triumph. This could have been Mosquito or Orca, but is a moderately fun B movie. Brendan Gleason(Braveheart, Dark Blue), Oliver Platt(The Three Musketeers, Dangerous Beauty), and Bill Pullman(Ruthless People, The Last Seduction) have a ball tossing dry insults, although Platt is miscast. Betty White is one feisty and foul mouthed lady, while Bridget Fonda lands the doomed Capshaw role. David E. Kelley's script, while not featuring any dancing babies, is light. The movie is padded at 82 minutes. Adam Arkin is completely wasted in a lifeless subplot. Miner does do a good job of limiting the lacking effects, most effects shots are bad but quick. It is only the humor that saves this movie.Hector(Holding a severed toe) Is this your friend? Sheriff He seemed taller. "},{"Title":"Murders and rapes in the city, people bomb planes, can the police stop 'em? No! But feed one little cow to a crocodile...","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" - Some people may question my sanity for this one, but I'm a fan of Lake Placid. As a fluff-filled, popcorn movie, it's one of the more entertaining ones I've seen. If you're looking for a movie to answer the questions of life or provide you with something to think about for days after the movie ends, Lake Placid is not your film. But if you're looking for a movie to have fun with, I have no hesitation about recommending it.- Lake Placid is a mix of movie genres &#150; it's one part comedy, an almost equal part adventure, a dash horror, and a hint of romance. The comedy is good. The action is okay in that Saturday-afternoon-matine kind of way. The horror consists mainly of cheap, but very effective, jump scares. And what little romance the movie has, unfortunately, is nauseating. But Lake Placid works because it never takes itself too seriously, which is a good thing. Instead of playing it straight, it's played for laughs and most of them work. Some of the dialogue makes me laugh out loud regardless of how many times I've seen it. Betty White steals every scene in which she appears. She has that mild-mannered persona and could easily pass for anyone's grandmother. But when push comes to shove, she lets the foul language rip without a second thought. It's hysterical. I've never been much of a fan of David E. Kelley, but he hit a home run with this witty, intelligent script.- Two of the relationships in the movie bear mentioning. The first is Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda. This is one of those typical fish-out-of-water-falls-for-the-local-guy relationships that are very common in a lot of the romantic/comedies that I've seen. It's really nothing special and incredibly predictable. The second is Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson. This is where Lake Placid rises above your standard comedy. These two guys are a riot when on screen together. Their constant bickering is a real treat. It's great. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie on my TV-screen.. The whole movie is just a recap of what you have seen in previous films.. (a love story, a monster-element, people living together that don't get along) There is nothing original to it and even the FX was kinda lame.. Then why rate it 7? Because, I guess, I'm in a good mood. But also because of the funny elements in the movie, although you might say that even those elements are recaps too!If you love a story with above elements, and if you don't want to think at all.. Watch it, but don't waste your money.. (wait t'ill they air it ;)) "},{"Title":"Great for fans of gallows humor , quirky performances, and slow burns","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Let me say up front that this movie's style appealed to me from the very beginning; another person with a more staid sense of humor might not like it at all and might rate it much lower.The special effects are decent, the photography and scenery are gorgeous, and the plot is pleasantly absurd without degenerating into Scary Movie material. Most of the characters come across as appealing, decent people caught in a bizarre situation. They react in believable ways to unbelievable events, with two exceptions 1)Oliver Platt's crocodile groupie. The character is a complete flake, but Platt fleshes him out as a funny and self-aware entity who is a lot of fun to watch and listen to...and the character finally has a flash of common sense an hour into the movie. 2) Similarly, Betty White has a semi-cameo as the most eccentric/lunatic grandma in Maine, but she is only a little bit more oddball than any 'real' senior citizen might be in a similar situation.Pretty much everyone strikes the right tone in this movie and gives a good-to-great performance, but Brendon Gleeson (as the sheriff) makes the movie for me. He gets most of the best lines, and delivers them with the sullen, deadpan, passive-aggressive panache of a born pain-in-the-butt. His character is insulted, pushed around and put-upon something awful in the course of the movie, and he does a wonderful slow burn. IMO, it's the most overlooked comic performance of that movie year.Aside geez, Gleeson is an ACTOR. You'd never think that the guy who plays this character would also be great in a visceral adventure/horror film like 28 Days Later. He was also one of best things about Troy as Helen's cuckolded husband, who duels Paris (Orlando Bloom) and kicks seven varieties of snot out of him in a towering rage. Gleeson comes across as one big, mean, scary butt-kicker, and he makes Paris/Orlando look like a sniveling little girly-man in comparison. Talk about range and versatility...! From now on, I intend to see any movie with Gleeson in a featured role; he's that good. Anyway, the movie is good, mean fun, with a nice sense of proportion. It laughs with the characters, and not at them. There is a winking acknowledgment of the fact that people are stupid and no damned good...but they still try their best, and their humanity is both endearing and infuriating. "}{"Title":"95% worthless.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  For a horror movie, surprisingly few fatalities and hardly any gore.  Filled out by a lukewarm cast, led by a bland Bill Pullman.  Only 2 semi-redeemable factors1.  The sight of a former Golden Girl cursing out some disrespectful youngins; and2.  Fonda is cute.   "},{"Title":"Not scary and not funny","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" And it's billed as a horror/comedy.Let's clear one thing, right away I went to see this movie because I LIKE campy horror films, and that's what the cast and crew tried to deliver.That's why they failed. You can't TRY to be campy. Camp has to come naturally. If Ed Wood had TRIED to make Plan 9 bad, it wouldn't be so enjoyable; it'd just be BAD. That's what's wrong with Lake Placid. A bunch of big names hamming it up, spouting smarmy, self-referencing and self-parodying dialogue. This film was so lousy, I couldn't even root for the crocodile.Of the entire cast, there is one bright spot. Brendan Gleeson plays the Sheriff with more character and depth than you'll find in the rest of the cast, combined. He succeeds in being entertaining because his character is taking the movie seriously, so his 'funny' lines have actual comedic impact.Contrast this to Betty White. An old lady who swears? Wow! I love this movie! That's such a fresh, cutting-edge idea! This might be funny to a few eight-year-olds, I guess, and maybe that's the audience this movie was aimed at.I think even an 8-year-old, though, would have balked at the presence of an Asian saltwater crocodile swimming across the Atlantic and setting up housekeeping in upper North America. Even if it COULD make the 6000-mile trip, why WOULD it? So it could spend eight months out of the year hibernating in the frigid mud?The writers were very clever in convincing the audience on the reason WHY the crocodile made the trip they dodged the question. Every time someone in the movie brings asks WHY?, the response is just a comment on how it COULD possibly happen, and isn't it amazing that it DID? If that's all the better they can come up with, they should have just used the old 'escaped pet gets huge' schtick. Even THAT would have improved this waste of film.This movie gets a 3 out of 10 (I gave one point for the crocodile animation and two points for Brendan Gleeson). "},{"Title":"Decent attack scenes amidst intrusive comedy","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  LAKE PLACID (1999) ** (D Steve Miner) Lame... it's comedy vs. horror in this combo of JAWS and GRIZZLY. Bridget Fonda is whiny and miscast as a crocodile expert. Oliver Platt is an obnoxious croc worshipper who cracks jokes every hundred frames or so. Betty White plays the local town screwball. Worth a look for a few decent crocodile attack scenes, but the ever-intrusive comedy is always lurking around the corner to smooth out all the potentially rough edges. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't expect much when i heard this movie came out and i kept comparing it to Alligator And Crocodile (the old one). Then i actually saw it and i was very amused. I think this movie or so to say Steve Miner is highly underrated. He was also responsible for Halloween H20 wich some people might find stupid but i myself as a true Halloween(Carpenter)-lover enjoyed it very much. Played out more as a comedy, you understand that the makers and actors don't take the movie too seriously and that's a good thing. I won't repeat the storyline because so many people will do that for me. I just wanted to say that the movie is fun. (people who love pulp. Who Dig Evil dead, Who generally  dig movies with big monsters that don't take themselves too seriously, this is the one to watch. It's made to be campy. Has some pretty funny scenes and is gory at some points and the Crocodile is nothing short but awesome. Very cool CGI-effects. One of the better despite what some people might think. It's just a made-to- be-campy-but-not-too-much-so-you-can-clearly-see-that-they-had-a budget-kind of movie. Love the ending. And the way the relationship between the two leading actors is developping doesn't seem to tacky. It even ends well enough. So the viewer can make up what is going to happen. It's a feel good horrormovie. Steve Miner knows what he does. And he does it quite well i think. "},{"Title":"A fun black comedy !","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This monster movie is quite alot of fun . It's full of black comedy and sarcasm . The film also features a good cast . Despite the fact that this film isn't mean to be serious it contains some pretty gory scenes and some really good special effects . Even the CGI animated Crocodile looks very good . Also a good score by John Ottman adds to the film . This is one of those films you'll want to watch with a bunch of friends . "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve the slating it got","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This certainly isn't a fantastic movie, but it deserves so much more than it was given, and i will stand by that. It's a well written film that knows what it is and doesn't try to be something more. What it is is a very enjoyable movie that plays on its strengths... in fact i'd go as far as to say it's an intelligent movie... if you watch this with an open mind i think you'll really enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Tongue firmly in cheek giant croc movie","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Until the bloody raggy end of a divers body was thrown into the boat I didn't hold out much hope for this movie. It's not really my kind of film - but it is funny and witty in a low-key kind of way and it had me smiling all the way through...and although it doesn't even pretend to be scary I leaped out of my seat on a couple of occasions..very sad I know. I've read several reviews of this movie and the ones that say that it is a poor film are seriously missing the point! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!!!!!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  spoiler alert A movie about a large animal that terrorizes a small town, seems a bit familiar, right?  Lake Placid takes place in a small town in Maine. While out tagging beavers the sheriff Hank Krough, played by Brendan Gleeson, witnesses one of his deputies bitten completely in half by some unknown animal in Black Lake.  Kelly Scott, a paleontologist from a museum in New York City, played by Bridget Fonda, is sent down to Main to help in the investigation and to analyze a large tooth that was found in the deputies severed body.  Kelly and the sheriff then join up with Jack Wells, played by Bill Pullman, who is an officer from Maine's Fish and Game Department. The three then proceed to Black Lake to hunt down the beast that is responsible for the deputy's death.  Along the way they interview Mrs. Bickerman, played by the `Golden Girl' Betty White.  When asked about her husband she informs them that he was sick and he asked her to kill him.  She says that she hit him with a frying pan and buried him under the bulk head outside.  They are then joined by Hector Cyr, a mythology professor who has a fascination with crocodiles, played by Oliver Platt.  Hector is the only one who is convinced that there is a crocodile in Lake Black.  While out camping the three are nearly attacked by a large bear, but to their surprise they are saved when an enormous crocodile comes out of the lake and eats the bear.  This is when the non-believers finally come to realize that there is a crocodile that some how managed to inhabit the lake.  While out scouting the lake for the animal they witness Mrs. Bickerman leading one of her cows the lake blind folded, apparently as lunch for the large crocodile.  They then return to Mrs. Bickerman's house to pay her another visit.  Come to find out she had been feeding this creature for years.  During the creatures feeding time her husband was accidentally eaten.  Mrs. Bickerman never reported the incident because she feared that they would hunt the animal down and kill it. Eventually the crocodile is taken alive during a scenario that involves a cow dangling from a helicopter on a rope. All though many critics have not given this movie very good reviews, it has become my experience that if critics say it's a bad movie I will usually enjoy it. For instance, Jim Eadon and his uneducated independent movie review referred to the movie as a `croc film', but he didn't mean this in a nice way. He referred to the movies as a `croc of s***'. Which I must say is a pretty lame joke, but that is what I will use when I make a reference to his review.  His complaints range from problems with the title to the CGI. He also complained that the crocodile didn't eat enough people and referred to Betty White as a `sitcom hag' who he wanted the crocodile to eat. Well Mr. Jim Eadon, she has a hell of a lot more money and prestige than you will ever see, so don't screw with the `Golden Girls'. The movie did have its faults, as with any movie.  For instance, the name of the movie is `Lake Placid' but the actual name of the lake in the movie is Lake Black.  Other than that I thought the movie was pretty damn good. It has a good variety of horror and comedy all wrapped up in one movie. If you want to see a movie where people are continuously getting eaten, chewed up and spit out, go see `Deep Blue Sea', `Jaws', or one of those ridiculous `Nightmare on Elm Street' movies where Feddy keeps terrorizing and slicing up little children. Despite all the bad reviews, I would recommend this movie.  Again, I thought it was funny and had a good mix of comedy and horror, but who am I to say, I am just another uneducated person doing an independent movie review.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious from start to finish","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I really liked this movie, Betty white was so hilarious she did it without trying, how can you beat that line where she says to the annoying cop (THIS IS WHERE IF I HAD A D***K IDD TELL YOU TO SUCK IT)  i cracked up laughing, so did everyone in the room, it's a shame she never used lines like that in the golden girls. Ok when you see the croc, you do think oh please what is that, and i noticed the creature was moving a mile a minute, i have to say alot of the new horror flicks involving dangerous creatures are a little on the dodgy side, even though alot of money is spent on them, the special effects are way to fast, that they don't look real and so ruins the illusion, look at the classic film JAWS the whole sequence looked real, the shark looked real, they spent more time on the creature itself than on the special effect, but putting aside that just sit and enjoy and don't take it to serious like me, watch out for the scene where Betty Davis feeds the croc a whole cow, and its taken in one gulp. "},{"Title":"goofy, but entertaining.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was a silly little monster movie from Steve Minor That is fun to watch, even though it does not take it's self very seriously. It is about a Crocodile that is stuck in the title lake, and local authorities try to capture it. Goofy, but watch-able.  "}{"Title":"Some of the worst dialogue ever recorded...","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I can just imagine the writer of this film, typing up his witty dialogue, and chuckling to himself at just how clever and funny he was.  There is barely one line of dialogue in this film which is not stilted, hollow, and utterly false.  Dialogue is a vital element in a good script - through it we get to know our characters, and see their relationships.  The painfully awful dialogue that fills Lake Placid achieves nothing more than making you want to stop watching.  Who would want to get to know such hollow, stupid, and irritating characters?  Who could possibly care about their relationships?  A truly awful film from a pretentious and over-rated filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Memorably cheezy giant alligator flick","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A 30 foot crocodile is threatening a bunch of fish and game people and a paleontologist (Fonda) at a small Maine lake (?).  Best bit is Betty White as the ancient nice lady who feeds the croc as a pet even though it ate her husband (he got too close).  Sort of funny, good action scenes, slightly more interesting characters than usual for this sort of film (especially White and also Platt as a playboy croc-swimmer).  Entertaining and funny in a mild way. "},{"Title":"Ally McBeal with Teeth!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film had some pretty decent scares and could've been one of the better of more recent JAWS knockoffs to come off of the assembly line.  But it focuses too much on Bridget Fonda and Bill Pullman's characters and their neuroses and issues with male/female relationships which would seem irrelevant if they are tracking down an oversized alligator that is on a killing spree.  I thought it was a very special episode of Ally McBeal with a man eating crocodile instead of Lucy Liu.Produced by David Kelly the film uses humor too heavy handedly and forgets about building tension and suspense losing much of it's bite (sorry about that). "},{"Title":"Lightweight piece of forgettable fun!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Croc in the lake flick which unravels rather like TREMORS on water! Nothing anyone could take much offense at - and about as frightening as an episode of GET SMART!Played pretty much for laughs, the croc when it appears is rather a non-event. One brilliant effect, when it takes the bear - that was one of the best CGI effects I ever saw, followed by the cow scene which ranks as one of the WORST effects ever put up on screen...and thats how the thing pans out...a laugh here, a bite there, Bull Pullman looking non-plussed and embarrassed to be in the movie! Brendan Gleeson and Betty White totally steal the show anyway!All up...forgettable with a capital F! You want a seriously fun croc? go watch ALLIGATOR (1980), it nudges this into oblivion! "},{"Title":"Black-Comedy, not Horror","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is another in my long list of underrated movies, and it does what all GOOD horror movies do well, which is throw in elements of black-humor to break up what would otherwise be a monotony of pseudo-suspenseful moments. Lake Placid takes what is otherwise a thoroughly worn out genre and breathes a little bit of life back into it. Keep an eye out for truly funny moments from Brendan Gleeson and Betty White. "},{"Title":"Silly and Fun, not scary.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie looked good and scary in the previews, ok?  When I saw it on TV it was not scary at all but funny!  I wonder if the director meant to make this seem funny?  The chitchat between the sheriff and Oliver Platt's character made for some extremely funny dialogue.  I really liked Oliver Platt's character as an alligator enthusiast!  Betty White (of Golden Girls fame) played a great dingbat who feeds her cattle to the giant alligator and even talks about how she killed her husband.  There was nothing scary about this movie at all.  Bridgett Fonda was funny in this and Bill Pullman was the same as he always is.  I like his characters a lot but they all talk the same.  I would suggest NOT renting this but I would also suggest NOT turning the station if you happen to see it on television.  Great for laughs.  But not a horror movie in the slightest. "},{"Title":"Dark comedy","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I don't feel that this movie was intended on being truly scary. With all the formats of a comedy with a twist. It's funny as hell. A great B movie in the making. Don't go into this movie think you'll be scared, you wont, you may even find it dumb, if you actually thinks it's a horror movie, that doesn't say much for you. Kimodo was supposed to be a horror movie, same with Anaconda, they were just BAD, but with placing Betty White in a movie, you know it's a comedy. Some of her lines are awesome, and think it's worth seeing.>^..^< "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film has some amazing moments that are unforgettable. Its about two really big crocodiles in a usually calm lake and they start eating people. A paleontologist discovers that these are closely related to a prehistoric crocodile. Please watch this or you will miss out. "},{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a comedy? Either I just didn't see the funny side or I missed something. MAY BE SPOILERS AHEAD. A giant crocodile/aligator is trying to gobble up everything in its path and a group of people must try and lure him out. But I still enjoyed this movie, nice and gory at the start and the film is quite similar to Anaconda but is better directed by Steve Miner who did a good Job. A good movie that will definatley keep you on the edge of your seat.75%  "},{"Title":"a few effective moments but lacking in originality","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Marginally effective horror-comedy centers around a lake in Maine that falls victim to unprecedented crocodile attacks. A diligent game warden (Pullman), a fretful paleontologist (Fonda), an iconoclastic crocodile enthusiast (Platt), and an uptight local sheriff (Gleeson), reluctantly join forces to try and apprehend the creature, only to find that the animal is in fact nearly three times larger than the average species. Occasionally startling but mostly comical, this one only really works if you're looking for lots of laughs. The cast is good, and very enthusiastic, but they're helpless against the film's familiar approach where the focal point seems to be bickering characters. ** "}{"Title":"Any real point ??","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was hoping for alot of action in this movie.  There were some good looking effects at times, but the main focus of the film was on the interaction of the Characters that were hunting for the creature.The film is very short at just over 75 minutes and the beast is hardly seen(sometimes a good thing), I just expected alot more onscreen action which ultimately failed to show up....6/10 "},{"Title":"What a crock!!!!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Just when you thought all those Jaws ripoffs died out, here comes Lake placid. It's just a sleepy body of water in rural Maine. Until a forest service worker is torn to pieces while tagging beaver in its crystal depths. Was it a bear or some natural creature of the woods????? A loch Ness type beastie????? Or something even worse?????Enter an overweight Sheriff. A rugged forest ranger. A big city scientist. And a wealthy, slighty daffy thrill seeker to discover the truth behind the killing. The story is silly. The science used to describe the the presence of the mysterious lake killer is shaky at best. But it's all played to semi-laughs so the audience isn't suppose to take it to seriously. And in the end, we don't.  "},{"Title":"DON'T GO IN THE WATER","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It seems such a silly film, but therein lies it's strength. This is a film hat refuses to take itself seriously. Instead it is a glorious 'B' movie, with some excellent gags. The city characters and the Maine characters instantly dislike one another, and it comes out in some great one-liners. Fonda, Pullman, Platt & Gleason are all under-rated, and all show their best comic turn. Easily the best of it's type since Mamet wrote Piranha. "},{"Title":"Big Croc","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie on DVD just because I didn't want to spend the money to watch it on the big screen. It is worth renting if you like suspenseful movies or just special effects. The beginning is the typical `mystery-beast-underwater killing' that can't be explained. As the movie continues, the group battles with the croc till the surprise ending. This movie was pretty suspenseful and it does keep you on the edge of your seat. `Lake Placid' would probably be better if it were viewed in groups. Bill Pullman plays `Jack Wells' a game warden that comes to town to investigate the first killing. Bridget Fonda plays `Kelly Scott' who is a paleontologist from New York that comes to investigate a tooth left behind on the corpse of the first mysterious killing. Oliver Platt plays `Hector Seare' a rich and over zealous crocodile expert that flies in to run the show. Platt is quiet funny and the croc-parts of the movie have great special effects. Of course this movie is totally unbelievable but it is great fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"Funny/Scary??","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was funnyer then heck. Scary not really but they did a good job with the under water scenes.  Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson Played off of each other so well they were what made the movie good yeah bill pullman was in it so that could have been played by someone else and the movie would have still been just as good.  I watched it and laughed so hard the first time and every time after.  This is a comady not a horror film.  so go watch it and expect to laugh at Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson they are so funny.7/10 "},{"Title":"Succeeds in capturing its target audience.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It is very easy to hate LAKE PLACID as much as enjoy it. It has very much the same characteristics as what made TREMORS a tolerable movie the sarcastic humor, the silly situations the characters are thrown in, and one or two particularly mainstream characters that we can all laugh at. LAKE PLACID is not for all tastes but the people who do 'get it' will laugh their brains off.A man is half eaten by something and a team of researchers and police are off to a lake in Maine to investigate. Their curiosity leads them to a 30 foot crocodile that wants to be left alone.Absolutely no one is serious in LAKE PLACID and it is hilarious in that sense. More word exchanging than brains being used gives a good idea that LAKE PLACID has more than just a stupid agenda in mind (wasting your time and money), that is it has a hidden morale whether it was intended or not. LAKE PLACID is pure B-movie material but it entertains anyone who likes sarcasm in its driest form. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Not scary enough to be a thriller, not funny enough to be a comedy, this is one of those films that tries to be both and fails twice.  Good actors wasted in cardboard characters with no support from the script, and only gaffe-spotting to distract you from the obviousness of it all.  Note the hideous day-for-night shot as the deputies dig a trench, wonder how Bill Pullman's canoe can go in a straight line when he's only paddling on one side, and how come Oliver Platt's character, armed with the latest technology, still has a tent full of old, leather-bound books.  Apart from Betty White, who obviously relishes the chance to swear a lot, everyone looks underwhelmed and faintly embarassed.  And so they should. "},{"Title":"Yay!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I miss the days of giant animal monster movies swarms of bees, huge tarantulas, etc.  They were always so fun because they were always so BAD, and Lake Placid is no exception.  I laughed and laughed.And I love the poster picture! "},{"Title":"Takes a Bite Out of Boredom","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid is simply entertaining.  It is not a great film, nor does it ever try to be one.  It is laced with subtle and not-so-subtle humour.  It has some great action-packed sequences filled with suspense and packing more than a few scares.  It has some inventive special effects.  It has some good, comfortable character acting, and its acting leads are if not too interesting at least not offensive to the eyes.  It does, however, also possess a simple-minded, formulaic script which tries to throw some curve balls but ultimately fails.  It has some cheesy dialogue, and acting that is nothing more than one dimensional.  Notwithstanding these defects, Lake Placid is fun.  The story centers around a small lake in New England(Maine) of all places that houses a gigantic croc that starts to devour people in bits.  To the rescue come Brandon Gleeson as the sheriff, Bill Pullman as a wild game expert, Bridget Fonda as a dino expert, and Oliver Platt as an independent professor of crocology.  All these actors play through their parts with fun, Platt seeming to have the most fun hamming it up and Gleeson doing the best acting job.  Pullman and Fonda are pretty much just scenery.  For me, and other reviewers have commented on this, the worst part of the film was seeing Betty White use profanity really in what seemed a strained and forced manner.  It did nothing for me nor did i find it humorous.  Lake Placid, however, had funny moments, and scary ones too.  It will certainly take a bite out a boring evening! "},{"Title":"Mindless fun","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Take away the beginning and end credits and what you are left with is a 75-minute long movie that you'll never watch more than once if you buy the DVD (like me) but will still have a fun time watching. Steve Miner returns to the tranquil lakeside settings he captured so well in the Friday the 13th movies and gives us more horror hokum.What I liked about Lake Placid is that it is kind of light-hearted and doesn't try and make itself a full-blown horror by showing us guts and entrails. The movie is NOT serious and has many suspenseful scenes packed into it's VERY brief running time. The cast are delightful and the big nasty croc is actually quite sympathetic at the end. Buy this DVD and enjoy for what it is...a light, breezy comedy-thriller that nails the bullseye instead of aiming for higher (and ultimately lesser) results.Fox may well re-release this movie on DVD with an anamorphic picture and DTS sound. When they do that I suggest you buy. You will like. Trust me. "}{"Title":"Excellent must see comedy","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I first rented this movie with low expectations, thinking it'd be kind of funny. Was I surprised! It was hilarious. I went out and bought it, and in fact, watched it again last night. I can't get others to watch it again with me, but I love it. Hector and the sheriff get the excellent one-liners, but Bill Pullman and Jane Fonda throw a few out once in awhile. The crocodile is done with pretty good special effects and the croc/bear scene is great. It's not much of a horror film, though there is some gore. It's much more of a comedy. I recommend everyone watch this movie at least once (or ten times). You'll either love it or hate it. I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not great, but fun","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is definitely not great, it might even be considered a throw-away movie, but it was fun to watch and I'm sure will stand up to repeated viewing.  The advertising didn't help its cause at all, portraying it as a horror/scary movie, it isn't it's a comedy.  It's worth seeing just for the handful of very funny lines and scenes.  Worth seeing at least once. "},{"Title":"Not Awesome but AWFUL!!!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie could have been funny or it could have been scary. It missed on both counts. There was zero chemistry between Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda, and the dialogue was smart ass-sit-com-awful. (Maybe hearing Betty White say C*** and F*** is funny if you're fourteen, but it is not interesting to anyone who has actually seen a lot of movies and knows what good dialogue sounds like.)I can see where this could have been a good parody of horror movies, but it was cut badly, poorly written, the music tried to make it serious just when you thought it was going for humor and the acting was pretty bad. D--! "},{"Title":"Lake Turgid","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Here's a mystery if ever there was how a movie that might otherwise have been presumed extinct suddenly surfaces in theatres and consumes box office takings from the unsuspecting. Welcome, then, Lake Placid, or not it's actually Lake Something Else, as one of the characters reveals in a baffling piece of exposition, thereby introducing at least one -- well, all right, the only one -- element of originality in the piece. (This could be a whole new trend characters having on-screen discussions about why the title of the film they're in doesn't actually have anything to do with the film they're in.) Which more or less sums up the cast's attitude most of the time, they'd rather be in Philadelphia. And it shows.  The script (though that's rather to over-value the backs of envelopes upon which the dialogue was penned) is textbook stuff -- textbooks on How Not To Write For The Movies. Unable to sustain a single coherent thought, let alone mood, it strives for effect in the deployment of obscenities that're neither funny nor valid (given her advanced years, one would've expected Betty White to have grown up by now). As to the plot, well, if you must have a film whose title is wrong to begin with, you might as well have a sheriff who upon being told by a murderer where the body is hidden promptly goes off and. . . does nothing about it. Or how about a crocodile that's mysteriously arrived in Maine with neither explanation nor back-story? Come to that, how about film editing which results in Fonda's museum fossil hunter joining the monster hunt but then -- presumably -- leaves on the cutting room floor all the explanatory stuff that justifies why, at the beginning of the movie, everyone's talking about A Very Old Tooth. . . and then never refers to it again? Like Fonda's acting ability, where did all the prehistoric stuff go???) Laugh? Well if that's not funny, how about extended intervals of obscene language from most of the members of the cast followed by the Sheriff doing pratfalls down holes, up in the air, that sort of thing. Gosh though, this is REALLY funny! Truth to tell, it ain't. It's risible and it's offensive, a foul-mouthed essay in juvenilia not even redeemed by reasonably good special effects. If this is what American film entertainment has come to -- forget plot, dialogue, characters, exposition, acting, editing and direction substitute instead SFX and gutter language -- then the industry's in worse shape than any of us previously thought. So Lake Placid. Though it's unlikely to have devoured the careers of Fonda and Pullman, it's certainly demeaned them. A pity that the audience is demeaned along with 'em.  "},{"Title":"Neither funny or horrific, but over quickly.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My wife and I saw this movie on an in house TV channel whilst staying at hotel in Australia, and I am very glad we didn't pay to watch it. It is apparently a comedy/thriller but we found it neither.The start is not too bad, but it goes downhill fast from then. Most of the cast appearing to realise what a clunker it is and act as such. The only slightly amusing part is that of the sheriff who gets the only decent lines. Bill Pulman, Oliver Platt and Bridget Fonda appear to be there only to collect the wages, and Betty White has an abysmal role as a foul mouthed old biddy which adds nothing to the film other than increasing the age of the rating.There is little to laugh at, and very little suspense, and just when it seems like it might develop, the film is all over, one of the shortest feature films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A list talent slumming it in a B movie","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  An unpretentious monster flick that rises way above average thanks to cracking dialogue and performances (particularly Brendan Gleeson and Oliver Platt.)  Laugh out loud funny and genuinely suspenseful (though my enjoyment was probably helped by my low expectations.)  However, the UK DVD that I saw was very poorly presented no extras, 43 ratio. "},{"Title":"Horror-Comedy lacking in horror and comedy.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  An alligator is making lunch meat out of the citizes of a small town and it is up to Bridget Fonda, Bill Pullman, and Olivier Platt to stop it (?)!Lame ad dull film with the cast giving half-hearted performnces, except Betty White in a great suppporting role.My rating 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"comic repartee","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is not a scary movie, although one might jump a time or two.  It is a very funny movie.  Branden Gleeson and Oliver Platt carry the movie with their comic repartee.  Watch the movie just for that dialog alone, anything else you might enjoy is extra.  David E. Kelly (of Ally McBeal fame) delivers a surprisingly funny monster movie. "},{"Title":"Horribly whimsical","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I guess this is what would happen is somebody decided to make a horror-sitcom. Lake Placid is written by David E. Kelly, master of quirkiness, is loaded with likeable characters, each with his/her own arsenal of scathing sarcastic come-backs and wraps up with a straight-forward life's little lesson about ecological preservation and stuff. Hell, it even runs about the same length as your average episode of Friends. I was almost expecting commercial breaks to interrupt the crock-attacks and the snappish (sorry, David) repertoire of the characters.But luckily I'm going to compare it to a good Jim Burrows-directed sitcom, meaning it's a whole lot of fun to watch. OK, so it's no Jaws in the suspense department, despite the underwater kicking feet-shot being used one time to many. But luckily it's no Anaconda in the cheese department either, thanks to a believable giant croc (good ole Stan the Man) and keeping the CGI-scenes to a minimum (nothing beats old-fashioned animatronics) or so fast you barely have time to count the pixels (poor teddy!!!). Characters are all decidedly quirky, as one could expect from the pen of Mr. Kelly (except maybe for poor Bill Pullman, whose more the strong, silent type than the ascerbic comedian). Dialogue is sharp and witty, although I have to agree the forced profanity does seem a little out of place in the sitcom-like setting. Watching Betty White uttering a line about sucking certain appendages with a face as straight as Eastwood in some cop-movie, is rather a schock to the system (even Beau Arthur would've been left speechless). What troubled me (sorry again, David) however, was the fact that the characters (note, not the actors) seemed to be having fun instead of being a tad distressed by the predicament they were in. So what if there is a giant croc in the lake, I've got a one-liner lined up for just this situation and I'm going the let it fly, come hell or big teeth!!!But minor gripes aside, Lake Placid was not so bad as all the reviews made it out to be. Some tense moments and a healthy dollop of gore, even though the body count is phenomenally low for a monster movie. Nice croc action scenes and some lovely one-liners to remember and use in future (the bit with the severed toe...giggle). Lake Placid does however suffer from a rather lame storyline which didn't turn out to be the witty satire on monster movies the hype promised. The creature-feature equivalent of Scream it definitely ain't. But if you like your sitcoms laden with wit and kookiness, Lake Placid might just be an enjoyable experience. That is, if you can stomach the horribly kooky but admittingly different ending... "},{"Title":"Average And Lame","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **  out of  ****Comedy VS. Horror in this JAWS/GRIZZLY combo. It's another idea that's been tried before, and better. This cannot make up its mind if it wants to be a laugh riot or not.There are a few decent crocodile attacks, but the ever-intrusive giggles are always lurking around the corner to smooth out any potentially rough edges. Bridget Fonda as a croc expert? What a crock! "}{"Title":"Waiter, make me a crocodile sandwich and make it snappy!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This mercifully short film wants to keep it's crocodile handbag and have it. No, that means the same thing, doesn't it? This film wants to have it's crocodile handbag and eat it. No, you can't eat a handbag, you fool, get a grip. This film wants it both ways without a handbag. That's better. Sort of. It wants to exploit the crocodile's propensity for gory mayhem while giving us a sappy ecological lecture on why we shouldn't mind and let him live, which fooled no-one. The crocodile ends up in a compromising situation with a helicopter, a sort of 'Acrocalypse Now' situation (sorry for that, friends. I'll get some smelling-salts). The writer forgets to kill everyone off except the plucky heroine who then should bash the croc over the head with an oar in traditional Ripley Fashion. Stick to the script next time. It's mostly funny, although the vulgar senior-citizen routine is tiresomely otiose. Great last shot. The croc looks so sweet, I want to take him home with me. He'd be useful in retrieving balls from next door's garden. No, on seconds thoughts there's that Chiwhuaha there, he wouldn't stand a chance. The croc, I mean. "},{"Title":"Its really true, you're either going to love it or hate it","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The comments on this film so far have been totally spot on, in that this film is an acquired taste. You will either fall in love with the witty dialogue and interpersonal interaction or you will find it a bore, getting in the way of some juicy action.I was expecting more action having watched Deep Blue Sea earlier and unfortunately there wasn't enough of it to get my teeth into. The comedy was good and the acting was acceptable, but the formula was old and this was not the type of film I expected to see it used. In a sentence I would say this film was a Ally McBeal wannabe with a few gruesome scenes. If you watch this film with that in mind you won't be too disappointed.Deep Blue Sea got 6 out of 10. This film gets 5. "},{"Title":"Rubbish is the word","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Some people seriously note that this is a soon-to-be cult-classic. What I saw was an average creature feature with average special effects, average acting and very average jokes.  There are a few likeable moments, all in which the crocodile kicks ass, but that's about it. Watch only if you've got absolutely nothing better to do, or if you don't have to pay for it. It's not worth the money, you know. **(out of five)  "},{"Title":"Films like this make me wonder why they are not successful, yet Mission to Mars is","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I must say that this really is a pretty good flick. It is not a must see or something but it is definitely worth a look. It is funny and it is gory and that makes it worth looking at. OK the effects are not super and the acting is not either plus it is not really exciting, yet it can hold your attention due to the overwhelming sarcasm and the good death scenes. There are other downsides, but hey those are just clich horror things. Most memorable in this film are the kills and the and the looks of Natassia Maltke, damn she really has got a cute bottom + the rest is in good shape too.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Unlikely premise - great movie","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw this movie advertised, I thought it was one of those quick, cheap alligator-in-the-sewer-killing-people movies, but I ended up watching it anyway.  Twice.  Setting aside the unlikely premise of a crocodile actually surviving a Maine winter in a lake, everything else came together quite well.The special effects were just enough to be appropriate, and the talented cast deserve a lot of credit for their subdued performances keeping things from going over the top - not an easy task at times, especially for the Oliver Platt character.The biggest star, however, is the dialogue - the verbal jousting and wordplay were incredible.  I never believed that I would ever hear Betty White say, if I had a dick, this is where I would tell you to suck it.... Checking the credits to see who was the writer, it only made sense to see David E. Kelley's name listed.  The man definitely plays the English language like a musical instrument. "},{"Title":"weak horror/comedy","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  `Lake Placid,' a pallid, pseudo-comic cross between `Jaws,' `Jurassic Park' and the legend of the Loch Ness Monster, at the very least, has the advantage of not taking itself too seriously.  Otherwise, this silly tale of a giant crocodile inexplicably hidden under the depths of a Maine lake (named, for no apparent reason, Black Lake, not Placid) registers poorly on both the fright and the laugh meters.  After a man is half-devoured by an unseen creature of the deep, a team of investigators heads out to solve the mystery and eradicate the problem.  Knowing that such a plot premise would undoubtedly elicit more howls of laughter than howls of fear, the filmmakers obviously decided to beat the scoffers to the punch line and chose, therefore, to frame the film within the context of a comedy rather than a straight horror film.  I doubt `Lake Placid' would have been a very effective film in either tonal mode, but the endless stream of sarcastic quips, `clever' asides and witless one-liners emanating from the mouths of the characters does become a bit wearying after about the first admittedly amusing ten or fifteen minutes of the film.In a similar vein, the characters  (played by Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, Oliver Platt among others) come across as clever and likable in their early scenes but soon grow irritating in their repetitious flippancy and whininess.  Betty White, as a foul-mouthed local resident, likewise falls victim to this pattern.  The one-note script soon becomes grating and, with the humor rendered ineffective, all we are left with is a highly incredible, not very terrifying tale.  There's not much to say about `Lake Placid' except to verify conclusively that a horror/comedy without either horror or comedy has pretty much doomed itself to the video recycle bin for all eternity.  "},{"Title":"Oh..so this was supposed to be clever... I see.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  So, when David E. Kelley writes a bad script it's supposed to be witty and satirical, but when a no-name writes a bad horror movie script it's just well....bad??  When did I miss that this was supposed to be a witty comedy?? This was just a horror movie gone terribly wrong.  It used every horror cliche imaginable from the Jaws stuff, to the false scare stuff. The laughs were not there when they were supposed to be, the acting was bad, the croc was almost as annoying as the people were.  And then there was the line that that Bill Pullman uttered that will be remembered forever as one of the worst lines ever in any movie....I think his animal needs some medical attention I screamed so loudly at my TV I almost got evicted!!  In short...one of the worst movies I have seen in a long time...and I got news for you...it wasn't supposed to be. "},{"Title":"Too Much Comedy For This Horror Film","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid is a comedic adventure with a touch of horror. But over does on the comedy and doesn't have enough horror. From the trailer, you get a sense of thrilling horror that might make you jump out of your seat. Nope, it's just an adventure with an occasional death and some bad comedy. Something is killing people at Lake Placid and no one knows why. In enters Bill Pullman, Oliver Platt and Bridget Fonda. They've come in to find out what is going on. The film just goes way too deep with the comedy and not enough with the horror/thriller. It's not scary, not thrilling and not funny. It tries to hard to be funny and comes off stupid and pointless. The characters aren't deep enough so you don't really care about them and there isn't much excitement. By the end of this film you really hope that they all will get it. Lake Placid is not funny or thrilling it's just a dull adventure that is not enjoyable. If you want a good horror adventure, rent Deep Blue Sea.             "},{"Title":"I was rooting for the alligator....","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" ...to eat all the annoying actors, and boy were there a lot of them aboard.  Every word of dialogue is ridiculous and so is every character.  Not even one good laugh is to be had, and the screenplay tries so hard to be clever that it fails miserably. At least Bill Pullman tries to bring some shred of dignity to the proceedings and succeeds at times.  At least its under ninety minutes, mercifully.   "},{"Title":"Lake Placid drowns itself in a sea of stupidity","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit my hopes weren't especially high when I decided to see this movie on TV one night.  I didn't feel let down afterwards because I knew it was going to be pretty bad, which it indeed was.A bad script, 1-dimensional characters and been there, done that CGI effects all prove to be the film's downfall.  After watching Independence Day, Bill Pullman has left a bad taste in my mouth since, simply because he's hardly believable in most of his film roles, and this is no exception.  It's too bad Oliver Platt can't get any decent roles as of late (this and the dud Ready To Rumble), because he is a talented actor. Think of his weak role as Hector in the tradition of Cary Elwes from Twister, but with a comedic twist. The only character I got a kick out of was Brendan Gleeson as the daft police officer.  Worst of all, and I think many would agree with me, was seeing Betty White (in a complete 180 from her Golden Girls years) as the foul-mouthed surrogate mother of the crocodile. I could only watch and listen in aghast at the horrible dialogue she was given. What in God's name possessed her to take this role?The gore factor was not particularly strong (I've seen Sleepy Hollow over 30 times, so I'm used to decapitations by now), but the toe discovery part was a bit creepy.The script was nothing that hasn't been explored before monster discovered in the lake, unsuspecting locals killed left and right, our heroes coming in and managing to neutralize the creature in the end. One big eye-rolling moment was the debate over whether to destroy the crocodile (trapped in a helicopter at this point) or take it back to the city to study it.The movie does have its moments, like some humorous lines delivered by Gleeson and Bridget Fonda, but alas, they are few and very far in between.  Living proof that this genre is not Dave Kelley's forte.Lake Placid tries its damndest to make waves, but instead it barely stirs a ripple.  3/10 "}{"Title":"A worthless flick.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was just an unbearable bunch of already-heard, already-known, already-seen things. A lobotomized ape could have written something more original. A real outrage to serious movie goers. Enough said. "},{"Title":"No Different than a 50s Monster Movie","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  LAKE PLACID   * *   The one about the giant alligator in a Maine lake, with a script by David E. Kelley (The Practice, Ally McBeal).  I have no idea why money was spent on a thriller no different than a 50s monster movie, but it's reasonably entertaining and any movie with Bridget Fonda is a worth checking out. Betty White is kind of amusing as a foul-mouthed local, and there's a pretty cool gore scene in the beginning.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid was a must-see for me and when I finally saw it on video, I must say I was really disappointed. The acting is terrible, the story is flat and the crocodile looks fake. The comedy is the only thing that keeps you entertained.Bridget Fonda plays Ally, a scientist who has found a leg-less guy who has been bitten by something mysterious in Black Lake which is ages away from where she is. Ally goes exploring with another bunch of people where she finds a cow eating crocodile and a very upset granny croc.Don't see this, try Deep Blue Sea instead. "},{"Title":"This ain't no Anaconda.  And Anaconda was terrible.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Dismal word of mouth and remembrances of Anaconda kept me away from Lake Placid last summer but I finally ventured a look at it on DVD.  If you thought Anaconda was the greatest thing ever, you'll dig this.  If like me, you've seen Jaws, you'll probably have the opposite reaction.The problem for me was David E. Kelley's lightweight script.  The intent seemed to go for a quirky, whimsical monster mash flick, maybe one where we'd root for the monster, or marvel at the creativity of putting fluffy Ally McBeal yik-yak into a B-movie.It seems unfair to knock Kelley just because his forte has been TV.  Even if the script was written by Pat Kelley, the material would have trouble filling an hour of Fox prime time much less a two hour big screen blockbuster.On the plus side are the creature fx by Stan Winston's bunch.  The croc does indeed rock.  The CGI work on it is well done too.  Maybe worth 82 minutes of your time but spend any more than 99 cent for the rental and you'll be disappointed.The cast does a good job but I'm stunned at how the people behind the camera - discounting the fx bunch - dropped the ball on this one.  No one seems concerned with making a good movie.  Think of how cool this material could have been if a real director - Robert Zemeckis, Richard Donner, Joe Dante, maybe even Tim Burton (he would've let the croc win) - would've done it.Steve Miner hasn't had a good day behind the director's chair since Friday the 13th Part 3-D.  I can't think of anything he's ever been involved with where anyone remotely thought of saying, Man that rocked!.There was no reason for this flick to have flopped so bad.  It wasn't destined to be Solo.  It had a cool premise.  The approach and execution just stunk.  2 eggs out of 10! "},{"Title":"You know something's wrong when they put reviews called a movie 'This Year's Anaconda!' in the previews","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  	When I first saw this movie last summer, I came out of it feeling cheated, as I had high expectations for it (that was before I saw the trailer with the 'This Year's Anaconda' review). After not seeing it for eight months, and having that long to let it sit, I can assure you, I feel even angrier now. There should be a law against allowing studios making big budget B movies and advertising them like they're excellent. Why Columbia actually allowed David E Kelley to write his own feature film script will remain unknown. How they attached three respected actors to the project is even more mysterious.	Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, Oliver Platt and newcomer Brendan Gleeson try to put as much life into their one note characters as they can, but they inevitably fail, due to the completely idiotic script. None of the characters ever have anything that isn't sarcasm to say, the flick tries so hard to be funny, and fails in ever way imaginable. There isn't a single suprise, laugh, scare, even the potentially interesting scenery is never shown, and looks horrible when in the background.	Stay away from this at all costs, there are very few redeeming qualities, and the finale is an incredible letdown. Even the cgi effects look like they were created in MacPaint or some primitive paint program.1/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  After a great start, I found this film seriously lost both pace and excitement. Although there were some good set pieces, they failed to be truly original and left a lot to be desired.The whole cast put in solid performances but Lake Placid suffers from a real lack of new ideas to add to a tired genre. It is quite amusing at times but you will probably find it to be a pretty forgettable Jaws-with-a-very-slight-difference film.Boringly Average. "},{"Title":"Why do they still think it's safe to go into the water?","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  &#145;Lake Placid' an uncomplicated, undemanding &#145;creature-feature' which sets out to do nothing but entertain - & there's nothing wrong with that!Directed by Steve Miner (&#145;Halloween H20', &#145;Friday the 13th' parts 2 & 3) & starring Bill Pullman & Bridget Fonda, this is basically an update of &#145;Jaws' for big shark, read big crocodile; for ocean, read big lake.In comparison to such a classic movie anything similar is bound to suffer, (just look at Jaws 2 & 3!), & I think &#145;Lake Placid' does. It lacks Jaws' tense &#145;us versus the monster' claustrophobia, there's not much of a background story, & the characters are shallow. That's not to say it's a bad movie, because it's not &#150; certainly not if you like a big monster, a few shocks & a few laughs &#150; which I do. To be fair, it doesn't set out to copy &#145;Jaws' this movie goes for laughs rather than for scary tension, & also differs in that it has very good special effects &#150; which, lets face it, in &#145;Jaws' were pretty ropey!The usual Hollywood cliches are there &#150; city girl vs. hicktown sheriffs vs. kooky scientist, & even a mad old lady (Betty White from &#145;The Golden Girls'). They all fight like mad to start off with, but you just know they're mostly going to be best buddies by the end. I particularly liked the mad old lady &#150; she steals every scene she's in, & has some of the best & funniest lines in the whole film, most of which are unprintable! Bridget Fonda's character has some great lines as well &#150; for instance when meeting Bill Pullman's country sheriff for the first time, who is being somewhat patronising to her, she says Do you think you could be a little more condescending please, because I'm REALLY slow. (I think she was being a little sarcastic).This film is largely predictable, lightweight, unoriginal, standard Hollywood fare &#150; but funny, well made, well acted, with a big scary monster & some real &#145;Oh my God, my heart's stopped' shockers. Nothing new, but good fun! "},{"Title":"Good popcorn fun with some spectacular effects","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What is it about monster movies that makes us reach for our more masochistic side? Early such films portrayed these beasts as misunderstood victims of their emotions - who honestly didn't shed a tear for King Kong, who's love for his 'victim' was even stronger than he was? Yet what about JAWS? I freely admit I was rooting for the shark from the word go - yet he was simply a ruthless killing machine. Maybe I'm just sick!!! But it is the same story with LAKE PLACID. A 30-foot killer crocodile is indeed a horrific concept, but if characters have to die I'd be quite happy to dispatch this film's two cheesy stars. Anything to stop that unlikely relationship ever getting off the ground.I don't want to appear unimaginative - I truly enjoyed this film for what it was, but why do films like these have to include these boring ingredients? - an unlikely love affair, a crazed expert, a fat sherriff, etc. There was more chemistry between the old woman and the crocodile than there was between Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda. I am a fan of both these artistes, but they seemed lost in this film, as though it was down to them to explore their characters and relationship. I've never been to Maine, but if all the female police deputies look like this I may well turn to crime!But this film is nevertheless good popcorn entertainment. Good effects, some great one-liners and moments of shocking (but not explicit) violence add to a satisfactory 2 hours' viewing. But if you can only see one of these spoof-JAWS clones, save your pennies for DEEP BLUE SEA! "},{"Title":"This movie is funny","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I read a lot of reviews about this movie, and I agree. This movie is funny. It was more funny than scary. The plot was good.  About a thirty some foot alligator in New England that eats people. But something about it I really don't like. I think it's the fact that not to many people gets eaten. I was hoping it would be one of them films were a lot of people would get eaten. I wish there was more gore in it. Over all it really wasn't a bad movie. It could have been better. I recommend this movie to anyone a comedy and a horror movie mixed, and believe me this movie did. "},{"Title":"Done before, but allowed me to escape.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Although obviously this kind of thing has been done many times before and often reminded me of Jaws and Anaconda, I felt it deserved a 7 for the escapism that everyone needs at the end of the day. Although just another water monster movie, I was still interested throughout and found some extracts quite humorous. I feel anything lower than 7 is harsh just because its been done before. "}{"Title":"WASTE OF SPACE","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film was a complete rip off of all the other monster movies (Jaws, Deep Blue Sea) and failed to even slightly twist the plot. The story was dire....something that has been seen many times before and as for Bridget Fonda, her character was so annoying, constantly screaming and bitching her way around. The critics have strangely praised this movie saying that its a comic gem....Anaconda is funnier and even that wasnt meant to be!!! Avoid at ALL costs!! "},{"Title":"Mostly harmless, wholly silly!","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Nothing special of the highest order, a tale of a crocodile living in a freshwater lake and biting the heads off people using the lake.Sound silly?  It was.  A cast of B-list actors gave it some credibility, were it not for it being used as a vehicle for Bridget Fonda's figure, in various items of tight fitting clothing.Oliver Platt was silly as a croc worshipper, but the saving grace was just that it was a dumb film all round, right down to crocs attacking helicopters. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could've been better","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid is about an Asian Pacific Crocodile who swam to Lake Placid. It lives about a mile from land, and no one can see it. Until it decapitates a man, then they sound a museum worker (Bridgette Fonda, a sheriff (Brendan Gleeson), and another officer (Bill Pullman). It's up to them to find out what's going on before someone else dies.This was one of those movies that I didn't expect to much from, and I was right. The comedy was OK, the special effects were below average, and the acting was OK. Also starring oliver Platt.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Not scary - but had its moments","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is not very scary at all.  It was done so much better in Alligator some twenty years ago.However, it's few saving graces are it's sense of humour and fun.  You know who is going to get killed and who won't so it was fairly predictable stuff.My particular delight was in seeing the wonderful Golden Girl Betty White.  Especially because she was playing an unusually foul-mouthed local.Not high art but I've seen much worse than this.  "},{"Title":"A suprisingly watchable monster movie.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I paid for my ticket I couldnt believe that I was throwing good money away on yet another dodgy looking monster movie.  After all the hype of Deep Blue Sea last year and that being quite terrible I was not expecting to enjoy this movie at all.Having watched the film, which at a little over eighty minutes, I came out quite content. Not because I had seen a great movie.  But simply because the movie didnt suck.The movie has a story that is really paper thin as well as being very very predictable and not tense enough to cause any scares or tension.  Yet I found myself enjoying the movie solely on the dialogue exchanged between Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson.  Two very good comic roles played exceptionally well by the two actors.  Their interplay made the short running time seem even shorter.However, the rest of the cast seemed to be on auto pilot.  Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda were exceedingly bland and it seems the movie makers realised this and gave majority of the screentime to Platt and Gleeson.The monster effects were incredibly well done and effective, which made this a enjoyable movie whilst not being a great film.  "},{"Title":"Betty White Was Awesome","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, So Maybe The Movie Wasn't Scary. Ok, So Maybe The Movie Was Predictable. Ok, So Maybe The Movie Used A Lot Of Cliches. Ok, So Maybe The Jokes Were Bad. Ok, So Maybe Most Of The Actors Were Less Than Braggable.BUT WASN'T BETTY WHITE ENOUGH FOR THE RATING OF 6?!?!?!?!??!  "},{"Title":"Lighten Up!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Most of the complaints I have hear about Lake Placid, were that it wasn't scary. Well it wasn't really supposed to be. It does however have great comedy! David Kelley's writing is superb! Just listen to the Banter between the sheriff and scientist! This movie was great. Betty White's character had to be the best thing I have seen all year. I mean hearing a Golden Girl swear like that was definitely funny. I saw this movie opening night and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Granted it's not scary, and it isn't political and it doesn't have some deep hidden meaning. It's just a movie that's there to entertain you for an hour and a half and that's exactly what it does. "},{"Title":"I don't care what anyone says ... I just didn't get it!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There are a lot of stupid films out there that have developed huge followings, and have been the subject of many a debate.  Often people will argue that some of the most infamous B-films were actually brilliant tongue-in-cheek commentary.  Lake Placid is the latest film to fit into that circle, as critics everywhere have been giving it glowing reviews, claiming that the ridiculous premise was actually part of a big joke. The film Lake Placid actually has nothing to do with the real Lake Placid, except for the fact that the Maine-lake this monstrous reptile lurks in was once to be called that, however the name was already taken. Bull Pullman is a park ranger and Bridget Fonda is a museum curator (specializing in fossils) who embark on a journey to find out what creature cut a man in two.  Of course that creature is a giant crocodile, loose in the lake and eating everything in sight.Lake Placid offers all of the standard gimmicks that usually fuel a plot like this.  Pullman is the quiet, macho hero.  Fonda is the city dwelling, mosquito hating female lead.  And of course Oliver Platt is the croc-loving guru battling Brendan Gleeson's cantankerous sheriff. Fans say that the cliche's that run amok in this film were put there on purpose.  I would agree with that, but something tells me that the makers of Lake Placid switched gears somewhere early on in the making of this picture, and their uncertainty shows.  As a spoof it simply doesn't fly. Betty White as the foul-mouthed Mrs. Bickerman is perhaps the biggest let down.  Somebody out there thinks that hearing older people curse and swear is funny, when in fact is just seems silly.  Lake Placid offers up the occasional bit of gore, and the effects are often interesting.  Sadly, it ends there.  Whether this is a serious action flick, or whether this is an over the top spoof, the film never delivers the goods.   "},{"Title":"Too short and not enough bodies","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was fairly good, the dialogue was crisp and funny, and the acting was good.  My complaint is with the lack of a body count and the so-so ending-which makes me wonder if we are being set up for Lake Placid2.  For a horror movie with a 30 foot crocodile, you would think that a couple of the main characters would become dinner(unfortunately, Bridget Fonda's character survives).  Her character was sooooooo annoying that I prayed that she would be eaten.  I think Oliver Platt stole the show however, as the eccentric millionare croc hunter.  A good pass the time movie rental, I rate this 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Fairly average, but amusing in parts","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Probably the best aspect of this film is the animatronic crocodile, as the actors really play second fiddle to their 30 foot co-actor. The main cast are all pretty terrible, with Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda both looking a little stunned at how they ever managed to sign on for such a poor film with a script that probably would have taken an hour at most ( and thats being kind).  Betty White is fantastic in her role, but the others have a lot to answer for. There is not much of a story, and any cinema goer will understand the plot in a second, but its still entertaining in a mindless action/adventure kind of way.  Its also really short at 82 minutes, but even that seemed to drag a little bit. I thought it was nice to see Meredith Salenger back on the big screen again ( even if she didn't get much screen time). But its not a great film, I would not even call it good. Probably a little bit better than Deep Blue Sea, but thats not really saying much. It is intentionally funny in some parts, which is nice to see especially when the film is really making fun of its self. I can't say I would recommend this film, but if you like Deep Blue Sea, Jurassic Park etc.. You will probably like this. "}{"Title":"Great Setting - Great Movie","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Being from Maine I found this movie to be quite funny and terrifying at times within the context of a lighter and more well rounded Maine depiction. I think the cast handled the humor and the material very well. It's a shame that more people won't give movies like this a chance. The sub stories and all of the characters are very memorable and the movie was shot well and the creature hidden for just the right amount of time. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I waited until video to see this film because the reviews weren't too good and what I had read made it seem like it was an unintentional comedy. As it turns out, this film is really well written.There are laugh-out-loud lines, a great cast, good effects and a script that moves real well.  As I watched this film, expecting it to blow, I was pleasantly surprised.If you get a chance, definitely rent Lake Placid, and you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Only the comedy saves this movie from a 1 rating.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only reason I gave this movie a 3 rating is because of the comedy. This movie did have some moments to it that I thought were quite cute. There were even a couple of moments that I found to be laugh out loud hilarous.Other than that the movie was a dud! I'll give it a 3 rating. "},{"Title":"I didn't like it","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only reason I saw this movie at all was to take my 15-year-old brother to see it since it was his birthday. And since it was rated R, I had to be there with him. I love Bill Pullman, but he didn't have much to do here. The dialogue was corny, laughable, and stupid. The characters were so unlikeable and obnoxious, I was rooting for the crocodile to kill off all the characters. And Betty White, you ought to be ashamed of yourself for all the foul language you had to spew in this film. Did you really need the money THAT badly? The only redeeming quality this film had was it was only 80 minutes long! "},{"Title":"if you liked anaconda, you'll love this","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  this is a movie that is a perfect example of how a b-movie can enjoyable and well-made without being overtly cheesy. the special effects were fantastic and never once could i tell a difference between the animatronic effects and the cgi scenes. while not exactly textbook filmmaking, what more could you expect from a movie about a 30 foot alligator. "},{"Title":"More beautiful in the trees than the woods","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  So David E Kelly is an _auteur_... This is Ally McBeal meets the Blair Witch. Scatterbrained but charming Ally-clone Bridget Fonda gets to exorcise all her pet hates following a broken office 'relationship'.  Deep, it isn't. Fun - well, maybe. "},{"Title":"Oh No! Not The Bear","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  We're entitled to be a little chuffed by having Lake Placid AND crocodiles lurking in our region (Cairns Australia). It adds a fair bit of flavour, at least for any crocodile who might get to enjoy lunch. Check out the crocodile in the foyer at Cairns Central. It's not bad.Lake Placid is a comedy creature fest starring an amazingly young looking Bridget Fonda, an even fatter looking Oliver Platt, a rather bemused, lost looking Bill Pullman and a foul mouthed, elderly Betty White playing the aptly named Mrs Bickerman.A beaver tagger (there are plenty of double meanings in Lake Placid) is attacked suddenly by an underwater camera and eaten from the bottom down. There's a hungry big beast down there and we'd all better look out.Sassy mouthed Kelly, a paleontologist from the museum in New York has just been dumped by her boyfriend boss and he sends her down to Maine to check out a strange looking tooth. The fang had been dug out of the carcass of the beaver diver.Now that's one way to get even.She doesn't want to camp near the lake (her fingernails might get dirty) and doesn't want to paddle around in a canoe on the lake (her fingers might get eaten!) but there's a possible new boyfriend in fish expert Jack Wells (Pulman) for her to nibble on.Or perhaps the millionaire, eccentric, crocodile worshiper Hector Cyr played by Oliver Platt (Con Air, The Mouse Hunt, Funny Games) might cheer up our heroine. But he's in conflict with the sheriff played by Irishman Brendan Gleeson, who must have had a hard time keeping a straight face in what must have been for the most part a fun film to make.This film was scripted by David (Emmy) Kelly whose dialogue for Ally McBeal, The Practice and Chicago Hope has won him lots of awards and made him lots of money.True to form Lake Placid's script is blisteringly sarcastic, at least for the first third (of what is quite a short movie at 82 minutes).But the crocodile blunts its bite as the film progresses, almost totally losing credibility when there's a certain clash between the croc and a big bear.It's the special effects that let this film down which is a bit of a surprise given the success of the digital creature animals in many other modern films like Deep Blue Sea, Mighty Joe Young, Anaconda and Starship Troopers. I suppose that there's a pretty high standard set these days. The crocodile in Lake Placid would have been a sensation probably only three years ago.Oliver Platt's character is cheerfully and almost successfully promiscuous and the pony tailed Bridget Fonda (a self confessed beautiful woman) could almost take the part of a teenager in her next film, perhaps a little something called Barbarella's Daughter. "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat thriller, constant suspense! -LW Post","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid, was any thinh but placid this summer.  This movie was action packed, not to be confused with acting packed.  This was your basic save your self and kill the animal before it eats everybody flick. This story takes place in a quite town on the New England border in northern Maine.  But this town won't be quiet for long.  After a few gnarly bodies are found floating around, some of the worlds most famous animal chasers and thier entorage race to the town.  It takes these experts a couple of agonizing days and a few more grizzly bodies to figure out what creature is devouring everybody, an alligator.  At this piont the specialists decide to forget the capture and go for the kill.  Enter the beautiful feminist actress who tells them that it is totally wrong to kill animals.  The angry mob should send this nice alligator to a zoo, This movie was not filled with good acting at all.  It seemed like the actors/actresses were reading off que cards the entire movie.  And the script was not well thought out either.  This movie was way too predictable. For instance every time the alligator would appeared all the girls would bounce up and down and scream, while the big strong men would try to capture it with fishing nets.  They finally devise this big plan and whip out the big guns, but the alligator foils this plan.  And suddenly the alligator traps himself, and all the testosterone spraying men are the heroes.  Then the alligaotr is transported across America to a zoo. I think that this would be a good movie if u were looking for something to do during one of those long boring summer days.  I am not trying to say that this was a bad movie, but any movie with a  120 foot alligator is not going to have a complicated plot or script.  In conclusion Lake Placid waqs an OK movie, but you should wait till it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Well, er..., gosh, I don't know...","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Bill Pullman but don't like horror movies. However, since I haven't seen him on the big screen since Zero Effect I was looking forward to see Lake Placid. I really wanted to see him in an adventure kind of movie where he gets to sweat and run and yell a little. And a few funny lines wouldn't hurt either.  Well, I don't know what happened. I saw him sweat, run and yell and crack some jokes and yet somehow the whole thing didn't sit well with me. I like sarcasm. I like it a lot. So I should've enjoyed the humour, but failed miserably. I laughed a few times, especially at the beginning, but soon I felt overwhelmed. I'm afraid there is such a thing as too much fun. Too many jokes crammed into 80 something minutes, and you drown in it after a while. The biggest problem for me was that the characters seemed too one dimensional. We had a B. Fonda character whose job was to bitch and whine about everything, and that's all she did throughout the whole movie. Then we had the O. Platt character who did nothing else but cracked jokes. The B. Gleeson character's job was to be the butt of these jokes, the B. White character swore all the time and the Bill Pullman character....,well, he didn't have a lot to say or do, but he  sure looked darn good! And that brings me to the romance part of the movie. I was killing myself the whole time trying to figure out why Fonda and Pullman would end up together. She was pretty for sure, but she was also the biggest pain in the backside I've ever seen in a movie. I really hoped the crock would eat her very soon, but it didn't. So I thought maybe Jack hasn't had a date for months. Or years, and he was desperate. But come on, this is a smart, intelligent, good looking guy who drives a cool truck. Women should be buzzing around him all the time! So what the heck? So all in all, I wasn't crazy about L.P. at all. I'm glad for the opportunity to see Bill again, but he was way overcrowded here. I find that the best way to enjoy him is to clear the screen, put him there all by himself, let him loose and he'll blow your socks off.  I'll give it a 5 out of 10 and hand the worst acting award to B. Fonda who otherwise is a very talented actress and had some great performances in the past. "},{"Title":"What a bite this one turned out to be!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's abundantly clear that 20th Century Fox doesn't know the difference between a crocodile and an alligator. If the producer/writer had merely taken time to visit a good library, they'd have discovered that an alligator will make every attempt to avoid human beings--and has a bulbous snout--as the creature in this poor movie did. A crocodile is another matter entirely--an aggressive, fearless and fearsome reptile, which will hunt human beings for food. Stan Winston, whose creature effects are usually well done, gave us instead an alligator--period. The beast was not especially frightening. Just as importantly, the human logic was entirely missing. When Betty White led the blindfolded cow down to the river, in plain sight of the predator, the poor dinner plate simply ambled down to the water's edge to meet its quick end. Any animal can scent danger and it made this scene not only absurd but unnecessarily cruel. And why would any human being put himself in harm's way, standing only a few yards away from a supposedly carnivorous reptile? The film's premise was non-existent--no crocodile can survive north of the equator except in equatorial Africa and in the Indo-Pacific region. Moreover, crocodile expert Hector Cyr was mistaken when he told his rapt audience that crocodiles cannot swim in salt water. Apparently, this expert never heard of the feared salt water crocodile, the aggressive man-eaters of northern Australia, also known as the Indo-Pacific crocodile. These crocodiles, which have more of a menacing reputation than their Nile cousins, regularly take to the salt water in the region, swimming from one island to another in search of territory and prey. If writers can be as well paid as David Kelley, where do I get in line? His script was something a child could have turned out. As for the acting, I simply can't imagine that accomplished people such as Bill Pullman and Oliver Platt signed on for such nonsense. Bridget Fonda should be ashamed of herself, given her acting pedigree. She's dropped like a stone from her early promise in Single White Female. She pulled off two impossible feats--swimming away from an attacking crocodile in dark water at night, and holding her breath for over a minute. This cinematic disaster has put her career in a mid-air stall and it seems that she can either go back to acting school or find another career. The locale for such a film should have been in tropical waters to at least force the viewer to find some credibility in a premise entirely without one. Crocodile attacks are frightening events and people lose their lives to them each year, not only in Africa, along the Nile, but also in the Indo-Pacific region where crocodylus porosus the saltwater is king. The technology exists for a ferocious, life-like, man-eating crocodile than the stretched-out alligator the Winston factory I can hear the yawns in the workshop thoughtlessly turned out. Better actors exist to give weight to a story line which has not yet been filmed, and better writers and directors exist to craft a dramatic story line into a gripping and terrifying film. I left the theater extremely disappointed. I'm embarrassed for the crocodile, which deserved better.  "}{"Title":"Tradition down the tubes.....","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I really thought this one was going to be a little scary. It wasn't, it was hilarious. It had more comedy than horror. That is why I give this movie a 7. Horror films these days have more of a family appeal instead of the frightful gore and un-necessary nudity. Where have all our traditions gone? "},{"Title":"An absolutely terrible, not funny, supposed-to-be-a-spoof clunker","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film had contractural obligation written all over it. I should have known when I saw a one line review, You'll laugh as much as you scream...I did neither. The acting was wooden, the one-liners were forced and I was completely embarrassed for Oliver Platt and Bridget Fonda, two otherwise fine actors. And was it really necessary to have Betty White swear like a longshoreman? For what, a cheap laugh? (No one in the theater where I saw this laughed...at all.) Just to see if I was missing something, I tried to watch Ally McBeal, too. Didn't even get past the opening credits...lame, lame, lame. Don't waste your time, its 82 minutes of my life I'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, well...","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I walk into this movie expecting it to be bad.  Yes, it was.  The dialogue was the first thing to hit me.  Or maybe it missed me.  It wasn't too strong and action wasn't too intriguing.  The only redeemimg quality about this movie was Betty White.  She was hilarious in this film (the real reason why I went to see the film) but deserved more scenes and more lines. "},{"Title":"On 'Gator Pond","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Bridget Fonda (a better McBeal) is a petulant NY paleontologist sent to rural Maine to investigate a tooth removed from a half-eated corpse.  She meets sheriff Brendan Gleeson (whose subtle delivery is not lost in this context), ranger Bill Pullman, and nutcase mythology professor Oliver Platt, and they go in search of Stan Winstons animatronic spirit of Sobek.  Betty White is the zany old bat who feeds the wildlife.  Lots of laughs, a couple of heads, a few cows, and a surprise bear takedown keep this one afloat...but the aerial shot of the gargantuan reptile sizing up an incredulous and vulnerable Platt treading water is the looker.  Sometimes the best way to catch a 30-foot alligator is with an abandoned helicopter.  Its nice to see David E. Kelley unwind a bit.  Directed by Steve Miner. "},{"Title":"DO YOURSELF A FAVOR AND DON'T BOTHER TO SEE THIS ONE","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Do yourself a favor. Get a photo of a crocodile and have it enlarged as much as possible. Then use your imagination as to the croc's feeding habits. Now.. you have accomplished more than this movie has. Should be named Lake Flaccid...the script is unimaginative and downright silly.  People all around me were laughing out loud, and this is not supposed to be a comedy! It is exhilarating to see a giant crocodile moving about, eating cows and, yes, people, but for the few thrills you have to endure the terrible acting and directing.  These are top-notch actors acting in a flop of a film.  Stay away from the water..... and stay away from this movie!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"So Bad  It's  Funny","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is so funny because its so bad. This  movie is an must-see for anyone who love really bad movies. Jack Frost and Plan 9 From Outer Space will love Lake Placid.*** "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  lake placid wasn't bad. these kind of movies were phrased20 or 30 years ago,but now their bashed by a lot of  people. which i can't understand. i liked the characters in lake placid. they had a good sense of humor. i think i may have liked bridget fonda's  character the most,and second maybe the weird crocodilehunter. the movie wasn't great,but it was pretty good  campy fun.  i give lake placid **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The Alligator Isn't The Only Thing Biting","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Although you'd never guess it from the ads, Lake Placid is more a comedy similar to Ally McBeal than Alligator (not surprising given producer David Kelley's involvement). The movie will disappoint gore fans, but will surprise those who enjoy Fox-like comedy. Betty White, Meredith Salinger, and Oliver Platt (a massively underrated actor) deserve kudos for their roles, while Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda are acceptable in theirs. Only the sheriff, who sounded at times like he was reading from cue cards, gets any points off for bad acting. "},{"Title":"Viva Thrill-omedy!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone disappointed with Lake Placid because it wasn't scary enough missed the point. It's not a horror movie, it's a comedy! (Bonus points to whoever can remember what film brought the term thrill-omedy into the English language.) It's not supposed to be scary, it's supposed to be goofy, and it works. Put this one one the shelf with Anaconda, Congo, Bride OF Chucky and, arguably, Species. None of these films were really meant to be taken seriously, and it's a good thing, too. I had just seen the overly-ponderous Arlington Road, and Lake Placid was the perfect pick-me-up afterward.Viva Thrill-omedy! Viva Fun Dumb Movies! Viva Lake Placid! "},{"Title":"Jaws Maine Style or Don't go in the water- again.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  An entertaining movie.  Some funny spoof scenes and dialogue. Gory but not over-done.  Likeable characters.  Always nice to watch Brigette Fonda in a movie.  The out takes and bloopers would have been great if played during the credits.The only disappointment was how trashy and extreme they made Betty White's character.(Enough to make her want to apologize in TV interviews.)  The lanquage was way over the limit and it didn't fit the situations or her character.  Salty is one thing but this was rough stuff when still too many parents bring in their 5-10 year olds for an R movie.Not sorry I saw it.  Effects were good overall.   "}{"Title":"A guilty pleasure...","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this film... I expected it to suck... It did, but not in the way I thought it would... Lake Placid doesn't take  itself too seriously, and that's its biggest and only strength... This is a funny film that's not trying to be a blockbuster like Godzilla or ID4... It's a guilty pleasure... Also Betty White alone is worth the price of the ticket... To hear a Golden Girl curse like a sailor was fantastic... "},{"Title":"ANOTHER GOOD FILM FROM STEVE MINER","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Steve Miner has cranked out another good film in my opinion(the first being Halloween H2O).  Lake Placid was a great film i work in a theatre and get to see movies for free at others in my city and i checked this out and then saw eyes wide shut(which had less people watching it) anyways Lake Placid had great dialogue, photography, special effects, writing, directing, and most of all ACTING.  I think Oliver Platt was my fave along with Brendan Gleeson and Bill Pullman does his typical underplaying as usual.  I have to admit i've been a Steve Miner fan for some time (i liked his movies Forever Young, House, and Friday the 13th part 3).  So go see Lake Placid the only complaints are 1. why is it called Lake Placid? and 2.  Just because an old lady talks nasty and is associated with normally a sweet character doesnt make her character funny.  But the rest is a good film....look for Steve Miner's chameo as the pilot Bridget Fonda tells not to talk to her. "},{"Title":"Expect the worst, and you'll get slightly better.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not going to pretend that Lake Placid is in any way a good film, but I happened to catch it on bargain night at the local cinema with the full intention of seeing a really stupid movie.  I was not let down, nor was I denied my right to entertainment for the evening.  Vampires is a horrible movie, but is fun to watch, as long as you know what you're in for.  Lake Placid is along the same lines.  Stupid, yes.  Worthless, no.  Lines like Law enforcement is such dangerous work, and you have such big wonderful boobs or Betty White's now infamous quote aren't exactly going to go down in history as memorable, but they'll give you a good, cheap -- if temporary --laugh, often at the movie expense (which ultimately ups your own ego).  At times you can tell that the makers of Lake Placid know exactly what they're doing and probably are completely aware of exactly how bad it is.  One hopes so, anyway, at least somewhat. Which is what I was hoping for when I went to see it, and is why I'm glad I did. Check it out at a matinee or a dollar theater, because it'll lose most of it's popcorn value on video.  Just expect to have fun watching a bad movie and you will.  I encourage audience interaction, as well. "},{"Title":"Could it be worse?","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Sitting through this movie is like having someone tear off your arm and beat you with it for ninety minutes while telling you how stupid you are for letting them do it. I felt like David Kelley was in the projection booth laughing at me the entire time I was watching it. I will never tell anyone I saw this film. Promise me you won't tell them either. Thanks "},{"Title":"Bad Bad Bad!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What a horrible movie, although not completely horrible, since it does manage to throw in some (good) comedy bits and has a happy ending, (Which I actually liked). Still, it's supposed to be a monster movie/comedy and only 2 people (One in the beginning and only one throughout the movie) as well as a few thousand cows and 1 crocodile get killed. The movie repeated itself several times and thankfully only lasts 82 min. The only intriguing/funny characters are the old woman (Betty White) and the sherif. Your'e better off watching Monster Mash The Movie. "},{"Title":"The scenery and landscapes were beautiful !","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, where do I start ? I was not going to even see this movie if it were not for a place to get away from the heat & humidity. It actually was not too bad. Bridget Fonda, who happens to be a personal favorite of mine was really good, as was Oliver Platt who lent some very welcomed fun and laughs to the movie. And the picturesque scenery was beautiful. The movie was not as attractive as where it was filmed. "},{"Title":"Re-cycled monster movie cliches","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid could have been so much better. Steve Miner has recycled so many cliches from this genre that even the scenes that make you jump are so predictable.Four excellent actors are wasted. Brendan Gleeson, superb in The General, has lost his Irish brogue and speaks with a perfect American accent. He is the sheriff who is investigating the death of his deputy who has been brutally bitten in half by a giant alligator. Bridget Fonda is the paleontologist imported from New York to aid in the investigation. Bill Pullman is charge of the investigation. Oliver Platt is the millionaire alligator enthusiast who horns in on the proceedings. David E. Kelley, who has written some of the best scripts on television (The Practice, Ally McBeal),  probably wrote this fiasco on a weekend vacation. Some of the dialogue is funny. Betty White is given some blue language which seems humorous coming out of her mouth. The opening sequence is right out of Jaws. Steven Spielberg should sue. The alligator is realistic and the gore is gross enough. It's just the characters who are cardboard and unworthy of David E. Kelley's imagination. "},{"Title":"Cliched, yes.  Entertaining, yes.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, so the movie is a little cheesy and cliched, but it is entertaining nonetheless.  It is more comedy then horror, and sometimes comedy/horror do not work.  But I felt that it worked very well with this movie.  It had everyone in the theater laughing out loud.  The movie is about, of course, a giant crocodile terrorizing a Maine lake.  A game and fish ranger is mutilated (very gory) in the beginning, which then sends for Bridget Fonda's character down to Maine, where she meets the town sheriff (played very well by Brendan Gleeson), and Bill Pullman (also very good, even though it wasn't much of a challenge to play the character).  Then, in comes Oliver Platt's character, who seems to have an obsessed death wish swimming with crocodiles.  It is explained that he worships crocs as though they were a god.  But he is very hilarious in the movie, and I liked his performance a lot.  But, the movie is a little cliched.  Of course, Bridget Fonda's character (played very well, might I add) falls out of a boat/truck while in danger of the crocodile.  Also, the performance by Betty White is worth the price of admission altogether.  She has a mouth like the little South Park kids, and is very hilarious.  All the characters are played very well, and each have their funny moments which play out well.  But the only real problem I have is the ending seemed too abrupt.   I give this 6/10.  Go see it to have a lot of good laughs, as well as a few suspenseful scares. "},{"Title":"Came out of the theater holding My sides from laughing.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you enjoy David E Kelley's writing, as I do, see the film for that reason alone.  The dialogue/repartee from Lake Placid is reminiscent of From The Hip.  The sarcasm(1 liners) and character interaction reach levels typical of his work. I found the film to be almost an homage(opposed to a rip-off) to campy horror films, and yet, without all the contrived glitz of special effects, it still succeeds.  I voted higher(7/10) for this film because of the humor and the scene stealing of Betty White's characterization and as Sheriff Hank, Gleeson's deadpan delivery of dialogue was perfect.  I would like to see more of Gleeson's work.  I do remember him as Hamish from Braveheart. Except for Bridget Fonda, the casting was a bullseye.  I believe she may have been along for the eye candy aspect. "},{"Title":"Mildly Amusing","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I seem to be obsessed with movies about animals eating people. I wish there was one every week. That they're often very cheesy just seems to make them more fun for me. This one gives you about two-thirds of your money's worth of pure cheese.The first third of the movie is funny, because the writer has decided that all of the characters will be incredibly snotty and condescending toward one another. My two favorite quips are (Bridget Fonda, on why she's never visited Maine) I have hygene-- they don't want me. And (Oliver Platt, to the stupid small-town sheriff who didn't know that Crocodiles swim in salt water) They conceal that information in books. But alas, these people can't just cut down each other, eventually they have to start pretending to be scared and bonding.The Crocodile looked great, but it never really seemed very scary. They did manage to make it seem intelligent, but there was never enough people in peril to make a really satisfying movie. And all of its scenes were somehow flat. After a while (i.e. with the helicopter) it just becomes ridiculous. The ending, in which they try to marry the film's conservationist leaning with our wish to see the creature blasted to smithereens, doesn't quite satisfy.The performances were good. Bridget Fonda really excels at playing WASP B--tches. She really, really does. Platt and Pullman were good as ever, and the guy from The General was again great. I would have rathered the movie remain a catty snotfest and not have any bonding, but, you know, there's a formula.Mildly funny, not scary in the least, this movie is okay, but not great. I felt like I got my $8.50 worth, though. But next time, more crocodile.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "}{"Title":"Nearly a Love-Letter to Roger Corman","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I just got back from seeing this flick, and I still have a smile on my face. I knew exactly what type of movie this was going to be. I knew the story, characters, plot twists, and ending. So, in seeing it, I was able to take in all of the fun B-movie cliches. This is very much like what Roger Corman made at the early part of the 80's (including the terrific Alligator). I loved every minute of this flick, and Oliver Platt continues to prove why he is one of the funniest actors around. Terrific fun from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Biting wit keeps this one sharp","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't know quite what to expect for this flick.  However, I was pleasantly surprised at the end product.  The movie never takes itself too seriously.  The script is also jam packed with sarcastic remarks and insults.  So much so that you may miss some if you don't pay attention.  Of course it pays homage to all the classics.  The style is so reminiscent of the horror classic Piranha that it even has scenes of fish churning up the waters.  Also, I was happy to see that the old, eccentric character (Betty White) was given some choice lines.  All in all, not a bad movie just don't go expecting high art.  "},{"Title":"Not for the humor impaired","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A tongue-in-cheek send up of Jaws-like movies.  It doesn't take itself seriously and neither should you.  The repartee between the four main characters is wildly funny at times.  I must admit that the four leads seemed more at home in a frat house than investigating a man's death, but then again .... "},{"Title":"B Movie Horror...It kinda works here...","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, this movie is all one should expect from a B-movie horror flick.  Scary enough, I guess, and mostly fun to watch.  The monster is truly monstrous, and the rag-tag team that gathers to capture and/or kill the giant crocodile living in a lake in Maine (yes, -MAINE-) is a hoot.  You've got your local heavy set sheriff, your clean cut game warden, your beautiful female scientist, and your filthy rich thrill seeker.  These four magically come together for a couple of nights of croc huntin'. What happens?  C'mon, what do you think?  It's not the best movie ever made...definitely a cheap Friday night date entertainment.  Wait for the video release. But it isn't horrid either.  I laughed out loud a few times; the film definitely doesn't take itself seriously.  The film knows it's a B-movie, and doesn't try to hide the fact.  The worst parts of the movie, though, were some of the attempts at humor. I mean, hearing old lady Betty White stand on her porch and yell f--k at a police officer might have sounded HILARIOUS on the set, but it just doesn't translate to the audience in the theatre. There were too many of those types of moments.   My grade for this movie? C- "},{"Title":"Crap, thy name is Lake Placid","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If anyone is thinking of actually seeing this movie, don't. Please. I'm not kidding. Really. That paint that you weren't going to watch dry? Well, go and watch it 'cause it's a hell of a lot more interesting than this C rate, tries-to-be- funny Jaws clone. To borrow a line from Homer Simpson, I've seen better plays than this. Honest to god, plays!  "},{"Title":"Great Outdoors meets Jaws","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There is no denying that this movie borrows from Jaws, but then again, why shouldn't it?The premise of this movie is the hunting down of a giant crocodile. After a wild life officer is mysteriously killed by some unknown creature, the Game Warden (Pullman), is called in to determine what happened. At the same time, a paleontologist (Fonda), with no field experience, is sent to the lake in question to investigate the situation. The group is later joined by an eccentric crocodile hunter (Platt) that has a knack for tracking these creatures. Interspersed throughout this movie, we meet a lonely old lady (White) that seems a little mentally imbalanced but clearly is aware of what is in the lake but won't divuldge the information to the hunting party.Although the dialogue is laced with cliches, some of the dialogue is written quite well. This is especially the case with the Platt's lines as he and the Sherif always seem to be at odds. Pullman's performance is a little reminicent of his character in Independance Day but nonetheless gets the job done. Fonda plays her character relatively ok and Betty White provides quite a few laughs with her character. But clearly, this movie belonged to Platt as he played his character beautifully. I found this movie to move at a fair pace and always kept me interested.Overall, I enjoyed this movie and was quite impressed with the special effects. I would suggest anyone who wants to see a matinee, to see this movie but it is not worth regular admission...7/10. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse movies","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I wasn't expecting any kind of storyline here, and it proved to be correct. I did however think the crocodile was cool.  With Stan Winston behind the effects you usually won't be disappointed.Two things that I couldn't figure out  As the first participant pointed out if the lake wasn't called Lake Placid why call that the movie?  And if that old woman had been feeding that crocodile for 6 years, how had it not been discovered before then?  Like I said, I wasn't expecting a storyline but those things certainly made no sense. "},{"Title":"When in doubt, throw Bridget Fonda off of a moving vehicle!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Betty White reportedly turned down the role of Helen Hunt's mother in the critically acclaimed film As Good As It Gets because of the scene in which Jack Nicolson slides a dog down a garbage chute (she's an animal rights activist).Luckily she chose this movie instead, in which bears are torn apart like fresh bread, rare species of animals get their heads blown into juicy pulp, and several humans are subjected to grisly death in a variety of fun ways.This movie had some great gore, which unfortunately only was on screen for a couple of seconds. Other than that, we're treated to some awful dialog, cliche characters (the strapping white male hero, the spunky, sassy city girl out of her element in the woods, the funny fat guy, the slutty office coworker, a smug Adam Arkin.....), a predictable list of victims (the Star Trek red shirt theory at work), and some of the least scary non-thrills ever.Brendan Gleeson is a fine actor wasted here as the dead-pan sherriff, who is resulted to being the spiritual heir to Alan Skipper Hale, jr. Bill Pullman has never been blander, and the usually likeable Oliver Platt has never been more annoying.Should you avoid this movie? It's okay if you see it for free- Betty White is fantastic, and there are some parts that made me laugh out loud (not the parts the film makers meant to be funny, unfortunately).Anyways, I got through this review without typing Lake Flaccid, which is great. "},{"Title":"Very funny!  Better than expected!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Obviously most of the people commenting do not understand nor appreciate satire. This is a delightful, tongue-in-cheek takeoff on monster movies (e.g. Jaws).  And Betty White turns in a wonderful performance as the quirky Mrs. Bickerman.  The audience at the showing I attended thoroughly enjoyed themselves, and so did I! "},{"Title":"The woman seated next to me screamed.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  No, I wasn't with her. Hey, it was fun, I got to watch Bridget, Platt has the intelligence to make his role interesting and there were a LOT of witty lines. The lake (Black Lake was it's name in the movie) was a very nice mountain location. Some of the most graphic dismembering since RELIC. The publicity compares the movie to ANACONDA, and that was honest. "}{"Title":"Gore, funny police denigration, jabs at Jaws&Godzilla = two stars","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Want to see the Golden Girl Betty White quote the South Park Movie? How 'bout a man bitten in half (rather realistic -- and I am a physician). Plus, semi-precious jabs at Godzilla (the final 'eye-no-longer-glowing-ah-ah-cry-cry') and Jaws (can't tell without spoiling). Acting -- light but professional, directing -- efficient but uninspired, special effects -- better than Dr. Who but no Phantom Menace. Typical no-brainer, except for the script first 20 minutes were dynamic and sharp (sheriff who repeats the word 'sarcastic' rather appropriately, paleontologist who you hope is secretly FBI special agent Dana Scully, barbed dialogue etc.) The movie was holding very well up to the moment the characters arrived to the lake and the real fun was supposed to start. Alas, it slipped into a typical weekend fare with the surprise factor of 'Entrapment'. Verdict When I snap my fingers you'll wake up and forget you ever saw this movie.AND PLEASE if you want some serious epistemology or exhilarating Method acting or you actually believe that an innovative movie could be based on the 'big beast underwater is scaaaaary' cliche -- DON'T see this one and if you do, don't nit-pick nor complain bitterly to IMDb. "},{"Title":"A hilarious horror with a few surprises","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw this movie I thought it wouldn't be so good but i've never been so amazed in my life. This movie is funny, scary, gory and makes you jump frequently. Anyway, the plot is about a 35 ft. crocodile who commits a grisly murder and is hunted by a big, fat sheriff and his deputies, a fish and game guy, a paleontologist and a croc-worshipping millionaire. The plot is a little far fetched but the amazing visuals, good acting, many jumps, and non-stop suspense will take it off you're mind. See if you like horror movies. ****.5 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Very funny.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  To the contrary of people's beliefs, this movie is very funny. What else do you get from the guy who writes Ally McBeal. People thought this movie was only a horror movie. Nope. It is a very funny film. The little one liners and the jabs at each character make it hysterical. And Betty White is the funniest I have ever seen her in. Even the crocodile graphics are good. Stan Winston and his crew did a great job. I thought this movie was good. I would give it a 7 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining.  Another Anaconda.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Frankly, I was expecting horrible acting, horrible writing, and awesome special effects and I got just the opposite.I've never liked Bill Pullman, except for his performance in The Last Seduction, and I felt that his acting here was standardly wooden.  BUT, Brendan Gleeson and Oliver Platt had some nice little verbal exchanges and Bridget Fonda was nice as the icy New York bitch.  Betty White was even decent as the crazy old woman living on the lake.  Most of the jokes and one-liners are somewhat subtle and usually sarcastic which was pleasant.So, the dialogue was surprisingly snappy and the plot? Nonexistent. However, I would hope that everyone has come to expect this out of this type of movie.  The romance between Fonda and Pullman is sickeningly forced and predictable.The special effects were shockingly mediocre and I would even say almost campy.  The innocent look in the Croc's eyes is priceless.  I doubt that this was intentional, but it's almost more entertaining this way.To sum up, if you've got a couple hours to burn and you don't want to stress your noggin AND you don't feel physically ill upon realizing the ridiculous amounts of money involved, then go see Lake Placid with low expectations. I think you'll be surprised (maybe not pleasantly).      "},{"Title":"very big surprise","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  while many may see this as a lame attempt at a horror movie it is not, a horror movie, that is.  much like the first Scream poked fun at slasher flicks Lake Placid pokes fun at the old B-Rated monster movies and it does it well.  the movie starts a bit slow but the chemistry between ALL of the principal actors is very enjoyably to watch...particularly Platt and Gleeson.  Pullman pretty much plays the same character he plays in every role but he does it so well it's strange.  The only thing slightly wrong with Lake Placid is that some of the special effects LOOK like special effects, especially the effects of the croc eating cows off the shore, but every shot with Winston's crocodile looks great.  overall, a predictable end, but then, as the whole movie is making fun of all the other monster movies it fits in, and actually add to the effect of the movie. "},{"Title":"This is a no-suck movie!!!! I loved it!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was a very funny movie full of great one-liners.  Oliver Platt is awesome in this movie.  The crocodile is cool to see too.  If you want comedy, with a little bit of suspense, go see Lake Placid. "},{"Title":"Afterwhile, Crocodile...","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is just what summer 1999 needed, a big giant killer crocodile horror film. In the grand tradition of Roger Corman, Lake Placid is a B-grade horror comedy with plenty of thrills but little bite. It seems somebody forgot to put the typical manic zest in this script. What's left is mildly exciting, but horribly lacking.Bridget Fonda stars as a New York paleontologist sent to Maine to investigate the mysterious appearance of a 150 year-old crocodile in a nearby lake. She enlists the help of the local sheriff (talented Brendan Gleeson), a Fish And Wildlife representative (Bill Pullman, in full Bill Pullman mode), and an eccentric crocodile hunter (the always creepy and hideous Oliver Platt). Together they try to figure out just what to do with the reptile that seems to have a taste for human blood.Working from a script by noted TV legend David E. Kelley(The Practice, Ally McBeal), director Steve Miner seems to have a firm grasp of this genre after last year's effective but lethargic horror flick Halloween  H20. Mr. Miner knows how to fully milk an audience for every emotion. Lake Placid is filled to the gills with false dolby scares and a healthy dose of bloodshed. In the midst of a PG-13 revolution, Placid is pleasingly R-rated. It's gory, devilishly so. I enjoyed Mr. Miner's decision to go to the extreme with the visuals. Filmed with breathtaking clarity by Daryn Okada, Placid is fun just to watch. In the middle of deep forests and a shimmering body of water, this film is refreshingly airy and lacks the claustrophobia that hinders other films of this genre.After 1998's Simple Plan, it's a pleasure to report that Bridget Fonda is finally back to real acting. Her newfound energy and a surprising gift for comedy make this performance in Placid even better than I could imagine. She owns the frame every time with her understated performance and wonderful reaction shots. With Bull Pullman, they make the best two croc hunters around. As I said, Oliver Platt is not my favorite actor. Mr. Kelley's script is smothered with one-liners. Almost every other line is a joke of somesorts. The movie seems to rely on Mr. Platt's unfortunate comic timing for most of the gags. His back and forth with Brendan Gleeson is frenetic, but it rarely is funny. The same could be said of the entire movie. It tries hard, but comedy should not have been pushed to the foreground in the movie.The crocodile scenes are the best part of the movie. At 85 minutes, the film uses the reptile only sporadically. The Stan Winston creation is majestic, seamlessly blending with the computer-generated creature that takes over when the croc is in full motion. A standout of the film is a neat scene of the croc attacking a bear on dry land. That kind of momentum should have been Lake Placid, not the I Love Lucy wackiness.While pleasing, Lake Placid is a throwaway movie. You'll forget it 10 minutes after you see it. Mr. Miner and Mr. Kelley seemed to have missed the full opportunity for fun and mayhem that this type of flick can generate. A last minute plot twist involving a second crocodile is shockingly given no attention. Had it been developed a bit more - along with the rest of the movie - Lake Placid could have been a seriously delicious cinematic treat.------------ 7  "},{"Title":"A terrible horror film, but a pretty funny comedy","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Going into this movie I thought it would be terrible.  I thought of jaws only with a reptile.  The first couple of minutes seemed to verify this.  But then the characters start arriving on the scene. Once the characters start interacting with each other the movie becomes very funny.  The quotes of oliver platt and betty white alone make you die laughing.  Over all this move is a good B comedy, and a very unexpected laugh. rating 2 1/2 stars  "},{"Title":"Far from the best, and definitely not the worst film I've seen in the last 6 weeks!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The dialogue was quirky and entertaining; the gore was very gratuitous and special effects obvious (like the flying cow in Tornado); and the ending was definitely a let down.  Couldn't the creators have found 5 more minutes of dialogue/scenery to have tried to wrap it up?  One good thing was that we only invested about 75 min. of our evening. Much less of a waste of time than Instinct where it took them over 2 hrs. to tell a very predictable 60 min. story, and squandered the exceptional talents of Anthony Hopkins, and a very capable Cuba Gooding. (On the plus side for Instinct...I was able to work in a little nap time and didn't miss anything of significance!) "},{"Title":"Ignore the first guy","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As long as you're looking for a nice brainless B-monster movie to chew on, Lake Placid is a hoot of a flick.  Brogan seems to forget that, as bad as it was, Anaconda was a hell of a lot of fun for that exact reason.  Well, this movie isn't as bad as Anaconda, and it knows just how stupid to get without getting under your skin.In short don't expect anything more than typical monster movie fluff - all cliches intact and kicking - and you'll have a good time. "}{"Title":"Lighten Up, and you will be pleased","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I think those out there who have scathing reviews for this movie, are WAY too uptight.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie for what is was.  I don't think David E. Kelly was trying to re-do Jaws, Alligator, or Anaconda.  I think he was trying to do something slightly different, and he succeeded! I found myself in suspense, and interested through the whole thing.  Sure, the character development and general plot line might have left a little to be desired, but all in all, the writing was witty and funny, and very entertaining.  The effects for the Croc were great, and not overdone.  The length was just right (at a very brief 82 minutes); it could have killed the film if they had attempted to make it longer.If you go see this movie hoping only to be entertained, and are willing to overlook some hokey lines & lackluster chemistry, I believe you will get many great laughs out of it.  Especially funny is Betty White, as a sailor-mouthed crazy old lady who truly keeps it colorful!I expected nothing, and was pleasantly surprised.  You can easily recognize the writer's style if you have ever watched The Practice, or Ally McBeal, as the dialogue is constantly quirky, funny, & fresh.  I saw this movie at a free screening, but had I paid full Theater price for it, I would not have been disappointed.  Check it out.  It's FUN! "},{"Title":"I yawned, I groaned; I couldn't stand any more","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid was easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The writing was stale, the acting was stale, and the screenplay altogether was stale.  Any horror movie with the line Suddenly I feel as if everything is safe is just a complete waste of time.  While some characters were likeable, Bill Pullman's and Bridget Fonda's characters were completely dull.  If not for a few well done horror/mutilation scenes, this movie would be considered a Total flop.  Save your money for this one, wait for it to come out on TV. "},{"Title":"Occasionally entertaining, but oddly truncated","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What happened with LAKE PLACID?  It plays as though someone first wanted to make a big-animal-eating-people movie like many of the past, but then decided that wasn't hip or cool enough, and added squabbling, bickering characters.  Now, they're pretty funny, and the bickering is of a high order for this kind of thing -- David E. Kelley has shown himself a good writer before, and though he clearly feels like he's writing beneath his usual level here, does often deliver the goods.But the focus is on these characters' squabbles, not on the 30-foot crocodile in Black Lake.  The crocodile scenes tend to play like intrusions into the story of a bunch of people who don't get along, but who amuse each other despite that.  Okay, fine, but then leave out the crocodile.Also, the movie is VERY short for a theatrical release these days, and at times the severe cutting shows, and hurts the movie.  Why would anyone do this kind of damage to their own film?  Ego?  Cold feet?  Second thoughts?The idea that it might be a better thing to capture the monster alive is very welcome; death and destruction have had their outings.  But surely somewhere in that cut footage was the HINT of an explanation as to why a tropical creature like a crocodile would or could come to a chilly lake in Maine. "},{"Title":"Campy fun!!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a campy, funny little movie that will make you laugh and make you jump.  Although some of the dialogue is a bit silly, there are some great one-liners in this movie.  Oliver Platt does a great job playing a mental crocodile chaser & Betty White is equally as funny as a crazy local old lady.  She steals every scene that she is in.  But the most amazing thing about this movie are the special effects - the 40 ft crocodile designed by Stan Winston (Jurassic Park, Terminator) is breath-taking.  What SOME people may not understand is that this movie is not a rip-off, but a campy homage to those classic kind of thriller/monster films.  It is paying tribute to that classic American film style.  And THAT is why you laugh.  If you enjoy jumping in your seat & laughing your head off alternately, then you will really like this fun little flick. "},{"Title":"ANACONDA II, and just as bad!!!!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Not since ANACONDA have I seen such a horrible fim that takes good actors and actresses, and turn them into horrible B actors in a crummy plot.  LAKE PLACID is a rip-off of JAWS, JAWS II, and ALLIGATOR, yet unlike those films, this one is boring. Bridget Fonda stars as a palaenogist who goes to a Maine lake to find out what killed a game and fish ranger.  Bill Pullman plays the chief ranger of the game and fish department. And Oliver Platt is the eccentric scientist who worships crocodiles.  They find out that their is a 30 foot crocodile that is living in this lake. To inform you, the lake is not called Lake Placid, because early in the movie, the town sheriff tells Fonda and Pullman that the lake was going to be called Lake Placid, but the townspeople didn't like it.  O.K. so what is it called?  And why call the movie Lake Placid? The plot is dull, the acting is cardbord, and the dialogue is horrible!  When you have GOLDEN GIRLS Betty White calling the town sheriff and deputies the name of a male orgin, you realize that this is one very bad movie.  And the exciting climax?  There isn't one. It's very dull.  And by the time it's over you feel cheated.The only good thing about this film is the women (except for Betty White).  What I mean by that is, it's fun to watch them.  Bridget Fonda, Meredith Salenger, and Mariska Hargitay are all fun to watch, because they are good looking.  I don't want to sound like a sexist pig, or a dirty pervert.  But the women's good looks are the only positive thing about this horrible turkey. You can tell that David E. Kelley (the same one who created t.v.'s ALLEY McBEAL and THE PRACTICE) is trying to jump on the A.S.P.C.A. wagon with the very environmental ending in this film.  I'm guessing his love interest, Michelle Pfeiffer, had some influence on him to write this garbage.  If this is what David E. Kelley calls a good story, then I hate to see what his t.v. shows look like. And Kelley has every right to call this film a horror/comedy.  It's a horror film because it's a scary horrible film to sit through.  And it's a comedy because David E. Kelley is laughing at you by wasting your money on this garbage.  Skip this film at all costs!  * (out of five stars) "},{"Title":"Crikey! This movie bites! Lake Placid is full of croc!","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" To some, Lake Placid might seem, like it mastered, the B-movie horror genre 'so bad, it's good', type of a film. However, for others; the movie is full of mean-spirited, unfunny, somewhat offensive jokes. For me, I felt like, this movie was pretty entertaining, however, I'm not one of those, who would be, a tailgater for this film. This movie can bite me! This tongue-in-cheek, killer croc film was pretty stupid. Directed by Steve Miner, the movie tells the story of a group of wildlife experts, trying to hunt a giant, 30-foot-long man-eating crocodile, which is terrorizes the small community of Black Lake, Maine. Can they capture the beast, or will they become the crocodile's next meal? Watch the movie to find out, if you want to! Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, that Lake Placid isn't that great. Not at all! However, it's a lot better than the later, crocodile related horror films. One thing, that I didn't like, about the film is the characters. All, of them, has their moments of annoyance to me. The only, two characters, I was, somewhat rooting for, was Sheriff Hank Keough (Brendan Gleeson) & Fish and Game officer Jack Wells (Bill Pullman), because they were the ones, that seem, somewhat normal. Everybody else, I was kinda rooting for the crocodile to eat them. Bridget Fonda as the History paleontologist Kelly Scott, comes across as a whinny city girl, looking for a hookup. The first part of the film, with her, was very hard to get through. I really didn't care to find out, what her previous relationship did to her. Nor did, I care for her forced relationship with Bill Pullman's character. She really doesn't do, much for the film, besides endangering herself and her teammates, anyways. Nor, does she really care, that the crocodile kill people. She still wants it, to be capture, rather than, not killed. What type of human being, does that!? It was there, that I really couldn't stand her presence. Mythology professor/crocodile enthusiast Hector Cyr (Oliver Platt) was the same way. While, he was somewhat funny. His jokes were, mostly a miss, rather than a hit, due to his offensive, often homophobia and womanizer nature. I really didn't like, his preachy, keep the animal alive, approach. Both characters should had died, and the crocodile should had be luggage. See you later, alligator. Bye! Bye! Another problem, with the film was the settlings. For a movie call Lake Placid; it really has a lame excuse for the name, Lake Placid. I was really hoping, the movie settling was, indeed, Lake Placid, New York. Maybe, have, some type of Olympian swimmer, kill the beast in the end. Who Knows! It could probably, make a better movie, than we got. While, this film was a financial success at the box office and was followed by a series of sequels and a crossover film with the Anaconda series. Sadly, this animal attack movie doesn't have the thrill and chills in suspense, like Steven Spielberg's 1975's hit, Jaws. It's not scary, at all. Nor, does the movie master, any sense of horror comedy like Ron Underwood's 1990 Tremors. Still, compared to a lot of killer croc films, out there. Lake Placid features some semi great special effects by both Stan Winston and Digital Domain that, for the most part, hold up, today. The crocodile looks somewhat realistic. The gore effects was good enough for stomach curling. The sequels however not so much, though I do admittedly, they look better than most Sci-Fi Channel Original films. The movie also doesn't really, have much in exposition or plot development. It seem like the movie didn't care about the science, too much, as it's somewhat abandoned, explaining, toward the middle of the film. Even in the end, you still, don't have, no clue, how the crocodile got into the lake in the first place, and how it's able to survive there. Regardless, the movie does have, some good pacing. There were very few filler scenes in this 82 minutes film. Another thing, that I like, about the film is the music; however, it rarely matches, what's going on, with the film. Honestly, how in the hell does 'I Think I Love You' by singer, Maureen Davis & 'It's Not Unusual by singer, Tom Jones, have to do, with a 20ft killer crocodile!? Noting, if you ask me. Overall While, the music doesn't match, well with the film. I still have, to say, this movie still entertains me, enough to get, through it. Nevertheless, this feeding frenzy movie is only good for a one-time watch. Not worth, the rewatchability. This movie has reptile dysfunction. "},{"Title":"Is the Lake Plastered? *","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" An idiotic film if ever there were. Crocodiles come to a lake in Maine and wreak death upon the citizenry and in many cases, the film becomes a comedy. It's a comedy in the sense that it's so bad that it's almost laughable.The Oliver Platt part as Hector is questionable. He is a college professor? The guy is a real nut in every sense. We know that Betty White is an animal lover in real life, but this is ridiculous. She plays Mrs. Bickerman, the latter could have been a golden girl. She feeds animals including the crocodiles and then admits that her husband was killed by one.A senseless production, inane and beyond the realm of human comprehension. "},{"Title":"Truth in advertising","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The review quote on the DVD box reads You'll spend as much time laughing as you do screaming.And that's no lie I spent exactly as much time laughing as I did screaming. Nevertheless, the publicist who chose that line as the sales pitch needs to check his or her ambiguity detector.To be fair, I've seen (I won't say watched) no more than the first half so far, and if I'm hanging in there for the remainder, it's only because I'm nursing faint and fast-dwindling hopes about what might happen to the characters played by Bridget Fonda and Oliver Platt. It would scar my life forever if they should get eaten by a giant crocodile and I missed it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable DVD","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Thou a horror of the kind which made me jump as I like a good horror movie to do, (it could of been more Jaws like thou) and just a couple of gore parts (Im not a fan of gore anyway), this movie I did find funny in places.I loved the different characters in this movie which truly added to it. The interaction between the various characters was great. )Movie was predictable but I didn't find that an issue as it didn't bore me in any way due to the characters.This easy to follow movie is certainly worth a watch, thou I don't understand why its not rated higher. I guess some don't like comedy and fun in their horror movies. "},{"Title":"Not Just Another Killer-Croc Movie","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Most B-Movies have their flaws. Most of the flaws are what we consider bad and there are other flaws that are acceptable per se.We start out the movie with an attack on a guy by some creature in a lake. Most Killer-Crocodile movies are after the gore, killing, and suspense, so this scene would seem predicted.What wasn't predicted was that this movie is not on the same note (or beat) of other killer-crocodile movies. Once you start to get into the thrust of the film you find humor, interesting characters, and a plot that doesn't drive itself into what we consider crappy B-style movies.This film has, what, 2 deaths on-screen? Most Killer-Crocodile moves have at least 5 or so, depending on the situation. This movie is not what I consider a true Killer-Crocodile movie because it doesn't go after the gore and endless, meaningless killing.The first guy in the scuba gear was killed for one purpose to set up viewers for the film. Yes, they were actually setting you up. By the first scene in the film, you could suggest that this was all about the killing, the stupidity, the abomination that a lot of killer-crocodile movies are. Now, that was speaking film-wise. Movie wise, I'm guessing the crocodile had it's daily intake of beavers, but he found something much more appetizing. This concludes that he wasn't killed for nothing. Honestly, Killer Crocodiles must have at least 80 stomachs to hold as much food as they do in a lot of films I see now days. This film was realistic in the deaths--the croc got FULL!The second guy, the deputy, he was holding a beacon that had BABY CROC SOUNDS coming out of it. The crocodile was doing it's motherly/fatherly duty by protecting the itteh bitteh babiez. He wasn't killed meaninglessly. It was one of the best death kill I've seen in any Killer-Croc movie. Why? Because even though you didn't actually SEE the crocodile, you saw PART OF IT. For an instance you saw the shadow, the black-mass come up and bite off that dude's head!This movie is not on the same beat other Killer-Crocodile movies are. This movie wasn't a horror film even, considering it does feature a crocodile that kills. This movie provided laughs, a good time, and it can be serious when it wants. Now, not that an actual crocodile could get into that lake, but there are reports every day of a crocodilian getting into lakes, rivers, etc by people putting them there. I knew of a breeder where I was living (Florida) released a 2-year-old Crocodile that was mistreated (LOTS OF DRUGS!) into a lake. There was actual DEATHS because of the creature! Now, doesn't that sound like the plot of a very B-Rated movie? Then real-life is it's own B-Rated movie because that actually happened! All across the world Alligators and Crocodiles are released into natural habitats and people can be injured.This movie served it's purpose. It's one of the BEST crocodile movies I've ever seen, especially with it's reality factor.I'm going to comment on the sequels as well. Lake Placid 2 and Lake Placid 3 didn't even HAPPEN in my book. If I ever make it into the movie business, I'm going to make my own sequel and bring back the original characters. The SyFy channel ruins so many darn series it sickens me. Lake Placid would of been a great stand-alone film without any sequels at all, but of course the Syfy Channel HAS to ruin everything. "}{"Title":"A killer Crocidle is lose in the Lake and it's come to feed!","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" 'This' film' was down' right' 'genuis' an incredible film' with 'me' giving it' ten' 'stars' it must be' good! I usually' do not' 'give' movies ten stars' unless I'm 'really' impressed! 'This' movie did and the title' did also LAKE PLACID. What a film this was' anyone who wants' 'to' see this' movie see it' now I'm 'a' strict' movie' critic' and 'I' say this' movie deserves' 'to' be seen! 'By' everyone' who's seventeen and older! This movie' 'had' me in' it's 'action the whole time' it was' playing! 'And' I'm not joking. This movie kept' me going! This' is why' I love' Shark and crocodile' films all over! 'This gives the action movies' a 'good' 'name! Overall a great film. "},{"Title":"Great croc movie!","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" If anyone remembers the 1980 horror Alligator, well Lake Placid would be a real meal-ticket for all the reptile lovers around. In a sleepy town in Maine, there's a very huge lake that people will enjoy their summer fun. But there's one thing that'll take the fun out of it A Giant Crocodile! Crocodiles and alligators kill their prey differently. Alligators eat their victims, or do the death roll. Crocodiles drown their victims and later eats them. When this crocodile invades the lake everyone has either two options pare it or kill it. They had to spare this one because it was a rare kind and an alien species. The cast of the movies are great. Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, and Oliver Platt are the main characters that really performed their role well. Betty White is very feisty in this movie unlike her Rose Nylund role on NBC's The Golden Girls. And she's a known lover of animals, which makes it work fine. The other crocodile wasn't so lucky. However, he wasn't the real threat. At least the attack will be adverted. This movie is both scary and funny at the same time. It worked out perfectly! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Wait, why was this movie made...?","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Recently finished watching this movie and...what?...really? Easily one of the lamest, most boring pieces of garbage I've seen in a long time. It was all too lame to be funny, and far too slow paced to be scary. I'm puzzled by the amount of positive reviews this movie has received. Bridget Fonda played the paleontologist Kelly Scott. This was easily one of the most irritating characters I've seen in a movie in a long time. Think of Robin Wright Penn in Sorry Haters or Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction. Now make them slightly less likable and you'll have a fair understanding of Lake Placid's Kelly Scott. It's obvious when it's trying to be funny, so instead of being funny it's all just lame and corny. I wouldn't even have minded the godawful script and annoying characters if there had at least been a little gore. Maybe bring along a few more cops or scientists so at least SOMEBODY can get killed. No Suspense whatsoever. Too lame to be a comedy and too slow to be a horror movie. Which means it can ultimately be one thing. BORING "},{"Title":"Cheesy comedy/horror flick, and it's great fun","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" The front of the DVD says it all for me, 'Part Mystery, Part Thriller, Pars Missing' this pretty much spells out that this isn't intended to be a serious film, despite the relative high quality of the production.The script is absolutely crammed with cheesy lines that compliment the corny plot nicely, Bridget Fonda, Bill Pullman and Oliver Platt all pretend to play it straight, which only adds to the hilarity at times; it's a bit like it's making fun of the 'B' movie horror flick, but in a satirical manner that's fun to watch.The show stealer for me though is Betty White, her screen time is minimal but every second of her subtle lunacy is worth the wait.It's a good laugh, the effects are OK and it does entertain, but it is probably a movie you will forget pretty quickly too.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Perfect Saturday Night Movie","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" WOW. I first saw this movie the other night on TV. It was a Saturay night and nothing good was on, so I was channel surfing, when all of a sudden I saw a lady pushing a blindfolded cow into a lake. Immediately interested, I saw a huge crocodile come out of the lake and eat it! I bought the movie the next day, and this is one of my favorite movies. I have two favorite lines Sheriff Hank Keough I brought a pork chop for luck. Maybe you could hang it around your neck. and my absolute favorite.... Kelly Scott I will NOT calm down! This is the second time I've been hit with a severed head and I DON'T LIKE IT!It's a great movie, you should definitely watch it! "},{"Title":"Steve Miner proves himself yet again!","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Steve Miner the director of Hause, Friday the 13th part 2 and 3, and Halloween h2o. He is underrated, even though all of his films hit the mark and turn out as above average horror films. This movie is a horror/comedy and is extremely funny.Lake Placid is a giant alligator chase, in the way Jaws was a giant fish chase. Following a grizzly attack of a diver in a Maine lake, the local sheriff (Brendon Gleeson) calls in an expert from the State Fish and Game Department, Jack Wells (Bill Pullman) to investigate. A museum opinion is needed and as the result of some cruel interoffice politics, paleontologist Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) is sent to Maine to examine a tooth believed to be from the unknown creature. Not long after, eccentric millionaire Hector Cyr (Oliver Platt) choppers in to help find (and swim with) the creature. A few twists and turns aside, it then becomes a race to find the creature before it kills again.The main thrust of entertainment comes from the interaction of the characters. The dialog is witty and fast paced and all of the characters are well fleshed out. There is a rhythm to their flow and I wouldn't be surprised if the onset mood was fairly relaxed; Director Steve Miner manages to squeeze a surprising amount of tension into the film. The suspense works well to offset the continuous comedy. It is this that stops the film from becoming a farce it has just enough of both comedy and horror to work well. "},{"Title":"Derr-Dum.... Derr-Dum...derr-dum.derr-dum!!","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I operate a video store and how many times do I have to hear people saying It's too funny to be a horror movie.... and how much do I hate that!!??Those are the people who just-dont-get-it! The great horror films of all time (with the exception of a few) know how to balance comedy throughout. Just look at Re-Animator, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Dawn of the Dead.... they all have incredible amounts of comedy in them. This is what makes half of them watchable!And sure, Lake Placid spills slightly more to the comedy end of things.... but come on, it's about a pre-historic giant Crododile! How can anyone take that seriously? David E Kelly has written a script here that knows exactly how stupid it is... and he has had a lot of  fun with it!This is one of those movies that I can watch again and again and love it equally each time. The FX are excellent and the Casting is supurb. Steve Miner (a fav of mine) directed this movie to perfection! Just like he did with 'Warlock' and 'House', he has injected the script with characters who may appear zany to us, but consider their situations as REAL. Its a movie, it's entertaining, it's funny, its a little violent, it's over the top........ it's perfect!Consideration must be given to the fact that this movie is giving a nod to classics such as 'Jaws' and 'Piraha' and any other creature-feature for that matter. It does exactly what it's supposed to.I give this one 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Skillful use of comedy and horror","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It is simple.  One moment you are laughing, the next moment you are holding your breath.  The only drawback was the special effects were not consistent. Yet I found the movie more intense than most ecological horror stories. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a very funny monster/horror spoof, with many wickedly funny one-liners.  I laughed out loud several times.  It does a wonderful job of poking fun at one of my favorite types of films, the monster movies of decades past, without becoming demeaning or insulting to fans of the genre.  In fact, at times it is as much homage as spoof.   "},{"Title":"Comedic Classic!","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I just watched this movie for the umpteenth time, and I was horrified to see the harsh ratings and reviews for one of my favorite movies! I can only assume that those who have said horrible things about Lake Placid are a) stuffy barsets with no sense of fun, or b) mentally deficient and not to be trusted.  While the characters are not exceedingly complex, each of the main characters is sort of different and definitely interesting --a far cry from being cardboard cutouts as others have suggested.  The dialogue is some of the best and most fun I have ever heard.  There are at least two dozen lines I would love to memorize so I could use them when the opportunity arose. Maybe it would help if people understand before seeing it that this is not a horror movie and it isn't even really a monster movie. It has tense and surprising moments even if at other times it is predictable.  And it isn't a flat-out parody either, so don't expect that kind of nonsense.  In the featurette they refer to it as an adventure movie and a comedy.  Just enjoy it for what it is.  Under other circumstances I might concede that it is only an 8/10, but I had to give it a 10/10 here just to counteract the ridiculous low votes of other people.  "}{"Title":"Good Crocodilian film with a good cast!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The film is very good and funny at times.Bill Pullman,Bridget Fonda,Brenden Gleeson,and Oliver Platt are all good.Betty White is excellent and I just couldn't believe all the things she said and I thought it was hilarious!The attacks by the Crocodile is well done.Especially the one with the bear and in fact when the bear got it I just couldn't believe it.Unbelievable scene!This is a very good monster Crocodilian film with a good ending to check out! "},{"Title":"Don't judge it by it's previews!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you're anything like me, you saw the previews to this movie and thought oh yeah, sure. I'll be seeing that one. The PR person for this movie should have been shot in the face. Repeatedly. This movie is a gem. The witty one liners by the cast make it golden. Sure, it's about a giant reptile that's killing people in a lake that isn't even Lake Placid (I'm serious -it's not even set there). It's freaking hilarious, and if my word isn't enough, you simply can't turn down a film in which Betty White tells people to suck her d**k. "},{"Title":"Dumb story - SPOILER","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER (to some extent)I saw this movie on video this week and thought it was a dumb story what with a very fake looking killer croc in a lake in Maine. The only redeeming factor in my view was the acting of Bridget Fonda who I think is a very good actress. The other good acting job was the versatile Brendan Gleeson who played the part of the sherrif. He was played a good part in  Braveheart as Hamish, Mel Gibson's right hand man. Betty White had a small part in  her usual dippy mode. Adam Arkin played a very small part at the start of the movie, and was never seen again which is too bad, because I like him and he might helped the movie somewhat, though I doubt if anyone could. Look for Mariska Hargitay (Jayne Mansfield's daughter) in a very small part at the start of the movie. She might have been better used with a bigger role. All in all, a stupid movie with a dumb story. I'm glad I didn't pay much for the video. Buy a used copy of the video if  you must, but leave it at that. "},{"Title":"And what an alligator it was, poor thing, tried to be deep and blue, but without the sea, you wouldn't get there...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid's attempts can be described in some sentences Deep Blue Sea with alligators; Deep Blue Sea with a worst plot; Deep Blue Sea with hysterical actors; Deep Blue Sea without the tension; Deep Blue Sea WITHOUT EVERYTHING.Lake Placid tried to go deep, but creeped, the story wasn't compelling, and we've seen it a thousand times before, only this time, the actors were expendable and most of them were helpless. Throughout the movie, one can notice some great scene was about to emerge, it did shine sometimes, but it failed, it was spoiled. 4 out of 10 - Try harder and better...  "},{"Title":"Why so short?","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was a very entertaining film but am I the only one to notice that it only ran for 75 minutes. An extra 15 or 20 minutes could have been used to expand some of the characters especially the old lady by the lake but never mind still worth a watch. I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Camp stupidity, Betty White","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There are thousands of people that are involved in the filmmaking process, especially for studio films.  When a script like Lake Placid flops across an executive's desk and he takes it home overnight and gives it his approval, we know that he must be in on the joke.  We have to give studio exec's at least that much credit- nothing can be this horrendously bad--on purpose- in today's  workaday world.so luckily instead of a descendant of ed wood spewing out hairballs, we get a carefully intentionally crafted simulation of an ed wood descendant's movie- bad art posing as intentional bad art.  and the kids just gotta love it.i sorta watched this out of the corner of my eyes and ears and liked what i saw; a movie that didn't take itself seriously. what really shines here is the film's ability to make itself unaware (and the viewer too at points) of how devastatingly awful it actually is.  but rest assured i am convinced that this was all done and purpose.  and the stellar performance by betty white will leave your jaw on the floor.  did rose from the golden girls just call those agents ****suckers?hey, i probably wouldn't pay money for this (and i didn't. i caught it for free on the campus station) but it's reassuring that movies like these can still be made, without honor, without prestige, and without a care in the world "},{"Title":"OK, but doesn't really work","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"   Reasonable monster movie throwing in all the usual cliches, but tries for a comic tone which it just doesn't have the script to pull off. Someone commenting here compared it to the awesome Tremors, and the atmosphere they're aiming for is just what Tremors pulled off so well, but here despite some biggish stars and a name (TV) writer the humour isn't that funny and the tension isn't very tense. The characters are pretty cardboard, some great actors not given enough meat to build personalities onto, and as a result the scratchy, bickering relationships between them just don't seem believable, not helped by the awful, awkward dialogue strewn with badly used and at times downright weird swearing which, as many here have already pointed out, could be a result of a TV writer lacking experience writing grown up language. The few original ideas it has are squandered, and the whole thing seems too staged to suspend disbelief, a pretty important strength for a monster movie - if the setup's not made plausible, it's just not gonna be scary. Not a bad film by any means, just a little bland and uninspiring.  "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining in a dumbfounded way","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid is one very odd motion picture, a goofy mix of gruesome horror and black comedy about a lake in Maine that harbors a very large crocodile from Asia. The pattern of this film goes like this you get one scene of horror followed by one scene of comedy followed by one scene of horror and comedy and so on and on and on. It's very weird but for the most part I found Lake Placid to be entertaining in a strange way. At least it's better than Eaten Alive, the bizarre horror film I saw recently that featured a crocodile. Lake Placid at least has some good actors in it. Bridget Fonda is the paleontologist; Bill Pullman is the game warden; Oliver Platt is the crocodile expert; Brendan Gleeson is the sheriff; and former Golden Girl Betty White is the old crazy lady. Good actors who spend most of the time arguing hilariously with each other thanks to veteran TV writer David E. Kelley's silly screenplay. It's really hard to believe that the man who created critically acclaimed TV shows such as The Practice, Ally McBeal, Chicago Hope, and Picket Fences wrote this movie. At times, it feels like Kelley was originally writing Lake Placid for the small screen as a TV movie. But then, decided to make it into a feature film by adding more gore and foul language. The strong language does feel like it was tacked on to this (especially the F-word) and I think the reason for that is that Kelley can't write hard, R-rated four-letter words into his scripts for his TV shows because the networks won't allow it (even though the networks do allow some lighter profanity in many current TV shows). I had the exact same feeling toward Kelley's screenplay for his other 1999 feature film Mystery, Alaska. Judging on the basis of these two scripts of Lake Placid and Mystery, Alaska, David E. Kelley should just stick with television. Even though the script to Lake Placid is a mess, it's still a fun movie with a good cast and good creature effects. And it's great to see longtime TV queen Betty White get a chance to do a feature film. She's hilarious. Yes, she does use some bad language like everyone else in this film (thanks to David E. Kelley), but I want to set the record straight she doesn't spew profanity as much as most people have said.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"No matter how low your expectations are, this film will disappoint you","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I walked into the cinema showing Lake Placid, I comforted myself with the following words - `No matter how bad this film is, it CAN'T be worse than Deep Blue Sea.'Amazingly enough, I was wrong.No one walks into a film about a giant, man-eating alligator and expects something brilliant.  You don't go in looking for great acting, intelligent dialogue or moving sub-plots.  You do, however, expect this- some great special effects- a high body count - the occasional suspensful scene- and a couple of quirky, expendable characters that keep you amused for a while until they get killed.Lake Placid had NONE of these things.Let's start with the effects &#150; or, more accurately, the &#145;effect' &#150; since there really wasn't much to look at other than the alligator.  The alligator was okay; he was big, he was nasty, and he moved a touch better than the giant monsters did back in the fifties.  The problem was, he really didn't DO anything.  Other than a few snappy scenes involving a helicopter and a bear, the alligator spent most of the film lazing about the lake and failing to kill anyone.  In the mass slaughter department, he just wasn't up to it. As for a high body count, more people die in an average episode of ER than were killed in this film.  Whereas you normally sit through a horror film saying &#150; `Oh no, I can't BELIEVE they killed off that character - I was just starting to like him', this film provokes the opposite reaction.  You hate ALL the characters and virtually none of them die.  Suspense was also sadly lacking in this film.  There wasn't a single moment where I felt scared, worried, concerned or even a little bit &#145;edgy'.   The only possible exception was the 80 minute mark, where I began to worry that the film was going to run for two hours.  Thankfully, it finished two minutes later.Finally, I come to the &#145;characters' &#150; a term I use loosely and only because convention dictates it.  I have NEVER hated a cast as much as I hated this one.  If I had have been there with them, I would have gladly lopped off their heads and fed them to the alligator, just to spare the audience from any further dialogue.  Bill Pulman is his usual unbearable self, playing yet another `hi, my name's Mr Average' type character.   Bridget Fonda (playing &#145;city chick roughs it in the country' &#150; gee, there's a new one) stinks up the place from beginning to end and absolutely BEGS to get eaten.  The PATHETIC romantic subplot between these two characters is as implausible as it is unbearable.  Betty White, said by some reviewers on this site to have &#145;stolen the show' quote unquote (which, I might add, would have been one of the easiest thefts in the history of cinema) was nothing short of EMBARASSING.  Sure, if you're thirteen years old you might find one of the Golden Girls swearing her head off hilarious, but for the rest of us, it was just lame. Brendan Gleeson's &#145;Sheriff Hank Keough' was abysmally unfunny and his friendship with &#145;kooky nut' Walt Lawson was nothing short of painful. As for the claim that the film is some sort of &#145;spoof' and so &#145;shouldn't be taken too seriously', let me just say this &#150; I AM SICK TO DEATH of people using these phrases to excuse atrocious crud that is neither funny nor dramatic.  It's as if failing to pull off either of these objectives entitles you to say &#150; &#145;Hang on guys, lighten up, this wasn't MEANT to be a good film &#150; it's all just tongue in cheek!'  Well, if that's the case, why didn't you actually make the film FUNNY?  Why not make it a genuine parody &#150; give it humour, give it insight, enable it to make FUN of the genre, not just wallow in the middle of it!David E Kelley has made more money out of less talent than any man on earth.  This film demonstrates this perfectly  "},{"Title":"Adding to the top.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well there is enough reviews of this movie that I just have to add to the votes that say this is one of the best movies of all time if it is for you. Many people won't like this movie and thats a shame.  Lake Placid was truly inspired and is welcomed in my house. 9 out of 10 because I only give a ten to the very exceptional. "}{"Title":"Thought I was going to get scared & laughed my head off!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie!  I never thought I would laugh so hard at a movie that's based on the premise of a giant alligator eating people. Typical David E. Kelley tongue-in-cheek humor.  The characters were fun and I thought the effects were excellent!  The alligator looked real to me.... but Betty White stole the show!   "},{"Title":"Come on folks, lighten up !!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Can't any of you wannabe movie critics realize that some films are not to be taken seriously !I read all the bad reviews when this movie first came out and didn't bother to see it in the theaters.After renting it though, I thought it was a lot of fun !Sometimes you just have to take the movie for what it's worth, sit back, and have a few laughs.Rent the movie folks, have some fun.As for the armchair Eberts, do you really have to write these long winded reviews about a film you DIDN'T like ? "},{"Title":"oooooooo a 30-foot croc! I'm so scared!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  So let me get this straight. We have a monster movie called Lake Placid that's not set in a LAKE called Lake Placid because - as one of the movie's character's says, We heard that name was taken. Ohhhh brother. So we know we're already in trouble, don't we?Jack Wells (Bill Pullman) is the Authority Figure in Charge here, and the actor does it with typical Bill Pullman grit, squinting his eyes and clenching his teeth so much you start to fear he'll develop receding gums right before your eyes. He's joined by very-reluctant-museum-researcher Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) who is so thoroughly obnoxious, repugnant, and dislikable from the get-go that you openly wish this prehistoric crocodile eats her right up, like an acidic hors d'oeuvre. Thankfully, her character mellows out a little, with a not-too-subtle thrust-and-parry, wink-wink-wink with Pullman. And believe me, I DO mean not-too-subtle. But then again, I get the feeling that the writers of this movie aren't really in favor of subtlety. Joining this sly but bickering duo is Oliver Platt, playing some kind of crocodile expert, the eccentric kind who lands his own plane on the lake. Platt, a gifted actor, gives one of the hammiest performances this side of Marlon Brando. The writers of this tripe, you see, have Kelly and Jack as one pairing and Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson (as the sheriff, who looks a heck of a lot like the Skipper on Gilligan's Island). A hidden theme, perhaps? Well, let's not give them that kind of credit, okay?Oh yes, I almost forgot, there's a crocodile. Big sucker, too, about 30 feet long, and - in a roundabout, convoluted way - the movie tries hard to convince us it's a prehistoric leftover. (Like we care! Show us the gore!)It's in this film early and often, and we get to see it devouring such normal cuisine as cows, horses, etc. Swallows them whole, too, and that IS fun to watch. Hey, we're not paying to see Oliver Platt, are we? Heck no! We wanna see the croc! At least in this, the makers of this movie don't really fail us. Sure, there might be a threadbare plot, and characterizations as shallow as those you might find in a XXX movie, but the effects and action are there, at least. It's the film's only saving grace, really.  "},{"Title":"Excellent parody of the man-eater films.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Readers, please ignore the critics of this film, as it is a film that cannot really be criticised. As with David. E. Kelley's style of writing in The Practice and Ally McBeal, Lake Placid displays some fantastically sharp wit and charm about the characters and their dialogue. The whole tongue-in-cheek approach to the giant alligator works like a charm, and the actual intense scenes with the monster are quite impressive to watch.Overall, please don't listen to the critics, go and see this film and have a ball!!! "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In a few words if you're expecting to see an intelligent and different movie... forget it. Lake Placid has nothing special, but if don't have much expectations about it then you can enjoy this movie, laugh of that crazy scientist, the stupid sheriff, the old lady and Jane Fonda. You'll jump of your seat a few times... So I recommend Lake Placid to the people who is looking for an entertaining movie in a weekend. "},{"Title":"A Hip B Movie?","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Basically that's what we've got here.  David Kelley tries to bring the giant monster B movie into the 90's (in 99, isn't it a little late?).  While the dialogue is amusing enough (although totally unbelievable - does anyone _ever_ really speak this way), the characters are kinda bland.  Kelley has yet to learn that giving someone eccentricities does not equal character development.Bill Pullman really has nothing to do, while Bridget Fonda auditions for the Kelley Stick Women Club  you wonder what possible appeal she has to be eaten by a crocodile.  Oliver Platt is appealing enough, but at the end of the day he's still playing an unmotivated nut-job.  Brendan Gleeson is probably the best actor here with the best character.  Betty White's character lacks any kind of development, and her swearing gets real old, real fast once the shock value wears off.  Everyone else is forgettable.And as for the plot...ummm, what plot?  What story?  Why is there a crocodile in Maine?  No real reason.  Why doesn't the crocodile attack Bridget Fonda after flipping her canoe?  Who knows?  Where'd the second crocodile come from?  Nary a hint from the script.And the ending...ummm, Everybody just kinda wanders off at the end.  Kinda like I did. "},{"Title":"A good straight-up monster film","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  All in all it seemed like a remake of the 1980 flick, Alligator, without the urban legend of flushing a baby alligator down the toilet to where it thrives in the sewers and does lunch on the occasional sewer dweller.While this movie may also be compared to Anaconda, that would be rather unfair. The cast here was much better than those in Anaconda, each of them delivering a good performance of their character and the script well written with plenty of one-liners and quick comebacks that allow for a good laugh while eagerly waiting for the next time for the crocodile to strike. Betty White was truly hilarous! The special effects were much better and overall there was plenty of more action in Lake Placid.I really liked the movie, I went into it expecting nothing more than a typical 'monster killing people' type of movie and that's pretty much what I got. If you want complicated plot twists or a confusing story line, go see the Matrix or something. If you are happy with a basic slasher film (where the 'slasher' is a creature), go see it. I could have done without the typical romance between the lead actors (Pullman and Fonda), but it seems every movie now adays must incorporate some type of romance. Fortunately, the movie doesnt dwell too long on the romance and remains focused on the 'man vs creature' theme.Again, I suggest checking this out if nothing for a few good laughs, good special effects, and a straight-up horror film.And how can you not like a director who manages to get his mentioned in the movie (Paging Dr. Miner, Dr Miner.) Classic. "},{"Title":"What are you guys talking about? This is DA BOMB!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Though i do admit the plot sucks,who cares? There's a 30 foot croc(that rocks) and a senile old lady(yeah,that rocks too.) in it,baby! Also,Bill pullman's in it.(who rocks MAJORLEY). i was a little dissapointed,though.I was expecting 1.more gore 2.more croc 3.a better ending. 4.that fat cop-sherrif dude to die. 5.same thing for the old lady. 6.more character developement. All in all,it's better than Anaconda,worse than Deep Rising. don't expect a Shawshank Redemption,cause ya ain't gonna get it! A *** outta ***** "},{"Title":"Lake flaccid...","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I am willing to predict that there will be an astounding number of reviews concerning this movie with the phrase lake flaccid contained within. This movie begs to be heckled in such a manner.First, there isn't enough crocodile to sustain the limp plot.  Let's face it, the only giant animal horror/action movie that successfully went beyond it's genre was Jaws.  All other variants on the theme, by nature of the beast (sorry), must conform to a specific set of rules.  The prime rule is that because the plot is usually so threadbare you MUST show a lot of exciting sequences with the monster.  This will distract the audience. More importantly, it's what the target audience pays to see.  The monster is, after all, the star of the show.Lake Placid breaks this fundamental rule by making the crocodile a supporting castmember.  He appears in only five scenes, and two of those appearances are blink-and-you'll-miss quick.  Even worse, is that the crocodile has no character!  He appears, he thrashes around, he chews, he swims.  You never really connect with him.  Even the giant ants in Them! had more moxie.If you deny the audience the chance to appreciate the giant crocodile, what do you have left to back up the film?  The answer is - not much.  The acting is functional, but not enthused, and the dialogue is filled with Ally McBeal bits which are wildly misplaced in this genre.In the end (literally) the movie is reduced to a sight gag for a punchline. Rent it with a group of friends, get really drunk, then watch a rerun of Xena instead.  "},{"Title":"Amusing schlock","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Tooth in cheek parody of the monsters eating men genre.  This movie does not take itself seriously, has shlocky special effects and some funny one-liners.Abandon all brain cells ye who enter. "}{"Title":"What a crock!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The movie was short and predictable but funny. Seeing Betty White cuss out the cops is almost worth the dough.  The casting was good but the writing was mediocre.  Every main character was very sarcastic and so the humor gets a little old. Watch this one with friends in the comfort of your home and you will have a good laugh. "},{"Title":"proud member of the 6%","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The 6% that gave this film a lowly 2.Yep, a measly 2. The mind boggles at the thought of people who would give this dross a 10!1. Self-effacing irony is all well and good as long as it's funny. Otherwise it's like having a neon sign saying THIS FILM IS CRAP AND WE KNOW IT! LAUGH AT OUR CRAPPINESS!2. Self-referencing is all well and good as long as it's CLEVER.3. This film just sucks.My main problem with this film is remarkably simple. When I watch a killer animal movie I expect a fair death count. Yep, simple minded it might be but if I was wanting intelligence I wouldn't be watching a film about a giant crocodile would I? Gimmie a decent sized death count and I'll forgive the painful attempts at humor, the factual inaccuracies and the plot holes (again I don't have high expectations of killer animal movies) but what's the grand total of deaths in this film??I'm not going to tell you but take whatever estimate you might have, then think lower.And ignore anyone who tells you that the film is gory. Their either lying or really really squeamish. Frankly there can't be much gore in a film with so few actual deaths.This film is dumb, boring, unfunny (is that a word?), doesn't provide the requisite high body count for these movies, and the crocodile is perhaps the lamest most unthreatening predator ever CGI'd into existence. What else can you say about a killer animal that won't munch a guy one meter in front of it swimming in the water?? You're a crocodile for Christ sake, man in water, kill kill kill!It gets two points. One for a moment that made me laugh (kinda). One for a highly amusing death. Two points, that's your lot. "},{"Title":"Not enough eatin'!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie isn't THAT bad but it could have been so much better I dig Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda a lot (for different reasons) and it was written by David E. Kelley, who used to be great (Picket Fences) but has turned into a woman by writing ALley McBeal for too long. How else can you explain a movie ABOUT a man-eating crocidile who only eat ONE man in the whole movie?!! Did he not want it to be too violent?Contrary too what some think, the perfomrances are good and the croc does look very realistic - I just expected more excitement/carnage and I think most people watching this will too. Remember that girl who gets killed while skinny-dipping in the beginning of Jaws? Could you imagine if she was the ONLY victim in the entire movie? That would have been awful lame. SInce I like the concept and Pullman and FOnda are so appealing, I would love to see a sequel, but since it bombed at the box office, I guess there's no chance of them trying to get it right the second time around.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining In Spite Of...","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Recently went to the discount theater and saw this film.  I'd read nothing but derogatory things about it, but decided to view it anyway - heck, it only set me back 50 cents!  A reptilian play on Jaws featuring a massive 30 ft crocodile that migrated from Asia to a peaceful lake in Maine.  Acting Ok for this level; Fonda and Platt the best.  The beast is quite impressive throughout the movie but responsible for the anticlimatic ending due to stupidity. (Animal activists will love how the brute is spared.)  Their is humor in this film, Betty White, a dingbat who lives beside the lake, creates some giggles with her quirky relationship with the giant croc.  In the final analysis, Lake Placid is an entertaining movie in spite of it's many flaws, and is actually scary at times if you approach it with a child's perspective.  Worth a watch on video. "},{"Title":"So close, but not quite.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  You have to applaud Steve Miner for trying.  You have to applaud him for having the guts for using shots right out of the first two Jaws films. But as good as this film was in some parts ( and it is really good in some parts ) it is just an inch or two off being great.Lake Placid is about a giant crocodile that has inhabited a small Maine lake.  The lake isn't even called Lake Placid, but that is a whole other story.  The beginning starts off with a guy from the Department of Games and Fishing searching for beavers so he can tag them.  And the opening ten minutes are a true homage to the fear Jaws presented us with.  And it is here that Miner has some of his strongest work in his whole career.  He uses the camera to make us feel the unknown danger that is imminently lurking in the water.  We feel for the safety of the diver and we don't even like him that much.  Now that is good film making.When the diver is under water, we see lots of shots from behind, as if the unseen terror is about to pounce on him, and then, boom, the first false scare.  That moment in the film had me full of optimism because it made me jump.  And not just a small twitch, I mean it made me leap out of my seat. That doesn't happen too often in horror films now a days.  But here it does.Finally when the attack does happen, we are treated to an exact shot of one of the scariest shots from Jaws 2.  I am not going to reveal which one, but you have to see the film just for this part.  It is a great shot and it really sets the tone for the rest of the film.After the opening death, we meet the main players of the film.  And this is where I am a little skeptical of the film.  It's not that these characters aren't done well, it's that they could have been done a whole lot better with perhaps another re-write.  Some of the dialogue is very funny but it is hollow in some ways.  Oliver Platt gets off some of the best lines and that is more of a testament to his timing and ability than it is to the script. But having said that, the film does move pretty quickly.  And we are treated to some more scary shots from the water.  To me, there is nothing more scary than what may or may not be in the water.  The anticipation of death is much more scary than death itself.  Lake Placid takes that notion and does a great job, most of the time making it work.The one part of the film that is absolutely terrible though is the last ten minutes of the film.  It is hollow.  It just happens and then everyone goes home.  There is no real climax, no real tension and that is too bad because it takes away from the rest of the film.  And Steve Miner is known for this. He is great out of the gate, but he fades at the end.  He did it in the final Friday the 13th and he does it here.  It's like he uses all of his clever ideas at the beginning and then has nothing left for the end and then just closes up shop.Lake Placid almost succeeds.  Almost.  But it ultimately lets you down when it showed such promise throughout.  I enjoyed most of this film and you should give it a chance.  Deep Blue Sea is coming out in a few weeks and that should be quite good.  Consider this a prelude to that film.  It's good, but not quite great.   "},{"Title":"Awful! Feed it to the crocs!","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" What can I say? I remember being utterly annoyed when I saw 'Lake Placid' years ago and hating it completely, and now, stumbling upon some glowing comments with 9s and 10s and anything above 5 attached to them, I thought I stretch my shaky memory, and put in my two cents on this rubbish! Yes, it's tongue'n'cheek! Yes, it's a B-grade monster movie that doesn't take itself too seriously- but even 'Eight Legged Freaks (another film I'm not a huge fan of) was way better than this! 'Deep Rising' is a masterpiece compared to this rubbish! At least the characters in that film took their premise a little more seriously! 'Lake Placid' is just simply not funny at all! There is no cleverness to the humour! Oliver Platt- irritating, Bill Pullman- bland, Bridget Fonda- hmmm, umm, boring, and Betty White- yes, swearing is super-funny, not! I don't get the love for this movie at all. It's not very funny, nor does it have heaps of death scenes to keep you entertained. And as for the crocodile- give me the computer-generated sharks in 'Deep Blue Sea' any day of the way (at least that film was rather funny, and didn't take itself too seriously either) or gimme an overly huge python in the almost-as-awful but actually B-grade 'Python' (which at least had Casper Van Dien with a moustache- come on? what more do want a film with a giant snake?)! Lake Placid had nothing going for it! Steve Miner, director of 'Friday the 13th Part 2', 'Friday the 13th Part 3' and 'Warlock' has made his worse film in 'Lake Placid'- heck, even 'Big Bully' was better than this unfunny ham-fisted bore-fest! If I ever get the DVD as a gift or something, remind me to gift-wrap in cow-flesh and throw into real crocodile infested waters! * out of *****! "},{"Title":"Toss This Film to the Crocs!","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid (1999) Dir Steve Miner / Cast Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, Oliver Platt, Betty White, Brendan Gleeson Mindless muck with a gigantic crocodile and moron people who fall victim to its jaws. Bridget Fonda works at a museum where a large tooth is brought to her attention. She can hardly contain herself when witnessing the remains of a human body that was bitten in half. Bill Pullman plays a ranger investigating the incident who won't hit it off with Fonda at first but will eventually win her over. Director Steve Miner is already accomplished in horror films having made the underrated House as well as the first two Friday the 13th sequels. Pullman does what he can with the cardboard role. Oliver Platt plays off humour, which doesn't take away from the fact that his role is equally cardboard. Fonda is weak casting and seems to play off the humour as overacting. Betty White plays a senile elderly woman who feeds the croc that ate her husband. That has got to make this lady the dumbest idiot in the whole film. Watching White attempt to master this creature is a massive suspension of disbelief in itself. Brendan Gleeson plays a Sheriff who likely wishes the wildlife programs were filming this so that he can link tourists. Dreary and pointless monster flick with a convincing croc that is the film's one selling point. Otherwise this film should be fed to crocodiles. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"I'm allergic to timber.....","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When a man is eaten alive by an unknown creature, the local Game Warden teams up with a paleontologist from New York to find the beast. Add to the mix an eccentric philanthropist with a penchant for Crocodiles, and here we go....This quiet, remote lake is suddenly the focus of an intense search for a crocodile with a taste for live animals...and people....This movie could have been a trashy good old fun filled movie, but it's so bland and tries too hard to be cool, it literally makes it boring to watch.Fonda and Pullman are fine, as is Gleeson, it's just the other characters are too annoying for my liking. Obviously the old woman from the Golden Girls is supposed to be comic relief, but when you lower your humour to a senior citizen using swear words, you know something is wrong.If the writers had keep it to a straight up horror movie, without the fish out of water clichs for Fonda, it could have been a solid movie, nothing special, but solid stuff.Effects are bad, and you may as well put bets on who will survive, as you will probably win.a pointless horror movie, ruined by bad comedy, but Pullman and Fonda are good. "},{"Title":"Crocodile killing people in a Maine lake is the focus of comedy","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Comedy and horror can be mixed. Abbott and Costello did it on several occasions, still funny today.Lake Placid has Bridget Fonda playing a thoroughly unlikeable woman for a good deal of the movie.The script throws all plausibility out the window from start to finish. Somehow Abbott and Costello maintain plausibility, despite all, and that may be because we know what to expect of each man in the team. But in Lake Placid, we are seeing supposed real world people with real world roles, so that their many lapses of behavior and judgment just seem stupid. One exception is the character of Betty White. She is supposed to be nutty.In one sequence, one member of the team is setting traps without telling anyone else where they are or what they are. After the first death, they go right back out on the lake and they do not warn people away. The sheriff even makes a point of telling a young girl that nothing is wrong. These are examples of rampant stupidity.What we have left are a bunch of people who are wisecracking on one another. This kind of Archie Bunker humor came into vogue a few decades back. It's not funny -- to me. If you like people signifying on one another, that's another story.So to me the picture failed to combine the horror with the comedy (such as it was), and there were some horrible deaths in it.Fonda's character turned me off altogether. "},{"Title":"Really not that entertaining or silly...","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I expected Lake Placid to be like the recent 2010 version of Piranha. Gory, funny, and completely entertaining in a trashy way, but I never really enjoyed this film nearly as much. First of all, I thought the film had a more serious tone than it needed. Sure, this could be great as well, but the film took WAY too long to get into what it should have had more of- gory deaths! I know many say that this is a brainless 'fun' film, but in fact Piranha was just that, whereas I feel that this was definitely NOT very entertaining, and even the climax was weak. Definitely could have used more gore and action!Oh, and Bridget Fonda's character annoyed me to the fullest! Betty White had some of the best scenes, and possibly one of the most amusing lines in a film- 'If I had a dick this is where I'd tell you to suck it'. AWESOME, and for that line I give it one more point than it really deserves. "}{"Title":"Nice try, no cigar","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When a diver's torso ends up on the lap of the local sheriff (Gleeson) on a routine beaver inspection, tongues start wagging about the possibility of a giant crocodile in the lakes system in the inland US state of Maine. Local fisheries bring in the big guns from an interstate museum and a big game hunter (Platt) to help track and neutralise the prehistoric beast, with the idea of transferring it to a zoo. Bill Pullman is a typically relaxed anti-hero, awkwardly establishing affections with neurotic archaeologist Bridget Fonda, while Oliver Platt steals all his scenes as a playboy game hunter and self-proclaimed St Francis of the animal kingdom.A supposedly sharp script is really nothing more than a series of bawdy jokes peppered with expletives; the local dim-witted sheriff's catchphrase (everyone's a sarcastic) isn't so much funny as it is perplexing. Essentially, the dialogue is too thick with crass humour and far too self indulgent (in my opinion). As a result, the characterisations are more like caricatures save for Betty White's foul-mouthed elder, who in a surprise piece of casting, provides the only vaguely amusing moments in the film.Gore galore for the bloodthirsty, with heads, torsos even toes strewn across the lake in the wake of the giant, prehistoric crocodile and its cow-sized appetite. The special effects and make-up are realistic looking (if you know what a real severed head looks like) and the mechanical beast is a triumph of electrical and presumably pneumatic engineering. In spite of its successes, my experience of this film was that the hype exceeded the reality, the humour too self-aware, the film almost becoming a self parody where the running jokes wear thin very quickly. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"Some hits and mainly misses on this cheesy Jaws wannabe","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid came out in the summer of 1999 with not much expectations. It was creamed by both critics and movie goers alike as a piece of crap with making numerous references to the 1975 blockbuster hit Jaws and the 1980's B-Movie Alligator.The film starts out with the local sheriff (the gifted Brendan Gleeson) and a diver checking out something into the lakes of Maine where all of a sudden, the diver gets attacked and bitten in half from the waist down leaving him dead. After the attack, the state calls a paleontologist from New York, played by Bridget Fonda, to go and investigate the incident if an ancient creature is responsible for the attack. Once she arrives the paleontologist dislikes the state along with not being a friendly member to both the sheriff and the fish and game warden (played by Bill Pullman). While more members from both scientists and local law enforcement are involved, they get closer to discover that a large crocodile is on the run killing those that surround the lake and the forest.I'll admit, I had fun watching this movie, but then again, the trailer promised that a horror picture was in the works where all I saw was a comedy. There was more laughs than thrills in which the lines from Betty White, Oliver Platt (the second scientist) and Brendan Gleeson stole scenes from the film. The film is like I said, a Jaws ripoff where there are too many similarities from characters such as the local sheriff, the scientists, the hunter and so forth; location is another reason where Jaws and Lake Placid take place in small communities where the waters are the monsters homes.In the end, it could've been a little better. "},{"Title":"Funny JAWS knock-off, with some suspense.","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" My Take A funny take on the JAWS formula with smart special effects and witty sarcasm. LAKE PLACID is obviously a JAWS knock-off, there's no hiding that. Once you see how they make the approach of the monster, a giant crocodile, here, you'll know what I mean. The movie's about a giant crocodile which apparently lost its way to a lake in Maine (the lake is called Black Lake, so the title LAKE PLACID still remains a mystery). It's up to a couple of misfit characters to stop it, and these bunch misfits happens to be Bill Pullman as a sheriff, Bridget Fonda as a paleontologist, Brendan Gleeson as a park ranger and Oliver Platt hamming it up for his cause as an eccentric crocodile hunter. And if they're not going after the giant croc, they're yelling at each other in sarcastic dialog like they just lost their way from a TV sitcom. That's something! Actually, this mockery is actually intentional, and actually pretty good. And we have Ally McBeal's writer David Kelley to thank for that. For a JAWS rip-off, it doesn't take itself seriously, for good cause. Director Steve Miner (a slasher movie graduate from films like Friday THE 13TH II) has a lot of fun combining some shocks with solid bits of sarcasm. There's some suspenseful scenes, but it's more of a comedy, and it does its job surprisingly well. The performances are meant to be adequate, but Platt in his role affords to provide his character with shameless glee and he's the best thing about the film next to the giant croc. The croc is, by the way, a good-looking combination of CG effects and animatronics, yet another marvelous creation from Stan Winston Studios (JURASSIC PARK).The crew knows the whole point of the film is stupid, and it won't break the box-office barrier. The likes of these film died of many years ago (except for JAWS which is a different breed). Unlike other films of this kind (here's looking at you ANACONDA), LAKE PLACID has more fun with itself and at itself, and that's honest entertainment.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"A Solid 5 out of 10","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A lake in Maine. A 30ft alligator. A Bridget Fonda. A Bill Pullman. A Golden Girl. As Bill Pullman says, you gotta just get in the truck. My house-mate declares it the worst movie he's ever seen.He's half dead. The crocodile, that is. The Drugs are kicking in! yells Bridget Fonda. No, he's half alive. My house-mate, that is.We trapped him in our helicopter. Go Bill Pullman. Be a man.Ultimately, this is a love story. A forbidden love, between a viewer who should know better, and a film that doesn't care.Get in the truck. You know where you're going. "},{"Title":"Good, but not good enough","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Before watching this the second time, I knew it was a low budget film and the special effects pretty sub-standard but good.I had however somehow got confused with another film, I think also starring Bridget Fonda, about killer crocodiles, but this one was slightly different. The setting was the same, and I think the characters were the same, all except this version ran for about 1 hour 50 minutes; the version I saw last night (August 5th,2006)lasted just 1 hour 15 minutes, and I watched that on TV.I gave it 5 out of 10. A reasonable film, but the ending was rubbish. Had any of these so-called experts really thought there were only TWO killer crocodiles? Or that there may be thousands of little crocs (which there were, growing in the waters).No, so both Fonda and Pullman went off into the sunset, no doubt thinking of other things...nudge nudge, with thoughts of maybe sharing a bottle of wine and a bed.And the bloke with the beard went somewhere, too, so he'd had enough! This film could have killed Fonda's movie career. I see from her profile that she made only a handful of film and TV appearances until her retirement in 2001.All in all, Lake Placid has a weak ending. "},{"Title":"Drab.","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I detected neither comedy nor horror in this comedy-horror. It is consistently drab, the writing is poor and extremely predictable - swear words are liberally sprinkled into the script for no apparent reason other than cheap (very cheap)laughs. The acting is lukewarm at best, but the worst thing is the plot. Right from the beginning, you know what it is, and so there is no suspense. Also, it falls into the usual horror clich - characters go into places where they just shouldn't - i.e. diving in the murky lake where the crocodile lives. The stupidity of the (professional) characters is perhaps the most frightening aspect of the film - it actually takes 20 minutes or so before they suspect its a crocodile. If you want to see various corpses of animals and lots of water, watch it. If you like suspense, writing, shocks and a little something called a storyline - don't. "},{"Title":"Dinner and a Movie!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" This one belongs in a plain white box with a barcode on the side and a label that reads, Movie. To be found next to the big cardboard square labeled Pizza. Grab both (and, perhaps, a hefe and favorite date) and you're set for a perfectly formulaic but cute, amusing, zero-effort, low-key relaxing Friday night. Splendidly predictable, superbly cast, fun to see. Pullman plays the perfect foil. Fonda is cute, says cute things, and revels in both. Gleeson is a convincing grump and father figure, of course. It's fun to dislike Platt's characters, sorta, as usual. Betty White and a nicely done hungry crock steal the show. "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie.","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, Lake Placid is a pretty well made movie. One of the user tige02-1 , from Monongahela, said this movie One moment you are laughing, the next moment you are holding your breath.. That is exactly what I want to say in the first place. So, if you are in a mood that want to have some fun ( Not those hard-sell joke ) and some horror at the same time, then Lake Placid is your choice. Oh, by the way, get to say that most characters in the movie are very interesting. Almost all of them have their own personality, and interest, and the mix of them are really funny. One more thing, Fonda is very CUTE in the movie. It is another enjoyment of watching this film 7.5 out of 10 stars  "},{"Title":"Campy Crocodiles","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  At first glance, you might say that Lake Placid is the ten-millionth monster movie, and indeed all the ingredients for a train-wreck of a movie are there a ragtag band of strange characters, people behaving in a way that maximizes their chances of being killed/eaten, cheesy plot twists, the obligatory ending that leaves room for a sequel et cetera.If the director would have tried to make a serious movie out of this it would have probably been one of the worst movies of the decade. Fortunately, the makers of this movie realized this and instead choose to play around with the cliches and go way over the top. And it worked. Everything in this movie is so overdone or absurd that you can't help but be highly amused.True, it's still not a very great movie since it's still horribly predictable, but at least the fact that nobody takes it even the least bit serious makes this movie very entertaining to watch. ** out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Wow. This is it. The worst movie ever made.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Wow. This is it. The worst movie ever made. This movie was awful. Therewas nothing funny, nothing entertaining, nothing compelling about it. Itwas merely a collection of horribly shot scenes, decorated withprophanity and gore. Not even cool gore, just the kind of gore that isstupid. It ends abruptly, and only a few people actually die in theentire movie. It wasn't a slasher, it wasn't action-packed, and itcertainly was not horror. Oh, and the acting was terrible. In myopinion, this was the worst movie ever made. Unless your deaf, blind,and mute, skip this movie. . "}{"Title":"who made that crocodile?","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  what could i possibly say about this movie that no one else has said about it?  the movie came out about the same time as the deep blue sea movie, so maybe the film makers assumed that since jaws made a huge splash, why not the huge crocodile who lives in the middle of nowhere and as big as the titanic! i dont know why i was interested, but i guess i had the weird killer big super huge animals that inhabit the waters phase. i watched the commericals for the movie and man oh man did i want to see it. had i known that it was meant to be a comedy and a drama and a horror i would have changed my mind.  the romance that might have blossomed between the museum lady and the warden really was twisted. how could you find people getting murdered because of this overgrown croc and then getting put in the position to be nearly eaten about twice!!! it didnt make any sense to me at all! but i have to admit that the lady that would feed the huge beast had some witty comments and i found it kinda funny that she would have an impact on the beast and sort of become his friend.  good going!  (C C-) "},{"Title":"Only one good thing about this movie.","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There is only one good thing about this movie and that's the character played by Betty White. The story is fairly typical -- Giant Animal running amok killing people. No one of course knows this until a group of unsuspecting teens, or young adults stumble upon it. Seen this scenario hundreds of times and this movie misses the mark too. Except for Ms. White. "},{"Title":"Betty White is the absolute only reason to watch this movie","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My husband made me watch this movie because he likes this kind of nonsense. I detested all of it except for when Betty White came on to deliver a fabulously wonderful and exceedingly hilarious performance.  While she's only a minor character, it's worth sitting through this whole crappy 82 minute movie just to see her. "},{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid 4/10Another monster movie that was shown back to back with Congo the other week. On paper, this was a little more interesting, because the concept of a sea creature is more intriguing that killer gorillas. However, the creature turned out to be a mere slightly enlarged crocodile, not nearly as scary (or big) as what the movie poster/cover made it look like. I was expecting something comparable to the Loch Ness Monster, being a buff of the paranormal, so was disappointed. Oliver Platt's character was pretty cool though. "},{"Title":"6.2% on acid","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This review contains spoilers6.2% of the viewing public are stupid beyond all recognition. That is the recent percentage of people who gave this a 1/10 rating. They did this because 1. They missed any hint of self-effacing irony2. They missed LP's self-referencing3. They are stupid beyond all recognitionThe sight gags in LP were incredibly graphic and ridiculous. That's because the filmmakers realized the inherent absurdity of the subject matter, so they filmed the crocodile attacks as expressionistic, instead of realistic. (A bear screams as he's dragged into the lake, the crocodile shears a man's head off but leaves the body).Further evidence of LP's intelligence is found in its self-referencing. The sheriff at one point mentions that the Lake would've been called Lake Placid, but that name was already taken. By whom? The film itself!But railing against idiots is perhaps also idiotic. As Keanu Reeves once said You've got your smart people, and you've got your dumb people. I happen to be dumb. He could find many associates here. "},{"Title":"Falls Short of its expectations...","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting to like this movie alot cause it seemed like an awesome sci fi horror movie(that was actually in theaters) , but i was wrong. I enjoyed Crocodile and Alligator far more than this peice of crap! This should have been direct to video instead of crocodile( wich i thought was actually pretty good. There are really no scares at all and the CGI was terrible. BUt not as bad as the B movie Blood Surf which was the worst b monster flick ive ever seen besides octopus 1 and 2. Lake placid-  *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A true classic to the Horror/Comedy film Genre","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  At first site one would think this movie is your typical Creature-Feature, well guess what, it's not.Yes, there is a 30Ft crocodile running amok, however it's the cast that makes this movie. The interaction between Fonda, Pullman, Gleason and Platt's characters is a true masterpiece of execution of the script they were given. Also an occasional on screen presence from Betty White will definitely entertain you.Pay attention to the dialogue and you won't be disappointed.Great Script, cast and  a decent CGI of the croc as well. So after you watch this film,  always remember, he's supposed to say go. "},{"Title":"As corny as corny can get...","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As if the story line wasn't corny enough, the acting is just as corny. Bridget Fonda should be banned from ever making another movie for her ultra lousy, corny performance in Lake Placid. The only redeeming actors in this movie was Golden Girl's Betty White and Oliver Platt. The Crocodile wasn't very intelligent, but it looked pretty realistic. The movie had a few good scenes, like when the 30 footer snagged a bear and chomped it in half. However, not enough to get the cheese out of the film. 1 * star out of 4 * stars. "},{"Title":"An 80's throwback...","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is not a good movie.  I try not to say that a lot, but there it is.  I'm not surprised to see Bridget Fonda here, only a little surprised to see Bill Pullman, and really surprised to see Oliver Platt (who usually has better taste in his roles than this).  I'm certain this stinker is at the top of all their resumes.  Good God, this is so bad, I actually would put anything from the 80's above this...  STAY AWAY AT ALL COSTS!!! "},{"Title":"Oh, what have we done?","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm still trying to figure out how and why this film was ever made.  The plot is pretty boring, the cast deserves much better than this, and it seems like it would have gone over much better than as a TV movie.I just don't understand why something as childish and....stupid as 'Lake Placid' is, ever made it to the big screen.  The plot is DUMB.  Plot Outline  Horror-Comedy about a man-eating alligator loose in the lake.  First, where is the comedy and the horror for that matter.  And secondly, a man-eating alligator?  I'm in total awe of the wittiness that directors and writers have in this day and age.  'Lake Placid' is hardly a horror film.  I was scared during this as much as I was when I watched 'Bambi.'  Comedy?  You have got to be kidding me!  I didn't laugh once.  Oh, wait, I take that back.  I actually did laugh once.  It was when Betty White states, If I had a dick, this is where I'd tell you to suck it.  Other than that one lonely line, I was pretty much on the verge of going to sleep.What was the cast doing here?  Bill Pullman looked as if he were going to faint from boredom.  Bridget Fonda, whom I like, was terrible.  Her cockiness got on my nerves after about the first ten minutes and she just shouldn't have signed on to do a ridiculous film.  I'm not going to say anything about Oliver Platt except that he was plain idiotic.For a horror/comedy, 'Lake Placid' fails to deliver shrieks and laughs.  The cast is completely wrong, all turning in very forgettable performances, and the simple special effects were foolish.  A TV movie it should have been, but for some reason actually got turned into a movie in which people actually paid to go see.  Stay away from this garbage. "}{"Title":"Utterly, utterly dreadful","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm no stranger to bad films, but Lake Placid sticks in the memory as an exceptionally awful movie. Maybe it's because quite a bit of money was spent making it...no, I take that back  it's the plot, the script, the actors, the characters. The whole package.This is supposedly a comedy horror. Well, drag the director to an Industrial Tribunal under the Trade Descriptions Act. It's not funny, not scary - just a complete waste of time.  A monster movie, about a monster that kills...three people...and then is shipped off to a zoo. That's it. Minimum incident, minimum appeal, maximum boredom.I wasted 90 minutes of my life watching this dross. I urge you to not make the same mistake.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Average-Especially Pullman","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Haven't people learnt yet that Bill Pullman should not be let onto films. He is not exactly the most talented actor out there. Infact I have no idea how he managed to get into Hollywood...But that's not the point here. For me this is just an extremely average film. The effects were good and the half-decent script between Hector Cyr and Sherrif Hank Keough (the best characters in the film)kept it watchable. If the two leads had been as interesting as the supporting characters then it would have been vastly improved. Bill Pullman is boring and Bridget Fonda is a tad bland for the romantic interest.  Overall, not a particularily great film with no real scares or funny jokes to keep it going. "},{"Title":"watch it for the Crocodile","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I must say I was a bit disappointed with Lake Placid, but not because of the croc (he kicked ass), but because of Bridget Fonda, whose character has no reason to be in the movie except for a (very) lame love interest and to cause fake tension when she falls off boats and trucks.Oh, I forgot, she also tells them that the tooth is reptilian and not a fossil.  Hooray for her.  Pullman really isn't any better.  Oliver Platt and Gleeson on the other hand, steal the show (well, a close second to the Croc).  Betty White is surprising (and well received) in her role.I was also disappointed with the very lame ending.  I wanted more croc and less of the Bill and Bridget alone time.I think if they dropped the whole boy-meets-girl thing, which is beyond unnecessary, and added more paranoia (like in The Thing or Jaws and Deep Blue Sea), it would have pleased me a lot more.  Good premise, very humorous, nice effects (I loved the grizzly bear).  Bad movie though.5/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Time Waster","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I tuned into this movie expecting to tune out within ten minutes or so after finding it extraordinarily bad. To my surprise, it actually captured my attention and I stuck with it through 122, and discovered it to be an enjoyable time-waster. There was enough horror-type suspense to keep me interested, and the sophomoric humour seemed quite appropriate. Although there were certainly no Oscar-calibre performances, the acting was generally good (Oliver Platt was an interesting choice as Hector Cyr, supposedly a leading expert on crocodiles in ancient mythology.) The special effects were a bit of a disappointment; the scenes in which the giant crocodile attacks a cow and then a bear reminded me of two plastic toys going at it. One could drone on about the lack of believability that a crocodile could find its way to a Lake in Maine, but it's probably better to suspend belief with this kind of movie anyway. "},{"Title":"A disappointment.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting to really enjoy Lake Placid, but I found it a disappointment. The story is boring, the visual effects and sound look fake, while the editing and direction of the film really needed it to be improved to make a brilliant creature feature. Yet, Lake Placid is slightly more watchable because Bridget Fonda is hilarious and perfect for her part, while the jokes and comedy of the film slowly keep it moving. Yet it is still hard to like Lake Placid, and it is a film that will not move you or touch you in anyway, it will just disappoint you.Rating 5 "},{"Title":"Monster movies get weaker and weaker!","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Godzilla wasn't good just as Congo. Anaconda was even weaker. Now they come up with this dumb crocodile film. Croc films aren't doing that good in Hollywood. We've had the Alligator films before this one. Watch these movies to prove my point that monster movies get weaker and weaker. It starts a little like Jaws. How original > camera in the water and just start moving around. Later on the scientist (Fonda), the hunter (Pullman), and the sheriff (excellent performance) come along and do there stuff to catch the monster. Oliver Platt was the only funny guy in it. It was to short. The only good part of the movie was when the croc. got out of the water to chase the car in the ending. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awful tongue in cheek horror film","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The not-so-witty bon mots are flying in this pathetic attempt to make a laugh a minute giant crocodile movie. David E. Kelley's idea of creativity is to give crotchety old lady Betty White a pottymouth (if I had a dick, this is when I'd tell you to suck it). An embaressment for all involved, including Brendan Gleeson and the normally reliable Oliver Platt. "},{"Title":"Rip-Off of every Jaws movie.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The movie has many seens taken out of Jaws. The movie almost is Jaws minus the scariness and suspense. I would have given it a 1 but I gave it a 5. I gave it credit because no matter how bad it is, it does have countless funny lines in it, particularly by Oliver Platt and Brandon Gleeson. Watch this movie if you want to laugh, not if you want to be scared. "},{"Title":"Placid movie","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I suppose, the title was to be ironic, well, it is not... this lake is not just placid, it is boring. This movie lacks a climax, and there is no suspense whatsoever. It was not a bad movie, you could see, that there was some money spent, the acting was alright, but the story was so cheap an boring, that you ask yourself Who approved this script? Did they have too much money? Who hired the script-writer? The setup is that of JAWS, the class is not. Watch Spielberg's JAWS instead. "},{"Title":"Terrific creature, dreadful script","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  &#145;Lake Placid' had some good points, some bad, but mostly it was terrible.  This is like David E. Kelly on a bad LSD trip.  Kelley, who has written so many award winning TV hits (including &#145;The Practice' and &#145;Ali McBeal') must have wigged out and during the convulsion coughed up this mess of a script.  His penchant for throwing together odd characters engaging in puerile sardonic dialogue is taken to its bizarre extreme in this film.With a &#145;creature-feature' the plot is always the same  It's out there destroying things and killing people and our heroes need to get rid of it.  In this case the creature is a 30 foot crocodile from Asia that ends up in a lake in Maine.  There is never any explanation or even conjecture of how it got there or how it got so big.  It's just there; eating cows, bears, humans, and any other mammal that crosses its path.  The purpose of the creature in all such films is to scare us and then be neutralized at the hands of our heroes.  In this limited way the movie was a great success.  Unfortunately, even a creature-feature requires some dialogue.  This is where Lake Placid hits the water with a resounding thud.Kelley attempts to create a black comedy, but unfortunately he leaves out the humor and replaces it with asinine banter.  The dialogue among this random hodgepodge of wackos is goofy, jejune, sarcastic and only occasionally funny.  Indeed the only really funny lines went to Betty White, who was a scream.The direction by Steve Miner was first rate.  Miner is a veteran of the horror genre and all the action, suspense and beast sequences were expertly done.  The animatronics were fabulous as were the digital sequences when the crocodile was on land.  The locations were beautiful and nicely chosen for their backdrops.  Miner did as good a job as anyone could hope considering the actors had to run their lines between creature scenes.There isn't much point to evaluating the actors (it was a good cast), because their characters were so weird, and they had so little material to work with, they all came across looking inane.I'd give this film an 8 for the creature and about a 2 for the script.  Overall I rated it a 4/10.  Except for the croc, it's worth missing. "}{"Title":"awful just awful","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the most boring, vapid, plotless, and predictable movies I have ever seen.  David E. Kelly is far too overextended.  Attempting to write movies like this are causing his solid series like Ally McBeal and The Practice to suffer.  I will say there was some witty dialogue in Lake Placid, but mostly I was laughing at the ludicrous plot and Bridget Fonda's unprecedentedly terrible performance.  The thirty foot crocodile failed to frighten me in the slightest, and this is someone who didn't sleep for a week after seeing Scream, which wasn't very scary either, talking.  The plot was just so thin it was laughable.  How did the crocodiles get there?  How did they survive the winter?  Why in God's name did they call a paleontologist to examine a tooth that clearly was not fossilized?  How does a mythology professor get rich and as such why focus on crocodiles and not snakes?  Why does Bill Pullman play the same guy in every movie?  How exactly did they get Oliver Platt and Betty White to do this movie?  Incidently, Mr. Platt and Ms. White are the only reasons to see this film...  unless of course you are a complete masochist.  Mariska Hargitay also had an amusing 2 minutes on screen, but in the end her part isn't worth even a rent.  I give it a 3, and I'm being extremely generous. "},{"Title":"Lake putrid...","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's a sad state of affairs to see what happens when good actors go bad. Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, Oliver Platt. These are good actors. What happened? All I can think of is lots of money. I mean, does anybody expect anything superb in a movie about a killer giant alligator? I didn't expect Oscar winner, but even Deep Blue Sea was slightly entertaining. This was just a waste of time. Not funny. Not scary. Not exciting. Boring. "},{"Title":"Not entirely flaccid. Gore with humor.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Not to take seriously. Sit back and have fun. A thirty foot alligator is raising havoc in a lake in Maine. Bill Pullman is a park ranger and Bridget Fonda is a museum curator, who try to help the local sheriff contain or kill the gator. Seeing a man bit in half is nothing compared to seeing a grizzly bear and a cow consumed by the toothy menace. Pullman plays his part by the numbers. Fonda plays a very irritating character. Betty White is funny and comes up with a few foul mouthed comments that lightens the movie. The best acting and best lines went to Oliver Platt, playing Hector, who is a rich snob that goes around the world just to swim with alligators. Adam Arkin also has a very small role. The few special effects were too few to make a real scary show. Stay calm and laugh at will. "},{"Title":"Oh boy.....nature runs amok.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Now we have entered into that most sacred of movie genres and that genre is the nature runs amok film. I've only seen a couple of these films actually work, obviously Jaws and Pirahna. Just let me say that I think this film makes mistakes from the very beginning. The character of the sheriff is a total bore and Brenden Gleeson should feel ashamed for such terrible acting. Bill Pullman is just going through the motions and his acting is terrible as well. Bridget Fonda....nuff said. The only saving grace this film has going for it are special effects and Oliver Platt. It's always interesting to me that these films garner such wonderful casts and make actors seem so much more untalented. The croc is a joy to watch eat, I really did like the bear sequence. If you are in the mood for a terrible and enjoyable monster movie, rent Pirahna.  "},{"Title":"Too short and not enough bodies","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was fairly good, the dialogue was crisp and funny, and the acting was good.  My complaint is with the lack of a body count and the so-so ending-which makes me wonder if we are being set up for Lake Placid2.  For a horror movie with a 30 foot crocodile, you would think that a couple of the main characters would become dinner(unfortunately, Bridget Fonda's character survives).  Her character was sooooooo annoying that I prayed that she would be eaten.  I think Oliver Platt stole the show however, as the eccentric millionare croc hunter.  A good pass the time movie rental, I rate this 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Pure dreck !!!!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There was nothing redeeming about this film.  The effects are average, the premise is boring, and the script is dull.  I can appreciate a good monster flick despite its flaws (e.g. Godzilla, Congo, etc.), but this is really a waste of time. Two out of ten stars ** "},{"Title":"So bad, Its funny!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is so incredibly bad, it is hilarious. First of all, there wasn't no lake name Placid in this movie. I really don't know why they even name this movie 'Lake Placid'. The acting is so childish, you'll think your watching a high school play, the plot doesn't add much either. This film is worth watching, if you're a fan of really, really awful movies. Give Lake Placid a try. You'll laugh so hard at all the bad things on this movie, boy! I have a blast, its so funny!*** "},{"Title":"nothing has bitten me","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Took me 15 years to finally watch Lake Placid and the reason is very simple, I never heard a positive note about it even as it has rather famous thespians in it. But seen a few crock flicks they never could really get my attention, maybe Alligator (1980) did. But somehow I ran across Lake Placid via trailers so I tried it.People who are defending Lake Placid do say it's a comedy. Well, I agree, it's a big farce. Face it, I never had any scary moments and even as the crock looks great in all ways it never got my attention because there's a lot of talking going on and seen it full uncut it also didn't had gory moments a thing you expect from a crock bite, isn't it?What did you say, there are nasty bites, i agree again, but it's not gory at all. It's not because somebody is holding one's arm been bitten off that it is gore. I guess you get my point, a lot is done off-camera.And can the defenders tell me where the jokes are? Maybe I'm stupid or didn't get the point but no smile on my face.A bit predictable in places and the end is so,well, I just shut my mouth. As expected, not really my thing.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2,5/5 Story 2,5/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"A Fun Film Despite Its Flaws","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" What happens when a man-eating crocodile begins picking off tourists in beautiful Lake Placid? What if the crocodile wants to make it his home?I finally revisited this film now (August 2013) after not seeing it since its release. There are some flaws (the computer graphics are not wonderful at times), but for the most part it holds up as a fun film with a great cast, funny dialogue and overall a great tone.What is amusing is that it was written by David E. Kelley, better known for things like All McBeal. It makes sense that horror legend Steve Miner would direct it, but Kelley? Nice. This also (as far as I know) was the debut of the new, raunchier Betty White, which was in direct contrast to her naive character from Golden Girls. "},{"Title":"This crocodile rocks!","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" In Steve Miner's 1999 killer croc movie Lake Placid, New York paleontologist Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) is sent to Maine to assist the authorities in the hunt for a ravenous reptile that has been chomping anyone unlucky enough to cross its path.Unsurprisingly, it is Steven Spielberg's Jaws that serves as the basic template for this derivative killer creature feature, while the film's tongue in cheek approach is more reminiscent of Joe Dante's fun Jaws parody Piranha; but even though there's little about this toothy terror on the rampage flick that can be considered original, the result is just too much fun to ignore.For what is essentially a silly B-movie monster flick, Lake Placid boasts excellent credentials the witty script is by seasoned TV writer David E. Kelley (which explains Fonda's neurotic Ally McBeal-style character); the superb cast includes Bill Pullman as the hero, Oliver Platt as millionaire croc hunter, Meredith Salenger as a sexy deputy, and 'Golden Girl' Betty White as a batty old dear who befriends the creature; and the top-notch special effects are by Stan Winston's studio and CGI experts Digital Domain.With some fun gore (a body ripped in two and a bloke having his head bitten off), plenty of excitement, and a delightfully silly finale that sees the croc lured to the shore by a cow suspended from a helicopter, Lake Placid is well worth a visit.7.5/10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "}{"Title":"What Was The Point of This Film?","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'm a fan of reptilian horror movies admittedly but watching this movie, I only have one question What was the point? The story is wacky, especially with the issue of the crocodile's origin and just why it's so damn big. Crocs in the wild are fairly large, but they don't get big enough to eat grizzlies in one bite. The acting is mostly laughable and the comedy just doesn't fit well with the horror aspect of the film. A pathetic re-write of Jaws spliced together with Anaconda ( a film I honestly found more enjoyable)taking place in Canada.To add to this the croc receives very little screen time, so all in all the film is simply a dud. "},{"Title":"It might cater for that specialist niche market which regards as uproariously funny the sight of someone getting their head bitten off","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Despite its name, this film has no connection with the well-known winter sports resort in New York State which hosted the Winter Olympics in 1932 and 1980. Nor, for that matter, does it have anything to do with the lesser-known places named Lake Placid in Texas and Florida. Although it was actually filmed in Canada, it is ostensibly set around a (fictitious) lake in Maine which was going to be called Lake Placid but which ended up being called something else because the name was already taken, all of which sounds like a horribly convoluted explanation for the title. I can only assume that someone thought that Lake Placid was an excellent title for a film and had to come up with an equally convoluted plot to fit it.No doubt the film would have been called Jaws if that name had not also already been taken. The central premise is that a monstrous crocodile is living a lake in Maine, and not just any crocodile but a freshwater Asian crocodile. No convincing attempt is made to explain why a cold-blooded tropical reptile should has taken up residence in a state with such a cold climate, many thousands of miles from its natural habitat, nor how it has managed to survive the icy New England winters. Although the beast is thirty feet long, it has managed to remain unnoticed until it bites a scientist in half while he is carrying research into beavers, whereupon a motley team consisting of the local sheriff, a game warden, a female palaeontologist and a professor of mythology with a particular interest in crocodiles swing into action to try and hunt it down.Despite the feebleness of the script, the film-makers managed to recruit a number of well-known actors, including Bridget Fonda, Bill Pullman and Brendan Gleeson. I wonder what (apart from the money) could have attracted them to the film, which appears to have been made as a tongue-in-cheek nineties update of those old monster B-movies from the fifties. The film-makers appear to have realised that it is no longer possible to make a wholly serious film of this type; unfortunately, they have failed to realise that a bad film cannot automatically be made a good one by injecting it with doses of ironical, postmodernist humour. There is no real attempt to turn this into a Mel Brooks-style parody, and the film remains an uneasy mixture of semi-serious horror and feeble attempts at comedy, mostly derived from the squabbles which break out among the team of crocodile-hunters. Lake Placid is sometimes described as a horror-comedy. Like a number of films which attempt to combine two different genres, this one falls between two stools. It is too ludicrous to be genuinely frightening, and too morbid to be genuinely amusing, although it might cater for that specialist niche market which regards as uproariously funny the sight of someone getting their head bitten off. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is not a 'great' film by some peoples standards. It has next to no character development, a weak plot and at best a B-list cast. But Lake Placid is a funny take on 'the big dangerous animal eating people' genre.This film could easily have been rubbish but is saved by two factors. One you get to see every thing violent going on, eg, when the crocodile leaps out the water and decapitates an unnamed deputies head you don't just see a plume of water, put you can also see the crocodile's head turn and bite off the head. This film never tries to hide the crocodile and build 'suspense' like other similar films.The second reason is the hilarious dialogue. No not 'hilarious cause it's so bad' but actually funny. This ranges from  Now aren't we glad I bought my big gun to Thats because they hide information like that in things called books to  Do the men get all horny like in Deliverence? You will be laughing out loud at some points.But for all it's hilarious, graphically violent goodness this film is far from perfect. The plot is really bad with unnecessary romances and explanations that drag out the parts when they aren't insulting each other or been eaten.Overall this is an entertaining film that is far from perfect but worth a look if you want a laugh or liked Deep Blue Sea.8/10 "},{"Title":"As a parody, it just doesn't work... as a horror-monster flick... it doesn't work either","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  First off, let me make it clear that I was well aware that this movie was half-way a monster-horror film, and half-way a parody of such films, long before I sat down to watch it. It didn't come as a shock, I just didn't like it. The attempts at comedy almost always fall flat, and the film-makers are trying desperately hard to make you laugh, but end up being embarrassing for the actors as well as the director(come on, this guy did H20; that wasn't much, but it was definitely better than this). The plot is apparently supposed to be a rehash/mocking of monster movies. It doesn't work well. It's poorly paced and thoroughly boring. The acting is decent enough. The characters are all one-dimensional and uninteresting; we don't care about these people, whether they live or die... and that ruins every chance of keeping the attention of the audience during the attack scenes. The film especially drags near the end; I was hoping, nay, praying that it would just end soon. The film didn't manage to keep my attention nor my interest for an hour and a half, and that's not even that hard to do. The special effects are pretty good, but that's pretty much the only positive thing to say about this film. The humor is way too over-the-top and trying far too hard to be funny, and just ends up making you cringe and lose any and all interest in the film whatsoever. As a horror film, it doesn't work. As a parody/comedy, it doesn't work either. So, are we supposed to think of this movie in a third way? Nah. Let's just write it off as a poor attempt at a horror-parody-flick. I recommend this only to big fans of the actors, and huge fans of monster-flicks. Anyone else should avoid this. I give it a 6/10 only because the effects are pretty good and the film did manage to keep me watching(for some unknown reason). Also, one or two jokes did work, and the acting isn't really bad. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty lame","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A giant alligator eats people.  Other people try to stop it.  I have to wonder what the synopsis for this script originally looked like, because that's the whole plot right there.I have several gripes with this movie #1 The lake in question isn't even CALLED Lake Placid, so why give the movie such a stupid, misleading name?  #2 Bill Pullman's lack of personality does NOT cause him to implode, thereby robbing us of a very satisfactory viewing experience, and #3 The alligator doesn't eat Bridget Fonda.  I was rooting for the alligator the whole time, I admit it.  Ms. Fonda's character was so annoyingly bitchy, whiny and thoroughly unlikable that the only purpose I could possibly see her serving on this planet was to feed a hungry alligator.  Bill Pullman is so void of emotion (as always) that I was shocked to see no oxygen rushing in to fill the empty space he left on screen.  The only likable performances came from Oliver Platt as the unashamedly rude, vulgar and horny alligator hunter, and Betty White as the equally foul mouthed alligator's surrogate mother. This movie isn't a total loss.  It's fine if you just want to watch large reptiles chomping on people and you don't want to have to think about much.  It's also not without humor and a pretty cool looking alligator.  It's just not very good, and the leading characters are so one-dimensional and irritating that the fact that they end up with each other ALMOST makes up for the fact that they don't get eaten.  "},{"Title":"Unsuccessful parody of man eating monster movies","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All Costs                         I'd just like to point out to start with that I'm aware this film was'nt intended to be taken seriously as a film,that it was meant to be a send up of the man eating creature movies,like Anaconda and Jaws,it's length alone indicated a lot of this,but it failed to work even there really.It just did'nt hold my attention in any way.Maybe the charecters were intended to be send ups,but anyhow,they were still very poor and uninteresting,as was the story,and whatever was motivating it.Despite being a very short film,it dragged on unbearably towards the end.The one good thing about it,however,was the crocodile itself.This was amazing.It was fun to see it attempt to swallow up all the dull,boring people at the end of the film,but anyway,it still should have gone off to a better,more wholesome film than this.**  "},{"Title":"Fairly amusing buddy/monster movie","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid is a decent homage to ancient B-cinema. In the good tradition of films like Tremors, we're presented a silly and light-headed tale of an offbeat American region plagued by an exaggeratedly over-sized animal devouring the local rednecks. In this case we have a giant Asian crocodile claiming a Maine-lake as his own and, immediately after eating his first victim (a diver whom he bit in half), a team of weirdo-specialists gathers around the lake to investigate the creature. Everyone slightly familiar with this type of insignificant horror films knows that they're a lot more comical than they are scary, thus Like Placid is a large buffet of witty dialogues, eccentric characters and over-the-top special effects. The characters are constantly arguing and throwing insults at each other and &#150; unlike in many other nowadays creature features &#150; it works and this film really qualifies as good, brainless amusement. Especially the interactions between the local, lesser intelligent, Sheriff Brendan Gleeson and the wealthy professional croc-hunter Oliver Platt often make you chuckle. There are a few very grotesque (but ingenious) twists in the second half of the film and I really enjoyed the visual effects (ever seen a crocodile battle a bear?). This is director Steve Minor's first experiment in the monster-movie field, after a whole lot of slashers like Friday the 13th and Halloween sequels, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who's looking for 80 minutes of pure amusement. "},{"Title":"Good Grief! Get the net!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Good grief! This flick was horrible! Worse, it was boring! What was David Kelley thinking? For that matter, what were Bill Pullman, Bridget (I hope you get eaten by the crocodile) Fonda, and Oliver Platt thinking? If this was supposed to be a spoof, someone should have told them that means it's supposed to be funny..Hellooo!  I was even disappointed in the creature effects by Stan Winston (which is amazing, cause he never misses!).  The only bit of funny was the foul-mouthed Betty White role (barely).  Come to think of it, what was I thinking, paying good money to see this? Definitely, a wait till the video comes out pick. "},{"Title":"Lake Flaccid","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Stupid. There's a word I rarely use to describe a movie in a review, but I can't help it. This movie is stupid. Bad, boring and weak also describe it best. The best things going for it are the swear words from Rose Nylund, Oliver Platt was sometimes funny and unbelievably, the croc didn't look half-bad. And all those accounted for a half star increase...because everything else was just trash. Not even B-movie fun. Bridget Fonda was annoying as all Hades, Bill Pullman hated to be here and it showed and the awww fvck it, we ran out of money for a real climax ending was laughably incoherent and incomplete. I love When Animals Attack films, so skip this and watch or re-watch the top notch B-movie of that genre PIRANHA 3D. Cheers! "},{"Title":"finally caught this on cable...","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I probably teetered on whether to rent this or not when it came out, but something made me think better of it.Last night I caught this on cable - pulled in by the comedy/horror label, and what looked like a promising cast.The problem with horror/comedy sometimes, is that some films use that label to hide the fact that they're just crappy horror films. This falls in that category. I love good horror comedies like Army of Darkness, Night of the Creeps, Hatchet 3, Shaun of the Dead, and many, many others. And I can like camp horror too... films like Tremors and Slither are quite entertaining to me, so horror flicks don't have to be straight horror, high-production value, or comedy for me, because I like them all, but Lake Placid here fails miserably in the humor department, and not for a lack of trying either.I didn't laugh once. This was like Jaws 2 met the original Piranha from the 70's and had a baby. The over-acting is about the only semi-funny aspect of the film.I was also hoping for an even bigger croc. I mean, since we're breaking about every single rule of logic, who cares rt? 30ft? why not 50, heck make it 100 ft.If you wanna see Bridget Fonda crying about ugly men running around in their skivvies - then this is the movie for you. If you were looking for horror/comedy, or effective horror-camp, I'd suggest you look elsewhere. 41/100lots of films of this guild are infinitely re-watchable. This isn't one of them. "}{"Title":"Nothing too great but it's amusing.","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" As far as the genre goes, this movie is a decent effort but it's also lacking in some true original and spectacular moments to consider this movie a great one.Guess that the thing that saves this movie is the fact that it isn't being too serious about things. It basically knows it has a ridicules concept and simply decides to become more of a comedy. It works, since it makes the movie amusing to watch and keeps you entertained throughout, even though not a lot is also happening in this movie. It's also a bit of an extremely short movie, so there is not enough time to let this movie drag at any points.It's a pretty great job that they actually got so many great and well known actors together for a movie like this. Guess it's not the absolute top but these are still some names that always look good on posters.Sort of too bad that this movie got made back in 1999. Had it been made now, with todays technology, this could had been a far more impressive movie. It's not like the movie has some bad effects for 1999 standards but it's just that if it had been made today it could had really benefited from the more advanced effects, that they were already trying to get during production of this movie.The movie is not as exciting or tense as it possibly could had been but instead is more comical, which also works well and makes the movie an amusing and also watchable one.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A little slow & chit chatty at times, otherwise this is a fun little monster movie.","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" A palaeontologist named Kelly Scott (BRIDGET FONDA) is sent to a remote rural town in main called Black Lake, from her job at a museum in New York City, following an affair with her boss that ends on a sour note. She is there to help identify a large tooth found inside the corpse of a diver who was chewed in half while underwater. When it is revealed to be that of a very large crocodile, she teams up with numerous game wardens, a wild life officer (BILL PULLMAN) the town sheriff (BRENDAN GLEASON) & members of his department & an eccentric thrill seeking mythological professor/millionaire (OLIVER PLATT) who dreams of swimming with crocodiles, mainly because crocodiles were highly worshipped in many nations in centuries past. While together, they decide to camp out by the lake in an effort to draw out the beast & hopefully trap it. However when they come fact to face with the carnivorous creature, they discover that the traps they have laid out in order to capture the beast may be to small, as it turns out they are dealing with a monstrous 30 foot predator with an appetite for carnage to match!LAKE PLACID is everything a really good monster movie should be, exciting, gory, funny, sharp & witty, with good acting, direction, special effects & snappy dialogue, plus it has a good plot, fun characters & even gets a bit schlocky at times (but in a good way). To be truthful though, despite it's (then A- list) cast & huge theatrical treatment, LAKE PLACID is basically a glorified B movie (at least in terms of it's plot) but for the most part the film is very well handled, especially when it comes to the direction, as Steve Miner manages to keep the film moving at a quick pace & captures the gorgeous lakeside & wooded scenery very well on camera (it's utterly breathtaking & so beautiful to look at!) the suspense is very well handled, with one moment in particular towards the climax should bring the most strongest of wills onto the edge of the their seat! another thing I liked was the twist ending, which reveals that there was not just one crocodile eating people, but rather two! & unlike most creature features, the beast is never killed at the climax, instead it's shipped away to a zoo. It's definitely a change from the norm, that I will give them, it's just to bad the same thing couldn't be said for the other croc, who winds up having his head blown off! (in a scene that pays tribute to JAWS). The acting is really good here, especially Beatty White as an eccentric elderly housewife, who winds up feeding most of her live stock to the beast. The rest of the characters are pretty funny as they all have a pretty good biting wit about them. But it's Oliver Platt who steals almost every scene he's in, as the eccentric millionaire. The monster attack sequences are not only quick, but brutal & gory & many times come in moments you would least expect them too. The creature effects (a mix of both practical & CGI) are very well done & realistic looking (the practical effects were done by the late Stan Winston, a friend of director Miner). Plus the creature is taken very seriously here.On the downside however, the film never really amounts to much, at least not where most creature features are concerned, as the film really doesn't do anything too new with the material (at least nothing that we haven't seen before) minus adding the quirky characters & humour (the latter of which does get a little juvenile at times) & the climax is somewhat disappointing, especially considering the momentum the film had going in when building towards it's climax & I wasn't to thrilled with the romantic angle between Bill Pullman's character & Bridget Fonda, it just felt out of place for the movie & cheapened it somewhat, thankfully Miner doesn't seem too interested in it either & downplays it through most of the film. The script by The Practice/Ally McBeal writer David E. Kelly (who also co-produced) while quiet good, has a few problems, mainly due to the fact that Kelly seems unsure of what he wants his script to be, a straight up serious monster movie? or a spoof on the genre? this must be asked because the film tends to waver between both, while the jokier aspects are fun, still Kelly at times seems to be trying to aim for a higher level for his film that is never really obtained (or at least doesn't know how to obtain it) & this is clearly evident as he tries to make his film much more of a character driven film than a monster one, unfortunately while the characters are interesting & quirky enough to follow & enjoyable when they are on screen, LAKE PLACID suffers as a result, since the film has many long stretches (especially in the middle half of the film) where there is almost no action at all & no heavy crocodile carnage & the film gets a little to hokey at times. Horror fans will also be disappointed by the extremely low body count, despite the gory kills which include a chewed off head & a body bitten in half.All in all, I highly recommend LAKE PLACID, it's a monster movie with bite! I admit I definitely wasn't a fan of it the first time I seen it (When it first arrived on video), but after giving it another go, I understood what it was mainly all about, the attitude it was reaching for & I caught all the in jokes it was playing up to, while not a masterpiece by any means, LAKE PLACID is just plain flat out, good, gory B movie fun!Followed by four sequels, beginning with LAKE PLACID 2***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I really enjoyed Lake Placcid. It may take a bit too long to get going and the story is predictable at times despite its nice, mostly fast-paced mix of comedy, horror, romance and buddy-genre. However it is nicely made, with a good soundtrack, a witty and smart script, a creepy atmosphere when it needs to be and a well-used menacing crocodile. The romance doesn't fall too much in the danger of slowing the film down, and while the characters are on the clichd side of things they are not annoying. Bridget Fonda and Bill Pullman give good performances, but Oliver Platt and Brendan Gleeson whose at-each-others-throats shtick prove to be among the film's most entertaining parts and Betty White is simply delicious as Delores and steals the show. All in all, entertaining and lots of fun. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I'm sure your a good person in your own mental way, but I'd appreciate it if you'd just stay away from me. Highly enjoyable comedy horror.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid starts in Maine, New England on Black Lake (it turns out the preferred named of Lake Placid was already taken) as Sheriff Hank Keough (Brendan Gleeson) hangs around in a boat waiting as a Beaver tagging diver goes about his job, suddenly Hank sees the diver in trouble & when the diver is finally pulled aboard he has been chopped or perhaps bitten in half. Cut to a New York museum where palaeontologist Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) is told to travel out to Black Lake & investigate the discovery of a tooth in the diver's wounds. Along with Hank & some of his Deputy's & a local Fish & Game warden Jack Wells (Bill Pullman) Kelly attends a camping expedition to discover the owner of the tooth & what killed the diver. Once there an eccentric millionaire called Hector Cyr (Oliover Platt) who worships Crocodiles flies in & joins the expedition but fails to convince the team of the possible existence of a Crocodile in Black Lake. As severed Moose heads & human toes turn up it quickly becomes apparent that Hector is right & they are in fact dealing with a prehistoric 30-foot Crocodile that likes to eat unsuspecting people...Directed by Steve Miner I thought Lake Placid was a terrific piece of entertainment & even my friend Kelly thought it was 'wicked' & she doesn't usually like horror films. The script by David E. Kelley moves along like a rocket & thankfully never becomes bogged down with boring & unnecessary sub-plots & mixes both comedy & horror extremely well. Lake Placid is at heart a throw back to the 50's & 60's giant monster films but is probably as good, if not better than any of those as it uses up-to-date special effects & goes for a witty script. There are some great one-liners, funny dialogue exchanges, sarcasm & the usual self referential lighthearted quips made so popular by Scream (1996). The horror elements are here as well with some nice attacks that manage to create good solid shocks, well my friend Kelly thought so anyway & I tend to agree with her. The characters are very likable especially Hank the hapless cynical Sheriff. The ending felt a little routine & unoriginal & you just know that their plan for trapping the Crocodile will go wrong, I also would have liked to have seen the Crocodile eat a couple more people but you can't have everything I suppose. Technically Lake Placid is very good & considering the supposed $27,000,000 budget I would hope so, the Crocodile is brought to life using both some OK CGI & some excellent animatronic live-action effects by Stan Winston. The cinematography by Daryn Okada is cool & a few shots really capture the expansive forest & beauty of the locations used. There are a few gore scenes but nothing too graphic, a man bitten in half & later his corpse is seen on an autopsy table, a severed head & toe, a decapitation & a some of the local wildlife get eaten. The acting is pretty good by the likable cast & I actually wanted most of them to live, Betty White as the foul mouthed Dolores Bickerman is very funny & gets some good lines. I really liked Lake Placid, my friend Kelly liked it so I didn't think I would as we don't normally share the same taste in films but this is one occasion where she is right, for a change (sorry Kelly only joking!). All that is left to be said is if Lake Placid is good enough for Kelly, who's always right according to her, then it's certainly good enough for anyone else. Recommended & definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lake Placid is the worst movie I've seen in a year.  The dialogue is stilted and unrealistic, the characters are one-dimensional and boring, and the action is uninteresting.Some people on this site have argued that the movie is straight-up entertainment, and if the movie had been better executed, I would tend to agree with them.  I'm sure the actors thought some potential was there when they read the script--on the surface the plot seems interesting.But how am I supposed to get into a movie when I couldn't care less whether the characters live or die?  It wasn't that I even hated them.  They were just so flat that it didn't matter.  And the dialogue Fat dorky scientist re. attractive female sheriff We were hoping to mate.  When that's the funniest line in the movie, you know you're in trouble.Sure, if this was the only movie on the planet earth, it'd be worth seeing. But considering the other options out there, don't waste your time.Oh, I take back the part about the action being uninteresting.  Just fast-forward to the scenes of the mystery animal swallowing people/animals/helicopter flotation devices/  and you'll have seen the good stuff. "},{"Title":"terrible!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The worst movie I've ever been to.  Ever.  Some bad movies have the redeeminig value that you can laugh at them.  Lake Placid unfortunately with its big Hollywood budget makes that impossible, because one can only think about better things that could have been done with $7.  At least the movie isn't too long, and it did make reading the awful reviews it got entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Better on a Second Viewing","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Lake Placid (1999) ** 1/2 (out of 4)A thirty-foot croc takes a large bite out of a diver so a fish warden (Bill Pullman), a paleontologist (Bridget Fonda), a sheriff (Brendan Gleeson) and a millionaire croc expert (Oliver Platt) decide to try and figure out where it came from and what it's doing in this small lake in Maine. Soon more and more people are eaten but they think that the large creature could be due to an elderly woman (Betty White) who lives on the lake. LAKE PLACID, the title, is still somewhat of a mystery considering where the film is taking place and what the lake is actually called but that's not too big of a point as the overall film is fairly fun and does improve on a second viewing. I think the film's biggest flaw is that it's incredibly uneven. I've heard rumors that originally this was meant to be some sort of spoof, which makes a little sense considering the type of humor in the film. The movie goes for a lot more laughs and most of them come from Gleeson and Platt who are constantly at each others throats. The two actors are both very good in their roles and I must admit that I laughed at a lot of their banter. This humor expands to other characters including the one played by Fonda as she goes way over the top in order to get laughs. We have her New York City gal going through all sorts of country jokes as she's afraid to get dirty, to sleep in a tent and that type of thing. For me Fonda's character is the weakest written and she also goes too far out there. Pullman is good as usual but his character isn't all that interesting. The comedy in the film is certainly the main goal, or at least it seems that way. There aren't any real scares to be found in the film and I can't think of too many examples where there was even an attempt. The croc in the film looks pretty good and especially when you compare it to other large croc movies. I thought the effects of it taking were also pretty good, although I'll admit that the scene where it attacks the bear isn't all that effective. LAKE PLACID, in the end, is too uneven to really call a good movie but if you can put up with the comic stuff you'll probably enjoy up enjoying it as a B movie. "},{"Title":"Even fails at being pulp","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" Famous TV writer David E. Kelley meets killer crocodiles, it's a pretty bizarre concept. And what can I say, it just doesn't work. It's not really horror, it's not really comedy, it just hangs somewhere in the middle and dies. Kelley spends a lot of time studying his characters, which I suppose is a smart move because that's the one thing he's pretty good at. He really tries to keep his usual style, but then all of a sudden this croc gets in his way, which makes the writing pretty forced and unpleasant. By the way, you really shouldn't watch this expecting people being attacked and killed and torn apart and whatnot, because our villain barely justifies his presence on the poster. He's of very little importance and just provides an excuse to have various people meet and deliver some rather unimpressive dialogues. Apart from an amusing cameo by Betty White, this movie is near impossible to sit through. "},{"Title":"It's pretty good","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I wasn't too highly interesting in seeing Lake Placcid. But one time it was on HBO, and I had nothing better to do. I watched it and I was a little surprised. It wasn't all that bad. A few cheesy effects, but for the most part effective for what it is. And considering that allegators scare the heck out of me, it helped my review a little. As for the plot, I wasn't to into it. When it comes to sea monster movies, I'll take Jaws any day. But, I was really tensed up when one of the guys is in the water and he looks behind him and he is faced with the crocedile. And they just have this staring contest, like who has the most fear? Over all, I'd recommend if you're just looking for a good scare.6/10 "},{"Title":"dumb stupid and lame","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  lame flick like we needed another crocodile/alligator movie i like some of them but this is not one of them it had annoying characters who i just wanted to slap silly and it was very dull and has no gore please avoid this lame movie BOMB out of 5 "}{"Title":"This is a horror???","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I really tried to like this one and after the film was over I thought What the hell!!!.There's nothing even remotely interesting about this oneno suspense,no gore,just another politically correct Hollywood's drivel.I agree that Stan Winston's creature effects are impressive to say at least,but damn does this movie suck!Watch Alligator(1980)instead,but if you like so-called horror movies like Scream then be my guest! "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is only the second movie I've ever seen that I couldn't sit through. I popped out the DVD after 30 minutes. The movie is slow, the acting is lame, there are no decent special effects at all... I've seen hundreds of movies, and this one is just terrible. Also, the DVD encoding is extremely poor. The sound is either too loud or too faint, and the picture is blurry compared to other DVDs. If you like this kind of movie do yourself a huge favor and see Deep Blue Sea and maybe Anaconda, both of which are MUCH better than this flop.  "},{"Title":"Total crap!!!!!!!!!","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Saw a sneak preview of this alleged horror film.  The only good thing was, I saw it for free.  The story is stupid (a 30 foot crocodile?  Come on!), people are continuously saying or doing INCREDIBLY stupid things (this harkens back to the 1980s horror films when you wanted the characters dead because they were so dumb!) and the movie is deadly dull.  You know there's a problem when the monster shows up and a teenage girl (about 14) next to you says, Aw!  He's cute!  The movie had a few good points--the photography was beautiful and the whole cast (somehow) gives out good performances.  Also the creature scenes were realistic.  Still, the movie was by the numbers--every stock character shows up to go through their paces; I was able to predict certain scenes (including the totally unnecessary romance between Pullman and Fonda); and the script was so dull, you couldn't have cared less!  It was only 90 minutes but seems like 900! Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Started okay, then PETA arrived","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I just watched this movie for the second time since I got it, which was probably when it first came out. Anyway, I had pretty much forgotten why I had put it on the shelf for so long. And it started out fine. A big croc that started eating people. I found that entertaining. But then they go all soft and decide that killing this miracle would be outrageous and horrible. Uh, yeah, so would not killing it. I mean, where are they even going to take it? And who is paying for the transport? It had better have been that crazy, rich guy because that would be just ridiculous if the tax payers' money went into saving that huge killer croc. Okay, I know that this is just a movie, but there was so much BS in this movie I had to speak out. I mean, if I ever found out there was a croc in my lake, the only place it'd be transported is to the State Fair so I could sell it on a stick. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" I cannot vote on this movie, because its so awful that its out of the Voting-scale!!! The story is thin, the actors are bad, the characters are seriously weird and the horror/comedy mix is as awful as it can get! I could write a very long list of errors and flops in this movie, but lets make it short. I want to focus on some of the big flops/questions this movie contains The biggest question is HOW DID THAT OLD LADY GET THOSE CRODODILLES? How can she tame them when they are adults? if you think of it, every one that tries to tame a Lion or a Tiger knows that these animals are not used to be pets, so its impossible to tame a animal that large. And by the way why oh why do that old lady have Cows, horses, chickens next to a lake? When you live near a lake, you DO NOT run a farm, you go fishing in the lake!!!!! The characters are seriously weird! At points they can work together, and even talk normally, but suddenly they just flip out and begins to yell and argue about something that isn't important! Another problem is with the role Bridget Fonda plays (Katty or something (from now on called Katty). She is letting us know something about her1) allergic to trees 2) hate Moquitoes 3) hate Ticks (the nasty little treehanging animal) 4) doesn't know what camping isShe is supposed to be a Big City girl who don't know anything about nature. But the problem is that she HAS been to lakes like lake Placid as a kid!!!!!!! She says that she always spent time at a lake, throwing stones at the water. But how can she suddenly have an allergy for trees? how can she NOT know that camping is used to be in tents?It makes no sense that she HAS been out of the city as a child, but as an adult cannot be a minute at a Lake in Maine!!!! And by the way When she is helping the policeman (which she is (at some points) in love with) in the tent, she is telling that her father was a surgeon. Well it could be, but do surgeons use plaster? do Suregeons use plaster when they a finished with an operation? The answer is NO!!! Its a lame dialog, as all the other dialogs in this movie!!!The investigation team is not investigating, they are just fooling around trying to find an animal, which they don't know what is and what to do with!! And here another question Which animal does the old policeman (who hates Hector) suspect is the killer? He doesn't think that it is a crocodile, so what animal did attack the boat in the middle of the lake? The Loch Ness monster? a underwater bear? A beaver? a Fish? This is so weird as it can get! When I found out that this was a comedy-Horror film, i knew why it wasn't as scary as it could be, but still the movie sucks!!!!! Its NOT funny, its not scary, its just a boring awful movie, that should be thrown away!!!! If anyone of you have seen the horror movie about the Killer Ants, you'll know that this movie is even WORSE than that. the movie about the ants did actually have a point, and did NOT just be a movie about some idiots that are just fooling around.Even another question Is the movie about the Crododile or about the persons? We see a lot to the persons, and not much to the animal thats killing almost everyone near the lake. But if we say its about the persons, Wy oh why do we not get any deep understanding of them? they just fool around and do NOT cooperate or do NOT let us know them! So to me, it shows that the director didn't know what the movie was about, and then just made it as it is.I think i know why its supposed to be a comedy. After making the Horror movie, he found out that is was so lame, the actors so stupid and bad, that he thought hey if we say its a comedy, we can be sure that no one is saying that the actors are bad, they just think they are playing bad, because its a comedy! But the fact is, its NOT a comedy! I must say that i cannot understand those who say this is a great film! I love it. i wonder which drug you guys are using? because you MUST be High to think this movie is great!!! "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  this movie was just awful, no suspense weak acting it  also had cheap special effects the whole movie was really people talking about the crocidile and what they should do about it  hard to beleave bill pullmen was in this flop hes a good actor, ill bet he fired his agent after this one well proably most people who got stuck in this did. Betty white was funny in it but she did not have near enough screen time, in other words do not see this poor excuse for a movie it is for sure among the worst i have seen "},{"Title":"Should have been fun, but it's more grating than anything else.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****Lake Placid has the potential to be good B-movie entertainment.  It features a giant crocodile munching up a group of wildlife experts in the middle of a large lake.  Unfortunately, the movie's written and produced by David E. Kelly, who seems to think that moviegoers everywhere will want to see some of that same humor he puts into Ally McBeal into Lake Placid.  A word to Kelly, this is a killer animal flick, and I wish to see a crocodile causing mayhem, not some immature idiots arguing over things we don't care the slightest bit about.Lake Placid doesn't even take place in the titular body of water. Instead, the setting is in Black Lake, and the film begins with a man exploring a beaver site.  Before he does anything substantial, he's bitten in half right before Sheriff Hank Keough's (Brendan Gleeson) eyes.  Keough brings in fish-and-game warden Jack Wells (Bill Pullman), and paleontologist Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda) comes along for the ride when she discovers the tooth Keough recovered is reptilian.The arrival of Hector Cyr (Oliver Platt) confirms to Kelly that the lake has a loose crocodile, which somehow swam all the way from Asia.  Arguments and conflicts erupt between Cyr and the others, since they obviously think he's a madman.  Finally, they discover that some old woman (Betty White) has been feeding her cows to the crocodile and is trying to protect it.  The group continues to argue over whether they should kill the crocodile or not and they come up with a plan that could trap it.  The question is whether they have the firepower and manpower to take down this 30-foot monstrosity.There's already an immediately noticeable flaw about Lake Placid.  From the beginning, we realize nobody's really in danger.  The lake's pretty far away from the town and it seems that nobody ever really comes by.  It's mentioned the crocodile's been there for six years and it all that time it's only eaten one man.  Thus, nobody is really in danger.  The deputies who are in harm are only in that position because this lame-brained group of experts want to hunt this animal down.  They don't seem to realize it's their own fault in the first place that they invaded its home.  By the end, we feel more sympathy for the crocodile than the human characters.Director Steve Miner can be credited for holding the crocodile back for quite a while, and in this respect, it's similar to Jaws.  At first, you'd think David Kelly was thinking of parodying the Jaws films, but none of his jokes are really aimed towards the crocodile plight.  He just likes to have the characters yell at each other back and forth over silly things. Bridget Fonda talks about how much she can't stand the environment in Maine and Oliver Platt's Hector Cyr keeps mentioning how fat Gleeson is while talking about how much of a deity and miracle the crocodile is.  This isn't particularly riveting dialogue and Kelly's attempts at humor are clumsy and not particularly funny.Kelly's script has more flaws than just that.  There's a lot of inconsistency and nonsense to the whole thing.  The first seen victim was chewed in half underwater, but Cyr specifically states crocodiles don't attack underwater.  Huh? He gives something of an explanation for this, but it made absolutely no sense.  That's not all.  Take into the concept of a crocodile travelling all the way to Maine from Asia.  It's unlikely to occur and no explanation is ever given for it.  Admittedly, I wouldn't be complaining about it if the movie had been fun, but since it's not, the gripe is a liable complaint.My expectations for the film were somewhere along the lines of maybe Deep Blue Sea or Anaconda, basically a silly but fast-paced ride. Unfortunately, Lake Placid only gets the former part down pat.  For an 82-minute film (and that includes the end credits!)(Based on my memory, this is the second shortest non-animated major studio release behind Army of Darkness I've seen) it's pretty dull with only a couple of laughs and crocodile attacks to punctuate the monotony.  At least the aforementioned films knew that it could only hold the audience's attention with non-stop creature attacks.Sure, Jaws didn't get down to any serious shark action until the finale but it held our attention with masterful suspense and great characters.  Lake Placid doesn't have any great characters and it's not helped by the performances.  Bill Pullman is almost non-existent; by the time the movie was over I had almost forgotten he was even in it.  Bridget Fonda has a lot of spunk as Kelly, but she's a little too annoying to be truly likable. The fact that she's cute doesn't hurt, though.  As I think of it now, if Kelly was aiming for parody, he should have looked to Calista Flockhart for the part (and part of me wonders whether or not that would have made this a more enjoyable, albeit more silly, film) Oliver Platt is a major pain, and I truly wished the crocodile took him before anyone else.  Only Brendan Gleeson registers as the sheriff, playing a fairly nice guy who seems to be the only one who understands the situation is pretty serious.It's a pity Lake Placid isn't a more entertaining movie, especially considering how great the crocodile actually looks.  Stan Winston's creature effects are truly top-notch here.  The CGI-rendered croc is impressive, but the animatronic reptile looks like the real thing.  These effects are almost always convincing, much unlike either Deep Blue Sea or Anaconda.  Other than the effects, I also liked the use of the perch attempting to fly (?!) as a signal for the crocodile's approach.Miner should have taken a more action-oriented approach.  You see, part of the reason there's almost no suspense is because it seems like no one is in danger, not even the deputies in the area.  They all camp around and Miner films it in such a style that we know the crocodile's is never going to sneak up on them.  The movie would have worked better had it focused on maybe just five characters (the extra being the most present deputy, Gare, played by Meredith Salenger) stranded in the area with the croc hunting them down.  The constant back-and-forth explorations destroy any chance of gaining momentum.  Not only that, but also interfering with creating tension are the arguments over the fate of the animal.  It's jarring to the film's attempts at suspense, and the characters sound far too confident in their chances of defeating the crocodile.Speaking of these explorations, these people aren't particularly smart. They actually decide to do some diving to find the crocodile.  What good does that do?  They don't even arm themselves with something substantial. There's even a point when the crocodile is right behind Hector and doesn't even attack him!  Of course, Wells states that the crocodile ate a cow and was satiated.  Hmm, then why did the croc attack the chopper right after Hector got on it?  Convenience so Miner and Kelly could inject some suspense and still let Hector get away safely?  Nah, they couldn't possibly get that low, could they?(minor spoiler in this paragraph)  The finale features something marginally exciting, though not nearly enough to give the boost this movie needs.  Of course, the crocodile is trapped, and Keough and Wells have to make the decision as to whether or not they should kill it.  But David Kelly doesn't want to make the audience sad by killing this poor crocodile, see, so he conveniently brings in another croc that can get blown to pieces.  Of course, stupid as these characters are, they never bother to think that one of these two crocs were females and had given birth.By the time the movie's over, you'll more than likely be glad, and maybe even tired.  As short as it is, Lake Placid felt a LOT longer than 82 minutes, never a good sign for a movie that's meant to be humorous fun.  "},{"Title":"Huge Disappointment","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that my boyfriend and I went to his movie hoping it would live up to it's semi-hype which of course it didn't. The first five minutes the guy gets his legs ripped off by this croc and they showed that this thing in the water is huge...basically it's saying well we paid for these computer graphics and we are going to use them. That was fine because they were introducing the movie and great...whatever.  The movie went downhill from there. Now, I enjoy sarcasm just as much as the next person, but this was way over done. It was like every other line was a witty comeback or crude remark. The characters were completely unlikable and had no depth. You really did not care when they died. Now as a member of PETA and a vegetarian it is really not fair of me to say this, but I confirmed with my boyfriend and my thoughts stood correct. There was much too much of killing of animals. I mean the moose head, the cows being used as bait for the croc and then oh yes the bear...it was all so unnecessary and truly very disturbing. While it may not have been real, it just seemed like the producer was purposely trying to get everyone they possibly could angry. That is not right. The whole movie was a total bore and a complete ripoff. Pleas e don't waste your money. Go buy an original..I don't know maybe...um...Jaws. Thank you. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE CANNOT BE SERIOUS!! (CAN IT ??!!)","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I watched Lake Placid recently and could not believe how stupid it was! Was it stupid intentionally or was it meant to be a comedy? Why good actors like Bill Pulman,Brendan Gleason and Oliver Platt agreed to star in this cheesy film along with the equally great actress Bridget Fonda, is beyond me. The story was dreadful and the characters were very unrealistic. The ending was so predictable-as predictable as an episode of the A-Team! When it was over I felt as if I had not sat for an hour and a half watching it, as the story really went nowhere at all. This film is so bad it has to be seen to be believed. The stars of Lake Placid were obviously hard up for some money when they agreed to do this movie! One can only hope they had fun making it! "},{"Title":"Bad script, bad idea, bad direction, bad movie, but hey... the special effects were...okay...","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Why were these people so mean to eachother?  All of this movie's humor relied on the insults from one character to another.  The only laughs it achieved were cheap and were the result of foul language from an old lady or a character falling down.  I felt like I was holding my breath for an hour and a half, and when the credits began to roll, I could finally breathe once again.  This has got to be one of the worst scripts of all time!  With the exception of a few funny moments the script lacked everything from character development to originality.  This movie was so predictable it wasn't even necessary to sit through the whole film.  I could have told you how it was going to end five minutes into the movie.But the trip to the theatre wasn't a complete loss.  The $3.00 soda I bought tasted pretty darn good.  Now I'll wish for that hour an a half back for the rest of my life.  I could have spent that time having teeth pulled or getting shots or something.In short, please, for god's sake, do not, i repeat, do not see this horrible excuse for a film.  I beg of you. "}{"Title":"The Worst Movie of All Time? Quite Possibly!!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  For a guy normally as clever and witty as David E. Kelley, his offering in this piece of trash is quite surprising.  I can think of nothing good to say about this film, except that it mercifully only lasted 75 minutes.  A new Jaws? Hardly. This is not even a new Anaconda.  What this is, is dreadful in the extreme.  Let's see... A pair of Asian, fresh water 30 foot crocodiles, somehow manage to swim from Southeast Asia across the decidedly salty Pacific Ocean and then apparently walk across the United States where they end up in a lake in Maine, not called Lake Placid (despite the name of the film).  Although lakes like this one freeze in the winter and although crocodiles are cold-blooded and cannot survive in cold water/weather, these guys thrive in the cold.  Despite actual crocodiles which feed once or twice a month, these crocodiles eat constantly.  They eat multiple men, cows, moose, bear-- all in a day or two. Imagine that!  Throw in horrendous writing and acting and you have this film.  Bridget Fonda stunk up the place with a throw away, unbelievable role as a paleontologist sent by a New York Museum to check out a tooth.  Although a supposed expert in dinosaurs, this scientist never had been in the field and in fact was afraid of bugs and dirt. Good luck digging up bones in Wyoming!  Bill Pullman was as wooden as ever and Oliver Platt was a fat buffoon who lambasted the local sheriff for no reason about, of all things, his weight.  Talk about the pot calling the kettle black!  Betty White was the worst part of this horrible film. A supposed animal activist in real life, who passed on As Good As It Gets, because of the cruel treatment of a dog in the film (throwing it down a trash shoot), White here utterly mistreats her cows by feeding them to the crocodiles.  She also uses foul language and makes off-colored penis jokes. Save your time, save your money, and don't even watch this film when it appears on TNT next month!  "},{"Title":"Lake Placid","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I heard about this adventure thriller about a giant crocodile, I was expecting it to be like a mini Jaws, and similar entertainment as Anaconda, but this is not exactly the film I had in mind, from director Steve Miner (Halloween H20 20 Years Later). It was good, but it did not have much gore or death, and a different ending to most traditional vicious animal films. Anyway, basically paleontologist (one who specialises in dinosaur artifacts) Kelly Scott (Jackie Brown's Bridget Fonda) is sent to Black Lake in a New England town to investigate unusual animal attacks, from evidence of a prehistoric tooth found from a victim. She, along with warden Jack Wells (Bill Pullman), millionaire crocodile expert Hector Cyr (Eraser's Oliver Platt) and grumpy Sheriff Hank Keough (Harry Potter's Brendan Gleeson) are now on the hunt for the giant, 40-foot beast that lurks below the surface, that luckily can't see completely well to attack in deeper water. The way they see to attract the Croc's attention is to use a cow from the woman who constantly feeds it, the pretty mad Mrs. Delores Bickerman (Betty White). In the end they put the Croc to sleep, and blow up a second (probably the mother) and hold it down on a truck, and the final moments see Mrs. Bickerman feeding some Croc babies (making it possible for a sequel). I think the problem with this film is not just the amount of excitement slightly lacking, but it is over quicker than you'd hope or expect, but it is still quite a fun film. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Too much bad language.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":" We found that, although the storyline was entertaining, the amount of unwarranted swearing put us off. Bad language is never needed in a film, but it seems to be part of the script on many a current production, and we simply lose interest in the whole film as a result. In years gone by there was no swearing in movies or on TV, and the productions were completely entertaining without it, in fact much more so. We need to go back to that sort of film making. Are script writers and directors so uneducated these days that they can't express themselves without resorting to swearing? Do they honestly think that we want to hear this rubbish? We can hear plenty of it out on the streets if we want to. We don't expect it to be part of our entertainment as well. I have marked the film down because of this, and would not recommend it for family viewing. "},{"Title":"Who are we supposed to care about? ** out of ****","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  LAKE PLACID (1999) **		Starring Bill Pullman, Bridget Fonda, Oliver Platt, Brendan Gleeson, Betty White, and David Lewis  Directed by Steve Miner, written by David E. Kelley. Running Time 82 minutes. Rated R (for gory violence and language)By Blake French	The opening sequence in Lake Placid has a scuba diver swimming alone in a lake located in the outskirts of Maine. Meanwhile, Police Sheriff Hank Keough stays aboard in a miniature fishing boat awaiting the diver's return. As the swimmer works his business underwater, scary music plays in the background. We then receive a false alarm jump scene in which a harmless animal pops out at him. After that, we know that something terrible is going to happen. It happens. Before the audience can determine what it is, however, the camera quickly cuts to Sheriff Hank as he sees red liquid in the water below him. The diver then surfaces, screaming, and is somehow able to escape the jaws of a large animal, and climb on board with the officer to safety--with his lower torso bitten off.I'm sure you recognize this scene by now. Whether it be from one of the Jaws movies, Alligator, Anaconda, or even Deep Blue Sea. Though no matter how familiar these sequences become, there will always be a director, writer, or producer who wishes to reuse them. The fair of Lake Placid can be described by the first five minutes of the film; recycled, un-scary, and worst of all, it's written to satisfy both lovers of comedy and horror. The film may work well in some areas, but never in the appropriate places for it to succeed.  The lake in the opening is inhabited by a 30 foot alligator, which is investigated by several important characters in the film. There is Kelly Scott (Bridget Fonda), a specialist in this area who is depressed because her boyfriend left her, Jack Wells (Bill Pullman), a local water and game warden, Hector Cyr (Oliver Platt), a somewhat mental scientist who believes alligators are godly, and Mrs. Delores Bickerman (Betty White), an innocent appearing elderly lady who may contribute more to the story than it seems. These characters team up for an odd ball comedy, and the alligator produces the horrific atmospheres for them to occupy.  	Basically, Lake Placid is a character movie. It contains more of a thematic plot, which revolves around the gator, than a firm through line of events. It is unfortunate that the film's character development in nearly nonexistent. The usually reliable Bill Pullman is wasted here, with his character being a stone cold, emotionally lacking, unneeded plot device without feeling or personality. The Pullman character is used to promote an interest free romantic subplot between him and Kelly. Although Fonda contains a slight introduction involving her motives for being, she in unable to shape the film's desperation towards human passion. Oliver Platt's character is also a victim of poor screen writing, developed with brief dialogue segments.	Some of the casting and a few of the performances are suitable for the film's conduct. We have the potentially effective Bill Pullman who is anything but in this case, however. He spends most of his time performing with less depth than a cardboard box. Brendan Gleeson, Betty White, and Oliver Platt give their characters personalities for the others to clash with, supplying us with several engaging and colorful comic scenes. Bridget Fonda is also able to supply her character with meager glow and charm. 	The alligator horror effects are normally short hearted and unfocused. There is too little emphasis on the characters to care about what happens to them. Thus we care even less about the conflicts regarding the alligator. When we do see the actual gator, at times, it looks quite frightening--but even then it is incapable of providing us with the appropriate tension required. The computer images are obvious, and turn out equal to the moderate quality of Anaconda. At times, Lake Placid is so enormously unbelievable it is hard to understand why television writer David E. Kelley wasted his time with this messy, shapeless motion picture. There is a mid-point comic twist and a pathetic, inconclusive closing that really makes one wonder why the filmmakers didn't play the material as straight horror rather than blending it with parody. After all, if you are a fan of horror, you probably won't rush to the theater for comic amusement. And if you like comedy, are you really going to make a trip to the multiplex to see someone lose their head in crocodile jaws? Brought to you by Twentieth Century Fox.   "},{"Title":"I Forgot That I Watched This","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Normally when I watch a movie that I`m planning to review for this site I scribble down a few notes while watching it . Today`s Wednesday and I found a piece of paper in my pocket that contained a few notes on LAKE PLACID . If I hadn`t found that piece of paper I would have had absolutely no recollection that I saw this on Saturday night . That`s forgettable LAKE PLACID is .By some irony it wasn`t really necessary for me to take notes watching this boring and predictable movie because it can be summed up with the words  JAWS rip off  featuring some dumb people getting eaten up by a crocodile . The characters are just like the one dimensional cardboard cut outs you`d expect in a film like this  A cynical cop , a female palaentogolist , a tough game warden and a rich mythological expert who`s also a philistine , you`ll never guess ( Yawn ) who ends up as dinner and who falls in love ? It could be worse though because at least LAKE PLACID doesn`t take itself seriously , but one thing that confused me is why the producers allowed some gore and bad language to creep in pushing the film`s certification to a 15 ? This could have easily have been a PG family film  "}]