[{"Title":"Even psychopaths can be happy in their work","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Some years ago in the western suburbs of Sydney there was a particularly nasty rape and killing of a young nurse on her way home from work carried out by two brothers and their friend. The incident became known as the Anita Cobby case and although the killers were caught and convicted, its reverberations still continue in the NSW criminal justice system. This film, from Gordon Graham's play, is not a recounting of the Cobby case, but attempts to answer the question what sort of people could have perpetrated such a crime? The answer given here, in a coldly clinical examination, is a domineering psychopath and his two compliant brothers brought up in a family where the women are treated as mere conveniences.David Wenham, more usually associated with pleasant off-beat characters like Diver Dan in the TV series Sea Change, plays the evil Brett, who has just done time for assault, and is back home manipulating his family and girlfriend. Despite the fact he spends most of his time sitting around drinking beer, everyone is afraid of him. He has the happy knack of being able to inspire fear just by looking at someone and lowering his voice. It is a remarkably powerful performance. Toni Collette as Brett's girlfriend Michelle is able to give us some insight into why an apparently sane (if insecure) woman would want Brett - it's the buzz of his badness that attracts. Being derived from a play, there is drama here, but because the approach is also rather clinical, it does feel a bit like looking at cockroaches through a magnifying lens. It's hard to feel much empathy with Brett - whatever made him what he is, he's pretty nasty and permanent incarceration seems to be the best option. If there is any chance of redemption it is not evident here. The other brothers Glen and Stevie are not so bad (though Stevie has a violent streak), but easily led, or bullied. In other circumstances they would not have committed such a crime. So in the end it is down to Brett and we don't even get a hint as to why he is as he is. He does tell us we are all gods by which he means we are all responsible for what we do. In his case he's happy to be a murdering psychopath. So look out. "},{"Title":"Be careful...it bites.... (WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS)","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A comment was made here that Australian films are more than just about three drag queens in a bus tripping across the outback, or a cast of actors falling all over each other because the lead actor is American. Well, thank God for those kinds of Aussie and Kiwi films, because between the sturm und Drang of ONCE WERE WARRIORS, THE UGLY and now this, you might start to think that Down Under is a place you'd never want to go to in a million years...Anyway, about the film. Very few American filmmakers visit this kind of cinematic territory, not because it isn't worth examining, but in most cases it alienates an audience looking for entertainment from Jump Street. The comparison to TAXI DRIVER is indeed apt, but you might say it's also been cross-bred with a touch of AT CLOSE RANGE as well. THE BOYS certainly reminds us all too well that we Americans certainly don't have the market cornered on testosterone-fueled, dimwitted, nihilistic, misogynist sociopaths, and here we get three for the price of one, and brothers yet. Though it tries to show us in small, subtle ways why they are the way they are, it's kind of difficult to muster up any sympathy for people who are this far gone into their own murky little world, especially when every frame drips with menace, and the potential for brutality that could explode at any moment (and eventually does.)Where American screenwriters and playwrights have dealt with the rage and hopelessness borne of lower class socio-economic circumstances in such literary fare ranging from A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE to TAXI DRIVER, the dynamics mapped out in THE BOYS are closer to LAST EXIT TO BROOKLYN, both Hubert Selby Jr.'s undiluted novel of industrial strength squalor and despair, and director Uli Edel's gut-wrenching screen version.David Wenham gives us a psycho/sociopath every bit as memorable and searingly portrayed as Robert DeNiro's Travis Bickle, the only difference being that even in the depths of his growing isolation, rage and despair, Travis managed to have some redeeming qualities, could stir some sense of empathy within us. Don't expect to find any of that here with Wenham's Brett Sprague. Already pretty far gone when he was arrested the first time for attempted robbery, assault with a deadly weapon and grievious bodily harm, he helps underscore the failure to rehabilitate any felon by incarceration, no matter what country you're in, and he comes out with a chip on his shoulder double the size of the one he had before. In fact, that coffee table he totes out of jail in the opening scene makes a fine metaphoric symbol.John Polson and Anthony Hayes deliver fine performances also as his brothers, Glenn and Stevie; half-wit ne'er-do-wells without a whole brain between them until Big Brother comes home. Domineering and manipulative, Brett is all too aware of how equally dangerous his brothers are compared to him. All they need is a spark to light the fuses of their dormant rage, and he has the matches to do it.The most truly depressing part of the film is not witnessing the human train wreck of the Sprague family's existence; it's having one look at their mother, Sandra (Lynette Curran) and realizing exactly why the brothers Sprague are the way they are. It would be easy to lay the blame all on Sandra's head, but you just know by the ineffectual way she tries without success to corral her boys, that she was probably raised no differently, nor were her parents...if they stuck around long enough, nor were THEIR parents, back and back, ad nauseum, ad infinitum. The same can be said for at least two of the women involved in their lives Nola (Anna Lise), Stevie's pregnant girlfriend who may or may not be having his child, and Michelle (Oscar nominee Toni Collette, here in a role very unlike what we've seen her in lately), who is drawn to Brett's bad-boy charms like a forbidden aphrodisiac, but is certainly not ready for the bitter aftertaste of the venom that comes with it.The entire cast and crew have done an impeccable job of rendering a slice of urban Australian life we would not otherwise be aware of, under the direction of Rowan Woods, who is responsible for some of the darker episodes of the spectacular series FARSCAPE.Most notable is the growing sense of disaster that builds with every blackout, even with the flash-forward device that jerks us into the aftermath of the boys' horrible crime, until the devastating ending, when after making his speech about being our own gods to his acid-tripping siblings, the last three words he speaks Let's get her, hold all the gruesome implication of the entire body count of the first SCREAM movie. All this, and you never see the actual crime they committed.Which is exactly the point, so effectively made here. You don't have to, to know how brutal it was.Looking for a light-hearted romp for the evening? Better skip this one. Want a hard-bitten, dark-as-midnight, kitchen-sink drama, warts, scabs and all? Help yourself. The Spragues sure can't do likewise. "},{"Title":"The most powerful Aussie crime flick that I have ever seen","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is the most powerful piece of cinema to come out of Australia and the performances by all actors, and in particular David Wenham and Toni Colletter where incredible.It is in the same league as Romper Stomper, and, Chopper, but with better acting.This film was never intended to be a documentary or to be an insight into the criminal mind and those who have reviewed it as such have totally missed the point. This is a movie about smalltime criminals that pulls no punches and tells it as it is and doesn't try to glorify these characters unlike the sort of movies you see coming out of Hollywood that are from the same genre.If you are looking for a moral to the story, or to learn some facts about the criminal world you may be disappointed with this film.But if you like intensely realistic plot lines and powerful acting performances then you will find The Boys to be one of those movies that you must add to your DVD library. "},{"Title":"A brilliant Australian Film","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a Movie...this movie was impacting, and left a sour taste in my mouth. Brett Sprague was an extremely nasty piece of works. David Wenham brought the character of Brett to life so brilliantly. I was in fear of this character, and what was the most frightening aspect was that this character felt real... not a Freddy Kruger type of unbelievable scary character, but a TRUE nightmare... there are people like Brett out there in the world, and that was what was so frightening for me. This movie had a tremendous sense of fear and danger throughout. Every performance was outstanding, especially those of David Wenham, Toni Collette and Lynette Curran. The women in the film sensed the imminent danger, but the brothers were just hopelessly and dangerously in awe of their brother, Brett. This is Australian film making at its best, and I would like to commend our film industry with taking risks, and encouraging our artists to continue to make wonderfully original and creative films. Congratulations to all concerned. "},{"Title":"Gritty, brilliant and outstanding acting","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is acting at its best!  Although confrontational, The Boys serves as a reminder that society is made up of many characters including those less than endearing in The Boys.  Brilliant ensemble acting including a stand out performance by David Wenham gives this movie the edge above the normal urban society story.   "},{"Title":"A scorching, infuriating landmark of a movie","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The filmmakers of The Boys get so deep inside the blamings and self pity of humanity's monsters, you could almost miss the culpability of the ineffectual women who enable them to grow up into walking catastrophes. The events of this film, set off by the first day of parole for angry young headcase Brett Sprague, lead to a decision so horribly wrong-headed and repellent, that a suspended moment of nothing but a black screen is one of the most excruciating pregnant pauses in the history of films. Up to this point, there's a kitchen sink drama like almost no other (Gary Oldman's Nil By Mouth a close cousin, but not nearly as upsetting) and lacerating performances by the cast and crew - The sound designer gets a deserved opening credit.It appears that this movie was well appreciated in Australia, but had an abortion of a release here in the US. Now that it's on video, it's one of the best lost gems you're likely to score this year.  "},{"Title":"Powerhouse Drama","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rowan Wood's film The Boys is a cracking little drama from Australia, driven by some excellent performances and notable for an early appearance from David Wenham & Toni Collette on screen together before they hit it big over in the states.This film is intense, taken as a slow burning drama it works incredibly well as a portrait of a working class Australian family tearing itself apart over the course of a single day. It culminates in an ending that leaves the viewer cold, featuring intertwined cut-scenes strewn throughout the film which show later consequences only serving to intensify the lack of resolution and bleakness present as the credits start to roll.As a director Rowan Woods adds some nice touches though the main focus of the film is on developing the characters present. The opening sequences feature an almost surrealistic focus on an everyday Australian household setting and the objects within it, something quite unknown to me in the realms of film which sets a spooky tone to the minimalist soundtrack composed by The Necks. Grainy shots of the city at night between sequences further this, capturing perfectly the maudlin vibes I know so well.The Boys is a very well made film, one of the most accomplished dramas to have come out of Australia. Being born on these shores personally and having known people who live like this it becomes all the more relevant. It is bleak but despite this there is an uneasy humor throughout, the plight of the ultimately pathetic characters striking an ambiguity where you don't know whether to laugh or feel disturbed.This is life... is it not? "},{"Title":"This is the TAXI DRIVER of the nineties.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Western suburbs of Sydney and Brett is released from prison to be welcomed back into his own prison, Home. The family are at odds with life and Brett makes matters worse. By evenings end the brothers dwell into a deep dark void and go on a primitive hunt. A disturbing film capturing the struggle of the male species placed at the bottom of the social ladder. Brett, repressed by the laws of society and the repressor of the weak, portrays the primitive role of man as he and his brothers roam within the confines of their cave where they rule supreme. In the outside world they are powerless. They even fail in controlling their women that their forefathers were able to do with a heavy hand. So society has changed but not the testerone levels these men carry. Have we gone against nature and created these oppressed monsters who break and rise to seek their fury on the weak? A wonderful discussion to have over a beer and BBQ. The director Woods opts for the neo-realist approach that works in the confine spaces of the house. Strong filmmaking for a small film carrying important issues.   "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm surprised by the negative reviews I've read here so far, but, thankfully, there are some great positive summaries offsetting these.I don't know whether it's The Great Aussie Film or not, but it's a great film, alright, and like a few members here, I've known people like these, and having known them, have absolutely no sense of sympathy for them. The experiences I draw from are from a working class childhood... and, interestingly enough, I guess, the worst, overtly violent characters came from lower income families (the covertly nasty ones are another story entirely). I recall no books in their apartments/townhouses, no value on education, their TVs droning endlessly, little to no parental interest -- much less control -- of any kind with those kids (unless one or the other parent took the time to kick the crap out of one or the other of them). My capacity for empathy goes only so far those people were like human piranhas, every one of them. I suppose part of the film's point is asking what creates characters like these. There is none of the ubiquitous overt violence common to just about all films now something the director deserves high marks for, and all performances were outstanding. An Australian poster on a bulletin board recommended it, and he was dead on. Alas, I could only get it as a used VHS tape, but here's to hoping it'll magically appear on DVD over here sometime. "},{"Title":"An incredibly powerful and disturbing movie","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not entertainment and should be approached with caution.  That said, it is a powerful insight into how a certain strata of society lives. You see the boredom and hopelessness and the effect it has on the individual and the family.The strength of the movie lies in the control and stillness of the main character.  This is not a man you want to meet, let alone upset. "}{"Title":"The dark side of Australian suburbia.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The reason I was riveted by this film is because it was so real.  And so Australian.  I know lots of blokes like Brett Sprague.In the scene where Brett accuses Nola of calling the cops, Nola turns away from him and Brett says Hey....hey, look at me. In the nonchalant way he says is more terrifying than if he was yelling at the top of his lungs.  You can tell there's something evil festering away inside Brett.David Wenham puts in one of best performances in Australian cinema.  His domineering portrayal of Brett was one of the most chilling I've seen in recent years.  I'd rank it alongside the animal presence in In The Winter Dark for pure scare value.This movie is what Australian film is all about. Not cross-dressers going cross country in a bus, or a bunch of idiots having a zany family christmas, or even a full Australian cast falling over themselves because the main star is American.1998 was a fantasic year for Aussie films, & The Boys was one of the best.**** out of four.  "},{"Title":"Brotherly love, and the nerve jangling, ruling Wenham","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" While you watch this surprisingly short film, again, you are reminded, it's not quality, not quantity, and The Boys is a jarringly intense masterpiece of scenes, that seem handpicked, as they are all potent, with some truly claustrophobic moments. One reason, evidently stands out David Wenham, as one of three ex cons, good for nothing brothers, who's just got out of the nick. The telling of this story moves back and forth, so don't try and think, just enjoy this blessed experience of high calibre acting, Lynette Curran up there with Wenham, as the much suffering mother, while Toni Collette relishes in a role in what you would call her most sexiest, as Wenham's loud mouthed girlfriend. This is basically a domestic drama, but the film's magic, is in how the story's utilized, so tight knit, a no holed drama, which is at times, is so confrontingly real, especially in Wenham's performance. The fantastic Another Hayes plays the weak, unhinged, patsy sort of brother, kind of reminding you a bit of him, in Suburban Mayhem, where he also played a, good for nothing loser. John Polson, seems the most together brother, you so want him to get his life on track, and leave with his girlfriend, sugar mummy, of higher class, but, his brothers mean too much to him. The film with it's dark music scores, and fade outs, that work perfectly for this film, mirrors real life, with an all too realness, in a chilling, engrossing watch, that sadly runs shorter than you want it too, it's last scene, memorably scarring. One Oz movie experience, which again does us proud, joining that section of fine Oz films. "},{"Title":"best australian film along with chopper and the club","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie flat out rules. i must have seen it now at least 50 times. the intensity and at times frightening realistic dialogue really knocked me out when i first saw this. if you dont see this movie RIGHT NOW, i honestly dont know what to do with you. all the cast is first-rate , especially dave wenham,  whose bogan warrior character brett made me wish i was sydney white trash, i cant stand seachange but i have to admit i started watching it such to see wenham in action. john polson continues to impress me too - from sum of us to idiot box - all his roles he seems to excel in - well done. i think this movie has only just been released overseas - so track this down if you live overseas - do yourself a favour and youll thank me later... this has to be the most screwed-up family in history!!!mark "},{"Title":"Westie scumbags laid bare","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" None too unrealistic account of westie sons in a fibro house with a chicken wire fence. Bang in the stubbies, daggy haircuts, goatees, and scabby jeans and that is just about the whole package. Based loosely around a horrendous crime, the film really shows the power of fear and how a sinister bully can infect and create an atmosphere for all to choke on. Brett is well acted and Jackie has i right when she says they all felt safer when he was in jail. The unrealistic part is that all the sons have their liberty and there is not an ankle bracelet to be seen. You could say that being a westie means you don't have a chance but Toni Collette comes from sunny downtown Blacktown so it seems some get out. That she was back in a washing shed for this flick was mildly amusing.Not a cheery film by any means, more a hopeless account of a funny kind of low bottom snobbery - you all think yer better than us cos we're scum and we don't want yer pity but what chance do we have cos no one does nuthin for us. "},{"Title":"Real life look at life in the western suburbs","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not your usual feature packed movie.....more of a documentary style look at the lives of a disjointed family in the western suburbs of Sydney Australia. A life where violence reigns supreme, where there is little or no love. It is quite slow, but slowly draws the viewer into the lives of the 3 brothers and those around them. Excellent performance all round. This movie is more of a character based work, rather than relying on special effect etc. The sad part is, this way of life is all too common in the western suburbs of Sydney. "},{"Title":"Brett as a superior character.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some people argue that Brett is a prisoner in his own home. I argue that Brett is a prisoner of social-class, but he is superior in this class. He is a God-like figure who ignores his Mother's authority. He is frequently placed with lights above his head, symbolic of a halo and heavenly presence. In fact, Brett even goes so far as to say that 'we are all Gods in our own world'. Brett is not imprisoned in his home. Rather, he is imprisoned by his social-class location. In this social class he is superior. He is a God in his own world rather than a prisoner.  "},{"Title":"Pedestrian Soapie","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Whilst a worthy idea, The Boys fails to deliver mainly due to poor casting. Wenham tries hard as the lead'thug'and has some moments where he appears deeply troubled but doesn't really pull it off - a very one dimensional character that the writers failed to develop. I suspect Wenham's performance suffers mainly due to the poor ensemble casting of Hayes and Polson, who lack credibility of any type as bad guys - they simply are not scary and their performances are boring - I have seen tougher guys at the local car wash / fruit shop / express lane at Coles etc than in this movie, how they were cast in this is a mystery. Curran does a good job as the mother but she can't compete against the 'unbelievable' sons she has to work with. Toni Collette does her best in a bland role but doesn't really add much to the movie. Anna Lise Phillips does a nice job as Nola. This movie offers some interest but mostly forgettable. Watch it fast forward. "},{"Title":"A down under film that rises only meagerly","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A young Australian man leaves prison and returns to his family consisting of his mother, his two brothers, and their women. We see a slice of life into a working class dysfunctional family and how the dynamics contribute to the criminal, destructive actions of its members.That much is quite realistically portrayed and is not much different than what you might find in Europe or America. The only thing uniquely Australian is the very thick Aussie accent, often mumbled by the characters. In case you have as much trouble as I understanding the dialog, and assuming you're seeing this on cable or a recording, turn on the closed caption. The resulting subtitles will greatly enhance your comprehension and enjoyment of the film. In reading others' comments, I know there are many who really loved this film and found it had a powerful impact. I'm sorry I can't share their enthusiasm. I do like many films in this genre, but this one just didn't do it for me.While it does have its positive qualities, I felt the film ultimately does not deliver very well. The nonlinear sequence is more confusing than enlightening. In addition, creating a sense of dullness and drabness unfortunately often makes this production rather dull and drab. If the subject intrigues you, it's a worthwhile watch. But don't set your expectations too high. "},{"Title":"More a social documentary or commentary than an entertaining movie.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some social issues are half witnessed here.  An extremely depressing movie (perhaps better described as a documentary) that won't see any of its viewers - or those that actually DO finish watching it, take any steps towards social reform of these types of down-and-outers  (Rhetorically I ask) Does anybody really care about the less than one percent of Australia's population who chose by their lack of intelligence to NOT curb their primal urges, and as consequence end up in prison ?  Was the objective of this movie to spark sympathy for these frustrated down-and-outers, or just to tell this depressing story?  On the documentary front this movie failed to inform the full story - it only hints towards the enactment of their violence and frustration upon a young female (defenseless victim). This movie certainly and successfully does show these three brothers' social predicament, however it also successfully fails to entertain, mainly because of its depressive subject matter and lack of story...... Rates in the - utterly boring category. This type of subject matter has been more successfully witnessed through tele-movies and series, etc.... "},{"Title":"A disappointing, slow and uneventful movie.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had such high hopes for this film. Powerful, read the Sydney Post. Mesmerising, Frightening, Terrorfying!. None of the above. What The Boys is, is a slow and boring piece, similar to the frayed edges of a shoelace it goes all over the place.Brett Sprague has just been released from jail, and arrives back to re-establish himself into the family. Living at home are his two deadbeat brothers, his mother who's 'proud of her boys', and his girlfriend. He makes himself noticed again by flaring up his violent temper.I don't know what exactly this film is about. It's just so vague and pointless. I can't recommend it to anyone except arthouse fans, which I am, but was sorely disappointed by this film.Four out of ten.  "}{"Title":"Worth taking a look only because Collette is in it.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A dim-witted Aussie leaves jail and goes back home, where he reunites with his two even more dim-witted brothers and all their heavily masochistic girlfriends, new and old. Eventually the jail-bird brother puts so much instability in the house that all three of their girlfriends leave them within a day. In the meantime, we are treated to sequences from the near and not-so near future, in which the three morons obviously did something very stupid and are in jail awaiting trial. The movie builds on this premise keep the viewer interested by making him anxiously wait for the explanation of what the brothers did to land in jail. It's at first a chaotic story-telling method, but gradually settles in. The problem is the actual crime, and the way the movie ends they attack, rape(?), and kill(?) a random woman from the street. That simple. I was sort of betting on them robbing a place for money, or the crime being a bit more complex in plot, but all it turns out to be is assault on a woman. It's supposed be to their revenge on the female sex for their girlfriends leaving them and what-not. But it somehow doesn't quite ring true; only one of the brothers actually cared about his relationshit. The other two pretty much ignored their girlfriends, and didn't seem to be that much interested even in having sex with them, so what's this stuff with assaulting that woman at the end of the movie? A mediocre drama, with plenty of shaky, hand-held camera scenes, and unsympathetic characters. "},{"Title":"I kept waiting for it to get better","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  but then it ended. The characters were so tiresome I justwanted to strangle them. I'll never get those 86 minutes of my life back. I saw this film at the Mill Valley Film Festival, and there wasn't even polite applause at the end. "}]