[{"Title":"They're old enough to know better and too young to care!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"155 out of 210 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have recently been seeing a psychiatrist about a few troubles. In one of his sessions, he bought up about the movie Cruel Intentions, which I absolutely loved. He said he loved the start of the movie where the evil Sebastian says to the Psychologist `You have beautiful legs, I would love to photograph them'. This then sets the tone for one of the best teen films that the world has seen. Based on the movie Dangerous Liaisons, Cruel Intentions goes down as one of my top five favourite films of all-time.A sex-obsessed rich boy Sebastian sets out to win his greatest conquest - a girl who has proclaimed in a Teen magazine that she will wait until marriage to lose her virginity. The teen is egged on by his sister, Catherine, an evil scheming girl in her own right. The two have a wager on whether Sebastian can achieve his conquest. If he wins, he gets a night of bliss with his stepsister, if she wins, she keeps his most prided possession, his Jaguar convertible!Well this is a brilliant backstabbing, bitchy, love and hate war movie. I cannot remember a movie like it in my time. The theme of the movie was priceless. Having two rich hobnob kids toying with various people's emotions in their neighborhood was just great. In fact it is not at all silly to think that this does not happen in real life, because if you don't believe that then you are very naïve. There are many people who need to be praised for this classic movie. Director Roger Kumble did a great job in bringing this movie to our screens. He added so many little `steamy' pieces to this movie that it was never going to fail. Then you have the producer Neal H. Moritz who also allowed this film to shine. He gave this film all the right production touches, which I can only praise.Then you have the wonderful cast that was assembled for Cruel Intentions. The main star for this film would have to be the gorgeous Sarah Michelle Gellar. She was outstanding as the horrible Catherine. Her character while at times was extremely hard to like, she was almost too hard to not want to like. I mean she was every guy's fantasy. Sexually liberated (and not afraid to admit it), then all she wanted to do is screw up all her enemies at the same time. Then you have the patronising and &#145;stud man' Sebastian, played by Hollywood hunk Ryan Philippe. His performance in this film was also first class. I thought his character was a lot more likable then Catherine's, but you could sometimes want to strangle him for the way he screws with people, just like his stepsister does, and then still seemingly gets more women dying to be with him. Other cast members just help to make this film an extraordinary viewing experience. Reese Witherspoon is fantastic as the pure and innocent, Annette. She helps to balance the sour bitchy side of the cast, with her friendly almost sickening goody goody side. I am looking forward to seeing Witherspoon in the comedy, Legally Blonde, directed by new Australian director Robert Luketic. Selma Blair was also very good in her role as the dumb and very naïve Cecil. The kissing scene that she has with Gellar was one of the highlights of the film, with the kiss being voted the best onscreen kiss a few years ago.Then this film has another great side to it, that of the soundtrack. It has so many great songs on it. Placebos tune `Every me, Every you' helps start this movie off, then you get songs such as Colorblind by Counting Crows and the classy, Bitter Sweet Symphony, by the Verve. This would have to be one of the world's most popular soundtracks from where I view it.In conclusion, Cruel Intentions is a film I can say I love and that I can learn from. People in real life do use people and do hurt them. I know this because I was involved in such a scenario not so long ago. Nothing was ever happy until it was a fight and scrag. I will go as far to admit that I was confronted with a real life Catherine, a person who was such a goody goody on the outside, but the real person on the inside is a person that loves to cause trouble and will go out of her way to do it. Anyone who is like that is a real low-life in my view. Get swept up in the nasty love triangle, &#145;Cruel Intentions'!Rating 5 Stars or 10/10  "},{"Title":"Sexy","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"134 out of 189 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie gives a sexy, sensual twist to the stereotypical teen flick. It communicates a new idea of sexuality amongst present-day teenagers, rather than the bang her and leave her mentality that is most commonly portrayed. I think the cast was very well chosen, and the dynamics of the cast were amazing. There weren't too many no names or B list actors, but on the other hand there weren't too many A listers, which would have thrown the focus off the plot. The music used in the movie was perfect because it accentuated the tone of the movie. I give Cruel intentions a 10 because it is a saucy love story without all the corniness of normal movies. "},{"Title":"Scandalously Ruthless","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"121 out of 183 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm writing on this movie because there is probably no bigger afficionado on this subject than myself. I've seen this movie thousands of times and must say that it is exquisite. The portrayal of Valmont by Ryan Phillippe is magnificent, and its intriguing to know that the object of his affection, Annette (Reese Witherspoon), is his real life wife. Sarah Michelle Gellar does easily the best acting of her career, not that that says too much. The story is one that has been done many times over (Dangerous Liaisons, Valmont), however, this was an excellent adaptation to this age group and these current times. The fact that the 20 somethings are portraying 17 year old kids is unnoticeable because of the great acting and the portrayal of the story. Phillippe is easily the highlight of the film with his slick portrayal of Valmont. His disregard for others feelings and emotions is ruthless. The piece is without comparison of the trend of terrible teen movies made in the late 90's-early 00-01. This is the only one that takes a serious storyline and portrays it with enough maturity to appeal not only to teens but older audiences as well. The one problem I do have with the movie is the way that Sebastian turns from so evil and wicked to this love sick kid at the end of the film. When you see the deleted scenes on the DVD, you see the original cut of the climatic scene between Valmont and Merteuil. In this scene rather than walk out in near tears, Valmont slaps Kathryn and demands her end of the bet, before he is finally denied and then leaves. This would be a much better scene than the one used. It goes along with the entire idea of the character and when he turns to a sap you feel like Sebastian is turning to a sappy wimp. The film is still an excellent piece and should be regarded as an admirable adaptation of the novel Les Liasons Dangereuse. "},{"Title":"C(R)OOL Intentions","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"78 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film (based on the 1988 hit 'Dangerous Liasons' starring Glenn Close, Michelle Pfieffer and John Malkovich) is a great movie intended for the older teenagers, and stars fine young acting talent.Rich kid Kathryn ('Buffy The Vampire Slayer's Sarah Michelle Gellar) bets her equally jaded step-brother Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe; 'I Know What You Did Last Summer', which co-starred  Sarah) that he can't seduce good girl, and virgin, Annette (played by Ryan's real-life wife Reese Witherspoon).Along the way, Kathryn tries to help sexually-inexperienced Cecile (Selma Blair) get some action in her life, while she starts screwing Cecile's ex-music instructor! Sound weird? It is. It's basically about 2 rich snobs who mess with the lives of those around them, just because their lives get boring.This film also stars Joshua Jackson ('The Skulls', 'Urban Legend', TV's 'Dawson's Creek) as Sebastian's gay best friend, who also gets involved in the use or be used storyline. Fellow teen-movie star Tara Reid ('Urban Legend', 'American Pie') also has a small role, as Sebastian's psychiatrists's daughter.This film is pretty intense and deals with sex, drugs, seduction and alienation in a brave, way that makes it appealing to all teenagers. Not for the light hearted, more daring than anything like 'She's All That' and 'Never Been Kissed', but it's still good fun!  "},{"Title":"A fantastic update about the rules of seduction","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions was my favorite movie when I was 14, to me it was everything I just wanted to be as a teen, despite how cruel and manipulative Katheryn was, I thought she was the coolest and strongest female character I'd ever seen on film. Now a couple years afterwards I read the book and saw the original Dangerous Liasons with John Malkovich and Glenn Close, I still very much enjoy Cruel Intentions. Like I said, this was just a terrific updated version of the ultimate story of love and betrayal, it was a little Dawson's Creek at times, but from what angle they went at, it was understandable. It had the biggest stars Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, Reese Withersppon, Tara Reid, Joshua Jackson, and Selma Blair. May I say they gave extremely impressive performances, but the best without a doubt goes to Sarah Michelle Gellar, she was just ultimately brilliant as Kathryn Muertiel, the cruelist girl in school who's goal isn't to be the most popular, but to dominate everyone's innocence.Kathryn and Sebastion are step brother and sister, they have a partnership together to work the school into a total wave of turning the most innocent into the most corrupted. They also have a love for each other, but Kathryn is the only girl Sebastian can't have, it kills him and she teases him constantly over it. Kathryn asks Sebastian if he could help her corrupt the girl that took her boyfriend, Cecil, a naive young girl who is under Kathryn's wing, but isn't aware of her intentions. But the plot thickens when Kathryn finds out that Cecil is in love with her black music teacher which her mother wouldn't like very much. Then Sebastian finds a girl, Annette, who believes that people shouldn't experience the act of love until they are in love. He and Kathryn make a bet while he seduces Cecil, that if he can corrupt Annette, he gets to bed Kathryn. But there's one problem, he might be in over his head when he starts to fall in love with Annette.Cruel Intentions is a great movie with good, strong performances. For what might have been a typical teen movie, this was just a good idea on where the director made decisions on how to make the story real. It's very romantic, heart breaking, and even has it's dark comedic moments for a little breath of air. I will always recommend this film to anyone, it's a great story. I would also highly recommend to watch Dangerous Liasons along with Cruel Intentions, so you have a little bit of a different variety. You'll find yourself a bit seduced with these movies.9/10 "},{"Title":"What a brilliant movie!!!","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"81 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be one of a kind, it was a lot better than I originally thought it would be, the name didn't make the movie sound too good, but after watching the movie I thought it was excellent. I found Reese Witherspoon's performance in this movie to be outstanding, I think SHE was the person who made the movie what it was. The movie started off by showing what kind of a person Ryan was in the film, but as the movie commenced it showed how he fell in love and by the end of the movie he had done a complete 180 from how he had started. This movie was just so much better than most of the other films I watched in those days, and it got me into not judging a movie by its title or by what other people think. Some people had different views on it, but I thought it was brilliant and I don't think they could have done much more to improve on this movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully twisted.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"67 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have recently seen the movie Cruel Intentions, and let me say it is one of the best films I've seen in a long while. As a big movie buff, I always see the latest movies on opening night, but I got a chance to see this one months before it will be released. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a stunning actress, and portrays Kathryn extremely well. Her character is evil and cunning, and is delivered with such grace and perfection... Ryan Phillippe is excellent as well, and he portrays Sebastian Valmont with as much talent as the lovely Ms. Gellar. They work very well together, as they did in their last movie together, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMERReese Witherspoon gives a nice performance as well, and Selma Blair's acting is worthy of as much recognition as Ms. Gellar's.Anyway, I should stop ranting about the cast... the story is  a great update of Dangerous Liaisons, with a perfect mix of satire, wit, and drama. Writer Roger Kumble certainly has a sick sense of humor, and I applaud him for that. This is the most beautiful, wicked film since Wild Things, and though that may not impress some people, oh well. I thought it was incredible.  "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"71 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you'll hate yourself for liking. It's another teen update of a classic story, in this case, Dangerous Liasons. Good acting, competent direction, nice cinematography, and an excellent soundtrack make this one entertaining viewing. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Clever, witty and very sensual","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this film wealthy prep school student Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) bets her stepbrother Sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) that he can't deflower the virginal Annette (Reese Witherspoon) before the school year begins. If he fails to accomplish this task, Kathryn gets his Jaguar Roadster; if he succeeds, he gets an evening of pleasure with Kathryn. I just finished watching Cruel Intentions and what a pleasant surprise this film turned out to be. I guess the best way to describe it is as a sexy and seductive thriller. The film is very clever and bold but above all, extremely engaging and entertaining. Dealing with this kind of subject...making this kind of film...it's definitely not easy. Usually these kind of films come off somewhat fake and lame; corny, whatever you want to call it. Thankfully, Cruel Intentions went the other way, probably thanks to the witty and sharp dialogue and a very good direction. Ryan Phillippe delivered a terrific performance and so did Reese Witherspoon. I was actually a bit disappointed with Sarah Michelle Gellar, her acting was not very convincing at times to say the least but honestly, the story is so engaging that I was able to overlook that flaw. Another aspect that really took me by surprise was the musical score. Cruel Intentions has one of the best soundtracks I have ever seen in films. There's some great well known songs like Skunk Anansie's secretly and Placebo's every me and every you, but there's also some fast paced instrumental tracks throughout the film that really compliment the scenes. Overall, a great watch and so much more then a teen film.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions &#x97; High society teens ruining the reputation of others with sex and deceit","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is the perfect romantic drama. This fruit did not fall far from the Romeo & Juliet tree. Romance, love, plots, and drama are all turned modern and splendidly rendered. Add to that a great soundtrack, beautiful shots, tension, hot eroticism, sex, and you get the perfect mix for that type of flick.All the actors are playing their best game, without exception. The story line is gripping, interesting, and it delivers without fail. The twists are numerous, non-repetitive, and scandalous.This movie showed everybody that Sarah Michelle Gallar could play anything, because this role is as far from the vampire slayer as you can get.A must see. "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions(1999) is a tame and lousy movie that never retains the sense of tragedy found in the Stephen Frears version of Dangerous Liaisons.  It was a stupid idea to set it among high school teens(rich teens) because the characters in the film are angels compared to the French Aristocrats of the late 18th Century who were the most ruthless, extremely decandent and evil human beings around.  What I find amazing is that there are many people who are unaware that the first version of Dangerous Liaisons was done in 1960 by Roger Vadim with Jeanne Moreau with the setting similar to this film except with married adults involved.  The characters in the movie behaved like bad little children instead of the evil jerks that aristocrats were.  This film is the worst version of the novel that its based on.I would have enjoyed the movie more if it took a more hardcore approach to the material instead of the softness injected into it.  Its easy for Hollywood to do a version of Dangerous Liaisons then it would be to do a version of 120 Days of Sodom as a novel like this might hit close to home in its subject matter.  I think that the movie would've been better off in the hands of a director like for instance Francois Truffalt, Abel Ferrara, Bernardo Bertulucci, Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Catherine Breillat(did the brillant Movie Romance-1999), and someone like Pier Paolo Pasolini who would have made the film more powerful and interesting.  The humillation scene would have been better if it showed the spirit of Valmont coming out of nowhere ala Harry Lime to give a big smile at his step sister during this scene.  I suggest this motion picture to people who are unable to see films that deal with adult themes and sexual content shown in an emotional and everyday way of life style. "},{"Title":"A sassy, sexy, and downright seductive shocker!. Cruel Intentions is one of my all time favorite films.","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is seriously a movie that gives me the chills, every time I watch it. Its bold, its daring, and downright chilling. The main thing I dug about Cruel Intentions, was the relationships, and the manipulation for there own benefits. Sebastian is used to getting his own way, he uses woman to sleep with them, and manipulates people for the hell of it, along with his sister Kathryn. What we don't know at the start of the movie, is how Sebastian has been affected by Kathryn. Then comes along Annette, who Sebastian figures will be his little toy, his own personal trophy so to speak. As much as I loved the relationship between Kathryn and Sebastian, I adored the one between Annette and Sebastian even more. We see this arrogant young charmer, who loves to mess people up, and as the movie progresses, we see the real him start to come out, thanks to Annette. Sebastian isn't used to fun, he's not used to genuine laughter, other than the laughter he got for his own amusement, and Annette gave that all to him.It just seemed so genuine. I'm a rare guy who enjoys romance, and this put a whole new deal on romance for me, They pushed the envelope many times, and I loved every minute of it. One thing I was disappointed about though is they didn't give us enough info, on how Kathryn and Sebastian became so evil together. The prequel|If that's what you wanna call it| gave us snippets of information, but it was basically a rehash, so I would really love to see a real movie focused on the relationship of Kathryn and Sebastian. Cruel Intentions is a movie I can't stop thinking about, each time I watch it. Each time I have new questions I need answering, and every time I noticed something new, something that stimulates my mind even more. It's just a fascinating film, and one of my favorite daring love stories.Performances. Ryan Phillippe in his best role in my opinion, delivers a suave, emotional, and downright convincing show. At the start of the movie we are aware of his charm, but we hate what he's pulling, yet somehow he's able to make us relate to him. It's a terrific performance, that often gets overlooked, how can people honestly say he's wooden?. Sarah Michelle Gellar gives one hell of a devious, yet deliciously sexy performance. She's clearly a backstabbing woman, who cares about no one about herself, and at the time Sebastian seemingly is the only one who understands her, it's only what's revealed in the diary, that we come to see how he felt. Reese Witherspoon is fabulous as Annette. Perfectly innocent, yet wonderfully charming, and good-hearted. Her simple gorgeous smile, or her easy-going charm can put a smile on your face in a minute. Her chemistry with Ryan was outstanding. Selma Blair plays the ditsy Cecile to perfection. She's clearly a ditz, yet a likable one. Joshua Jackson has a small bit as a gay man. Sean Patrick Thomas plays the token black part down to a T, and a has a key role in the end. Tara Reid has a small part in the beginning.Bottom line. Cruel Intentions is a movie I'm very fond of, and I can proudly say it's one of my all time favorites. This isn't just a movie for teens, it's a powerful love story for us adults too. I think everybody needs to experience this movie at least once. An absolute must see! Now I gotta check out Dangerous Liasons, because that's what this movie is based on.9/10 "},{"Title":"Charismatic but bubblegum-bound","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A stylish film that succeeds through a super cast. It's a revised version of Stephen Frear's hugely entertaining corset-buster Dangerous Liaisons aimed at the lucrative Buffy The Dawson's O.C. market. The updating is kept to a minimum given that the characters are drawn from the rarefied social hothouse of Park Avenue. As a result, there's no pandering to technological currency (e.g. email is explicitly eschewed in favour of script).The acting isn't great but it is thoroughly watchable and entertaining. Phillipe struggles manfully in the long shadow of John Malkovich's career-creating performance. Gellar, Witherspoon and Blair are very strong as a triumvirate of disparate, blossoming femininity. Their success is in translating simple sexual appeal (or its foreswearance) into the broader preoccupations of the modern girl; though aware they're not as susceptible to men through mantra and alternatives offered to modern women. Maybe director Roger Kumble should get the hat tip for that though... 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Redeeming Ending","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is something a sadistic look at other people through the eyes of two spoiled university brats. They view others as mere objects that are insignificant unless they are of some use or entertainment. Sarah Michelle Gellar plays Kathryn Merteuil, her university's class president. She conveys a public image of sunshine and roses but behind closed doors carries out actions not better than a sociopathic slut. Her step-brother, Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe) is of equal footing, living the life of a playboy whose ambitions favor the seduction of innocent young girls.The brother and sister soon engage in a bet involving the deflowering of a puritanical coed. If Sebastian wins, Kathryn is his to do anything he wants with. Yes, this means some pretty perversely incestual acts. If Kathryn wins, she gets Sebastian's vintage Jaguar. The kicker to what would seem an otherwise easy accomplishment for Sebastian is that the girl he has in his targets, Annette Hargrove (played by Reese Witherspoon), is anything but stupid and is keen of Sebastian's reputation and his advances.*SPOILER* A bit of the plot gets lost in Kathryn revenge against a boyfriend that dumped her. She justifies going after his girlfriend so that her actions cannot be traced back. This makes sense except for the fact that it would appear that little harm if any would have made to the boyfriend.Sarah Michelle Gellar is about as seductive and sexual as you can imagine in the film without actually taking her clothes off. Reese Witherspoon does great at being a good-natured person with a brain actually fixed to her beautiful body. Perhaps the carried weight of the whole film rests on Ryan Phillippe's performance and how love transforms him. But in redemption of some of the film's wandering and weak plot points, the ending comes along as a wonderful tsunami of sweet justice. *SPOILER* Sebastian turned over his most prized possession to Annette to show her the truth of who he is. In a beautifully portrayed ending like that of Real Genius (soundtrack playing in the background and the film's characters moving in slow motion), Kathryn storms out of the school's main hall and discovers every dark secret in her brother's journal has been published for all to see. 6/10 "},{"Title":"not worth the time","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am shocked that this movie is rated as highly as it is. It was offensive without being titillating, and gave little satisfaction for watching it in the end. Reece Witherspoon's character was never developed in the script so that you care what happens to her. Ryan Philippe's character is filled with bravado, but little else. Sarah Gellar's character is the only interesting one, and she seems to be a caricature. There is a surprising ending, but it is not much of a surprise. The technicals of the film are mostly fine--good lighting, interesting scenery outside and rich appointments inside. The sound was a bit difficult to hear on the VHS copy I saw. All in all, a waste of talent and time. "},{"Title":"the worst of the worst for all the wrong reasons","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this on video with a friend who had purchased the used copy from an ugly, awful chain video store.Cruel Intentions represents the worst, nastiest, greediest sludge of Hollywood.First it exploits young actors and viewers by titillating with trite but explicit sexuality. Ryan Phillippe is one of the least charismatic actors I have ever seen, and Ms. Gellar baffles me with her popularity. She is a homely, scrawny, faux-thespian doing Cruella DeVille on emil nitrate, but is supposed to be this sex kitten.the plot twists in this film are so forced and contrived that they made me very sad and tired, without really being sleepy.Lastly, the film smugly calls itself a contemporary interpretation of a literary classic to boost its resume. All it is is an R rated version of Saved By the Bell meets Dallas.Bottom of the pond scum. I recommend Belle Du Jour "},{"Title":"Stupifyingly bad, an insult even to its teen audience.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, one thing for sure is that the previous three versions of Dangerous Liaisons have nothing to fear from this latest remake. After leaving the theatre I was hard-pressed to decide what the worst part of the film was. The cast are barely passable to pathetic, especially Ryan (54) Phillippe. The writing and direction turn the first half into an attempt to shock with repeated double entendres and sexual innuendo. It wants to be soft-core porn. And the second half is simply teenage soap opera played out so cheesily that it almost seems like a satire of itself - but don't give the filmmaker that much credit. In the end it was stupifyingly bad, an insult even to the younger teen audience to which it is obviously targeted. "},{"Title":"a juvenile production of a wonderful literary work. in other words-a dumbed down version of a seemingly beautiful work.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie had to be the worst film i have ever seen in my life.originally i never wanted to see the movie and wished that i never was given the opportunity to do so. seeing that this movie was shown as part of a course requirement i was given little choice--i couldn't help but notice how bland the film was.the actors were horrid, very fourth rate...a high school production would have rated higher than these actors.if you want to see a great take on this movie view Les Liaisons Dangereuses...better yet Dangerous Liaisons.I do not recommend this movie upon my worst enemy. "},{"Title":"Excellent teen flick which will have you feeling good from start to finish","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"32 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" CRUEL INTENTIONS, in my opinion, is an excellent teen flick which will have you feeling good from start to finish. When Dr. Greenbaum (Swoosie Kurtz) pounded on her office window and yelled at Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe) after Marci (Tara Reid) called her in tears, I really felt good. To me, the performances were top grade, the direction was flawless, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the set was nice. Also, the scenes with Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) were excellent, too. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent teen flick which will have you feeling good from start to finish to any Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, or Reese Witherspoon fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"mysteriously well liked","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Many people adore this movie. A friend of mine recommended this to me and I trusted his judgment. I probably should say that, although I found it well made, I was no great fan of Dangerous Liaisons either. I found Cruel Intentions very poorly written and badly overacted. Attempts at tenderness and intimacy come across as heavy handed and the attempts at eroticism are laughable. Sarah Michelle Gellar has a huge following who find her irresistible. I am not one of those. Perhaps this is one of those movies, like Showgirls, that can be really funny when re-watched, but my initial viewing was sheer embarrassment for all involved in making this steaming mess of a movie. "}{"Title":"Weak and awful are both gross understatements...","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sick and tired of these crappy teen updates of classic films that aren't half as good as the source material and somehow rake in millions more.One must wonder how in the world this ever got made in the first place. And how in the world did it ever become a box office smash? The majority of the filmgoers must have been teenagers, because I doubt any educated cinemagoer could actually enjoy *this*, much less recommend it to someone else. I could be wrong, but I somehow doubt it. (Roger Ebert liked it. Why? How?)Forgive my condenscending tone, but this film is a disaster. Essentially a lackluster teen update of Dangerous Liaisons, Cruel Intentions concerns the bet between step-siblings Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe) and Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar with black hair). If Sebastian can lay Annette (Reese Witherspoon), a virgin, then he gets to keep Kathryn for himself. But if he fails, then Kathryn gets his Jaguar. Simple enough, yes?Not so. Annette is very reserved about her feelings and her body, which provides a bit of a problem for Sebastian. But let's face it we all know what's going to happen between them. Without spoiling the movie, our first thoughts are that Sebastian will lay Annette, then realize that he really loves her over Kathyrn, then become unevil. I'm not going to confirm or deny this as truth, but I will say that a lot of the thoughts you're probably having about what happens in this movie are correct.This could have been an intriguing film, to be blatantly honest. Some teen updates, such as Romeo + Juliet, have a unique style that provides the audience with something new. Not here. Sure, Cruel Intentions is stylish, but it brings nothing new to the party, and you're going to be left with a sour taste in your mouth after it's over. You're also going to be continually checking your watch to see how much longer the film is and slapping your own head every time the stupid characters on-screen mutter their scripted words.Still, even with its stylish non-style aside, Cruel Intentions had potential as a sort of stupid, entertaining film. But Phillippe is one of the worst actors of the decade, and Sarah Michelle Gellar is no hot catch, either. Every production they touch usually ends up either disappointing or awful (sometimes both), including Scooby-Doo and I Know What You Did Last Summer.And Witherspoon, the best young actress in the film, is entirely subdued here. She seems like an utter dipsy-doodle idiot cast between a dangerous game between two non-related siblings. Which is the point. But she doesn't seem very intriguing at all, and her performance in 2001's Legally Blonde is by far a much better one. She basically played the same part, with the same corny dialogue, but that movie was a comedy that intended its audience to laugh at the character. Here she is actually meant to be taken seriously, which is almost as laughable as the entire film's overall effect.Based on Choderlos de Laclos' Les Liaisons Dangereuses and its original 1988 film remake with John Malkovich, Cruel Intentions is nothing but a modern day pale imitation of a greater picture. Its dialogue is ridiculous and its characters are all stereotypical. We know where the film is going long before it seems to know that we know that, which means we get a lot of stupid and cliched moments in between.This is a bad movie, and a bad remake. Perhaps with someone cleverer behind the helm, and with better actors and actresses, this could have been worthwhile. But then it would have just been Dangerous Liaisons, would it not?* 1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"The cruel thing is making somebody watch this garbage...","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Cruel Intentions' updates Choderlos de Laclos 18th Century novel of sex, deception and morality (or lack thereof) for the 'Buffy'/MTV generation and falls flat on its ass. This is a movie so God-awfully embarrassing that you wouldn't even wish it on a Backstreet Boys fan!All the cleverness, subtlety and ironic wit of the original story is lost in this dumbed down Gen Next mess. It doesn't even work on the trash level of similar superficial crap like 'I Still Know What You Did Last Summer' or 'Wild Things'. It's just plain BAD in every department!Gellar and Phillippe completely fail to convince as the Machiavellian anti-heroes. You do not believe in them for one second, and that is the major problem with this movie. But not the only problem. The acting is uniformly awful, but special mention must go to Selma Blair who will have you cringing in disbelief. It's a wonder she ever worked again after this. The usually impressive Reese Witherspoon fares the least worst from this turkey, but no-one could seriously claim that this role is one for her to be proud of. Let's just pretend it just never happened, okay?'Cruel Intentions' is THE PITS. If you're too brain-dead from watching Britney and Christina videos all day, try any of the three previous versions of this story. They are all worth watching, and all demolish this fiasco. And if you want to see a REALLY cynical and wickedly subversive teen spoof try Gregg Araki's 'Nowhere'. It's twenty times the movie this will EVER be! The decision is yours... "},{"Title":"Les Dreadful Liaisons","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Did the world need a teen version of Les Liaisons Dangereuses? Writer-director Kumble's screenplay is atrocious, veering from convoluted to mildly interesting to boring to ludicrous. Phillippe and Gellar look like little kids trying to play grown-up roles while the grown-ups (Fletcher, Kurtz, Baranski) simply look embarrassed. All the characters are uninteresting and one-dimensional. The dialog is so bad at times that it appears that Kumble is doing a spoof of the de Laclos novel except that any humor is purely unintentional. Phillippe's character is supposed to be a misguided and tragic hero or something but comes across as a confused and spoiled brat. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A few friends and I went to see Cruel Intentions when it first came out in the theatres. I had absolutely no idea what it was about, nor what to expect. Let's just say I left the theatre in a disappointed mood. The movie is shrouded with poor acting, a stupid plot, and nothing but cheap sex thrills for teenagers to swallow up. I myself am a teenager and found the movie to not only be disgusting, but a waste of time and money. I'm glad I'll never have to see this movie ever again. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Teen Movie","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like many fans I have seen this movie many times and love watching it every time. As a matter of fact I watched it today. I still think it's a GREAT movie for not only teen audiences also for adult audiences as well. I love to get know all the characters and their unique personalities, but I have to say that what really got me hooked was the love story twist between the the two young couple Annette and Sebastian, for those of you who haven't seen the movie, I would recommend this movie to anybody who likes love twists in teen movies. I also thought there were so good dialog in this movie. I also thought and this is just my opinion that it was cool that Reese and Ryan had such good chemistry and they are married in real life. That is SO awesome! So is this movie! It's GREAT to have it on DVD It will be a memorable movie for teens everywhere! "},{"Title":"Cruelly addictive and nasty thriller, with intentions that kill","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I never thought this film could be so much fun. It's like a daytime soap for youngsters, except nearly everyone is rotten. It's like another version of Falcon Crest, one might say. Born into such privilege, academic sister, with a real nasty streak, and her brother, Sebastian, her play toy, think of schemes to destroy people as for a kind of private entertainment, where if it's malicious, personal, then their retribution causes real damage. Bits of Cruel Intentions are humorous, mainly due to Phillipe's enjoyable performance, as the heartless destroyer brother, Sebastian. Sarah Michelle Geller as the ultra sexy femme fatale is so good, her character carrying more bite and poison. What shallow and despicable people they are, it's hard to imagine, or we don't want to imagine there are couples, or siblings just like these characters, which sets the film apart from others of it's type, whatever. Now a real bet forms between brother and Sister, only brother falls in love with his objective, so much so, it could make him change for the better. If he seduces new border (Witherspoon) and steals his virginity, which is almost hard a conquest, as if conquering Mt Everest, he gets to make it with Sis, and do anything to her. If he loses, there goes his prized Jaguar. Also adding to the sexy inventory of stars, is Selma Blair as a young, and a little ditzy exchange student, who's the butt of Gellar's revenge, as she stole another or her manly toys. Cruel Intentions offers, besides a tragic climax, followed by a satisfying after one, involving sis, two great songs at the start and end. On the whole, the movie is just one guilty pleasure, you can't get enough of, earning a few re runs status. "},{"Title":"Wicked Humor","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe) is a spoiled, rich kid who takes pleasure in making others miserable. He particularly enjoys seducing young women and then advertising his conquests not long afterward. As it so happens he also has a step-sister by the name of Kathryn Mertuiel (Sarah Michelle Gellar) who is equally narcissistic and just as mean-spirited. So when Kathryn's boyfriend dumps her for a new high school student named Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair) she attempts to get Sebastian to ruin her reputation by sleeping with her. But he has his sights on another new student Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon) whose father has just become the new headmaster of the school. Doubting that Sebastian can seduce Annette, Kathryn makes a bet with him that if he fails she gets his brand new car. If he wins he gets to have sex with Kathryn. Complicating his plan is the fact that Cecile's mother has warned Annette about Sebastian's reputation. This enrages Sebastian who now agrees to seduce Cecile to get back at her mother. But things don't go as smoothly as both Sebastian and Kathryn had planned. At any rate, rather than detail the entire film and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this was an entertaining movie for the most part. I especially liked the performance of Sarah Michelle Gellar along with the wicked humor that was displayed up until the last fourth of the movie. After that it seemed to get a bit too serious. In any case, I rate the movie as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Deviously twisted and utterly fearless","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In a dark movie about wicked characters, it's important that the film has bite. Many films that try to present devious characters and plot contortions are left limp by filmmakers who are too afraid to go for the jugular. Cruel Intentions sidesteps that problem completely; it doesn't just have its teeth bared, it's got fangs!Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe) is a devious manipulator who uses sex as a weapon to destroy the reputations of his co-eds, along with his step-sister, Kathryn Mertuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar). Through their own desires for revenge and conquest, the two strike up a bet if Sebastian can deflower the virginal Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon) after she published an article in a teen magazine about the virtues of staying chaste, he gets to sleep with Kathryn. If he doesn't (he has to do it before school starts), she gets his sports car. Let the games begin!For this movie to work, it needs actors that are able to pull off complex characters. Ryan Phillippe has the most difficult part. He has to be devious and manipulative (and proud of it!), yet he has to be sympathetic. Phillippe plays Sebastian like a mischievous trickster, whose handsome face belies his true nature. It works. Sarah Michelle Gellar turns on the bitchiness to hyperdrive, and makes Kathryn the poster child from hell. The scenes with Gellar and Phillippe are the highlights. Reese Witherspoon gives the best performance as Annette. She's astonishingly real in a low-key manner. Unfortunately, the other members of the cast don't fare as well. Selma Blair is completely over-the-top as Cecile. I get that she's supposed to be socially inept and immature about sex (she went to a girl's school previously), but she makes the Looney Tunes seem restrained. Christine Baranski does what she can, but Louise Fletcher (who won an Oscar for One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) is awful. To be fair, though, neither of their parts are especially well written. Swoozie Kurtz is hilarious in the opening scene as Sebastian's therapist.Roger Kumble started out as a playwright, and that's obvious. He has a knack for acid one-liners. He's also a good director, and chooses the appropriate tone for the material. Kumble presents Cruel Intentions as a dark comedy, and that's a good decision. We have to be able to appreciate the twisty machinations of the plot with glee (although one of a mean-spirited variety).Cruel Intentions is a very good film, especially for teenagers (the R-rating notwithstanding. There's only one real sex scene, and it's brief and discreet. Most of the sexual content is dialogue). It's by no means perfect. The script could have used a rewrite or two (most of the lines are delicious, although there are a few clunkers), the minor performances could have used some work (Selma Blair especially), and the climactic scene is ineptly executed and at the same time completely preposterous (the ending, however, is superbly executed). Ultimately though, it's a film to watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"It's kind to be cruel when you have the best intentions.","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the Choderlos de Laclos novel Les liaisons dangereuses, this teen-friendly reworking of the material provides an interesting spin on the classic tale and an enormously entertaining movie in it's own right.Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar play Sebastian and Kathryn, a couple of brats thrown together simply through the bad fortune of their parents marrying one another. And so, to while away their days, the stepbrother and stepsister constantly challenge each other in wicked, manipulative games of one-upmanship with themselves and other, innocent, people. One major game is started that should, all being well, end with Sebastian bedding a girl who has famously voiced her views on remaining chaste in the modern world (Annette, played by Reese Witherspoon). While this is happening there is also another innocent to corrupt (Selma Blair) and a young man to ruin (Sean Patrick Thomas). As things heat up and the casualties are about to be dealt the killing stroke do the two gamesters actually realise how devastating the repercussions could be and/or do they even care? I am sure that many people will turn their noses up at this or complain about how it panders to a teen demographic but there's just no denying that this movie takes some great source material and polishes it up for a sleek, slick, modern interpretation. The script is razor-sharp and full of great humour while the acting and delivery are spot on. Phillipe is at his arrogant, laid-back best, Gellar is at her bitchiest, Witherspoon is very sweet, Selma Blair is a dolt and on top of that selection you have people like Sean Patrick Thomas, Swoosie Kurtz, Louise Fletcher, Joshua Jackson, Christine Baranski and even a small moment from Tara Reid - it may be a wildly varied cast but nobody lets the side down.Directed with a healthy dollop of energy and vitality but without any real MTV style, the movie also benefits from a great soundtrack that fits the movie so perfectly you will not be able to remember certain scenes for a long time afterward without the relevant tune playing in your head.While it faces some stiff competition from other cinematic versions of the material I think I will still stick my neck out and say that this fresh film JUST edges ever so slightly ahead of the pack and certainly shows how all remakes/reimaginings/reboots do not have to be dumb, hollow shells when compared to previous outings.See this if you like Dangerous Liaisons, Valmont, Gossip. "},{"Title":"I liked the film for it's message","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the fact the Cruel Intentions earned and R rating, I was sixteen when I first viewed it in '99. I was used to stupid senseless films like scream, scary movie, and other garbage like that. I was very mature for my age then, so unlike my best friends who were in my age group at the time, I wasn't into the humor that they were into. I watched it with my brother, three of my best friends and my sister. I admit I was awed by the fact that it was a low budget film but had the posh look of a cool forty million dollar big budget production. (Dreamt of going to film school once...too damn expensive) I have to give Sarah Michelle Gellar props because she obviously took her time to understand the character. And when an actor makes you despise them and their character, then that means they did the job they were paid to do with skill. She is obviously a woman of great talent. It makes me respect her and her craft even more. That is just my own opinion of course. But I agree with the person who said that this movie has a message. There are several subliminal messages conveyed in this film, which is why I enjoy the movie so much. Towards the beginning, the film was a little slow, but picked up quickly once Kathryn was introduced. I liked the wicked interplay of dialog between the characters. It kept my eyes open and kept me interested in the story.This film was unlike any teen movie I ever watched. I happen to disagree with the people on this forum who complain that Kathryn doesn't have anything to be bitter about. Yes, the girl has looks, exudes raw sexuality, beauty, and has money. But because of her selfish, Over weening, conceited, malefic personality, she is always dumped for the Innocent little twits as she calls them. Not to mention, her ex was turned off by her eating disorder. She embodies total anarchy and displays sociopathic tendencies. Which is why she has so much to be bitter about. She is almost like a polished stylishly glammed version Lisa Rowe from the movie Girl Interrupted. Lisa and Kathryn are two totally different characters. They are worlds apart and are nothing alike. The only thing they both share in common is that both are sociopaths.The difference between Kathryn and Lisa is that Lisa has the courage to admit who she is and doesn't hide it. She was always honest about it and never hid behind any facades. The character Lisa prided herself with the fact that she never hid behind any false preconceptions or self dilution when it came to who she was. Kathryn, however, is blinded by the 'God complex' and believes herself to be Omnipotent and manipulates the world to revolve around her.. Kathryn has a cleverly crafted image to hide behind. She hides her true self from others until one of her victims crosses her the wrong way and puts a crack in her little world. As Sebastian writes in his journal....She cares about absolutely no one but herself. The girl has elevated self-absorption to an art form. She believes in nothing and laughs in the face of sadness, faith, and sincerity. A person solidly observing her and having seen the damage she's done to so many lives would most likely classify her as evil. She scoffs at any and every type of religion all the while manipulating others by using the idea of being religious, to her advantage. ---Sebastian Valmont I caught on to some of the messages when I was young. And most of them were pretty obvious. It mostly dealt with the drugs and sex that teens were struggling with back when I was in high school. Now that I'm 25, I watched the film a few days ago. It didn't grab me like it did almost nine years back. It's probably because I've changed since then. But the messages were still there and I also caught on to new messages I didn't grasp back when I was a teenager. It really brought back memories of high school. And whatever adult finds it unbelievable that real-life teens do not struggle with the angst that the teens in this film struggle with, let me say this How about you tell that to several of my friends who struggled with drugs, drinking, peer pressure, and sex, back in high school. It shows what you really know about teens these days. I lost plenty of friends over the years. PLENTY, because of drugs and lost touch with a few whos parents found out about their 'problem' and threw them into rehab. Just cause you're close to your child doesn't mean that they're telling you everything. "}{"Title":"Where's the subtlety?","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You cannot critique this movie without thinking of the two films that came before it, or the book that spawned them all.  In the idea-challenged days of today's Hollywood, updates and remakes become more attractive for the low amount of actual work that needs to be done on a script  - you just pull the name, cast some new, hip faces, and carry on.Cruel Intentions could have been a rarity - a remake that adds to the mystique of the original story, rather than diluting it.  By shifting gears from the book (set in Renaissance France), or the movies Dangerous Liaisons or Valmont, it had the chance to stake new territory by retelling a classic tale.  Love and lust and power are universal symbols that translate easily through class, generation, and even culture, as the conspirators in this deceitful game are now prep school trust fund babies in upstate New York, rather than dilettantes in the South of France.The casting of talented young actors like Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon, and Sarah Michelle Gellar lends itself to new spins on the old tales. Everyone is still as cunning as their predecessors, and even more bawdy, but the problem lies in the actual nuts and bolts of the film - the script.Cruel Intentions forgets that, at its core, it's a subtle drama about class struggles, about the corruptive qualities of absolute power mixed with absolute lust, and never realizes that the most alluring creatures are the ones that never promise, only tempt.Every character in this film falls to the prey of vulgarity over seduction. Things are seemingly dumbed-down as the generation of actors was lowered, with the film-makers underestimating their audience to the point of ludicrousness.  Every scene is played cheaply, the fabulous turns of phrase that marked the preceding movies and book lost to blunt demands of overt sexuality.  It's titillating, yes, but lacks any depth.All in all, Cruel Intentions is a wasted effort, a lost chance at showing some respect for the target audience, and offering them something beyond Porky's in lavish houses and pretty settings.  "},{"Title":"i gave it a 4.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film has it's moments, but they're very few and quite far between.  weak character development, muddled plot (at best) w/ weak storyline, trying to be saved by a few measly twists and turns that everyone seems to be enamored by these days.  should be considered for one of the 10 worst movies of the year.in the end, i have two words to sum up this dud -- absolutely stupid. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, Sexy, and Sinister all at the same time!","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Applause all around!!!! How can you go wrong? The actors did an excellent job, the dialogue was intelligent, and anyone involved with this should be proud of themselves.A clever concept, the pact surrounding having sex with the beautifully prude girl who is anti pre-marital sex which revolves around good and evil between Sebastian and Kathryn with cynicism and manipulation. If Sebastian wins, he bangs her brains out. If Kathryn wins, she gets his car. Which direction will the conquest go and will win? Watch the movie and find out for yourself!Everything I hoped for in this movie far exceeded my expectations. I won't spoil anything, but I'll just say that the ending was decent. As a whole, you won't be disappointed, especially if you enjoy underrated movies like this one! "},{"Title":"Not as mature as Dangerous Liaisons, but that's sorta its charm","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find it incredibly peculiar how the same novel (Choderlos de Laclos' Les liaisons dangereuses, but that won't be on the test) can spawn two separate interpretations that are absolutely nothing alike. Dangerous Liaisons was a very stylish, classy, hyper-professional and (maybe as a result) also somewhat slow costume drama, while Cruel Intentions shamelessly takes the sleazy road and ends up being really entertaining. It's primarily aimed at teens and piles up Hollywood clichés like it's a contest or something, but despite those hurdles it manages to strike exactly the right dark tone. Sarah Michelle Gellar is really good in the Glenn Close role, technically she only gives her villain one dimension but it's a dimension you love to hate. She has acid running through her veins, in fact the whole movie seems a lot more harsh and direct than Dangerous Liaisons was. Do I actually prefer this high schooler remake over the original Dangerous Liaisons? Well, secretly yes, but to avoid being burned on a pyre I'll just say they're both excellent movies in their own right. Cruel Intentions is just a great watch though. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the better films from the late 1990's aimed at teens. Starring Ryan Phillipe, Reese Witherspoon, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Selma Blair and Joshua Jackson, this film boasts a great cast of young stars. The film follows the twisted manipulations of Kathryn and Sebastian, through their dealings with sex, drugs and relationships. It really is a great film, with solid performances. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Selma Blair shine, with a nice quirky cameo role from Josh Jackson too. I wish he was in the film more. Miles ahead many of the other teen films of the time, I would highly recommend you check out Cruel Intentions. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever watched.","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It truly is the best movie I have ever watched. I have seen it many times and I can never get bored by watching it. I've showed it to a few friends and they all loved it. The crew couldn't be better picked, even though I didn't like Reese Witherspoon as 'Annette' at first. But she did a great job. Sarah Michelle Gellar on the other hand, is brilliant in the movie. She completely blended in that whole 'bitchy girl' role. Ryan Phillipe was so sexy in the movie, he did an amazing job. You can see him smiling, crying, you can actually feel what he's feeling at the moment. The music in the movie is really good also, it goes great with the tone in the movie. 'Every me every you' and the 'Bittersweet symphony' are one of my favorite songs now too. The end of the movie is maybe the most amazing part even though so sad. But I think that is the intriguing thing about this movie because you would never expect that to happen. The end is what makes the movie. If it were made any differently it wouldn't be this good because it really affects you and it makes you think. It makes you want to spend more time with the person you love.Anyways, I would recommend this movie to anyone. Especially to the women even though while watching it I bet every man wants to be 'Sebastian' at the time and every girl wants to be Sebastian's Annette, a girl who made someone love for the first time. "},{"Title":"Feels Good to be Bad.","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is an update of the 1988 film Dangerous Liaisons, set in high school. It tells the story of two wicked, sex-obsessed step-siblings Sebastian Valmont , played by Ryan Phillippe, and Kathryn Merteuil, played by Sarah Michelle Gellar. Kathryn makes a bet with notorious playboy Sebastian over their virginal classmate Annette (Reese Witherspoon). If he can seduce her, he gets to sleep with his step-sister Kathryn. However if he can't, Kathryn wins his prized Jaguar. In the process of this bet, Sebastian ends up falling for Annette, against his own will. Meanwhile, Kathryn spends her time scheming against the naive Cecile (Selma Blair), who unknowingly stole Kathryn's ex-boyfriend.The actors in this film were well casted. Ryan Phillippe gives Sebastian the perfect transformation from cold-hearted casanova to a guy who genuinely starts to fall in love. But, it is Sarah Michelle Gellar who really shines in this film. To most of the world, Kathryn seems like the All-American girl. Studious, warm, and friendly. However, it is around Sebastian that she really shows the bitch behind the Little Miss Sunshine mask. She's evil, manipulative, and openly sexual. Sarah gets so into the role, and makes it entertaining and compelling to watch. It also creates a contrast between the two leads. While they are both corrupt, Sebastian is more upfront about his dark side, especially with his known reputation as a heartbreaker. However, Kathryn hides behind a smile to almost everyone. She chooses to do her evil doings behind close doors, and when she stabs someone in the back they are oblivious or blindsided. Annette could've been just played as naive and wholesome, but Reese Witherspoon manages to give her depth. Not only is she the virgin, but she's also strong, smart, sweet-hearted, and is the one girl who warms Sebastian's heart. The other characters seem very secondary. Cecile is only there to be a pawn in Kathryn's endless mind games, and share an infamous kiss, as well as Ronald (Sean Patrick Thomas).The film also creates a different atmosphere instead of the average teen movie. The script is dark, dramatic, and comedic in some spots. Also, the teenagers aren't airheads, with the exception of Cecile. They are sophisticated and wealthy, and some more like adults than adolescents. The writers don't dumb down the script for teenagers, but at the same time they make it accessible for teenagers at the same time. The plot is somewhat thin, but the dialogue and acting manages to make up for that. It's enjoyable to watch the characters indulge in their manipulations, but it's also satisfying although somewhat predictable to see Sebastian change through finding love. The ending is a good example of karma (and I won't reveal it to you if you haven't seen it), and makes you feel as if there is a happy ending, even though all is not well.I would recommend this title to many people, and it's darker, sexier, more entertaining and less predictable than the average teenage film. "},{"Title":"Diverting, if unnecessary.","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How and why writer-director Roger Kumble brought to the screen this modern version of Stephen Frears' classic Dangerous Liasons (itself derived from an 18th century French novel via a stage play) is an interesting question. He was never going to improve on it, perhaps he just wanted to bring a classic tale to a wider audience. The darkly comic edge to the sexual decadence and idle cruelty of the privileged and bored is well honed but the overall effect is at times awkward. Making the characters a generation younger leaves the impression of watching the cast of The O.C. reciting Moliere. The tale may (theoretically) be timeless but the characters don't translate entirely believably in to the modern world. The most entertaining performance is by Ryan Phillipe and it may be significant that he's almost parodying John Malkovich's Comte de Valmont from Frears' 1989 film. At the other end of the scale is Selma Blair who, when told her character is naive, seems to have heard border-line retarded. Ultimately Cruel Intentions is glossy, beautiful, and mannered, but a little shallow. and the ending (not helped by Sarah Michelle Gellar lacking the necessary dramatic heft for such a grand villain as Merteuil) is botched and insubstantial. Make what you will of the fact it spawned two sequels. "},{"Title":"Nice But.......","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm, it is always easier to comment on a movie that has no similarity to other movies. But in an event where another movie based on the same novel has been seen, naturally, one will be preferred to the other. Cruel Intentions is a nice movie but I prefer the movie Dangerous Liaisons better. They are both based on the same novel but I feel that if you have to re-make a storyline into a movie, it should at least be better than any previous versions. In this case, it is a far cry from Dangerous Liaisons. Quite frankly, I actually don't see the point of making this movie. Nevertheless, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Reese Witherspoon, Ryan Phillippe and Selma Blair were all great. "},{"Title":"One of the best films there are!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll keep it briefSuperb cast, especially the three main parts, Sarah, Ryan and ReeseGreat soundtrackVery good scriptA must-see film!  "}{"Title":"Breaks the barrier of conventional teenage genre","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sarah Michelle Gellar (Buffy) stars as Kathryn, a manipulative woman who places a bet with her step brother Sebastian that he can't get the principal's stepdaughter Annette into bed.Based on Choderlos de Laclos' novel, Cruel Intentions brings a dark and sexy tale of lies, manipulation and romance to our screens in a dramatic and diverse way, with superb acting and excellent direction and acting.The lead three actors, Gellar, Phillippe (Flags of our fathers) and Witherspoon (Walk the line) are all tremendous in their respective roles and do the plot justice by giving sexy and sophisticated performances in one of the sexiest dramas of the 90's.The plot is very character driven, which was helped along by these great performances. Focusing strongly upon ideologies of love, sex and trust, Cruel Intentions breaks the barrier of conventional teenage films by being serious with strong issues rather than slapstick with no point.Very consistent and sophisticated is the narrative, and these issues give a little side story and advice to teenager viewers about the do's and don'ts in relationships. This film has convinced me to give the novel a try.Ryan Phillippe is the star of the show with a very dramatic and calm performance as the lover boy, very sarcastic and smart in his approach to dealing with the opposite sex.Gellar's performance is remarkable, an intelligent portrayal of Kathryn.The whole concept of sex is staring at you in the face for the majority of the film, with controversy also showing, making the film a thought provoking film that is an essential watch, and one of the finest acted teenage films of recent years. "},{"Title":"Besides  The Notebook truly the best Teen Drama","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was really shocked when i saw this. I didn't know what to think before seeing it.But right after the first scene with Ryan and Sarah I knew this was going to be a great movie. I mean everything about this movie is great. The setting. The Story. The Props. The Outfits. And most of all, THE CASTING! I mean the best part of this movie is Sarah Michelle Gellar. She was the best actor/actress in this movie, hands down. I'm not saying the Ryan Phillipe, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair were bad, they were great, it's just that Sarah was better. I mean Selma Blair gave the funniest performance. She and Sarah were perfect together. So it was overall a great movie. 10/10! The only movie that compares to this one (in the genre, Teen Drama) is The Notebook. Which One do you think is better? "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions.....BRAVO","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel intentions is an outstanding movie, all the actors who perform in the movie(Ryan, Sarah, Reese) are incredible! This movie has everything, drama, romance, thrill....i enjoyed this movie so much, i give it 10/10! Ryan,Reese, and Sarah bring so much excitement in to the movie! Once i finished watching it, i couldn't stop talking about it. GO WATCH THIS MOVIE RIGHT AWAY IF YOU Haven't! THIS MOVIE IS WONDERFUL!!! I LOVE IT! i have no bad comments about this movie, there is nothing and i mean nothing that is horrible about it. SEE FOR YOURSELF! i guarantee you that you wont be disappointed! I love this movie and i think you should watch, whats there to lose.....LOL "},{"Title":"Trashy fun!","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What is so interesting about the lifestyles of the upper east side of NewYork City? Is it the seductive games... the drugs... the lies... I know is it the CRUEL INTENTIONS? This is a great film, all the right elements fall in the right places... perfect cast, jokes and drama.The ending to this film makes the movie if you ask me. And the music is great! Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe have great chemistry... The cast gives a fine performance. Yes, its trashy, but its entertaining... it's hip and it's sexy.Cruel Intentions is not your ordinary teen movie, it has more than what meets the eye. Entertaining little pleasure...10/10 "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favourate film of all time. The storyline is a breath of fresh air, not only powerful but so detailed that you really believe this is a true story. Each character goes through a chain of emotions expressing them to the audience at home extremely powerfully. This film is Cruel like in the title but unravels in to something so pure that tears literally fell from my eyes. There are many sexual scenes acted out in such a mature way as opposed to the cheap thrills so often seen in modern movies. Ryan philleppe does not in my opinion get enough credit for being such a wonderful actor. All the cast are superb and brilliantly cast. Watch this movie and be prepared to feel every emotion portrayed and fall in love with actors and actresses you might have disliked in other movies. Sarah Michelle Gellar is seductive, Reece Witherspoon who i am not very keen on as an actress shocked me with her riveting performance and well done to Selmair Blair who yet again has shown us that she really is an amazingly talented supporting actress. This film is not for the faint hearted. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked...","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on the weekend expecting it to be good. I was pretty disappointed because it was really, really, bad. Not only did its f**k as many people as you can and you're cool morals annoy me (the two normal people in the film who did not screw everyone they could, were portrayed as not as cool as the two slutty people), but the acting and plot line were terrible as well. The plot was really thin especially at the end when Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon were supposed to fall in love and then you were supposed to feel sorry for him (what was that?). Anyway I suggest save your money and go see a good movie or if you must see it at least wait until it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"An Essential 1990s Movie","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two wealthy step-siblings of an elite Manhattan prep school make a wager to de-flower the new headmaster's daughter (Reese Witherspoon) before the start of term.Having gone to high school in the latter half of the 1990s, this was one of those films that really defined a generation. All the big stars of the day were in it, and at least one 9Witherspoon) has one on to bigger and better things. At the time I was not aware that this was a remake of a 1980s film. I found it to be brilliant and quite deviously original.I now know that it is a remake, but think no less of it because of this. In many ways, this film is even more powerful. John Malkovich did a fine job capturing what spoiled aristocrats can do, but it is all the more troublesome what spoiled teenagers can do. "},{"Title":"Holds up well","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So, they're making a TV series? I'm skeptical of how well that's going to work. I also understand why this movie polarizes people. At its worst, its manipulations are about as obvious as its antihero's. We're talking about a pretty slick piece of work, for better and for worse.At its best, though I'm legitimately moved, and I also laugh quite a bit along the way. Even with no Malkovich (Malkovich Malkovich) in this incarnation, it's still one of my favorite not-THAT-guilty soap-opera pleasures. I pretty much need to watch it at least every five years.It's arch, campy fun that occasionally manages to be more, it's beautifully shot, and its soundtrack is brilliant -- especially the opening tone-setter from Placebo (despite the harsh edit), Aimee Mann's contribution, and a song by Counting Crows that is actually really good.If the series can rise to at least 3/4 of this level, I'll probably at least DVR it. "},{"Title":"Decent dark romantic drama","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A step brother and sister make a bet to take the virginity of the headmasters daughter. This is a decent drama that holds the attention well throughout as the immoral bet takes it toll on all concerned. I wasn't particularly taken with Ryan Phillipe's performance though he does play the confident spoilt rich kid pretty well. The female leads fare better with perhaps surprisingly Sarah Michelle Gellar outperforming Reese Witherspoon though to be fair her part is the better one. I was interested to see where the plot would go and was pleased that it didn't follow a predictable path. I liked the dark ending and think it went well with the tone of the film. Although it's a bit unsubstantial to be a great film this is still an entertaining watch. "},{"Title":"Gellar is a Sexy Cruel Intention.","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions (1999) Dir Roger Kumble / Cast Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Selma Blair, Sean Patrick Thomas Interesting teen comedy that is perhaps a tad too manipulative for its own good, but that is what makes it fun, right? Theme regards direct harm for personal gain. Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar are step-siblings who use each other as if a target for sport. He uses his charm to sleep with women who becomes victims when their nude photos hit the Internet. Gellar resists him and cherishes only her cross necklace that conceals cocaine. He is out to sleep with a charity worker. She seeks revenge on her ex-boyfriend's girlfriend. He bets his car while she bets her body to him. Decent setup details characters through numerous encounters and plot turns plus a triumphant ending. Director Roger Kumble is backed with fine settings and a tease screenplay. Phillippe unleashes the charm but finds an emotional wall and an ultimate end. Witherspoon plays the naïve charity worker with her values that are threatened with compromise. Gellar steals scenes as the seductive and sadistic step-sister dead on vengeance. Sean Patrick Thomas plays Blair's music teacher whom she makes the mistake of reveal her affections about. Hilarious performance by Selma Blair as the awkward target of Gellar's rage. Manipulation theme bares consequences too cruel to ponder. Score 9 / 10 "}{"Title":"Not impressed.","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me tell you one thing I love movies. I love love stories. I love those bad-boy-turned-good stories. I love tragedies. That probably means I loved this movie, right? Not really. I think I would've been better off watching some other movie. In my opinion, Cruel Intentions has a lot of flaws. It's clichéd, for one. Not that I mind clichés, but in this case, it was pretty annoying. Most of my friends and I could predict what would happen next. The acting wasn't really impressive, either. I wasn't very convinced and there were times during the movie when the story just seemed silly. Sorry, I don't mean to offend any lovers of this movie, but it was horrible. Not really my cup of tea. But I still don't discourage anyone from watching it. This was just my opinion, my review. You could actually end up liking it. SO go ahead, and give it a try if you want to. "},{"Title":"Pretty good teen film","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is apparently based or very loosely derived from the classic 80s film Dangerous Liaisons, which I learned just recently. I think people are wrong when they say that you can't do that with high school characters, 17 or 18 year olds are adults, they can have sex, get hurt, feel like killing themselves, or die. This can be done in high school, and I feel like the film did it well. Sarah Michelle Gellar was my favorite character, not because she's evil, but because I think she was PERFECT as Kathryn!! I feel like Ryan Philipe and Reese Witherspoon were great in their roles also. Now, for the movies faults, no. 1 is that kiss, yah the famous one, that was pretty pointless and unnecessary, what was it Just trying to keep the guys entertained. Stupid! No. 2, some of Cecil's lines were pretty stupid and weird, and Selma Blair as Cecil was a little awkward at moments, like the while Secret Society dance thing, um just no!! But overall a 7/10 is perfectly fair. A pretty good teen and adult film. Oh, almost forgot, I loved how they ended it with Kathryn, I'm not gonna say how they did it, watch it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Great Performances Make This Movie","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" All the leads are in top form in this modern retelling of Dangerous Liaisons that I really enjoyed. Plot in A Paragraph Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) two wealthy, manipulative teenage step-siblings that make an unusual bet. The stakes are high, Sebastian bets Kathryn that he can seduce the proud virgin Annette (Reese Witherspoon) who is the daughter of the schools new headmaster, before school begins in the fall. Kathryn thinks this feat impossible and quickly agrees to the wager. The stakes if Sebastian succeeds, Kathryn must give him a night of unbridled pleasure, something's he's wanted since their parents got married. If he fails, he must forfeit his priceless 1956 Jaguar to Kathryn.This could have been awful, if not for some brilliant performances. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a revelation in a more mature role, from what we'd previously seen her in at the time. Reese Witherspoon is perfectly cast as Annette as is Ryan Phillipe as the charismatic playboy Sebastian. Selma Blair more than holds her own as Cecile, and Christine Baranski is as brilliant as always as Cecile's protective mother. "},{"Title":"Erotica with Love","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How to rate this movie is quite difficult for me, I watched it cause I have heard a lot about it so anyways the movie was good but the ending to me is quite shocking rather than disappointing, I never thought of that and if it was different I'd definitely given it an 8. So the movie is about a guy Sebastian who is a womanizer goes in a bet with her step-sister to deflower a girl but instead of doing this he falls in love with her slowly. The predicament rises when he has to decide whether to choose his reputation or Love. The movie is of erotic genre and if you're interested in it you'll definitely enjoy it. I liked how the character of Sebastian changed from evil to good "},{"Title":"Anime was my gateway to this version of Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One might ask why this film was made when Dangerous Liaisons was released only about 10 years before. DL is an exquisite film and no one could hope to top the portrayals of Glenn Close and John Malkovich.Cruel Intentions is probably targeted to younger audiences. And it is a noble experiment to refilm this story with a younger cast so soon after the definitive version.Do the actors of Cruel Intentions actually have the same intentionality as those in DL? Of course not. But they do display talents that portend some later nuanced roles in their careers. Reese Witherspoon, in particular, shows the range and depth of her abilities.The main issue with CI is its detached tone. The main characters are supposed to have emotional detachment--from their victims and their own feelings. But they should betray that detachment with their confused feelings that lie beneath the surface. I think some viewers would reject the acting in CI as shallow because it doesn't have the emotional depth of DL.The tone of CI reminds me of some Japanese anime. The arched eyebrow and the exaggerated whimper seem common to both. With that as a frame of reference, I enjoyed this film despite its comparison with DL, though it cannot be rated as highly. "},{"Title":"'Les Liaisons dangereuses' retold in '90s Manhattan","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sebastian Valmont and his step-sister Kathryn Merteuil are totally self-centred and manipulative; he spends his time seducing girls then humiliating them, she wants revenge on the boy who dumped her and will destroy anybody she can if it will assist her overall aim. It is widely known that Sebastian is a cad but everybody apart from him thinks Kathryn is as pure as the driven snow. One day he announces that he is bored of the local girls; they are far too easy&#x85; he has a new target in mind; his headmaster's daughter Annette who has publicly stated that she will remain a virgin until she gets married. Kathryn doesn't believe he can do it and soon a wager is proposed&#x85; if he fails she gets his vintage Jaguar and if he succeeds he can have her!This film successfully walks a tightrope&#x85; on the one hand Sebastian and Kathryn must be shown to be totally amoral but on the other the audience can't hate them. Sarah Michelle Gellar is delightfully seductive as Kathryn; one minute talking about how her faith guides her the next snorting cocaine from a crucifix and flaunting her impressive cleavage. Ryan Phillippe similarly impresses as Sebastian; a character he makes likable even though he is probably a sociopath; seducing girls, including his psychiatrist's daughter, and using blackmail to force one of Annette's friends to tell her how nice he really is. Reese Witherspoon is solid enough as Annette although she has less to work with being a bit of a 'goody-goody' character&#x85; villains are so much more fun (at least on film). The rest of the cast are solid enough; most notably Selma Blair whose character quickly loses her innocence and shares a famous kiss with Sarah Michelle Gellar. Director Roger Kumble successfully captures the story's inherent sexiness without it becoming overly salacious or sleazy. Overall an enjoyably amoral tale with a moral ending. "},{"Title":"I like this movie quite a bit...","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoy this movie. It's really interesting. It's nothing like I've seen before. It's a teen movie, but not upbeat. It's kind of depressing, now that I think about.Step brother and sister, Kathryn and Sebastian make wagers all the time. So when the new virgin, Annette moves to town, they make another bet. If Sebastian can't sleep with her, Kathryn gets his car. If he can sleep with her, than he'll get to sleep with Kathyrn. Thankfully, they're only step siblings, nothing more. Because that would be ew. So many things happen in this movie, including Kathyrn falling in love with Sebastian, Sebastian choosing Annette, Sebastian dying and Kathryn being found out for using cocaine. Lots of stuff.Overall, I give this episode an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Campy Intentions","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While not solid recommendation, I totally suggest people to see this movie if not just to get to one of all film's best use of music Bittersweet Symphony by The Verve in the finale. Actually, the entire soundtrack completely rocks and it helps I was a 90s boy.In addition to the phenomenal music, was probably Sarah Michelle Gellar's best performance before and since. Throw in a hilarious, all- but cameo from Joshua Jackson and a decent, but from better-than-this, Reese Witherspoon and, sadly, most of my praise ends there for this Dangerous Liaisons take of Cruel Intentions.I love super-human, deviant and always six-steps-ahead characters such as Sharon Stone's Catherine Tramell in Basic Instinct and since I've seen that movie dozens of times, it's nice to venture to other films similar to it. Gellar does a terrific job as Kathryn, the student-body President of a prim 'n proper private school, whose goal is to manipulate as many students as she can to simply amuse herself. Her evil cohort is her stepbrother, Sebastian and together, they eventually land on virgin territory, literally.Reese's Annette is the virgin and, in a nice twist, Kathryn temps Sebastian with her own body to land Annette. There are a couple of other subplots with laughably bad side characters and those bring down the movie to an amateurish level. So much so, it's hard to give this movie a solid recommendation. If you can get past the corny dialogue, acting and unintentionally hilarious coincidences, it's worth a watch for Gellar and her devilishly brilliant and bored rich-girl evil witch role.* * *Final thoughts Maybe I need to see Dangerous Liaisons again. I remember liking it, way back in the 90s when I saw it. And while this is no substitute, by far, it's still fun just for Gellar and that song that will forever be in my mind Bittersweet Symphony. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly a good film with great cast and interesting story","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember watching this film when I was a teen and the most impressive moment was when Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe) after falling in love with Ann (Reese Witherspoon) right after the fight with Ronald saves Ann and dies when a car crushes into him. This film is full of different intrigues, sex themes and interesting moments. There is also a touching love story when a very smart, cute an sexy guy falls in love with a nice girl though he intended just to sleep with her and then move on. The ending is interesting too when Kathryn gets what she deserves and the truth reveals. Yesterday I saw this film again and as in my teen years it's still a pleasure to see it. "},{"Title":"Nhé (shrugging onomatopoeia)","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In short words not very interesting movie, awesome soundtrack! Really worth to listen to! About the plot... it's very simple to follow, specially good if you are having a very heavy day and need something light to relax. It's a teen drama that is more DRAMA than needed. I feel a dash of Tarantino, or at least some inclinations whenever I see the girl and the car. It's some sort of Kill Bill. It's cool and all but lucky me that that the possibility to jump some parts of the movie. If only they could have kept all the movie like that... As I said, I only watched it until the end due to a very very VERY good soundtrack. That's it. Be aware! "}{"Title":"Amazing movie!!","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is my favorite movie ever! The movie is a remake of les liaison dangerous. Cruel intentions is way modern and fresh, the story is very realistic. The direction was good, the location were picked perfectly!When it comes to the cast(acting skills) Sarah michelle gellar  9.5/10 Ryan philippe  5.5/10 Reese witherspoon  6/10 Salma blair  6Yes! Sarah michelle gellar( katherine) was the main reason why i gave the movie a 10! She was amazing, so completely different from buffy, from helen( i know what you did last summer), from any character she has played before. She was evil, she was bitchy, she was amazing. She was the center of attention "},{"Title":"Pretty fun","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't say I quite love this like most people do when it comes to teen films, but I enjoy it. I think Sarah Michelle Gellar is pretty fantastic in this, a lot of fun, but Selma Blair really sucks and really grates on my nerves. The film has some dull spots, but I feel like it made its point across well. It's pretty campy, but this adds to the charm and is part of the reason the film is still so well liked more than a decade later. There's quite a big rewatchable factor in this, something that many could come and see over and over again, which again adds to how popular it still is. This is recommended, but with reservations definitely. "},{"Title":"Whose cruel intention? Kathryn? NOPE","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeap I was right! I watched Cruel intention right before. Annet is really bitch. At the last scene, she reminds all the memories with Sebastian and there are some scenes related to Kathryn. We should know that she smile. It was right after his death. Even she had the fancy car and his diary. Moreover Kat's life is totally messed. I think Annette moved to the city in order to destroy Kat and Chris maybe because of their reputation? I think she acted like a good girl and make Chris to fall in love with her. Then makes progress like in the film. Yeap, It's Annette's cruel intention. Even mean.The original one is huge master piece. This one is not that much but it is still good. However, I didn't be surprised at all when they, Kat and Seb. make some sexual stuff. It might be. "},{"Title":"Evil Teens","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions (1999) I have seen movie, a number of times, it's really good movie, I think, I enjoyed a lot more the last few times.We decent tongue actions with girls lol , Even if Kathryn is a evil cold bitch, whos have sex with her Half brother, who is total A, Well can't I say that whole word on this, There was a lot another words that came to mind before. The movie flowed really well, there some decent acting from the whole cast, then were funny moments in this movie as well, that made me laugh.One think I didn't like was that, we didn't really get to know Annette that well, I don't think I really cared enough for her or Seb at all,he was tool for most of the movie.I thought the ending of the movie was great and song fits in perfectly with the scenes, One of best movie ending. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently watched an adaptation of Dangerous Liaisons that was lesser known to the public eye called Valmont. I came out of the viewing loving it. So naturally I wanted to see some of the other adaptations. I saw the one starring John Malkovich and Glen Close and while I didn't like that one, I could at least see the appeal behind it. It had a darker tone than Valmont (which worked to Valmont's advantage when the climax happened) and it gave the two characters a stronger menacing presence. The only other adaptation that I believe is well known was the teen appeal one, Cruel Intentions, my least favourite of the three.The main plot of this is that Kathryn makes a bet with her step brother Sebastian that he can bed Annette, a girl who wants to stay a virgin until marriage. If Kathryn wins, she gets his car, if Sebastian wins, he gets Kathryn. There is also a subplot about Cecile stealing Kathryn's boyfriend and she does everything in her power to give Cecile a bad reputation.Now my main problem with this movie is its existence. I don't mean in the sense that the others were so untouchable that this one will be inferior no matter what. I mean who the hell thought that taking a story about how two self centered people destroy the lives of everyone they know through a bet would be good with a High School backdrop? It also makes the movie feel forced in such scenes where Ryan Phillippe says his whole life has been a joke, yeah all 17 years of them.The acting in this movie is atrocious. Usually I am a fan of Buffy but Sarah Michelle Gellar, here, played her part with the mentality that evil people do evil things while in their spare time living and breathing evil. When it comes to how Annette Benning and Glen Close played their parts, Gellar is EASILY the short straw. Partially because the other two are much better actresses and partially because they portrayed their human side as well as their vindictive side. Even if I didn't compare to the other versions, the acting would still fall flat. Gellar plays her part like she was in a cartoon, Ryan Phillippe plays his part like Hayden Christensen. He rarely ever emotes but when he does, he is hysterical. The other two main performers are Selma Blair who plays Cecile who is special needs, and she goes REALLY over the top, beyond a point of laughing at her and Reese Witherspoon who plays Annette who plays her part like Reese Witherspoon.The writing is, you guessed it, atrocious. Now I know teen adaptations are hard to do but any emotion, any moment, any scene, is the exact opposite of subtle. The scene where Kathryn is revealed to be the evil that she is (I'd describe her as a bitch but thats just how the movie portrays it), you get close ups of people looking at her, shaking their heads and even walking out on Sebastian's funeral when she gives the eulogy. And thats the funniest scene in the whole movie. The other scenes are over the top but beyond the point of laughter.Overall I think you have a very clear idea as to what I thought of this film. Nothing about it is subtle, the age change just made the film less believable and the acting is beyond atrocious. However if that somehow seems like your sort of movie, go check it out. If you prefer the more subtle of films, go look at Valmont (1989) or Dangerous Liaisons (1988), both are better than this. "},{"Title":"Funnier campier modern 'Dangerous Liaisons'","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a modern reboot of a younger, funnier 'Dangerous Liaisons'. Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) wants revenge on clueless Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair) who she was dumped for. Meanwhile Kathryn has a bet with her stepbrother Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe) to bed strict virgin Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon). The reward being either his Roadster or an inappropriate favor from her.Some call this guilty pleasure. There's no need for the guilty part. It's a fun movie. The source material is superb. The young actors are all amazing. It has the style. The NYC upper class is the perfect backdrop for a modern reinterpretation. There is nothing hotter than a kiss between SMG and SB (unless your sexual persuasion precludes it). Don't be a prude and enjoy the perversion. "},{"Title":"Uneasy experience","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is a typical high school/college film in that it deals with most of the usual topics sex, popularity vs. staying true to yourself, money, sex, the cruelty of youth, bullying, sex... and so on. The approach and the angle are something I haven't seen all that often, if ever, I'll give the movie that much credit. Though if the whole angle is meant to give you the heebie jeebies, can it be said that it's an improvement? So what's the story? Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Philippe) are typical movieverse rich kids. Wealthy beyond all reason, bored out of their skulls and horny as heck. They're also step-siblings, which is perhaps the movie's biggest problem, seeing as their whole relationship is built around UST. It's just about as uncomfortable to watch as it would be in real life. I got the sense that this uneasiness was at least partly intentional, but it doesn't really improve the viewing experience even if you get that.Anyway, naturally these bored and misunderstood little darlings decide that the most logical thing to pass time is for Sebastian to try and seduce a virgin Christian girl who has promised to wait until marriage. The rest of the film follows pretty much the path you would expect. It's not original, the actors give very uneven performances, the message and the moral of the story are both corrupted and horrible, the pacing is off and as a whole I felt unclean afterwards.The positive? Well, the uneven performances do mean that from time to time you get a good scene or two. Both Gellar and Philippe are decent enough actors, even if their characters are clichéd and predictable. Aside from that the film has decent production values and I kind of liked the beginning before it delved too deeply into the UST. And I actually have some friends that think that this film is hilarious in a so bad it's good sort of way. I don't see it, but I'm picky about my comedy.So, would I recommend this film? Absolutely not. Even if you like bad films as a source of humour, there are better films out there for that purpose. The film has a moment or two when you dare to get optimistic, but it quickly plummets back down. "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions (1999)","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was never going to wipe out the Oscars but at face value, a 90s teenage drama about sex, you really have got yourself a great film that's a whole lot of fun to watch. It's erotic, it's funny, it's dramatic, it's every aspect of your typical 90s teen film rolled into one.Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair make for a truly immaculate cast. Their roles truly suited each of them and for a script with such bold, if not slightly over-the-top dialogue, their performances fitted perfectly.It's of common knowledge that 'Cruel Intentions' was inspired by the film adaptation of 'Dangerous Liaisons' and although it's no contest when asked to identify which film is better from a critical point of view, it's refreshing to see a film take on a set of dramatic goings on and devastating conclusions, and turn them into a product that's fun and corny yet enjoyable and not too heavy in comparison to its predecessor. "},{"Title":"reflection or critique of modern society?","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The opening scene shows Sebastian with the money-driven therapist who offers him her book, and as we see, writes herself a note to bill him for it. Those who do wrong with a money motive are more reproachable in our morality than stealing or some other direct benefit to them because the crime is more removed from ends. Money is only means; it is the purest concentration of means in modern society, and to seek it and not some definite object is considered more corrupt than to be tempted by one definite end. (The servant's stealing of a wine bottle is forgivable as an impulse of temptation, whereas stealing money is not.) (It's easier to prove and register the profit motive within the legal system, as it shows up on the radar of evidence. Non- money injustice is harder to make objective for people; you cannot penalize a landlord for denying access to the garden, even if his legally binding promise to that effect is documented, but you can for denying repayment of the deposit.) So we are taken in against the therapist, as she is cynical and only cares for money. But it is therefore more satisfying to discover that Sebastian has been sleeping with her daughter and posting nude photos of this girl on the internet to defame her. The movie is telling us that this retribution is justified in light of the therapist's greedy behavior. Already, a quid pro quo is set up that makes sexual acts, and the reputation that suffers from them, equivalent to money, to means; we are meant to be satisfied at seeing the retribution exacted from the affection-denying and money-driven therapist because it is what she deserved; she must pay. It is the payment of a debt to Sebastian. The therapist uses Sebastian's vulnerability to sell him her book, ergo, Sebastian uses the therapist's naive daughter to get back at her. We are made to reduce personal value to monetary value in an exchange. So before the famous bet between the siblings is made, we are already in this world of everything reduced to means. Only when this logic of sex=means is confounded do we trust that Sebastian has really fallen in love with Reese Witherspoon. It is because he refuses at first to have sex with her (as a means to win the bet). Thus the meaningful feeling is negatively defined as NOT belonging to the means in a teleological series. But then, after confounding his sister's expectations by telling her he didn't do it, and her calling him a wuss, he consummates it after all. The reason we think this is not the exploitative kind of sex is that then he refuses to do it with his sister as a reward for winning the bet. We are presented neatly with two kinds of sex the using kind versus the non-using kind, which is only made believable because the reward, the end toward which it would only have been a means, is not accepted. But the non-using kind has no positive content aside from pleasure, it is only made evident by not being the using kind. We only understand love through opposition to using people; as not- using. When Sebastian refuses to have sex with his sister, she gets angry because she wanted to OR wanted him to want to-- just to have him as means, as potential power, in the way people hoard money. But when he refuses, she exacts revenge by saying she'll tell Reese's father about his libertine reputation and ruin his relation to Reese. He is forced to tell Reese he doesn't love her to protect her, and so his sister wins that round by ruining his only genuine attempt at love. Why is Sebastian likeable? Because his using people shows such straightforward skill in achieving his ends (however cruel) that his non-using behavior is convincing. "},{"Title":"Cause It's A Bittersweet Symphony.","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Roger Kumble gives us a very strange film with Cruel Intentions. The film is about Sebastian played by Ryan Phillipe who has a bet with his step sister Kathryn played by Sarah Michelle Gellar that if she can De-flower the headmasters daughter Annette played by Reese Witherspoon then he gets to bed Kathryn but he loses he has to give her his Jaguar car. The films concept is just disturbing and just plain weird but surprisingly very interesting to see what happens and the way that the characters deceive and back stab each other is very interesting because they get to caught up in there sexual deviantcy but my biggest problem with the film is that is starts out as a comedy than as it goes on it moves to a romance film and finally a drama which is confusing and gets way too caught up in its sexual theme, but I still recommend it. The best part is the ending because everything is all wrapped up, the loose ends are tied up and Don't need to have a sequel and you feel as though the characters got what they deserved except for Sebastion but I won' reveal what happens.Rated R For Strong Sexual Dialouge And Sexual Situations involving Teens, Language And Drug Use.1hr 37min/97min.20 uses of the F-word.***/**** "}{"Title":"Sarah's not as dangerous as Glenn","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Roger Kumble got the idea for Cruel Intentions after re-reading Laclos' celebrated and controversial novel and reflecting on how cruel teenagers could be. This was actually a brilliant idea if there is any modern setting in which cynical underhanded cruelty plays out like the filthy court intrigues of eighteenth century France, it is the social-climbing smarm of the hallways of New York City's preparatory schools. (Capitol Hill is too transparent about its embrace of enlightenment dogma the expression of which culminated in the libertine novels of two hundred and twenty-five years ago.) Yet Kumble was not, even remotely, up to the task of such an adaptation, and the result feels unnatural and slightly schizophrenic.Cruel Intentions is, in fact, less an adaptation of Les liaisons dangereuses than a remake of the 1989 film, Dangerous Liaisons, so much so that entire pieces of dialogue are ripped almost straight from that script. It's not that stylized lines are never appropriate in a story; it's that this particular stylization does not quite fit modern teenagers. Clearly a good deal of rewriting was needed before we can suspend disbelief. Sure, there are a few vulgarities inserted here and there, but without proper tailoring, that has the effect of simply dumbing down the orations without making them suitable for the lips of contemporary adolescents.Intriguingly, while refusing to de-age the intrigues, Kumble does manage to sell out the story for his targeted older teen-aged audience. In an interview, he explains the deletion of a scene that was, for the original story, a critical climax, as anathema to any sympathy one might develop for Sebastian Valmont. No doubt he suspected adolescent females don't want to see a completely un-datable male lead. But the Vicomte de Valmont was not a sympathetic character, and the story was not about his journey to redemption. Valmont was a ruthless and amoral--albeit human--libertine, as was the Marquese de Merteuil. The story loses much of its meaning as an analysis of libertinism and evil personified when the libertine has a conscience and the virgin saint comes to relish her debauching.Kumble does, however, hit a few dead-on targets with this adaptation, perhaps not always realizing it. The spoiled children in this movie play like free-wheeling adults, enjoying all of the privilege and structure in their lives while having no responsibility nor parents present to discipline them. For decades this has been increasingly true of all adolescents, particularly though by no means exclusively of those from affluent backgrounds. In Cruel Intentions, Merteuil's downfall ingeniously involves the exposure of her nastiness to the heretofore absent adults, jolting these kids back into reality. Kumble may not have intended this, but it can be read as clever commentary on the parasitic futility of the libertine lifestyle in any real world--or before the judgment of God. (How fitting, then, that it takes place right at the entrance to the school's chapel--directly downstage from the sacramental altar!)Points also for what is an unsympathetic but extremely relevant version of Cécile de Volanges. I went to high school with a fair number of girls who were every bit as stupid and naïve as Cecile Caldwell, and I could easily imagine they would have capitulated as fast as she had they been in a more vicious environment. In fact, I've witnessed just that. (Considering these girls, unlike Cecile, had spent their whole lives in coeducational institutions, I'd say this makes a case--again, unwittingly--not merely for tight parental supervision of adolescents, but for sex-segregated education straight through the postgraduate level.)And the whole movie looks like a million bucks. I'll spare us any further comments on Sarah Michelle Gellar's sleek style and just say that the Merteuil-Valmont house and family estates are everything I'd dream of having for my own family. Points for heavy fun and glamor, demerits for the mostly sloppy rip-off of a great classic. "},{"Title":"Snotty intentions.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kathryn and Sebastian are step siblings who make a bet that Sebastian has to sleep with two virgins. It's a pretty cold bet but it isn't easy. The first virgin (Cecile) is just easy and naive but the second one (Annette) is difficult because it's a matter of more than just lust. The more Sebastian spends time with Annette the more he starts to fall in love. All bets are on that this is one steamy and sexy movie. There is tons of hot lust and passion. The roles of Kathryn and Sebastian are played so well and so snotty that it's great. I had no sympathy for Kathryn throughout the whole movie. As for Sebastian I had a tiny little bit near the end. They are just really snotty and sexy all at the same time. Then you have to remember that they are step siblings. "},{"Title":"Teenflick with an edge.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I like it because it is one of the rare teen movies that don't have the awful Hollywood nice and learn a lesson sauce applied. Another such movie is Gossip. The movie still has a bit of Highschool element, and even has a highschool genre star in it (Geller), but it doesn't disturb me as much.I've both read the book and seen the Pfeifer/Malkovitch/Close movie (way before this one), and even though I know the basic story, I still like it.The adaptation to a modern setting brings it closer to the current perspective, unlike the French nobility setting which, despite the AA class actors, remains a galaxy far, far away. "},{"Title":"Sexy and provocative teen thriller.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is the best example of how a movie directed for teenagers can be sexy, provocative, and interesting. Remember, this movie was dedicated for a young audience with an edge. So there's the simple plot involving the diary, we have sexual references, Kathryn's bitch attitude, and two innocent girls being part of a sexual bet.Sarah Michelle Gellar delivers a surprisingly good performance as the sexy bitch who ruins everyone's life. She's extremely sensual and has a bitchy attitude that makes you dislike her character. I thank her for wearing that sexy purple mini dress in the scene where she makes Sebastian cry and tells him he was only a toy. She looked extremely hot and deserves the watch.Now seriously, this is an entertaining teen flick that has infamous scenes like the lesbian kiss, Reese Whiterspoon's sex scene, and some memorable dialogs. The cast is likable and some viewers may be identified with them. The plot is kind of interesting if you are in the mood for typical teen situations with bits of thriller.Avoid the sequels unless you are looking for nudity and uncalled for sex scenes.Cruel Intentions should be watched only if it airs on cable. "},{"Title":"The movie, the actors","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie was brilliant. Entertaining and twisted. It is one of my favorite movies. I love Reese, beautiful and portrayed innocent here. Really makes you wanna take her out on a date. Ryan was great at being a total bastard but even bastards fall in love. It's Reese everyone would. (I wish she was a lesbian) lol. Sarah was such a little firey demon, taunting, she added just what the movie needed. Oh and who can have a movie without some dumb blonde. well OK selma is not blonde but boy did she act like it. She was funny and took your mind off of all the seriousness of the movie which was great cause the movie wasa romantic, twisted and funny all together. "},{"Title":"Sexy and Seductive","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Inetentions is exactly that. It is a story about a brother and sister who like to seduce others and then toy with them. Meet Sebastian Valmont, he is a young, charming, handsome, and wealthy. His counterpart Kathryn Merteuil, she is beautiful, sexy, and smart. They are two of a kind, both masterminds of their trade. They deceive others and take pleasure in other's pain, joy and pride in their humiliation. But what happens when one of them falls in love with the victim of one of their cruel jokes? Enter Annette Hargrove, talented, attractive, and abstinent. Now they are playing a game of love and hate. So let the games begin. Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, and Reese Witherspoon deliver stellar performances in Cruel Intentions and give the audience reason to laugh and cry. "},{"Title":"something different","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" first of all i only wanted to watch this because SMG was in it...as she is my idol...after watching Buffy i found that she can also play a whole complete different role.It also turned my eyes to Ryan Phillipee...he is also a great actor and him working beside Sarah and Reece was astonishing.I thought the story really worked...it is something completely different to any other film i have ever watched.i like it that much i made my boyfriend watch it...but he wasn't very keen on it but people have their own opinions right?you really need to actually get into the film to notice the humour in it...which i thought was hidden when i first watch it but it is quite funny but this film has so emotions in it that it keeps you hooked all the time! "},{"Title":"one of my favourites","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel intentions wow i wasn't alowed to watch this till in was 10 and when i turned it on i was glued to the TV. This movie was amazingly well written and the characters were so well presented. It was Bitchy but also had sweet moments. Sarah michelle gellar was my highlight of the movie, i thought she was so evil but i couldn't hate her, i absolutely loved her. And Selma blair was so inoccent and cute. I loved her too they were my favourite two characters. But the end was such a shock, the movie ended and i was sitting there crying, this movie was so sad i couldn't believe this movie could make me emotional and it did and when my friend came over she cried too so i don't feel alone.loved this movie heaps and the movie got a lot of success. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and well made a movie worth watching","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been longing to see Cruel Intentions ever since I saw Placebo's Every Me and Every You video in 2000, but I only got to see it early this year (for various reasons). The movie is great class acting (Sarah Michelle Gellar is awesome as the bad girl, Reese Witherspoon is the ultimate little angel and Ryan Philippe is perfect as the Don Juan guy), interesting plot and a soundtrack that is incredible. Some users here have said that 'Cruel Intentions' is nothing compared to 'Dangerous Liaisons' but I saw the latter a few weeks ago and in my opinions, Cruel Intentions is much better. Glenn Close plays a very good role, but doesn't seem as malicious as Gellar and the dialogs aren't as juicy, but as the action takes place in completely different ages, the discrepancies make them hard to compare. So my advice is go and watch Cruel Intentions and you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"One Of Life's Guilty Pleasures","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very rarely does either a remake or an adaptation manage to capture not only the original essence of the source material on which it is based, but also create something that is both memorable and original. This 1999 film, which is both a remake and an adaptation of the novel Dangerous Liaisons and its other film versions, succeeds in doing both. While it is not the best adaptation of the novel, Cruel Intentions manages to stay true to the source material and in creating a film quite different from other films of the so-called teen soap opera genre.The main cast, made up of probably the best of the teen actors community of the late 1990's, does an impressive job. Ryan Phillippe does very well as the film's protagonist Sebastian Valmont. While perhaps not the most talented actor on the planet, Phillippe is able to make the character his own. He's able to make the character of Sebastian a character that the audience both loves and hates depending on the scene. He makes the transformation that the character goes trough credible to the point that the audience can find sympathy in him by the tragic and saddening finale. Sarah Michelle Gellar lights up any scene with her performance as the two-faced step sister to Sebastian, Kathryn Merteuli. She is able to pull off the two sides of the character, the good side she uses in public and the evil side she uses around Sebastian, incredibly well and pulls it off with apparent ease. Her scenes with Phillippe are a piece of work to say the least and it's interesting to see that the best scene between the two was actually cut down considerably though it can be seen on the DVD. The last of the three actors to make up the films leading trio is arguably the best of the lot Reese Witherspoon. Her performance as Annette sells the transformation of Sebastian in many ways. There's the chemistry between both her and Sebastian for example. In particular, the scene in which the two characters argue at Annette's place in NYC is outstanding in terms of acting (though it is worth mentioning that according to the filmmakers much of that scene was pure improvisation from the two actors, which sells the scene even more). Witherspoon is also able to make Annette the emotional anchor of the film and one gets an inkling of her acting talents that have since blossomed.The rest of the cast is arguably hit and miss. Selma Blair is convincing and humorous in the role of Cecile especially in the character's famous scene with Kathryn in Central Park that is probably the most remembered part of the film. The rest of the teen cast, made up of Joshua Jackson, Eric Mabius, and Sean Patrick Thomas are each convincing in their roles as pawns in the games between Sebastian and Kathryn. The misses of the supporting cast is in the adult actors. It could be in the writing, but the adult characters of the film seem to be a little dumb when it comes to being able to spot the various games being played around them in which they are pawns. But the actors do their best with what they have on the page and they are one of the few dark spots on what is otherwise a good film.The films production values are outstanding. The sets in the film more often then not give the impression that this film is set not in the 1990's but in the 18th century. The films cinematography shifts from light to dark during the film, often bringing out the emotion in the scene as much as the actors. And while there are some times were the dialog can be a little cringe worthy, the vast majority of the film's dialog is both well-written and memorable thanks to some great lines.And then there's the music. It's safe to say that this film score is mostly made up of songs, both original and pre-existing. But virtually every song that is in the movie fits the situation of the scene it accompanies or is a great intro to the scene. For example, I defy anybody who can think of a better song then Colorblind for one of the films most emotional scenes or Bitter Sweet Symphony for the film's final sequence. And while I admit that there isn't a lot of original score from composer Edward Shearmur, the score that is in the film is an interesting mix of modern and classical elements that works well.Despite its flaws, Cruel Intentions adds up to the sum of its parts. With a terrific teen cast, good production design, some well written / memorable dialog, memorable scenes, and some well used songs and score, this film is one of the best, if not the best, film from the so-called teen soap opera genre. It's great entertainment and should be viewed, first and foremost, that way. "}{"Title":"the cruelest yet best movie i have seen","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have personal seen cruel intentions and believe it to be one of the most amazing movies i have seen. it shows how sexually enthralled teenagers are these days. how things in the real world can be so cruel. it not only shows cruelty but love and obstacles in life you will have to experience. i thought it to be very annoying how some people can just cast the movie away and say its a piece of garbage. i have seen this move over 10 times and still don't get tired of it. the music in movies is fantastic. the acting is outstanding i think Sarah Michelle Gellar is in her best performance. as for the profanity, the movie wouldn't be that way unless you want the directors to paint this picture perfect world. face the fact teenagers lie,have sex, and talk like sailors. thats what makes the movie so great. no happy ending just the truth. the movie industry would be greater if they make motion pictures such as this one more often. the beauty of this film is how truth about society is expressed through the movie. its a definite must see. cruel intentions face the music its the real world. and this movie is the real deal. "},{"Title":"Dangerous","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was so much better when it came out the first time... See Dangerous Liaisons with Glenn C., John M., Michelle P., and (man hands) Uma T. Although Sara M. G. is smoking hotter than Ms. Close, Ryan P. in no way whatsoever can come close to the acting ability of Mr. Malkovich.It just goes to show where the movie execs have lost so much of their imagination that remakes, sequels, and prequels are the best they can come up with.Where is the innovation? I know occasionally it is still there, but come on when we remake the Shaggy Dog and change television shows (Bardy's and Honeymooner's) into motion pictures. It is frightful as to where this media is headed. "},{"Title":"A total surprise!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever since 1999, when this movie got out I must admit that I was prejudiced against it.For no specific reason,just from what I had heard , I had the feeling that it was going to be too unreal.What is more, I had made the huge mistake of watching the so called prequel first... However after reading all those comments praising it, and full of curiosity I decided to rent it.And I was totally surprised. The movie was absolutely amazing!The love story between Anette and Sebastian was so great and moving!Their chemistry was just perfect! Kathryn is a total bitch, and Sarah Michelle Gellar is playing her part ideally! In the end I couldn't hold my tears, even though I had learned the whole story after reading it on the internet.And when a movie makes me cry I know it is really worth it! So I suggest it to everybody 'cause you are going to love it! "},{"Title":"Cruel intentions vs. Liaisons dangereuse","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A long time ago I saw Liaisons dangereuse with Glenn Close and John Malkowich and I absolutely loved it. A year later I watched Cruel intentions, which is a kind of remake, though it is the same topic and basic plot, I must say, that the director did a great job of making this movie up-to-date and relevant for our generation. There is a big tendency to manipulate, use, and abuse others, not just sexually, but also mentally. However, after I saw these two movies, I read the book, which consists of letters between the main characters. One should think that a book written about two hundred years ago would be obsolete, but it isn't, which is why I think that both of the movies hit a sore spot in all of us. Though Liaisons Dangereuse are more subtle, refined, understated than Cruel Intentions simply because it is set in the 17th century France. And I love the fact that Sebastian dies in Cruel intentions, because it makes the move that more horrible. What I'm trying to say is that we can learn a lot from Cruel intentions. It is not just about snobbish high society children that are bored. It gives us an insight into what consequences manipulation, backstabbing, and betrayal can have. It shows us that words like loyalty, love, and honor should be valued if we want to go further in life. And that no matter how much you manipulate and lie it will always haunt you, and some day it will bite you in the a**. A last cool twist of the movie that no one seems to pick up, is the drugs. Catherine takes drugs, and it is finally discovered. The movies tells the parents that they should be more involved in their children's' lives, take responsibility or else it can and will go wrong, that children even if they are over 16 are still children, who need guidance. And it tell the youth respect, loyalty, and above all love. Thanks for reading this, this is just my opinion - you don't have to agree. But do yourself a favor and watch both Cruel Intentions and Liaisons Dangereuse, but also read the book. It is much better than the two movies put together - trust me! -) "},{"Title":"Dementedly funny, at least at first","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie starts with Sebastian talking to his therapist Dr. Greenbaum. He goes home to the posh mansion he and stepsister Kathryn share with the Parental Units (who are mentioned but not seen until ... maybe I'd better not say. In any case, they have no lines). Kathryn is pretending to make friends with Cecile and her mother Bunny. In fact, she wants revenge because Cecile stole her latest boyfriend. Cecile, who is white, is falling for her cello teacher Ronald. And she's not the only one.Meanwhile, the private school Sebastian and Kathryn attend is getting a new headmaster. His daughter Annette has had an article in Seventeen magazine published declaring she will stay a virgin until she gets married (or at least is in a committed relationship). Sebastian bets Kathryn he will get Annette in bed. If he wins, he and Kathryn will do the deed (Hey, she's not REALLY his sister). If he loses, she gets his fancy car.The acting here is wonderful, and the writing clever and demented. The people in this movie have almost no morals. I do wish the film had not taken a dramatic turn about two-thirds of the way through. It was a dark comedy up to that point.The ending may satisfy some people. I could have been happier, but considering what preceded it, I guess it was the most entertaining way to finish up. "},{"Title":"The chemistry","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon have such great chemistry. At the time during the filming they were dating and their love really showed on screen. This is a movie for people who like drama and surprises. This may seem like a messed up movie to some, but they just don't understand the pressure of being a teen. This movie is in a way realisic. All the acting was great. Sarah Michelle Gellar did a fantastic evil character. Reese was truly the best person to play an innocent Annette Hargrove. Ryan Phillipe has an amazing talent, and was a great choice to play the kniving Sebastian Valmont. Salma Blair was pretty good as the ditzy younger girl. This movie can be innopropriate at parts, but it was nessicary for the story to be successful.It had great directing!! See this movie!! "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions 1999 is my all time favorite movie","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely adore this movie. Most people could say I hate the whole thing because of the ending.. But they don't, because it was brilliantly made.. Please understand that it would be much worse if what happened didn't. Although I do wish it would have an ever after ending..-_- I'd pick this movie over any other. The language is very different, but much like Will and Grace.. smart comebacks and all. It would make a great addition to your collection.It's not a chick flick, though somewhat along the lines, but everyone should watch it. At least watch it because Ryan Phillippe is too gorgeous to ignore. ^_-Favorite quotes? A momentary lapse of judgment, soon to be rectified ^-^ "},{"Title":"one of the best films i have seen in a quite a while!","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" putting aside that i am one of the biggest Sarah Michelle Gellar fans out there and that this is one of the best films she has starred in to date. this really is a good film. it has everything you need to be enjoyed for almost two hours, 1, there's the stars (smg is looking hot in this and even better with brown hair, Ryan Phillipe is very charming while being very evil, Reese Witherspoon manages to be very sweet and innocent while not being at all annoying and the scenes with Selma Blair are very very funny. 2, there's the sex-or lack of sex event though the film is largely based around this, which i think is a very good idea to have left the actual dirty scenes out. and 3, there's the witty dialogue, the script is extremely well written with numerous pop culture references. so if you have not seen this film yet i would say go out now and rent this as soon as possible, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"one of the sexiest movies I've ever seen!","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is breathtaking!! I love high school drama and I fell in love with Ryan Phillippe (Sebastian) when I saw it. Him and Sarah Michelle Gellar were just so messed up and not corny, that it made the movie extremely original!! Two thumbs up and a 10/10 for this movie! *winks to Ryan Phillippe* Psyche I know you're married. But I love you! I hate Kathryn though because she is a true witch! At least Sebastian turns around from his ways! I got so upset when he told Anette that she didn't mean anything to him and then Kathryn rejected him too! What was up with their sibling relationship by the way? I know the two of them are step siblings but...yuck. It was cool though. I'm not going to lie..I wasn't THAT disgusted because the two of them are really sexy. Everyone was attractive except for Cecile. I guess she was pretty in a juvenile way but she was kind of gawky and a plain Jane! "},{"Title":"Delightful,funny,tragic...Simply excellent","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel intentions is an excellent film, simply by the fact of that great cast, that fantastic script and that wonderful soundtrack. The actors are all excellent. Sarah Michelle Gellar is wonderful and plays here the best role of her career, and is the best one of the cast. Ryan Phillipe gives a sophistication touch. And Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair are charming. The film has an impressive, incredible and beautiful script. The script and the actors give to the film a wonderful and brilliant touch.It tells the story about Sebastian Valmont, a young man who always can get the woman he wants. One day, he makes a bet with his step-sister Kathryn that he will be able to bed with Annette Hargrove, a virgin who wants to wait until love. If he loses, Kathryn gets his Jaguar. If he wins, he gets Kathryn.As far as the sound track, it is really wonderful. Perfect songs for the film, in special that final scene in which it sounds the song Bittersweet Symphony by The Verve.In summary, the film is totally wonderful, it shows us how it can change a person when falls in love. Also it tells us who are the truly popular ones in an institute and who can really survive in it. I think that this film is sincerely under rated. See Cruel intentions. It is a film that you will like only seeing it for the first time. "}{"Title":"I just love this movie!!!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" okay, i watch this movie a lot of time ago, and i was in shock! is an excellent movie, was the firs time i saw ryan phillippe acting and i have to say was really great, sarah michelle geller wow! what an actress! is a sexy movie and is brilliantly evil, the way they talk between them is really amusing. Is definitively my favorite movie, starts by being a sexy movie and at but have this transformation, which does it an entertaining movie of seeing. I think that the production made an error with the 2nd and 3rd part, the second is just awful, and the 3rd is good but just good, if you have a good movie don't do the second part because is never good! For all the people who didn't saw this movie, they do not know what they are losing. is not another teen movie because have this intrigue, the sensuality, this great actors, and this big message at the end, it's just (at least for me) the best movie in the world!!! "},{"Title":"Sexy, cruel, powerful- A superb feature film of the 90's","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is about two step siblings by the names of Sebastian and Kathyrn, who make cruel and tasteless actions on the people they hook up with. Kathryn decides to make a bet on Sebastian by ending a young girl's virginity, but things get all mixed up when Sebastian regrets his bet and starts to fall for the girl. This is an excellent film of 1999 that boosted a lot of the actors careers up that were involved in the movie. This is Ryan Phillipe's best performance by far as well as Sarah Michelle Gellar's. The acting couldn't of been any better in Roger Kumble's first film, which is his best also since none of his other projects have been up to the caliber of Cruel Intentions. The screenplay that was written by him also was very well done with nicely used dialogue from the actors. One of the strongest points in the film that I haven't mentioned yet, is that the soundtrack was amazing. Color Blind and Bittersweet Symphony were perfect songs that were used greatly in the film. Overall, this is a powerful and sexy film that is actually a little more mature than a teenager movie, in my opinion. I highly recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook 10/10 **** A+ "},{"Title":"Glossy and involving","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Three of the best young actresses in the business star in this sensual 'young person' caper (I hesitate to use the word 'teen' because none of the cast are actually teenagers) and to have two of them kissing - and really getting stuck into it - is certainly titilating! Buffy Summers was never that sexy! I doubt you could get Ms Gellar, Blair & Witherspoon together in the same movie these days, but there are no big egos on show here - all three work well. Gellar is the undoubted star of the show, and this is probably the best thing she has ever done outside of BTVS. She has done some awful work - Scooby Doo for example - but here she has a role she can really get her teeth into, and she does so with relish.Witherspoon has a lesser role and she doesn't really shine like she does when she's the centre of attention (e.g. Election or Freeway) but she's always watchable - I don't think I've ever seen her give a bad performance. Blair is an accomplished actor, always cute, sexy and interesting to watch.Phillippe isn't a personal favourite of mine but this is about as good as he gets, perhaps born to play the supremely arrogant socialite. There is fine all-round support from the talented cast and the whole thing is slick, glossy and very watchable. It won't stir much emotion (except maybe a little in the groin) but it is very entertaining. Easy on the eye, and good to keep a copy because you will want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Sexy, pure and simple.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What I cannot believe is how incredibly well these young actors took on roles of such depth and the other thing I can't believe is that they did it very well. Starting with Sarah Michelle Gellar it is quite incredible that an actress famous for killing vampires could play a woman that is so sly and conniving. Gellar has definitely proved herself as an actress thanks to this superb performance. She also managed the sexually provocative side the character that Glenn Close brought to the role in dangerous liaisons. Ryan Phillipe was both sexy and cruel in equal measure, though he didn't quite match John Malkovich in dangerous liaisons he did the difficult role well, he was out acted by Gellar three fold. Reese Witherspoon played the smart girl well but once again Gellar had the edge out of the two actresses. Witherspoon does have an irresistible air about her but you never really feel that sorry for as the role portrays. This is the only real let down, as by the end you want Gellars character to come out on top no matter who is the good guy. All in all cruel intentions is sexy, well acted and smart. The title suggests exactly what the film is about. Cruelty. "},{"Title":"A MORE then GREAT film!","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wasn't sure what to expect when I started watching this film. I'd borrowed it off a friend thinking it would be about horror, suspense... It was much better then that. The twists and turns were captivating and imaginative. Even though Sarah Michelle Gellar was hyped up I have to say my favourite was Ryan Phillippe, he changed his character without it becoming too fake and in this found out who he really was. Reese Witherspoon was the blond vulnerable teen but i really enjoyed her performance and I loved how she got her revenge in the end- gr8 end scene too.Finally because I think shes always forgotten I have to say Selma Blair was brilliant as the thick débutante.This is for anyone that enjoys a good romance but is fed up with the clichés of the original format. I really recommend it. "},{"Title":"okay","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was actually OK. I disagree with the person who commented about this movie before me for a couple different reasons. 1) This was definitely not Sarah Michelle Gellar's best acting of her career! Buffy was much better, and I see Gellar as my idol as an actress but, her in this movie kind of disappointed me a little. I'm not saying she was horrible!, she was her normal fabulous self, but I felt she could have done better! 2) The deleted scene where Sebastian slaps Katherine, if you watch why the director took out the scene, you'd realize that he's right; it takes away his sympathy for the final scene. If they put that scene in the movie, you would probably be glad that he dies. In this movie, you see a little over-acting, and some of the characters get annoying. Resse Witherspoon, however, did amazing with the character Annette. This was the first movie that I've seen with Ryan Phillipe in it. And he is amazing! In the beginning, Phillipe was alright. Towards the end, I felt a lot of sympathy for him because he finally realizes that there is more to sex, and he knows the feeling of love. I did like Gellar's jealousy of Annette, but when she was crawling back to Ronald telling lies, she came off as extremely annoying. I'm not sure if it was supposed to be portrayed that way, but she just got on my nerves! This movie had many things to criticize on, but overall, it was pretty good, just don't let kids under 14 watch it... "},{"Title":"Wickedly Awesome!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Simply one of the best, if not the best film i have ever seen. I have watched it like 20 times and still never get bored of it! Kathryn rules - total bitch and Sarah Michelle Gellar plays her to perfection! Also the fact that the sexy Ryan Phillippe is in helps too o) If you haven't seen it already, which is unlikely, you gotta watch it, its an absolute corker of a film. In fact there hasn't been anything as good which is along the same lines since, so all you movie gurus need to come with something new! I don't really have anything else to write about it to be honest as its just plain 'awesome' but if i have to fill 10 lines i guess i'd just add the fact that its such a clever, yet twisted plot packed with lies, deceit, seduction, and even love that just seems to work perfectly! "},{"Title":"Cruel and cool","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not expect to watch a great movie when I sat in front of my computer to see this one; however, it was beyond my expectations. Not a masterpiece of course but its worth seeing I guess. I had good time when watching this and I think it will be a good and different choice if you want to watch a teenage movie that does not have the ordinary taste of American pie.The story moves in the way that we are peeping the lives of this extraordinary and cruel brother and sister. They have a strange relationship and each other is trying to strengthen their ability of attractiveness to become a legend before graduating from the college. They have a rule. It is simple sleep (you know the word ) with as many as you can. but NEVER fall in love!!! Poor Sebastian does not obey this rule and pays for it. He is not a snow-white of course; but probably seems like an angel compared to his stepsister Kathryn who acted by Sarah Michelle Gellar. Do not expect great plays, but the characters of the movie are cool and legendary. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie should have a higher rating then R if it can. In fact, if there was just a little more explicit sex in it, it probably would've pushed the NC-17 rating. There are drug references, scenes with drugs, homosexuality, incest (sort-of), all sorts of insanity. And it is all with a bunch of rich, overly gorgeous teenagers. Hmmm how lovely? Ryan Phillipe is amazing as Sebastian. He plays the character so believably with his perfect teeth and curly blond hair. However I think this role type-casted him a little bit. He was young and it was his first real role in a successful commercial film. It exposed him to audiences that hadn't really seen him much yet, and I think it sort of forced him into that rich-boy character; which honestly, is really a shame because he is rather talented.Reese Witherspoon is painfully believable as the virginal Annette. What really got me about this film and her role opposite her real life husband (lucky bitch) was that in the scene where she starts crying when Sebastian tells her she was just a conquest, and she slaps him, that actually wasn't in the script. But they both got so emotional in the scene the director decided to keep it and right after they shot that scene Ryan was so upset he actually threw up. Talk about quality acting! However my favorite performance in this film was that of Sarah Michelle Gellar who before this film, I was not a huge fan. To me she was just Buffy, but after this film, I was convinced she was evil in a past life. How can you play such a completely conniving, bitchy, selfish, horrible character without at least some personal reflection? After seeing this film I really started to think that she could honestly play a killer or stalker or some other type of psycho in a thriller with her creepiness and lack of emotion.Excellent movie over all - I highly recommend it, but not to anyone under the age of 16. "},{"Title":"Attractive Young Actors Play Too Grown-up Games With No Subtlety","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions seems more like the movie Kids moved uptown to the Upper East Side than like Dangerous Liaisons, which is probably more a comment on changing mores than movies. Ryan Philippe is certainly more believable as a seducer than John Malkovich, but the girls are far stupider here than in the 18th or whatever century, or at least compared to Michelle Phillips. And, yes, he and real significant other Reese Witherspoon defy the usual movie truism that off-screen lovers make for on-screen lack of chemistry.But, whew, I 'm glad I don't have daughters. What happened to Girl Power? Sarah Gellar has Villain of the Year on the MTV Movie Awards wrapped up with this one; her cock teasing scenes drew howls from the few guys in the mostly teen girl crowd I saw the movie with. (But then they also howled at the homosexual scenes.) So why does this character degrade herself with stupid boys?The first-time writer/director Roger Kumble caved into the studio too much; he says they made him remove some of the nastiness to focus on the romance. But the romance here has the same problem it does with Felicity, which at least does it sweetly, and Dawson's Creek which does it bluntly -- these kids seem to think that there's only kissing and then intercourse, nothing in between, no seduction, no romance, no foreplay. Nothing for teens between a bunt and a home run. So visually there's no difference between a virgin surgeon and a boyfriend.There's no shortage of movies where the ever so attractive bad boy is reformed by the love of a good woman (I was reminded how much sweeter and sexier the scenes were between Marlon Brando and Eva Marie Saint in On the Waterfront), but the reformation isn't as convincingly shown here, partly because the virgin gives in so easily.The director also gave into the studio's obsession with making MTV-attention span movies 90 minutes long so there's no time to develop relationships. So I am curious to see the deleted scenes on the DVD.The soundtrack is mediocre - big lack is Nick Lowe's All Men are Liars. They definitely should have commissioned a theme-set a la Dead Man Walking on that subject or on manipulative seduction in general. (originally written 5/7/1999) "}{"Title":"Back When Witherspoon Was A Promising Actress","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite turning into an unintentional (?) comedy in its last 20 minutes, Cruel Intentions is worth watching. It is one more entry in a long line of films based on the Choderlos De Laclos novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses, this one is a modern teen update of the story with rich Manhatten teenagers playing roles originally calling for jaded French aristocrats.It has been said that while teenagers once went to the movies to see adults making love, adults now go to the movies to see teenagers making love. This is not precisely the case with Cruel Intentions, which is more like teenagers seeing adults playing teenagers making love. This is particularly glaring in the case of Selma Blair who was cast as the youngest character, Cecile. Talk about 13 Going On 30! Blair actually looks older than Jennifer Garner and may have served as Garner's inspiration. Unfortunately the viewer is asked to accept this horrible miscasting, which leaves everyone embarrassed for Blair and hopeful after each scene that you have seen the last of her character.Buffy is in this and while she is a little long in the tooth for her character, it is not quite as glaring. It was a fun role for her, similar to Rose McGowan's character in Jawbreaker, although more sterile. They seem to have borrowed Jawbreaker's ending as well (probably just a coincidence), although they don't do it as well because Buffy isn't any competition for McGowan's in the talent and sexy departments. It was a mistake to end things differently than the earlier Les Liaisons Dangereuses films although the ending's unintentional humor provides a welcome relief.The main story is the reason I can recommend Cruel Intentions. A down-to-earth Reese Witherspoon plays the new girl (and thankfully looks about the right age) in town. She has written a nationally published essay entitled Why I Choose to Wait. And Sebastian (played by her real life husband Ryan Phillippe) has a bet that he can put an end to her waiting. They have very good chemistry and all their scenes work very well.The reasonable response to Witherspoon's recent movie roles is to dismiss her as the worst actress of her generation. Or to confuse her with the Julia Stiles/Erika Christensen twin thing, Julia and Erika sometimes get unfairly blamed for Witherspoon's Legally Blonde and Sweet Home Alabama disasters. They are actually three different actresses. But if you check out her performances here and in Election you will find that she was once a promising talent.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"outstanding. have a chance of winning my heart as a favorite.","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has qualities that are rare to find in Hollywood.For one, Sarah Michelle Gellar finally plays a character i don't like. And her chemistry with Ryan Phillipe was very believable. Their mannerisms together made the sarcastic humor a big hit. And another rare quality was absolutely believable romance. Since Reese Witherspoon and Phillipe are now married, we see why they made such a great combination on screen. Selma Blair played a ditsy, coming-of-age, almost immature girl as her breakthrough role. And the dark humor and base plot feeds a unwanted hunger we all have. The transformation of Sebastian is very rewarding, and the outcome of the characters is satisfying. Definitely a good idea to watch. "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions 8/10","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Rodger Kumble certainly knew what he was doing when he made this movie, it's fantastic. The movie seems to be based on four main characters Sebastion the dark ruthless one. Annettte the smart beautiful clever one there's Kathryn - the evil dangerous one who play's with live's like cat's play knitting balls. Last but not least there's Cecile the innocent one who'd dragged into dangerous games by Kathryn What i find most best about the movie is it's appeal - even if you looked at the DVD in the shop you'd have to watch it because it's sharp cool appeal and the fact that it's made up of such powerful, mind-blowing characters and wonders how earth you'd manage to put these sort's of people into a story but Rodger dose it and it's shocking as well as slick,there's brilliant acting and terrific screenplay. to anyone who hasn't seen it yet i order get down to your's nearest DVD store and buy it- you want want to rent it as you'll want to watch it again and again.my favourite part of this film is at the end when cecile hands out copie of sebastions diary to everyone and they all learn the truth about how evil she is - super ace revenge (the brilliant song by richard ashcroft plays during this sene) Overall verdict 8/10 "},{"Title":"How Sexy is Sarah Michelle Gellar in this movie?","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions is the best Teen Comedy of recent times, because its Funny, Dark and it has Sarah Michelle Gellar. The Story follows a Step brother and Sister Sebastion and Katherine (Phillpe and Gellar), who enjoy getting pleasure out of other peoples misery and misfortune, Their next target is Cecile (Selma Blair) a sexually unexperienced young women, who is in love with her black violin teacher. Selma Blair is a very funny actress as she portrays wacky Cecile, it makes me laugh when she keeps on spreading her legs, without reasling and makes people uncomfortable. Anyway... Their Plan is going great until they read about a Blonde called Annette (Reese Witherspoon) and now they have a new Victim but Sabastion suddenly turns against Katherine in favour of Annette because hes tired of doing the same thing all the time and he wants to have a serious relationship with Annette much to the displease of Katherine. Things go from bad to worse when Katherine makes life hell for Annette and Sabastion, while making new evil schemes for herself to inflict on people. The is a Brilliant Teen Movie and it shows how far people will go to find true happiness and all the acting was brilliant! Sarah Michelle Gellar, really got our of her Buffy Summers role and really went for the Cordelia-esc role and became an evil Bitch. Ryan Phillpe- was very funny, as the creepy Sebastian and how we was very two faced! Reese Witherspoon- is always brilliant in everything that she does and i enjoyed her being in this movie. and finally Selma Blair- she is so brilliant in this movie and i think she was one of the highlights of the movie.Overall i give this movie a 10/10 because its very entertaining and i would watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"My ex-favorite movie","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Six years ago that was my favorite movie. I saw it a month ago and I was little disappointed.It wasn't the same movie as I remember....Although it was not bad at all I found the movie not so deep I thought it was.Maybe the movie take profit from the fact that is based on such a great story.The performance of Sarah Michelle Gellar was brilliant! Actually i fell in love when I see that girl in the movie.Actually i liked most of the actors....Other thing I like in this production is the language-it is dark,peppery,arrogant and kinda intriguing. Well,this movie may not be a masterpiece but is not a failure either. "},{"Title":"A Classic! Pure entertainment.","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A few years ago, even after this movie was already on DVD, I was recommended by a friend to watch this movie. So I went out and rented it and am still amazed on how awesome this movie is. The story is well played (defiantly not for the young kids but defiantly more of a movie for teenagers than adults). Acting is awesome and overall direction of the movie is amazing. The ending (no spoilers) will leave you breathless. You follow the lives of a sex craved brother and sister in-law as they place a bet on love/sex/relationships/friendships. As the plot thickens they are left in a triangle of twists and as the movie rolls on you see it all unfold.I highly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the unnecessary sexual parts between Sebastian and Kathryn, Cruel Intentions is a very good movie. It's a great story on how a player turns good and falls in love. The ending is way to sad for my taste but it was still good. It would have been funny to see his death be a joke to his sister Kathryn. There were a lot of funny parts in the movie, my favorite being the one at the retirement home with Sebastian talking to Mrs. Sugarman. It's really funny and really shows his personality. I loved how they introduced Sebastian. At first you think he's a bad guy turned good at therapy and then it shows you how cocky he is. Reese Witherspoon was really good as the good girl in this movie. The character of Cecille has no point in the movie in my opinion except to make it funny when Sebastian pushes her off the bed. It's a really romantic movie at the end but the sex scene between Sebastian and Annette was a little long in my opinion...we got the point. "},{"Title":"Could be better, still very interesting","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has been a very good starting point for first time Director, Roger Kumble. He has taken previously made film, and put it onto the big screen again with a new and well known cast. The acting by Reese Witherspoon, Sarah Michelle Gellar are superb, and Ryan Phillipe is not doubt going to be a big thing in years to come, even if he is rubbing more pretend c*cks than Blaine (Joshua Jackson) and Eric (Greg McConnell. This movie shows beautifully two stories that interact with each other The bet between Sebastian (Phillipe), and the story of Cecile's (Selma Blair) entry into College. This story also has humour, and sad moments, with the unfortunate event at the end. "},{"Title":"Clever, sexy, and well-acted","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw Cruel Intentions, I absolutely loved it. The acting is great except for Joshua Jackson, his acting sucked in that movie but otherwise, it was great. This movie leaves you wanting more. I'm a little disappointed that Katherine didn't sleep with Sebastian but that gives the movie more interest. Although Sebastian meets a horrible end, I love it when Katherine is publicly humiliated. This is a movie that I can watch over and over and never get tired of. I love Sarah Michelle Gellar's acting in the movie, she steals the show from the beginning. Selma Blair does a very good job of acting like a child in the movie. And Ryan Phillippe is as sexy as ever. I like watching him make the transition from a bad boy who doesn't care about love in the least bit into a confused romantic. Reese Witherspoon is great in the movie as well, the only thing is that she claimed she was going to stay a virgin until marriage but she doesn't even last half the movie when she sleeps with Ryan. Overall...LOVE IT!!! "},{"Title":"Good Film, Great Actors","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Personally, I thought the film was pretty good, and the storyline was OK, but I think the actors really brought it to life. Sarah Michelle Gellar is an amazing actress, and adding brilliant stars such as Ryan Phillipe, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair, all in the same film, I think it was great casting! It was a well sequenced film, and I thought the ending was alright. It was a bit rushed at the end although, fortunately, this didn't ruin the film. I have bought the video of this film, and I think it was well worth the money. I can only hope that all these actors will be put together in another film in the future, as they really complimented each others' talents.x Honey x "}{"Title":"So close.","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm an enormous fan of the original Laclos novel, and am torn between my relief that someone FINALLY made a teen version of Liaisons and slight disappointment at the result.The problem is simply that Liaisons requires a depth of emotional intensity that you just can't take seriously with teenagers. The suspension of disbelief helps, but sooner or later, you just realize 'good god, you're 16, get over it'. This balances precariously on the edge of being too serious for a teen movie, and too silly for a 'real' one. This is not aided by the fact that Ryan Phillippe seemingly has the emotional depth of a roll of toilet paper. Perhaps he's taken understated to a whole new level, but I doubt it. Sarah Michelle Geller takes it to the other extreme, vamping up the role like her life depends on it - it's incredibly enjoyable (and surprisingly sexy). The script itself is a skillful adaptation of the novel, you can see that someone had fun working on it. By no mean avoid this - it's campy fun, but don't make the mistake I did, and go in expecting much more. "},{"Title":"cruel intentions...","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For some people, this movie can be really cruel and perveted. Well, the title IS cruel intentions. And yes, it is perverted, in a way. But people have to look at it deeper. It's really not only about sex. It's also about sacrifice and love. Sebastian(Ryan Philippe)sacrifices everything for Anette(Reese Witherspoon). He sacrificed his reputation for someone he truly loved. I think that people find this movie somewhat stupid and perverted because they don't really think about it first, they don't think about what the movie is trying to say and teach. **I'd say that there will never be a better cast. Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Philippe, Reese Witherspoon , Selma Blair "},{"Title":"sexy, cruel (even evil), funny. what more do you want?!","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  as i first watched the movie, i had my soul all mixed up what to feel-excitement, amusement, admiration, hate or....what? the film is made simply brilliant. and the characters are very well picked. but i'll have to disagree with sajeeva sinniah on this. i think this is one of the best performances of Ryan Phillippe. and it's not only cause he's cute ( simply perfect, to say the truth ), but you can see what a great actor he is in the change of his personality in the movie. from a selfish, cruel, spoiled boy, he becomes a responsible, serious, man. but the faces he makes, the jokes he makes, all the specific parts of the behavior in the beginning, make his character even more charming.i watched it and i'll watch it again 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Cruelled to perfection","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seduction, betrayal, humour, high school and conflict fit perfectly in this one movie package called 'Cruel Intentions'. One of the biggest guilty pleasure movies i have ever seen. Released in 1999, i believe this made 4 actors reach up to celebrity status one step further.One thing that this movie really gives away is the fact that 'what goes around comes around'. Though Ryan Phillipe doea not have much to offer, his weak performance is just thrown away by Sarah Michelle Gellar's amazing portrayal of Katherine Merteuil- i mean...was that blonde and bouncy Buffy from TV's 'Buffy the vampire Slayer'? After that performance all i and i bet everyone was thinking was Man...can she play cruel!!!!Reese Witherspoon's character may not be that substantial but she does a good job with the way she handles it- and Selma Blair- though her character is 15 year old girl,25 year old Selma played it to perfection.Endings in a movie say a lot- and this movie had one of the best endings i have ever seen- the way it's been directed is AMAZING- the movie just absorbes you into Katherine's world and will make you say WHOA....!at the end of it. Wanna know what i am groping all about?...you just have to watch it!!!!  "},{"Title":"not seen for what it really is","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie more times than I can say and I have to say that it is a favorite and that I know everyone has their opinions but, I strongly disagree with the negative ones. This movie can be seen with seriousness or not, but either way it is entertaining and I think it gives its message. I do not categorize this movie as a teen movie although it is supposed to be in some way. I think that it is creative that the characters are younger than they seem. It may be unrealistic to some people, but I do not believe so. I think that the characters developments is the most interesting quality of the film because although the plot is not exactly the greatest, the characters involved in them makes it intriguing. Sebastian's (Phillippe)character is the most developed and my favorite character in the movie. Although we get the sense that he is evil yet charming at the same time, his next project makes a new entry/change in his life and the fact that he does not realize it until he falls in love with Annette (Witherspoon) makes the plot that much more romantic yet still mysterious. Katherine (Gellar) makes him believe that he is not in love, which is one of my favorite points in the film because he tries to deny it but it only makes him see his own flaws and makes him not want to be what his reputation is but he is so caughtup in his reputation that he experiences this for the first time. I was not pleased by the death of Sebastian at the end because I would have liked to see what happened if it did not happen, but it made the movie more interesting with the creative ending that it had (the mass/school scene, Katherine getting what she deserves, Sebastians infamous journal being exposed). This movie has been a favorite of mine even though it is not taken very seriously and I think that people should see it more than once to realize the depth that the film actually has and is not credited for. I think that most people that criticize this film are the ones that are not watching it for what the film is about. I also greatly appreciate the music in this film, it creates a bigger picture and gives the film more depth.  "},{"Title":"Amazing flick","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions, Severely underrated. This film shows adults the darker side of young adults who have too much leeway (much better than the In Crowd). Superb character play by Ryan Philipe is what makes the movie memorable, much better than young sebastian in C.I. 2. Sarah Michelle Gellar was a decent Kathyrn but was definitely outdone by Selma Blair who can play any role you hand her as proved in Legally Blond and Hellboy. Only flaw was that it should have concentrated more on Kathryn's vendetta with her ex boyfriend. Joshua Jackson's small part was also key to Ryan Phillipes plan(who incidentally wasn't really worth mentioning, do I smell a FEAR role reprise). All in all a good film 4 and a half out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not what I thought it would be","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit I thought it would be.... uh... different.  But I can't say I was disappointed.  I just thought the story would be different.  The end was definitely quite surprising.  The writers did a wonderful job with Kathryn's part, thats for sure though.  She was definitely the most memorable character in this movie.  She was such a d*mn b*tch, but lets face it, anyone who has seen the movie knows that she was still the best character in the movie too.  She had wonderful lines and Sarah Michelle Gellar couldn't have done a better job playing the conniving stepsister(in my opinion).  Selma Blair was really funny, she acted like such a kid when everyone else acted like they were much older which made her part hilarious.  Everyone else was pretty good too, but I don't think the rest were that special(except Sebastian, he was pretty good too, nothing spectacular though). "},{"Title":"although somewhat over dramatic it was very entertaining","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was a very teen genre and very over dramatized. However, it fulfilled its purpose to be entertaining. Ryan Phillipe shows great acting skills although some of his other flicks have been disastrous...I Know What You Did Last Summer. But he plays his character extremely well. The upper class speaking and actions were portrayed with perfection. The part of Cecille was overacted by Selma Blair (no one with that much wealth is that ignorant and dumb witted). This movie had many teen stars including the minor part played by Tara Reid. Sean-Patrick Thomas, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Reese Witherspoon, Joshua Jackson...this movie was obviously aiming for a teenage fan- base. Based on entertainment I would give this movie a 9. Based on good cinema it would be much lower. I give this movie ***1/2.  "},{"Title":"ALRIGHT","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  They film is mostly about sex and learning a lesson. The film started off good and i enjoyed it but towards the end it got long winded. I mean dying at the end after all that, that lesbian kiss with the trail of spit and then Christian managing to catch up with annette at the train station. Far fetched.Over all the film wasn't as erotic as i thought it would be and was slightly boring. The only thing that brightened the film up was the music and sarah michelle gellar's cruel character. You don't expect someone like that to play such a horrible character but she played it very well.The best bit is when the students leave the church at the end, with the music and Christians sly smile but i swear sarah looked a lot older in that scene.I give this film 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love it! Best 'teen' move EVER but it goes way beyond what you would expect. It's filled with Sex, deceit, manipulation, lust... Did I mention sex?! There are some great 'in your face but not quite' sex scenes like you never see in cinema. Show it like it is! Oh, and *the kiss*. I'm sure you all know about that, I won't go into it again.The best thing about this movie is the relationship between the characters of Sebastian and Annette, played by Reese Witherspoon and Ryan Phillippe. Sebastian  is the best character in this film. You can see him go from a manipulative, power hungry womaniser to any other guy who's hopelessly in love but can't admit it. What makes their relationship all the more sweet is the knowledge that the 2 actors are married in real life. (and have 2 little girls!) Their chemistry oozes off the screen. The best scene in the whole movie is (no, not that one!!) the scene in the bedroom when Sebastian lies to Annette that he doesn't want to see her anymore and that he doesn't love her. It's so powerful. I read somewhere that Ryan threw up after that scene because he found it so hard to do. It's just 'wow'Go and see it! All of you!!! 12/10! "}{"Title":"Nastiness rife in the Hamptons","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was watching The 100 Sexiest Screen Moments &#150; the latest in the interminable trend of TV list shows which have been clogging up the schedules recently &#150; not for any lustful gratification, you understand, but out of an inherent love of film. It was one of those three-hour extravaganzas, but I made it to end and was literally flabbergasted by the second highest entry. Forget about the sultriest scenes of Marilyn Monroe, Raquel Welsh and the screen goddesses of yesteryear &#150; forget even the saucier end of the mainstream cinema spectrum Sharon Stone giving the cops an eyeful in Basic Instinct or Kim Basinger's torso being used as an impromptu dinner plate in 9½ weeks &#150; no, the second sexiest cinematic moment of all time is a five-second kiss (fully clothed, mind) between two young girls in Cruel Intentions. (For the record, number one was Ursula Andress emerging from the sea in Dr. No).I was not sure what to make of this, suffice it to say my faith in the estimable tastes of the British viewing public has taking a knocking. Lists such as these may be frivolous, but they are a representation of public opinion and Cruel Intentions' lofty position is something of a mystery to me. As a slice of perky teenage hijinks it is fine, but as an important, iconic, sexually-charged film noir, it falls some way short.The concept at least is an interesting one Les Liaisons Dangereuses adapted for modern day Manhattan high-society. Sarah Michelle Gellar is the manipulative Kathryn and Ryan Phillippe plays her besotted step-brother Sebastian in the Valmont role. There is also good support from Reece Witherspoon and Selma Blair as the pawns in their vicious games. The problem with setting classic novels in the present day is one of misrepresentation. You can just about get away with it with Shakespeare (although most successful adaptations stick to the original dialogue), but the subject matter here is intended for the silk glove slapping, sword duelling histrionics of the French renaissance &#150; it does not sit comfortably when applied to the bed-hopping antics of spoilt little rich kids in the Hamptons.Anti-heroes like Kathryn and Sebastian need to be portrayed with an edgy malevolence and it is difficult to see where Gellar gets her nastiness from In Dangerous Liaisons, Stephen Frears' superior version of the same novel, Glenn Close is a haggard old recluse, a grotesque figure caked in make-up, desperately clinging to past glories and bristling with animosity towards those who are younger and prettier. One wonders what Gellar has to be bitter about &#150; she needs to lighten up and get out more.Likewise, when it comes to looks and lifestyle Phillippe has a good deal more to be chirpy about than John Malkovich, yet he mooches around after goody-two-shoes Witherspoon and is constantly quivering his bottom lip when Gellar refuses to sleep with him &#150; he looks like he could do with a duel to the death if only to liven things up for the rest of us.I may be being overly harsh. Director Roger Kumble deserves credit for attempting to rise above the banality of the usual American High School snooze-fests, but he has shot himself in the foot by employing tired, clichéd devices to sex things up A lively pop soundtrack, snappy dialogue and an impossibly attractive cast are all well and good, but they sap the pathos and atmosphere needed for a serious psychological thriller.6/10  "},{"Title":"Terrific teen movie","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that after seeing Cruel Intentions 2 before seeing this,I had very little hope it would be worth watching. After all the second film is very poor, with poor acting and a diabolical ending. However, I still wanted to see this and after all, nothing is given away from the second movie as its a prequel. I have to say I thouroughly enjoyed this movie. It has terrific acting,  writing and directing and is very romantic with some decent one-liners in there just like the second one.The best thing about the movie is the ending. I won't spoil it for you but i found it very surprising and brilliantly done. It also wassn't a downbeat one as it gives off a beautiful message to everyone about love. Maybe i'm blabbering on, but I found it excellent all the same.Very enjoyable and suspenseful movie, which is definitely worth watching. 10/10  "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  cruel intentions isn't your average teen film, although it's been said before that it's full of sex and adultery, i saw past this and i think that the film is great in showing how anyone can learn to love, sounds cheesy i know! All of the characters each have something different about them, Katherine's cruelness and jealousy of others, Sebastian's secret want for a normal life etc, all adding to the film. And the ending is great, as the tables are turned on Katherine. I think that cruel intentions is a different, twisted thought on the lives of upper class teenagers, showing most of them as deceitful, cruel people, (hence the name 'cruel' intentions D), and it shows this in such a different and unique way! "},{"Title":"Really good acting for a teen movie","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is the typical teen movie, that manages to stand out due to an incredible cast of young and talented actors.  Sarah Michelle Gellar as the baddie results to be an amazing actress.  Reese Witherspoon is also very good.  I highly recomend this film based on the acting alone. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so cheesy, so ridiculous, so over-the-top, I don't know how it ever got made (of course, I don't understand how most movies get the greenlight.) The acting is horrible, the dialogue is unreal and the plot is unbelievable. This movie is terrible ... and I love it. I can't explain it. If this movie were food, it would be a twinkie. Empty calories with nothing natural in it, but you've got to have it anyway. I guess I like to watch the pretty people say and do stupid things. And, I'm not one for girl-on-girl action, but the Sarah and Selma kiss was pretty intense. Of course, if it had been Ryan and, say, Eric, I might have given the movie a ten. It's the teen version of Melrose Place. It's a lot of fun. Just let your brain take a nap while you watch it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I put off seeing this for sometime.  Didn't think I would like it.  I was VERY WRONG.  A mate convinced me to watch the film and I was hooked.  It's ages since I've watched a film and been transfixed on the story and acting.  I was really immersed and lost all sense of my surroundings. The acting is brilliant, you believe the actors in the characters.  It is sexy, funny with a superb plot which just drags you in.  I was supprised at the ending but it was beautifully done.  Normally I watch only action films, comedys etc but this is being added to my collection.  "},{"Title":"SPOILER* SPOILER* SPOILER*","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  WHY ON EARTH WOULD ANYBODY WANT TO PUT RYAN PHILLIPE IN A MOVIE AND KILL HIM? this is as devastating as 'i know what you did last summer'. Why couldn't Kathryn be killed instead? she was the b**ch. But then again she got what she deserved in the end. And who'd have thought anyone would dare to take drugs to school concealed in a cross on her necklace? I love the idea of Sebastian writing all this stuff down in his journal, so then in the end everyone can see what kind of a person  kathryn really is. i enjoyed this movie except the death of Sebastian. that ruined it for me..... ( "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The average rating of this movie (currently only 6.5) indicates that this and popular.is nothing but average. Completely wrong... while it might not be art at it's best, it's a contemporary classic and great entertainment. There are pretty good actors, and a well adopted story.I'd give it a 8-9 out of 10, very nice movie, especially for younger audience (10-30?). Get some popcorn... it's easy to watch, but not one of the typical dumb hollywood mainstream. Soundtrack is also quite nice. "},{"Title":"god you're beautiful","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As with many people here i expected it to be a typical teen film, however after 5 or 6 times of watching it its become one of my favorite films ever, Ryan Phillipe is fantastic and Sebastian ranks alongside Samuel L jackson in Pulp Fiction or Kevin Spacey in American Beauty as one of the coolest characters ever, the start of the film is a brilliant introduction to a character, the scene from when he chucks the book in the bin to when he looks up ceciles skirt is magic and comedy at its best. The fact that Sarah Michelle Gellar is good in this is also testament to how well written it is. The soundtrack is just about the best soundtrack ever, the full CD is a worthwhile purchase, the first 2 or 3 times i watched it i was angry at the writers         *SPOILER*           for killing Sebastian, but now i see how this was critical to the ending of the movie, surely one of the best ever, if Sebastian had not been killed there's no way this film could have had such a good ending. All in all one of my favorite films of all time but maybe not as good as Monty Pythons Life Of Brian "},{"Title":"Entertaining sexy thrilla","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Movie is excellent. Great emphasis is put on characters and successful portrayal of such. The Story line and Performances are of top quality and keeps the viewer interested in what is going on. The basic Minipulative and sexy storyline gets you on the same wavelenghth as the characters and the director alike. The main relationships existing between characters in the movie is very easily felt by the viewer. This is a must see movie for all teenagers and some parents alike who like a good dose of sex, drama, thriller in their movies. "}{"Title":"simply the best","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a very special movie with a lot of subtle plots and the actors are really doing their best. All in all made me believe that was the best movie ever. A plus for the soundtrack ! It's awesome ! Best wishes for the director and the whole team ! "},{"Title":"Everybody loves me and I intend to keep it that way!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably one of the best movies I've seen. It's funny, sad, smart, and just plain cruel. SMG is a brilliant actress and I couldn't see anyone playing Kathryn better then her. The whole cast did a great job. I would recommend this movie to anyone who has the balls to say they enjoyed every second of it. Although the concept is a very cruel one, it keeps you on the edge and will leave you wanting more. keep your friends close and your enemies closer  "},{"Title":"Good Except for the Ending","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off I would like to say that I found this film to be extremely funny, especially in its portrayal of teenage life in all its hypocrises and naiveness.  There were quite a few sight gags that were of a funny nature as well that you may have to watch the film a second time to get.  Also, major props for putting Fred Norris (better known as one of Howard Stern's funnymen) in for a 10 second role as a meter man.However, the one thing that I did not like about this film was the ending, and thats what took it down a few notches in rating.  The whole sequence where he gets killed is a bit contrived to say the least, and really doesnt flow with the comedic/easy going spirit of the film.  Its almost as if the film got really serious, really fast, without letting anyone know beforehand.  I recognize that that death may have been necessary to build up the final scene, but still, the results of the final scene could have been completed in another way which would have followed the spirit of the film a little more closely.All in all, this film did have great acting and its fair share of comedy (though it may be just for the under 30 crowd), thus i would give it an 8/10 with 2 points deducted for the contrived ending. "},{"Title":"Keep your friends close and your enemies closer","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possibly one of the best teen movies to emerge from the 90's, 'Cruel Intentions' masterfully mixes black comedy, drama, romance, and, well, sex. Sebastian is a bastard in every sense of the word (except for it's true definition). He uses girls and sees them as trophies. His step-sister Katherine is a manipulative bitch, who challenges him to deflower a virgin, Annette, in exchange for her own body. If he fails, he has to give up his prized car to her. What happens to Sebastian is the unexpected He falls in love, feels human, and is conflicted. He has never loved anyone and he doesn't know how to deal with the emotion. On top of all this, mind-games are being played and everyone sleeps with everyone. It's like a highly stylized soap-opera. The acting is top-notch. Even though I don't really care for Ryan Philippe's work in general, he totally slips into character and IS Sebastian. Sarah Michelle Gellar is almost unrecognizable as nothing short of evil in Katherine, and Reese Witherspoon is utterly sweet, and, well, herself as Annette. Selma Blair has a bit part as a dim-wit pawn in the game and Sean Patrick Thomas plays a black celloist who tries to seduce her. The previews and such make this movie come across as soft-core porn, but it simply is not. It's a cleverly-written and well acted & directed movie. It does reach typical melodrama at some points, but it never sags like other movies. This one keeps your interest and might even tug at your heartstrings. Well, it at least made me laugh a bit...8/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching Cruel Intentions and I am truly BLOWN AWAY. In a way I was expecting another teen movie but this...this deserves mega props.The cast was full of big time actors and actresses (Ryan Phillippe, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Selma Blair, Reese Witherspoon, Joshua Jackson, newcomer Sean Patrick Thomas made famous starring next to Julia Stiles in Save The Last Dance and at the very beginning playing Sebastian's therapist's daughter, none other than Tara Reid (Vicky from the American Pie movies).This movie is incredible. I never thought I'd come across a teen movie quite like this. It didn't conform to the typical high school stereotypes...well mostly not except for with Greg the jock. I love Ryan Phillippe in this movie! I've really never seen him smile but when he does, he looks so sexy!! I especially love the part where Annette (Reese Witherspoon) and Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe) are in Sebastian's '56 Jag Roadster and Annette is making all these silly faces and making Sebastian laugh.I'd definitely recommend this movie. May not be appropriate for younger children, though.I give this movie 5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why a lot of people sharply criticised this movie,but what I know is that Cruel Intentions is one of the best film I've everseen. I was told it was another boring stupid teenie film, but in fact it isn't true. The plot is really good and the adaptation of Les Liaisons Dangeureuses by Choderlos de Laclos is true. But the best in this movie is Reese Witherspoon. She is a very skillfull young actress and in this film her performance is truly amazing. That's why my advice is Watch it, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I don't see why I should feel sorry for Sebastian (spoilers)","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alright, I liked this movie, don't get me wrong, but why the hell should I feel sorry for Sebastian.  For some reason I wish one of the characters (maybe Reese Witherspoon's Annette perhaps) could have gotten AIDS or something nasty like that, though that would be kind of be ripping off the '95 film Kids, wouldn't it?  Basically Sebastian uses people and I should feel bad that I hated him when he died and is thought to be hero at the end? However, I'll still give this movie an 8/10 because I've seen worse.  It had a pretty good soundtrack, which is always nice.(I almost feel like blaming this movie for the song Bittersweet Symphony being so overplayed but I scapegoat things) "},{"Title":"A Recommendation","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sebastian Valmont (Phillippe) & Kathryn Merteuil are step siblings living in the upper east side of Manhattan's finest.  They're rich, they're smart, they're good looking & they're charming.  Yet what comes with them is a dark side, which relies on each others abilities of taking pleasure out of others misfortunes. Valmont is a legend at the local high school, Manchester Prep, where it seems he can have any girl he desires, bored with countless victories he sets his sights on the ultimate challenge of luring the beautiful & smart Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon) into his bed.  Not only is she a virgin, who believes in waiting until she's old enough to experience 'true love', but she is also the daughter of the new headmaster who has been fore warned of Sebastian's promises.  Kathryn takes the opportunity to offer a bet to Sebastian.  If he can't complete his challenge then she will acquire his priceless vintage Jaguar; if he succeeds then he will earn the greatest prize of all, Kathryn. The storyline meets other subplots and the actors & actress' aspire greatly to their characters.  Director Roger Kumble shows great work in a teenage re-make of Dangerous Liasions which can only be described as masterful. It brings humour, action, drama & romance to the screen with a great soundtrack to counter act the correct scenes.  Witherspoon, Gellar & Phillippe all perform magnificently which hopefully will gain them more recognition. With up & coming stars such as Joshua Jackson, Tara Reid, Selma Blair, Eric Mabius & Sean Patrick Thomas all showing capable, this film is relative for people in their late teens.  It can only be described as brilliance and a film worth watching "},{"Title":"Wickedly Delightful.....","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies. It's one of those movies I never get sick of or hate no matter how many times I watch it. The cast is amazing in it. The plot is very well written and played out. And despite what many people say, it does resemble somewhat what kids are like in high school. Which is refreshing to see considering all the unrealistic portrayals of high school. I cannot express how much I love this movie. Definitely go see it!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good movie","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Originally, I rented this movie basically because of Sarah Michelle Gellar. I wasn't really expecting anything plot-wise, but after watching it, I thought it was a very well-rounded movie in all aspects.First off, the acting is very solid. Ryan Philipe was impressive as a spoiled, troubled young man. Gellar was a great villain who I loved to hate. Reese Witherspoon showed a lot of depth in her role, showing she can be more than just a ditsy blonde.The whole feel to the movie, like the visual aspects, were what made this movie especially strong. The setting, the costume design, cinematography made a good movie into a superb movie.I don't want to spoil it for those who haven't seen it, but I will say the plot was intriguing as well. I don't see how people have a problem with this movie. There may be a couple of problems in the exaggerated characters, but really, it all seemed to fit in the end.Overall, the acting was top-notch and that in its own helped better the story as a whole. It was sexy, and right when it was over, made me want to watch it again.3 1/2 stars out of 4. "}{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  May my age (39) falls out from average age of most people who gave thumbs up for this film, may my unlimited devotion to Sarah made me wish to see more...(anyway...thanks for the 23 min / 30 sec scene) Sure there were No-No´s from the cast if were asked for a nice, delicate, artistically made (making) love scene. I can´t get fully into their minds so the story appears to me as somewhat silly.All in all, very well produced and directed, Sarah seems comfortable in her role as well as her hysterical stepbrother...I Totally agree with many reviews read about Sarah Michelle Gellar as choosing scripts, I too am wishing to see her as the main character of a REAL good film, a classic. Up today, all of the films she appeared in may be rated by many as from just fair to just good.Hope you find my southamerican-english writing understandable.-)Love to Sarah  "},{"Title":"I just love it, I do","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Honestly, didn't you long for this movie!! I love it, it's brilliant and fun, and sooo sexy! =) Watch it, it's my favourite. 'Cause it's a bittersweet symphony, and revenge is the recipe of this great movie! "},{"Title":"Good story, average movie, good entertainment.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To keep my comments really short for this one It's got a good story, and the title cruel intentions hits the target. I think this movie was pretty entertaining, however pretty average. Some of the acting was nice, some was confusing. The ending ... well, the first one (Phillipe) got what he deserves, the second one (Gellar) didn't really get what she deserves, and the third of em (Witherspoon)... well, she got a 1956's Jaguar. What does she want more? I think it's been pretty entertaining seeing Joshua Jackson playing a queer insect. Anyway, Cruel Intentions was a pretty entertaining movie and it's worth watching unless you are a priest or something.And here are my ratings comedy 5/10 (easygoing), drama 6/10 (goofy), action 5/10, content 8/10, my overall IMdB rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Star rating 4 out of 5","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions has been slammed by critics, who have unfairly and unfavourably compared it with 1989's Dangerous Liaisons (both films stem from Choderlos de Laclos's novel, Les Liaisons Dangereuses).  Whereas Dangerous Liaisons is fairly faithful to the original, Cruel Intentions manipulates the plot - throwing a twist in the tail - and relocates the milieu from 18th century France to the present-day Upper East Side of New York, where underneath the veneer of respectability, wealthy teenagers plot each other's downfalls.  Stepsiblings Kathryn Merteuil and Sebastian Valmont are two such teenagers.  They amuse themselves by arranging reputation-destroying paybacks for those who have wronged them, and make wagers on the outcome.  The focus of the movie is Sebastian's attempt to make a conquest of the Headmaster's virginal daughter, Annette (who, in a heavy-handed attempt at symbolism, wears white throughout almost the entire film).However, the movie certainly has some memorable high points, beginning at the very outset where the camera swoops fast and low over what appears to be a grassy park studded with rocks; only after the camera angles away does the viewer realise - with some discomfort - that the park is in fact a graveyard.  The opening scenes also introduce the appealing and well-judged soundtrack, which includes artists as diverse as Placebo and Fatboy Slim.  The Verve's song, Bittersweet Symphony, is an absolutely perfect 'just desserts' track at the film's conclusion.These kids are incredibly nasty and vindictive, but owing to the verbosity of the script and the almost total lack of adult chaperones appearing on screen, it is difficult at times to remember that they are only teenagers.   In the end though, perhaps we just like to see someone be very, very wicked and almost get away with it.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great Acting, Great Plot, and Great Soundtrack! Only thing that could have been better was the directing. Reese Witherspoon does an excellent job as the target of Sebastion Valmont (Ryan Phillipe) and Sarah Michelle Geller does a great job as Sebastion's evil step-sister. Great adaptation of the original book and Dangorous Liasons. "},{"Title":"Nice, classy, intresting and seductive film","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film very much. Plot is intriguing, and acting of all the characters is good. Particularly role of Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) appealed mostly to me, after this movie I have become quite a fan of hers. Sebastian's (Ryan) role was a little too serious; I think it should have been made livelier. If you like seductive movies I would definitely recommend you to watch this movie. Also if you like this movie you should see Poison Ivy The New Seduction. Reese Witherspoon is one of my favorite actresses but she doesn't fit these kinds of roles, she seems too innocent and kiddish. The sets were elaborate and classy. I liked the dresses of Kathryn and Sebastian.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  > A REVIEW BY STEPHEN PEARCEThis modern revamp of DANGEROUS LIASIONS may not be original but it is a truly great film.The story goes something like this.....Sebastian(RYAN PHILLIPPE)and Kathryn(SARAH MICHELLE GELLAR-HUBBA HUBBA) are two of Manhattans richest young people.This live in a posh apartment and use their money to get what they want and use sex as a means to an end.But one day things start to go wrong for both of them when Kathryn makes Sebastian an offer he cant refuse.If he can woo the virginal Annette Hargrove(RESSE WITHERSPOON) he can do with her what he likes..if he fails he must give her his jaguar sports car.But neither of them account for the fact that Sebastian has fallen for Annette and soon their little wager becomes a true battle for power.The reason why CRUEL INTENTIONS is a great film lies in the casting.Ryan Phillippe may not be John Malkovich but he is excellent as Sebastian while Resse Witherspoon adds a touch of class to the role of Annette Hargrove but both are eclipsed by Sarah Michelle Gellar who is sexy and utterly dangerous as Kathryn.So all in all CRUEL INTENTIONS is a great film that should be watched and if you dont think it is there is always Sarah Michelle Gellar to watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"An analysis without the analysis","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw a snippet of this movie on television and finally decided to rent the video and see it, mind you that this household is filled with UbberBuffy/SMG/fans.  I won't compare or comment on the other movie, or plays performed or such; that would be like commenting on the colorization of black and white movies. I saw this movie without prejudice. I enjoyed this movie and was fascinated by it. All of the performers where great, I thought that Reese Witherspoon was a bit dull, at least until the last 30 minutes, Sarah Michelle Gellar was wickedly nasty and couldn't wait to see an episode of Buffy to make sure this was the same girl, my wife informed me that she was more evil in All My Children. Ryan Phillipe well, I felt bad for his character, at times. The movie as a whole was great and I bought the DVD. I enjoyed it and the chemistry of the actors. I'm sure there was alot more to this film, as far as the script goes and sure it would have made a great mini series on a premium channel. "},{"Title":"An analysis without the analysis","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw a snippet of this movie on television and finally decided to rent the video and see it, mind you that this household is filled with Buffy/SMG/fans.  I won't compare or comment on the other movie, or plays performed or such; that would be like commenting on the colorization of black and white movies. I saw this movie without prejudice. I enjoyed this movie and was fascinated by it. All of the performers where great, I thought that Reese Witherspoon was a bit dull, at least until the last 30 minutes, Sarah Michelle Gellar was wickedly nasty and couldn't wait to see an episode of Buffy to make sure this was the same girl, my wife informed me that she was more evil in All My Children. Ryan Phillipe well, I felt bad for his character, at times. The movie as a whole was great and I bought the DVD. I'm sure there was alot more to this film, as far as the script goes and sure it would have made a great mini series on a premium channel. "},{"Title":"mostly negative","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't like the movie at all! The women were fantasic and I have seen few sexier movies. BUT, the plot was from the book of teenage movies top plots 100, and the only difference was that this film contained more controversial sexual relationships than the normal I bet you cant get the worst girl in school. I saw a small hint of Le infants terible, but its not even near it. A good film if you want to learn how to become a good devil, an awful film if you consider film being art. "}{"Title":"One of my personal favorites...","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always liked Sarah Michelle Gellar, and when I saw this movie, I thought she did a great job. Before this, she had only played one evil character, and that was on a soap opera. Sarah brings a whole new depth to her acting when she plays a manipulative socialite. Ryan Phillippe also turns in a stellar performance as her step-brother, equally shameless until the end. Reese Witherspoon, his wife, does a great job of playing an innocent, young, naive girl, but it unfortunatly mirrors a lot of her other movie roles, so seeing her play this character was nothing new. However, the movie is definitly worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Acting is awkward, but otherwise fantastic","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would give this movie a 10 except that the acting is somewhat off, especially Sarah Gellar. However, her outrageous lines and behavior save the day (did you f**k her yet? I wanna f**k!!! Teaching Selma Blair how to french kiss, etc.). She belongs in this type of movie more than as a vampire slayer. That she agreed to do and say the many outrageous things she does in this movie have raised my respect for her greatly. She takes another whack at movie stereotypes that don't let women be aggressive and I really like that. Ryan Phillipe has an annoying John Malkovich persona he is putting on. Probably the director telling him to do it but who knows. I do not think that was necessary and is distracts more than it is worth.As the 4th most important character Selma Blair does the best acting job of all. As the bubble headed virgin who Sebastian corrupts.After watching the movie 2 or 3 times you get used to the awkward acting and it gets much better.This is one of those movies where I just cannot put my finger on exactly what is charming, and that makes it watchable over and over. "},{"Title":"right on!!!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie!!!  Sexy and deceitful fun. The characters are awesome and so is the plot. Pure evil to the very last scene. Full of surprises.  Plus its a great love story too.   Just don't watch it with your grandparents! "},{"Title":"Love it or Hate it!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is one of those films you either love or hate.  I haven't met anyone who has classed it as an OK movie.  I personally loved it.  I thought it was funny, sexy, touching and realistic as well.Sarah Michelle Gellar portrays a spoiled little B***H who always has everything her own way and goes through life manipulating her way into everybody's lives.  She thinks she has it all worked out when she decides to bet her step brother Sebastian (Portrayed by Ryan Phillipe) that he can not get together with the girl who is quite open about not wanting to have sex before marriage.  Accepting the challenge, Sebastian makes it his mission to win the bet... only one thing gets in the way... Real feelings!!The story unfolds very nicely as we watch a group of people go through lots of different emotions and in the end it is very moving.  A fantastic drama with comedy value!I commend the writers of this movie for telling the story in such a fetching way!  Not too wild, not too boring and certainly some very funny bits along the way to keep the audience watching so that final message can be delivered.   "},{"Title":"Heavily suductive...","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  No one can be as suductive and ravishing as Sarah Michelle Gellar in CRUEL INTENTIONS. She portrays the role of the innocent bitch and does the role quite fine. Ryan Phillipe steals the show away with his brilliant acting and remarkable motions. Reese Witherspoon deserves extra credit for her capability for contributing to the movie because she lit up the screen with her talented techniques. Selma Blair does her job well when acts as the dorky and outsider misfit who becomes sexually active. The acting, script, direction, and work done on CRUEL INTENTIONS is extremely well done and should be credited a lot more. I strongly suggest most people look at this movie a different way and see the good side of it and get its benifits. Enjoy! My Take 10/10! My MPAA rating R for some strong sexual/erotic themes, language, brief drug use, and thematic elements all involving teens. "},{"Title":"Quite Simply Perfect","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great in the fact that it mixes comedy with drama, the lead actors are just brilliant in who theyplay and the the film with such a little budget acheived such a great box office result what more could you want just perfect in my eyes.  "},{"Title":"Degenerate destiny.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The problem with this type of film is not that it doesn't have its amusing moments, but that it portrays its most likeable characters as subjects for ridicule, while leaving us with the dubious message that, given the right sort of circumstances, even the most loathsome of cads can discover something approaching normal human feelings.  The plot point turns when the sociopathic lout actually accuses the virgin he seeks to deflower of being the hypocrite that he surely is, and she responds by becoming enmeshed in his projective identification rather than confronting him with the obvious.  That is, of course, how dysfunctional personality types tend to enmesh neurotics into codependent relationships, except that the girl had betrayed no previous neurotic tendencies before falling, uncharacteristically, for such a ploy!This film is as overly contrived and manipulative as the characters it personifies, because at root it doesn't like any of its characters, and to the extent that it pretends to take a love conquers all position, it gives a better argument for what is sleazy than what is healthy in a relationship.  A psychologist is presented as a shallow and bigoted dope, bored with her clients and her work, and making a mockery of the profession she misrepresents.  A kiss between two women is given purely for cheap sensationalism.  Not a kiss of love, but something slimy, like a snake swallowing a frog.  Nothing about tenderness, but exploitative wow-ism for the locker-room mentality to snicker at.  In fact the whole message of the film is that life stinks, and that everyone who is not a fool is a hypocrite.Promoted as a romantic comedy because there are some amusing scenes, it is a revolting, hideous story, manipulative and insulting, without any redeeming qualities.  It is hateful of humanity, and even when its characters do funny things, it is their humanness that is set up for mean-spirited humiliation.  Even the virgin ends up spiteful and self-righteous in the hopelessly misanthropic besmirching of decency.  That there is an audience for such ugliness and depravity suggests that our level of civilization has reach a new low. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is extremely well-done for a teen movie, but perhaps that is mainly because it's a adaptation of a very good movie (Dangerous Liasons).The acting was decent, however, I think too much credit is given by many to Ryan Philippe for his portrayal of Valmont. The biggest reason for this is that IMHO he is not playing Valmont, he is playing John Malkovich playing Valmont. Perhaps this is intentional. Perhaps not. Either way, I get a kick out of it and take it in stride with the rest of the fun of the movie. To compare Phillipe's portrayal of the character to that of Malkovich would not serve young Ryan well at all.The soundtrack was pretty good and definitely adds to the enjoyment of the film, especially the ending.Overall, the movie is not the world's best, but you certainly get caught up in the fun of how watching how evil and manipulative the characters can be- which to me was a big part of what I liked about the earlier film.  "},{"Title":"It's Hard To Believe That...","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... 17 year olds can have such a wealth of life experience to realistically portray these characters with any level of conviction; for a more enjoyable (and credible) version watch Glenn Close and Co in the 1988 film 'Dangerous Liaisons' - you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Forbidden Fruit","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an addiction.  The darkness and the wicked humor are totally enjoyable.  The cast is stellar and everyone seems really well placed in their roles.  This movie, for me, is as naughty as super chocolatey gooey rich delicious truffle, the kind with a million calories that everybody knows you shouldn't eat and everybody does. "}{"Title":"Crude Intentions","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in New York and ostensibly on Long Island, Cruel Intentions as has been pointed out, is simply a remake of Dangerous Liaisons, but set amongst the ultra-wealthy prep school class of New York City.  Considering the highly sexual nature of the plot, it may have been better conceived set on a college campus instead.  What is more interesting is seeing actors and actresses we know (some quite well) from their subsequent endeavors; (this was released in 1999).Ryan Phillipe, the protagonist, is now chiefly known (unfortunately for him) as Reese Witherspoon's husband.  In the story he has a cruel (and crude) bet with his step-sister, whom we know as Buffy the Vampire Slayer (and Freddie Prinze Jr.'s wife).  One of the objects of the wager is the virginal Reese Witherspoon, who plays only a slight variation of her standard wide-eyed movie characters.  Of course, during the scheme of scandalizing the new Headmaster's daughter, and thus adding to his notoriety, he actually falls for Reese, (apparently when she makes devil faces at him while they are driving; it is never explained why her character falls for him, particularly after she has been warned away).  This development puts a kink to Buffy's plans, and promotes a certain illicit jealousy between Buffy and Ryan (her mother is married to his father).  The most interesting part of her portrayal, though, is to see her before she became a blonde.  Poor Selma Blair is reduced to making youthful innocence look like a form of mild retardation.As in any true morality play, even after reforming, the faulted hero can never actually win the virginal prize to live happily ever after, and his equally guilty partner in vice must too suffer her punishment.  The violent ending of the film is a bit disturbing, and the overall film viewing experience is not very pleasant.  Morality lessons taught by 17 year-olds out of touch with society (not to mention reality)?  Exactly who was the intended audience for this?  Don't let it be you. "},{"Title":"Saucy Flick","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was definitely a trip, with an intricate mix of wit, angst, and treachery. Ryan Philippe was a brilliant actor...Sarah Michelle Gellar herself was a sight to behold. Love the movie!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant (This is a Spoiler)","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What makes a truly spectacular movie? Is it the camera angles? The pithy writing? Powerful acting? The underlying message permeating all aspects of the film? In short, it is all of the above.Cruel Intentions is, then, a truly spectacular film. Ryan Phillipe portrays Sebastion Valmont, a youth who embraces his sexual desires with unquenchable fervor. Sebastion is figure all men with they could ascribe to he gains the interest of the females around him with ease, and yet is neither a sports star, nor a serious student. He does not need any special skills other than his unbridled charm and his love-making abilities. Sebastion makes a bet with Kathryn concerning Annette, but eventually, he falls in love with her.Initially, he is consumed with lust for his beautiful stepsister Kathryn, a woman who is socially conscious and whose reputation is of utmost importance. Sara Michelle Gellar adds a level of depth to the character that is unsurpassable by any other actress. Kathryn uses Sebastion to ruin the reputations of her competition, and finally makes a bet with Sebastion if he will make love to the headmasters daughter before school starts, she will make love to him. However, as Sebastion inevitably falls in love with Annette, Kathryn grows jealous, and uses Sebastion's anxieties to steal him from Annette.Reese Witherspoon plays Annette, the beautiful virgin whose idealistic notions are simply justification for her reluctance to give her body to another. Sadly, though Reese Witherspoon does a superb job of portraying her character, she does not have the looks, nor is her character developed enough, that one could honestly believe Sebastion would give up his reckless pursuit of sex for her. In all honesty, the girl who portrays Clarissa would have done a better job, and she was only seen for about 1 minute.Though Cruel Intentions, like American Beauty and Eyes Wide Shut, is portrayed as being nothing more than a film about sex, it actually concerns reputations, and what others think of you. Sebastion is initially willing to relinquish Annette for the sake of preserving his reputation, and dies because of it even though he is able to convey his feelings to Annette at the end, his life is still cut short.Cruel Intentions is a movie that all can relate to in one way or another. It combines all elements that make great films, and the writing is truly spectacular (as emphasized in the scene where Ryan Phillipe is standing naked in the pool, and Annette sees him, and he says Would you turn around so I can put by bathing suit on please?). A killer soundtrack only serves to heighten the intensity of the brilliantly shot scenes (this is very clear when the Counting Crows song I am ready is played while Annette rides the escalator up and she and Sebastion are the only ones wearing colored garments other than browns and drab. This scene was so perfect that unless you look for it, you might not catch the beauty of it).   "},{"Title":"interesting, I think it's worth a gander","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie gets some bad hype because of its young and not-so-acclaimed cast. I don't think they do such a terrible job, myself. If anything is to blame, it's the script. Some of the dialogue is ridiculous. But the film certainly has its moments.All in all, I thought it was worth watching. I've seen it 4 or 5 times, and I will admit that the last 3 or 4 were primarily because of a certain young man who stars in the film. I must say, Mr. Phillippe has never looked better! But really, while not quite up to the standard of Dangerous Liasons, this movie is enjoyable when watched for what it is entertainment. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even before I saw this film I knew I was going to love it!  It was just the sort of film that has always appealed to me-dark with a sense of humour. Added to that, the fact that it has a number of my favourite actors and actresses in it made it sure to be a winner!The storyline is excellent and kept me interested the whole time.  There is not a single point in the film that didnt have me gripped.Ryan Phillippe as Sebastian Valmont appears to be pure evil.  Yet as the film progresses his hard exterior is slowly melted by the object of his affections.  His acting is realistic and he is believable as a man who would be able to pull of the bet.Sarah Michelle Geller as Kathryn Mertyule like Phillippe's Valmont appears to be evil.  But Kathryn not only appears to be pure evil-she is pure evil. Her bitchy character likes nothing more to destroy the lives others and delights in their misery.Reese Witherspoon as Annette is the sweet and innocent pawn in the bet between Sebastian and Kathryn.  Witherspoon delivers yet another fine performance and steals the show.The main supporting role acted by Selma Blair is under rated.  As dumb Cecile she shines.  The add campaign for this film completely misses out Blair even though she brings a lot to the film and is quite an important character to the plot.This film is excellent!  It is a sophisticated teen movie for those who are fed up with Freddie Prinze Jr wooing yet another up and coming female actress who goes from ugly hag to beautiful slag in the space of 90 minutes. This movie is a relief for teens from prom, football players and cheerleaders.Every scene in this film is memorable.  You will laugh as Cecile pulls sexy poses, cry as Sebastian dies in Annettes arms, cheer when Kathryn is exposed for what she really is and boo and hiss when she manages to fool Sebastian into breaking up with Annette.See this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When i first saw this film i didn't think much of it, but that was because i hadn't really sat down and watched it properly. A couple of weeks after i had caught glimpses of it, one of my mates asked if i had seen it and i said that i hadn't. He said that he had the DVD of it and asked if i wanted to borrow it. So i did. I sat down one night and watched it........it was brilliant it had everything that i thought a film like that should have in it. It was mainly about sex but it also had other things in it like drugs and how evil some people can be. I thought that they had picked there cast perfectly Sara Michelle Geler was perfect for Kathryn. The plot was perfect what else could you want A teenager well old teenager called sabastian has a stepsister called Kathrin. Sabastian is sort of how can i put it.....he thinks he can get any girl he wants. So one day this new girl comes along to his and his sisters school and his sister makes a bet if he can bed the new girl then he gets her (his stepsister) (because really him and his stepsister both want each other). But if he losses then kathrine gets his sports car. But the ending was also perfect before he died he wrote a diary about how much of a bitch his stepsister is and also how she almost ruined this girls life from the bet. I would give this film 9/10. COULD WATCH THIS FILM OVER AND OVER AGAIN.    "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Goes Back to Her Roots.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar goes back to the type of character that made her famous--Kendall Hart, Erica Kane's daughter of rape.  She is very similar to the character with the manipulation.  And in both she acted very well.  But for fans who know her as Buffy or Daphne from Scooby Doo, you will see someone very different, but you might like.  But either way for fans of her from All My Children you will love her character it reminds you of the days when she was Kendall and lied to her mother(Erica Kane) saying that her mother's husband (Dimtri Marick) had raped her, which sent her mother off over the edge, and her mother ended up stabbing him.  And then a trial and Kendall headed off for a nice stay in jail. Also, she is like her character in Swan's Crossing a teen soap.  She was also a, well evil and conniving in that role too, only a bit younger. "},{"Title":"Cruel and unusual","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To dignify this movie with a review would be a travesty in itself. Holywood porn without the porn. SMG should stick to Buffy and Ryan Phillippe should stay at home - forever. A few more words and I'm over 4 lines. One more word - avoid! "},{"Title":"High Class Entertainment","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Cruel Intentions' is good from its title on down. Directed by a first-time director and the writer, it lives completely up to its potential. First off the casting is perfect. Sarah Michelle Gellar is incredible as Kathryn, bringing to the movie that villain you both dispise and feel for (my very favorite kind). Ryan Phillipe is a beautiful Sebastian- tragic and anguished and supurbly passionate. I'm not a huge Reese Witherspoon fan, but she was perfect for the role of Annette. And call me silly, but the chemistry between Gellar and Phillipe was much more entertaining, believable, and fun then the chemistry between real-life couple Phillipe and Witherspoon.The visual style of 'Cruel Intentions' promotes and expands this almost unbelievable world the characters live in. Its classic, robust, and sophisticated. The elite world of New York's East Side and the Fifth Avenue high class. If you don't even like the horrendous and simply magnificant game these people play, you will be simply entertained by the beauty of the sets, costumes, and cars...er, car. Sebastian's is to die for...no wonder Kathryn wants it.The script is excellent as well- educated, poetic, and hauntingly cold. And the soundtrack is ideal. The placement of Counting Crows' 'Colorblind' and The Verve's 'Bittersweet Symphony' makes this film stay in your head long after you have seen it.Its a film of utterly dispicable people who have way too much money and time than is good for them, but it has a core of humanity that makes it VERY worth YOUR money and time. Again, I must praise Sarah Michelle Gellar and her performance, especially at the end where everything gets tied up so neatly and ironically. This movie is a bittersweet masterpiece of classic love, betrayal, and revenge. 5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Oh No!!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've never been a fan of Renaissance comedies of manners or whatever you call that darn genre that gave us movies such as Valmont and Danger- ous Liasons, so guess what I think about bringing 18th century manners and mores (that's like MORAY, dude) to turn of the century US of A, where they are even more overheated and hyperbolic than they were when they made some sense to the ruling classes of Europe. In short, this movie is beyond laughable; it is jaw-droppingly awful the first time around; and yes, I tried to watch it a second time to see if it would be a little better, knowing my own prejudices. Guess what? I kept inserting Crow T, Tom Servo, and me as Mike/Joel to help me accept what was unfolding before me very own eyes. Otherwise, I may have had to be institutionalized away from all forms of visual media so that I could survive. The above is an example of hyperbole by the way. This is only a very bad movie and will not make you go insane or hysterically blind. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Delicious and dangerous","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As the MTV-ization of classic stories continues, it's good to see that not all end up like She's All That.  Cruel Intentions is a delicious remake of Dangerous Liasions set perfectly among the ranks of teenage Manhattan debutantes and lotharios.  While some may question the realism of the excesses that these teens enjoy, no one can question the cruelty that these teenagers (and any in general) are capable of. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely one of the best movies ever made. The movie describes Sebastian Valmont, a player who gets girls in bed all the time. But then he makes a bet with his sister&#133; The characters, especially the main person, Sebastian are very well acted. And the end is simply enormous impressing. One of the best movies ever made.  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie the other night and I was really impressed. The plot is old and used but still very smart. The cast is great, even though these 20-somethings are supposed to be 17, the acting is great. I wouldn't exactly say this was a teen movie, it's more mature. I had to watch the ending several times! It was very powerful. Overall I liked this movie, I give it a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Breaks through the stereotypes of the Teen Movie genre...","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While all the main characters in Cruel Intentions are teenagers, this is one movie that breaks the stereotype of the `Teen Movie' genre.  Most teen movies are sappy and unbelievable, focusing on which young actors and actresses are in the film and not on any real substance.  They have nothing in them which even attempts to hold a grown adult's attention.  There is usually no real plot, at least not any worth watching, and the humor is either disgusting in nature (a boy eating a piece of French toast that was shoved down the fat waiter's pants) or sexual (a boy getting a little too friendly with an apple pie), to name a few.Instead of being a teen movie, Cruel Intentions is a serious drama that revolves around teenagers.  The story was adapted from the 1988 film Dangerous Liaisons directed by Stephen Frears.What starts out as a simple bet between stepsiblings Valmont and Katherine grows into a tangled web of deception.  The bet is whether or not Sebastian can seduce the new school virgin?  A somewhat boring bet, until you add in the terms.  If he succeeds, not only does he get the satisfaction of knowing he deflowered the school virgin, he then gets to sleep with Katherine, something he has obsessed about for years.  If he loses, Katherine gets his 1956 Jaguar Roadster.The acting was by all accounts excellent.  Sarah Michelle Gellar definitely surpassed my expectations as Katherine.  There were no poorly choreographed martial arts sequences, no people with really large incisors, and not even a single wooden steak.  There was a cross, but it was used in a somewhat different capacity than Geller has used them in the past.  She actually broke out of her Buffy typecast.  Her Katherine is extremely vindictive, yet also exceedingly seductive.  She appears to have the ability to lure almost anyone in and keep them under her spell, as we see with Sebastian time and time again.Ryan Phillippe's portrayal of Sebastian Valmont looks to be the best performance of his career.  He is bone-chillingly ruthless and yet at the same time extremely suave and charming, feeling no pity for the girls he has hurt in the past and caring only for his next conquest.  He dresses all in black, which adds to the darkness of his character.  He looks strangely out of place walking down the sunny Manhattan streets.Reese Witherspoon, Phillippe's real life wife, did a reasonable job of playing Annette, the object of Valmont's lust.  She appears young and pure, yet not vulnerable.  She seems strong in her conviction to chastity.  I feel she did a believable job living up to how her character is described by Sebastian `a paradigm of chastity and virtue'.Selma Blair played the naïve Cecile.  Cecile was not directly involved with the bet, however she ended up getting caught in the web and pulled into the story.  Cecile appears to be an extremely sheltered child, being almost cloistered in an all girls school most of her life.  Blair pulls off the naïve routine like a pro.  She is the epitome of gullible, one almost wonders if she stepped off the set of the Brady Bunch.The indoor setting is usually inside the Valmont Mansion.  Very little light seeps through the curtains.  This combined with the slow and somewhat eerie background music, adds to the ominous atmosphere surrounding Katherine and Sebastian.My two favorite scenes were both toward the end of the movie.  I liked how they shot the scene with Annette going to meet Sebastian, and Sebastian walking away from her window.  The camera did a fantastic job of switching from Annette to Sebastian to Ronald (Sean Patrick Thomas) as the tempo of the music quickened, giving the entire scene a sense of urgency.  Valmont is dressed all in black and Annette all in white, a stunning contrast of purity and sin, good and evil.  It is because of this scene that I think Cruel Intentions is a very inspiring story, a story of redemption, a kind of `love conquers all' tale.  The overall message as I see it is that there is always hope.Throughout the film, Valmont and Katherine are constantly rivals.  Each one is trying to be more cruel and manipulative than the other.  They constantly attempt to manipulate each other, and throughout the movie Katherine usually comes out on top.  In the final scene however, it seems that Sebastian gets the last laugh and Katherine gets what's coming to her.Overall, a gripping storyline, full of sadistic twists and turns, and let us not forget redemption. "},{"Title":"Fairly good","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall, this movie is fairly good, but has little to write home about. Sarah Michelle Gellar is the most suprising thing (she is extremely good at being bad). But the angst between Phillipe and Witherspoon does get a bit boring at times, and the constant 'witty' dialogue can get slightly irritating. 7/10And the guy from Dawson's Creek is disturbingly good as Valmont's gay friend "},{"Title":"It wasn't all that bad","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion Cruel Intentions was an ok movie.  There were some interesting things going on with the plot and story however the acting wasn't the best, although I liked Reese Witherspoon's performance.  Sarah Michelle Gellar did a good job with the role of a the bitch who was intended for a rude awakening.  The ending was awesome, Sarah Michelle Gellar's character got exactly what she deserved and it made the rest of the movie fall into place. All in all I give Cruel Intentions-2/4 stars(it might not be a bad idea to rent it). "},{"Title":"Great adaptation, outstanding performances.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possible Spoiler. Another adaptation of a classic for today's teenage audience - and frankly, one of the best. Of course, the story is tried and tested; Its best cinematographic adaptation to this day is Dangerous Liaisons with John Malkovich and Glenn Close. All the more surprising, then, that the daring performances of Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar result in characters every bit as evil as their period predecessors', and possibly more disturbing, since they are, in theory, only teens. And I have to repeat these are brave, uncompromising portrayals of ruthless people, and these very young actors do an amazing job. Especially Gellar shines in a wholly unsuspected light, in a kind of role that required a good amount of daring on her part. Alone for the scene where she teaches Cecile how to kiss properly, both she and the studio deserve an award for sheer nerves, since that's the kind of scene that usually gets Christians in the States to declare the movie a new incarnation of the devil. What it did earn them, in this case, was the MTV Movie Award for Best Kiss - and the R/18 rating in most parts of the world outside of Europe. Those of us who can look past such blasphemous acts, are then rewarded with more insight into the abyss of the jaded rich kid's soul. The plot unravels as it must, with death and public shame; fittingly themed to the old saying that what goes around, comes around.  "},{"Title":"A teen movie, but what a movie!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it's another teen movie. But I personally think that even though this movie is just another one in a line of movies, intended for teens (and also another one of them that is rated R.), it's a movie which can be seen a lot of times, it's not boring, it has an interesting plot and of course, great actors with good looks, both for guys and girls. (I personally think that Ryan Phillippe is gorgeous. But that's my personal opinion.) The only thing I'd like to add is that in my opinion, there was absolutely no need for a sequel. This movie ended. Period. There was no implication of further development and of course, the main actor was dead. (which by the way made a very disappointing ending.) But still, great movie!!! I recommend it. "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN EXPECTED","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  but the cast doesn't deserve the weak ending. Philippe and Gellar (who is gorgeous in this) are two spoiled rich kids with nothing to do so they plot to seduce and degrade the new 'virgin' in school. Their sadistic game begins to falter when Philippe begins to fall for Witherspoon and everything that follows is strictly hollywood predictable. But it is very well done by the cast and actually entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Thrilling and Fun","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I didn't think I'd like it, but I actually did.  The cast was wonderful, and I think it was the best casting I've seen in a long time.  Reese Witherspoon, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, and Selma Blair just were magical in their roles.  And I even loved how Sean Patrick Thomas got a great start to his acting in this movie.  I remember seeing him on Jay Leno before he was famous, telling Jay he came out to California to start filming a movie called Cruel Intentions and that he was trying to become an actor.  I love success stories.  Oh yes, one last note.  Joshua Jackson is also in this movie, and I think his role as Blaine rocks because he was so sly. "}{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was really great! I always like movies with teenagers that do stuff I never did! ;)I've seen it many months ago, but still remember I thought it was worth the recommendation to everyone. And although the sequel hasn't got well known actors, it's also a great movie. Just remember to watch this one before the sequel, because then the sequel is way better! "},{"Title":"Best Movie!!!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Easily one of the best movies of the decade, Ryan (Phillipe), Reese (Witherspoon), and Sarah Michelle (Gellar) give one of the most impressive performances ever. If I had one movie to bring with me on an island it would definitely be this movie. Selma's (Blair) acting is also great. This tale is exquisitely told and each of the characters are devilishly wonderful. I highly recommend this movie to anyone about the age of 13.  "},{"Title":"A well detailed depiction of today's generation of decadence","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a well constructed blend of classic elements with today's modern aristocratic society.  The vocabulary, costumes, and stage decor gives the script and sets a timeless feel not inhibited or influenced by constant-changing styles of popularity.   Many would find this film trite or boring, claiming it lacks in any base of realism they are familiar with. Though once associated with the type of society detailed in this picture, one can't help but be amazed at the acting skill of all the actors and actresses (I.E. Phillippe, Geller, Witerspoon, and Blair)  for their near-accurate portrayal of the characters in a very real culture.Nearly every frame in the film is so well detailed as if every scene almost tells a story in itself.   This film is a creative tribute to what can be accomplished without having a big budget, but relying instead on real talent of the director, photographer, and actors.  "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie ever it has good acting and a great plot I have seen this movie a million times literally and I'm still not tired of it its a great movie about love and Ryan Philippe was way hot in it and it is just the best movie in the world everyone needs to see it! ) "},{"Title":"Its sooooo crule!!!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** To be honest i think that movie was a blast and all the actor/actresses were really good, i liked all of the roles i really liked Phillipe's and Witherspoons role Ryan acting as a playboy using girls and messin with them and Reese acting as a nice sweet innocent girl who wants to do it proper by getting married then having sex!! then theres Sarah who is a wicked girl who keeps teasing Ryan ( sebastien ) and he cannot resist her even though i only saw the movie the other night cause i never heard of it before other wise i would of watched it sooner, and even though i'm 14 i thought i was a brillaint movie, i would watch it all day!! the end when Sebastien got ran over that was unexpected ! but i liked it when Annette if thats how u spell it! got Kathryn back by giving out sebstiens diary that was good !!!!!i would give it a really good 12/10!!! "},{"Title":"Charming and fun","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best films about betrayal is right here. The teen version of the classic. Reese Witherspoon, Ryan Phillippe, and Sarah Michelle Gellar star in this all time awesome film directed by Roger Kumble. The original is always the best? Not in this case. Not only does this film star an amazingly talented cast, but it gives us a good time as we watch it. This movie is very sexual and charming, and you'll wanna watch it again and again! Sebastian (Phillippe) has a 'reputation', and he wants to make that rep of his even better...By deflowering the headmaster's virginal daughter Annette (Witherspoon). Kathryn (Gellar) says he can't do it, so they make a bet. If she wins, then 'that hot little car' of his is hers. And if he wins, he gets...Kathryn. Of course Annette has no idea about the bet, and after a while, falls for Sebastian's charm. Then Kathryn manipulates Sebastian out of staying with her, she tells him he can't be in love with Annette, even though he is. Plus tons more happens, and the ending is very sad, but the whole movie is wonderful, sexy, and it'll have your eyes glued to the screen throughout the whole thing. Selma Blair also stars in this film as the young Cecille, the girl Kathryn's seeking revenge on. This is a classic tale of love and betrayal that will be popular forever I'm sure. A movie like this can never be forgotten. I give it 5 out of 5 stars total, because it is that awesome. "},{"Title":"Reese is Stunning!!!!","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd like to say that this is one of the best films starring Reese Witherspoon I have ever seen. The chemistry between her and Sebastian is amazing. Very well done to the director and the cast for a very enjoyable and in some places sad film.WELL DONE!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I must bag this absolute toilet of a film","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie stank. Kind of like dangerous liaisons but without anybody who can act worth a pinch of @#$%. Conspicuously like dangerous liaisons in fact. Ryan Phillipe, who was surprisingly good in way of the gun, humiliated himself repeatedly, line after line. I physically cringed!Even the names...Sebastian Valmont, Cecile Caldwell and Blaine Tuttle..I mean, come on!I'm sorry, this film outrages me.For a high school theatre production it was very impressive.If you're in the video library, considering hiring this film, I'd go for dangerous liaisons instead....or any other film at all for that matter. "},{"Title":"I don't want to see it again","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reason I watched Cruel Intentions is because of the presence of Sarah Michelle Gellar and the film is just awful. The premise of the film collapses as it goes along. The film seemed doomed from when we first see Ryan Phillipe. (SPOILER ALERT) In that scene Phillipe explains how depressed his life which pretty sums up the entire film. "},{"Title":"Actually, quite clever!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really surprised me and was quite dramatic and clever in the way it twisted around its storyline. You probably have no idea what trash I'm going on about there but Sarah Michelle Gellar's character is quite astounding and devious, Ryan Phillippe's is very broad and Reese Witherspoon is delicate and innocent as the poor girl caught in between of these cruel acts of seductive intentions. Probably an 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"I believe the phrase would be 'top notch'!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like I said, it was top notch!  The plot was brilliant and the ending was not predicted!  Sarah Michelle Gellar stepped out of the goody-two-shoe role of Buffy and became the manipulative Kathrine with what seemed to be in great ease!  Ryan Phillipe was also very good and made it his own.  I found it both refreshing and daring so well done to everyone involved!  "},{"Title":"damn good film!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only saw this last night on DVD after waiting for aaages to see it...boy was it worth the wait!The acting is fantastic...i really thought Selma Blair's character was about 17!!Definitely worth seeing...esp. if you are a fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar and or Reese Witherspoon! "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions Is excellent","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film was excellent, it is a realistic story of rich kids in Manhattan that play with the emotions of others and really have fun with it. The film is filled with emotion, it's black comedy amazing with the many one-liners, jealousy and revenge, and of course, when morals kick in, a sad but pleasing end to the whole thing. I have got to say this was one of the best films I have ever seen. The acting was great - the leads Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe particularly. I regard the film as being very stylish and trendy also, with modern wardrobe and a very appropriate soundtrack of the indie/rock persuasion. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies i have ever seen","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Apart from the beautiful backdrop and the fresh young faces and (cheeks) there is very little that i enjoyed about this movie.  The script was deplorable, the acting less than sub-par and as for the direction Roger Kumble deserves to be shot.  This movie though not the worst that i have ever seen comes dangerously close.   "},{"Title":"The modern version of Dangerous Liaisons is fantastic!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CRUEL INTENTIONS (1999) Rating 8/10Finally, a teen movie that everyone can enjoy! Cruel Intentions is a deliciously wicked and indulging remake of the 1988 Oscar-nominated Dangerous Liaisons that has a neat script written by Roger Kumble and heaps of fantastic scenes &#150; two girls kissing is bound to get anyone off the rod and the evil character Kathryn can't get enough praise for the show-stealing evilness she has in almost every scene. Near the end the movie gets a little, well, wet, if you know what I mean, but the fantastic performances and great script stand out all the way through. The best performance comes from Sarah Michelle Gellar who deserved an Academy award nomination at the very least for such a believable betrayal of a sexy step-sister and amazing effort in a film that brings out her true excellent and ability. Ryan Phillipe is not as hammy as he was in 54, and is able to pull off a good performance. Hats off to the supporting characters, Joshua Jackson pulls in lotsa laughs with his funny performance as a gay guy, Selma Blair is fabulously funny as Cecile and Reese Witherspoon is a great romantic touch. Cruel Intentions is a movie I would recommend buying because you're bound to watch it again and again. It's cool to be cruel! "},{"Title":"Excellent film, no matter what age you are","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was impressed with this movie. I actually watched the DVD version of this movie so I got to see the deleted scenes. Anyway, I thought this version of the movie is well done and inspired me to see the other version of Cruel Intentions, which is Dangerous Liasons with Glenn Close, John Malkovich and Michelle Pfeiffer. Even though the movie was made in modern times, you notice that the Valmont household has a look of centuries past, like the bedspreads and the rotary phones, to name a few. Sarah Michelle Gellar was great as Kathryn Meuteuil, I never imagined that she would play such a wicked villain and do such a superb job. Ryan Phillippe was good as Valmont, he was pretty good at being such a player, however, he could have been a little more ruthless like Meuteuil (those that have seen the deleted scenes know what I am talking about). Selma Blair was irritating at times as Cecile, one of the victims of these ruthless stepsiblings, I felt like strangling her. Reese Witherspoon did an excellent job as Annette Hargrove, this has been her best role so far, instead of playing the ditzy blond like in Little Nicky and Legally Blond. She should stick to this kind of role, where she is serious and is confident of herself. The ending is astounding as well. For those that are into killer soundtracks, this movie also has it with bands such as the Verve (Bittersweet Symphony), Placebo (Every you every me), to name a few. Either way, see it, you are missing out if you don't. "},{"Title":"Horrible, rivetingly horrible","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so bad that you keep watching it, because you can't believe that it could possibly get any worse and then it does.Let's just take a brief look at Reese Witherspoon's character 1) Does not think that young people are truly capable of understanding love so she is going to wait to have sex until she's married.  Also has a serious boyfriend. 2) Makes friends with the local predator, who she knows is a predator and is out to get her. 3) Within 1 week, not even seven days, she has sex with said predator, because he used this line You're going to walk out on love.Please!!! Give the girl SOME credit.  I can't imagine ANYONE falling for that line in one week, let alone someone with her character's convictions.  Let alone that, shouldn't she at least have had the decency of breaking up with her boyfriend before sleeping around?Just a sample of how utterly insipid this movie is.  I'm glad I didn't pay to rent it. "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions The journal Of Sebastian Valmont","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS ALERT The film in which stars Sarah Michelle Gellar and now married with one child couple Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspooon is a wonderful adaption of Dangerous Liaisons. The film won an Mtv Movie Award in 2000 for best kiss! The bet, that Sebastian can screw the new headmasters daughter before school starts. The Terms If sebastian wins, he gets to screw Kathrynn. And If Kathrynn win She gets his 1956 Jaguar Roadster. He keeps track of everything that happens, and Kathrynn is dying to get her hands on it. When he starts to try to seduce her, he falls in love with her. Once he has, he realizes that it wasn't because of the bet, but because he loved her. But when Kathrynn gets supicious he tricks him and tells him and never loved her. But once he breaks off the relationship so he can screw Kathrynn, he walks in on her having sex with Cecile's music teacher, which he expected, and says she dosen't want to screw him. the exact line, I don't f*** losers! But the film ends with the tragig death of Sebastian and Kathrynn getting turned in for coke possession. Because Sebastian gave his journal too Anette before he died, and at the ceremony at Manchester Prep, Everyone recieves a copy of the journal, and Ktahrynn gets turned in. See it or buy it on VHS or DVD! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is one of the best films I have ever seen. So where's the Emmy? They should have nominated it at least!Anyway, the reason this movie is great is clearly because of the wonderful acting. Sarah Michelle Gellar is perfect as the sexy, beautiful, and often horny villain Kathryn. Ryan Phillipe is excellent as the villain-turned-good Sebastian. And Reese Witherspoon is beautiful as Annette the bet Hargrove. To see beautiful people doing beautiful acting see Cruel Intentions. "},{"Title":"Great movie, you even should go see it if you don't like Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon ;)","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is evil. The story is quite good, unlike what's seen in most teen movies. All the actors translate their parts very well. If you liked it, you should go and see part 2 also, though it doesn't have the same actors and the story has got some cliché's in it, it's still worthwhile. "}{"Title":"At least i kept my pride...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last week i scored a date with the most beautiful girl i know. After a nice romantic date, she decided we should rent 'Cruel Intentions', despite my protests. We went home and watched it. It was the biggest load of bull i have ever seen. 25 year old's playing teenager's, in a stupid plot about spoilt rich kids making the lives of everyone around them miserable. It was awful.To my shock, afterwards i discovered she loved it! She asked me what i thought of it. My pride was at stake, so, i could not say i liked it. I said It's a stupid movie!Anyone who likes it is stupid! she asked if that included her. what could i say? She slapped me, kicked me out and i have not seen her since.Maybe i should be regretful, but i'm not. If a man loses his pride, can he still call himself a man? "},{"Title":"I Am Sick and Tired of Watching these Poor Remakes","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Cruel Intentions, I was with a bunch of friends, all around my age.  It was fun and intriguing.  Until my mother reccomended the original, Dangerous Liaisons.I have seen Cruel Intentions twice and Dangerous Liaisons three times. The latter is by far the better movie of the two.  The scenes are shot with such delicacy and Extraordinary acting that Cruel Intentions does not come close to.The difference of the acting is what makes the movies the most different. John Malkovich is Truly evil whereas Ryan Phillipe pulls off his bland interpretation of the character poorly.  Glenn Close delivers her lines in a perfect sense of time and rythm, and her emotions and movements are gracefully likewise.  I cannot even begin to understand what prompted Sarah Michelle Gellar to get this part; it's complexity and true character get lost in her fumbling for her emotions and words that always seem to come a second too late.I am a big fan of Reese Witherspoon.  But compared to Michelle Pfiffer in Dangerous Liaisons, I was pleasantly intrigued and amazed at the possiblites Ms. Pfiffer brought to her character; however, Ms. Witherspoon made her character less interesting to watch.Uma Thurman is spectacular in the role of Cecil.  I just want to ask, where the heck did Selma Blair come from anyway? She is obviously too old for the part and couldn't pull off two years under her age rather than ten!  Ms. Blair is a talented actress to a certain extent.  But a movie that needs such sophistication put into it as Dangerous Liaisons contributed should have seen that her acting abilities falls short at this movie.I think you get the gist.  Cruel Intentions was nothing but another teeny-bopper movie.  Dangerous Liaisons is my reccomendation.It is nothing but a gem.Why try to remake a gem? "},{"Title":"Bad... but not to the bone","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two rich snobby step-siblings play the same manipulation tag-you're-it games that were much better captured in DANGEROUS LIAISONS. Sarah can just not match Glenn Close's salt-on-your-wounds style that still stings just as much now as it did then. This film would have been a lot better if it tried to stray further from the suffocating confines of D.L. with some harder shocks and added some humor to it, but instead, we get another movie that wants to be cruel but ends up being child's play. JAWBREAKER hit harder than this. "},{"Title":"Gellar ruins an otherwise solid adaptation","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its not like its any surprise, really. We've seen her on TV, but the gaping abyss that exists where acting talent should be in Sarah Michelle Gellar is much more pronounced on the big screen. For an idea of the cut, candy-corn style of delivery she uses for what should by a sly, dry delivery role (e.g. Anne Bancroft as Mrs. Robinson), see Denise Richards acting in The World is Not Enough.And it's truly a shame that Sarah Michelle stinks up her part so badly, because unlike this film's Abercrombie-exploitation bretheren, it's got some nice substance to it. Phillipe is dazzling in this Manhattan Island remake of the classic Dangerous Liaisons, as Sebastian Valmont, the wry player who falls for the endearing virgin (Witherspoon). He plays the part almost as well as Malkovich did, and, I must admit, has a far nicer backside.Liv Tyler (who is for some reason not credited in the IMBb database) is perfect as the clueless novice, who Valmont educates in the ways of love. Christine Baranski plays the same part she always seems to play, but as always, she plays it well. Joshua Jackson, replacing a maid in the 1984 version, plays a homosexual well enough to satiate the rage of all the Pacey-hating adolescent males, forced to stay in every Wednsday night so their girlfriends can watch Dawson's CreekAs a film, Dangerous Liaisons has been done better, but the 1988 version is so unbelievably good (Keanu Reeves is especially solid in his role) that basically everything else will pale by comparison. Go out and see this film at a foreign language theater, and cover your ears and stick to the subtitles when Gellar comes on. Then go see the period piece with Close and Malkovich to see how its REALLY done.  "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can i say what could be better than a film that brings 3 very attractive women together?The answere the script for cruel intentions.  Set in 90's manhatan the story focuses on spiteful step sibbling sebastian and katryn and there evil plots to destroy people. The film links together brilliantley and sarah michelle geller and ryan phillipe work great together with a great twist in the plot i would class this film as unmissable but it is not up to me to tell you what to do but i can advize you and that is waht i will do.with a great soundtrack and shed loads of whitty one liners as well as thedeep drama of the script and for the ladz Sarah Michelle Geller you will be on edge waiting to find the end result for those who have seen the film i think they would agree that the film couldnt have been improvedi have seen this film at least 17 times you may feel that is sad but after you watch i bet you will be hooked  "},{"Title":"It was Cruel and delicious!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, Cruel Intentions was a great movie! Not only were the actors a thunbs-up, they did their character like they were made for them. One example is Sarah Michelle Gellar, gone was the buffy heroine from our beloved Sarah and in came the we love to hate character Kathryn. The movie was both funny, sad and eye-opening. All in all the movie is Rated A and it was a definite thrill!! "},{"Title":"Perfectly directed movie that never goes to far!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don´t know why exactly I like this movie as much as I do. I usually just laugh at all these teenage-dramas that scatter the world today. But this movie just does it for me. It tells a story and does it perfectly! Super-work by the director I must say. Nothing is overdone and nothing is left out, and the casting is just great. The music in the movie is also very good. "},{"Title":"A bad film from a good script ?","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is it possible to make a bad film from a good script ? Not this time. Over centuries and through numerous adaptations,  the novel by Choderlos de Laclos still works. OK, sometimes you are tempted to laugh a bit. But at the end it remains consistent. Good example of a universal theme fighting against time. Don't look too close and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Wicked, yet great. Crazy, yet wonderful.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions has it. It's a great movie, not only because of the story but also because of the actors. It really shows teenagers' lives in a funny way. Because of the language used in the movie, it's not appropriate for young children to watch, but I really enjoyed it! "},{"Title":"Flawed vehicle masquerading as an ensemble piece","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh great, yet another bland and rather pointless adaptation of a classic (and therefore out of copyright) story.  With the exceptions of Clueless and 10 Things I Hate About You, all such recent movies have been formulaic pieces, utterly safe and utterly predictable, and Cruel Intentions is no exception.The cast is competent, the writing and cinematography flawless (which doesn't mean it's actually good) and the production values are just as high as they have to be.  There's the requisite amount of young flesh on display, and even some girl-on-girl tongue action to get the teenage boys groaning and recommending it to their pubescent friends.  I mention this scene in particular because it's a good demonstration of the lack of commitment by one of it's participants.  If you're going to say Now I'm going to put my tongue in your mouth, then you should probably consider actually doing that, considering you're being watched in closeup.  And that leads me into my big gripe...While there are four main characters, the big name and the big disappointment has to be Sarah Michelle Geller.  She once again fails to convince; I wouldn't say she actually mails in her performance, it's more of a low frame rate video conference.  Sarah has been consistently criticised for failing to commit to her parts, and once again, it's clearly a case of Here I am, Sarah Michelle Geller, acting a part.  Watch the emotions cross my face.  Once, two, done.  Still, I suppose this has always been the case; Hollywood royalty don't act, they just pick vehicles that reenforce the image they're selling.Not a bad film, but not a good one either.  Pretty and pointless. "}{"Title":"wickedly sexy","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  well this is a film I totally enjoyed and of course I would considering I'm one of Sarah Michelle Gellar's BIGGEST fans!I don't understand why there was so many bad reviews for this film as I thought it was amazing! When people comment on how bad it is and how Dangerous Liaisons is better - they way be right. But I thought Dangerous Liasons was not as good as I thought it would be. I saw Cruel Intenions before Dangerous Liaisons though. The thing that attracted me to watch this film was because Sarah Michelle Gellar & Ryan Phillippe were in it - in my opinion, two of the best of young Hollywood. Gellar's turn in the film is fabulous - a great escape from Buffy which is one of my favourite TV shows.Call me sad, but I have seen this film over 60 times, the only film I watch on a rainy day!Truly entertaining in my opinion, agree or disagree, it's one of the best films I have seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"A truly terrible movie!","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Question What do you get when you remove the intelligence, sophistication, and subtlety from Dangerous Liaisons? Answer You guessed it...Cruel Intentions.  While I didn't expect Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Philleppe, Reese Witherspoon, and Selma Blair to be Glenn Close, John Malkovich, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Uma Thurman, respectively, I was, nevertheless, surprised at how spectacularly this movie wilts in comparison to its predecessor. An improbable premise, poorly developed love story, and uninspired performances by the entire cast left me wondering why I should care about the sexual exploits of a few horny teenagers. In the end it was a question I couldn't answer.  Spare yourself the punishment, and rent Dangerous Liaisons again, instead. "},{"Title":"Slick, serpentine classic undone by hormonally challenged teen perspective","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Do yourself a favour avoid this insipid, dreadful movie at all costs.  The previous adaptions were literary, subtle and lavish, so what is missing from these near flawless films?  Yes thats right implants.Did the producer feel he needed to update it for us dopey kids to understand?  Are we that dumb? The story which has been substantially desecrated revolves around a stepbrother/stepsister duo who are so shallow, fickle and ruled about by their hormones, that they decide to play a little game and drive the local virgin over the edge by seducing her and then breaking her heart.Its so frustrating to describe this literary masterwork in such a straightforward way, but i'm left with no choice as all who are involved abandon complexity for T and A. The performances by every cast member are so wooden that a tribe of termites would have a field day.  Someone should have briefed the dimwits that they were portraying some of the greatest characters in history- all be it very loosely. This movie stinks, big time.  Hopefully this cinematic error will vanish into the pits of hell where it belongs, it has its seat reserved, right next to Satan! "},{"Title":"It's the best film eva!!!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would just like to say that I think that Cruel Intentions is the best film eva!!! I think that Sarah and Ryan work really well together just like they did in I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER!!! Sarah is a great actress who has been through alot and I think that she was the best person to play Kathryn and I think that Ryan was the best person to play Sebastian. I hope that people all over the world has watched the film, cos it is the best film eva!!! As I love it soooooooo much, I went out and bought it on DVD - which is much better then on video, as you get to see footage that didnt make the movie etc........ The last thing I am going to say is that Sarah and Ryan are two vey attracted people!!! They work well together and I hope that they work together in the near future!!!  "},{"Title":"Cruel Viewing!!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst films I've seen in a while.  I was very eager to see this movie, since I wanted to see these actors together, but was very disappointed.  I felt nothing for any of the characters, I didn't believe their performances, and didn't care what happened to any of the them by the end of the movie.  The ending was okay, but it didn't mean anything to me since I wasn't interested from the start.  I don't know if it was the script, acting, direction, a little of everything???  Bottom line is ... I wasn't pleased that I spent 4 bucks to rent this DVD.  And ... the deleted scene of Ryan Phillippe in the special features section that was supposed to be homosexual in nature ... give me a break!  There's better same sex scenes in Soap, the TV series. "},{"Title":"I Love it!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I Absolutely love this movie it's definitely one of the best ever. Great story line, dialogues to die for. And don't get me started on the actors they're all gorgeous and they made the movie even excellent!Sarah Michelle Gellar, portrayed as the Marcie f*cking Brady off the Upper East Side. Sarah was so great as the bad girl! Ryan Phillippe made the scene even better! A great performance! And they make a great bad couple! Reese Witherspoon was great too, the innocent of her character gave something to the bad couple to work at! Selma Blair, quite new to the teen movies but she's worth the go! Great acting!What the highlight of the movie is... well I guess you can only answer.. The kiss between Sarah and Selma!This is definitely a recommend! Be sure to watch this!and also a recommend is the Quotes at the IMDB they're fab, it gives you a great preview of what to come or a great looking back!This is defintly a recommand! Be sure to watch this!and also a recommand is the Quotes at the IMDB they're fab, it gives you a great previeuw of what to come or a great looking back! "},{"Title":"A movie about poetic justice","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  The young actors in it were all superb.The Janguar Roadster was to die for!Watching Kathryn kissing Cecile in the middle of the film was enough to make any red-blodded male go weak at the knees.I had to watch the ending several times, because I thought it was so good. I was also able to pause the DVD at the right places to read some of the journal.Overall, a movie with some excellent twists and a very fitting end. "},{"Title":"Sexy, stylish and clever","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this film. As many other people, before seeing it I believed it was pointless to make yet another adaptation of Choderlos de Laclos's classic and that it was just an excuse to showcase some pretty new faces. But then I must admit that the movie really grabbed my attention, I thought the way the story was adapted to contemporary America and younger characters was very clever, and it achieved a level of sensuality which far surpassed that of any previous version; and while this certainly doesn't hurt the box-office, I think it is also essential for the story to work. Great fun and, why not say it, a feast for the eyes! "},{"Title":"my loving god..","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i do not understand the positive reviews this movie has been getting on this site and many other sites that i have visited...the plot was an insipid and watered down version of the original dangerous liasons portrayed by actors far too immature to get across the proper meaning of the plot...Gellar and Philipe were absolutely wretched and you could see the words written in typescript as they talked..i haven't seen such a powerful portrayal of emotions in Philipe since i saw him in I know what you Did Last Summer..excuse me as i weep into my popcorn...do yourself a favor and miss this movie at all costs..unless you are looking for a good laugh-)..the best part of the movie was the ending and the mass shaking the head in shame movement towards Gellar..classic    2/10happy movie watching "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions is a great movie!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie when I saw it in the theatre and loved it on video months later.  These characters are shameless and it is fun to see Katharyn get her deserts in the end.As for those who have criticized that it was not a highschool must remember that this is a very private high school like Notre Dame.  I know I could not afford to go to Manchester Prep given that  my family is not wealthy. I suggest this movie to watch.  "}{"Title":"Dark and delightful","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie recently on TV, because for some reason I never saw it in the cinema, which might be because I don't normally go there regularly.I was soon captured by the atmosphere generated by the characters and the scenes, wonderfully supported by just the right choice of music. It is quite shocking how Kumble presents the characters as involved in a cruel game with themselves, and I find it even more shocking that the plot, which seemed first far away from reality, turns into a believable succession of scenes. The characters perform brilliantly. Everything is so convincing that it left me in a state of depression for days. I can certainly recommend the film.   "},{"Title":"Strong emotions and great performance","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions continued Dangerous Liaisons successfully. The cast presented their characters most natural revealing all the emotions that made this film really strong. Sarah Michelle Gellar as Kathryn was fabulous as the evil character who was very well accompanied by the seductive Sebastian performed by Ryan Phillippe. Reese Witherspoon (Annette) shows a very good performance as well, turning from an innocent young lady into a very powerful woman who stays strong after the death of her beloved one and seeks justice for his death. In my personal opinion, this film worths seeing...  "},{"Title":"Better than Wild things?","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the perfect balance between superb plotting and characters. The characters are either brilliantly vile and the way the plot develops is excellent. I love this film. There is not a single false word in the film at all. Sarah michelle Geller sheds her cross from Buffy and slips into the role perfectly. Ryan Phillip proves that camp is cool and practically makes the film. Joshua Jacksons role as the gay gut is inspired, if only his character appeared more. Less sex than Wild things, but far more clever. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Brilliant Flick.","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions has a top notch cast and a successful director. But, then again, lots of movies have had that kit. So, I really didn't know what to think of this flick, it had so-so reviews and an unimpressive user-rating on IMDb. I couldn't believe my eyes, Cruel Intentions actually goes boldly beyond Dangerous Liasons!Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) are two spoilet, bored rich kids who play with people's lives. When Kathryn makes a bet with Sebastian that he can't seduce innocent blonde virgin Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon), Sebastian considers this a real challenge, as he is a sex-crazy Don Juan. If Kathryn wins, she gets to keep Sebastian's hot little Jaguar, and if Sebastian wins, he gets to seduce Kathryn, who he has been wildly in love with ever since their parents got married. But, as the plot thickens, Sebastian starts falling in love with Annette, and Kathryn takes the plunge, and she realises she has gone a little too far.Lively, awesome performances from all the cast in Cruel Intentions, Sarah Michelle Gellar deserved an Oscar for her brutal turn as Kathryn Mertevil, Ryan Phillipe gets the best-of-career nod with this flick, Reese Witherspoon was sweetly amusing and Selma Blair was sarcastically impressive. Roger Kumble's adaption is great, you won't be able to stop appreciating his work into this flick. But, the best thing about Cruel Intentions is the way it stirs up every feeling possible, so you never know how to react to the characters. The emotions you'll get are tragedy, hilarity, romance, desire etc. The film strings itself together perfectly, and at the end it will be hard for you not to stand up and cheer for Cruel Intentions.A sexy teen movie, but recommended for all audiences. A must-see!I rate Cruel Intentions 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cool.","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was super cool.  It's actually a bit more fun to watchthan Dangerous Liasons and except for the ending, which is a bitweak, is as good a film. I loved Sebastians's Jaguar XK140 (even though it was not a realone), I loved SMG's hair it's natural colour and I liked Fred(of The Howard Stern Show) Norris' bit part in the f "},{"Title":"Who says teens are a bad idea for Dangerous Liaisons?!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, although I can't say I absolutely love it because of the acting. The story is amazing- wicked, delicious fun- just the way I like it! Acting was less than decent except maybe Reese Witherspoon. Sarah and Ryan got the idea but are trying too hard, so it seems kinda fake~~Selma Blair is okay, at least she does look pretty innocent, as long as she loses that annoying stupidity. Now, this movie is quite different from the 1988 version, with rich teens and the '90 American society as the background setting. Still, that doesn't mean it's a lollipop 'teen' movie. I cannot understand those people who say Dangerous Liaisons is MUCH better than Cruel Intentions, I found both to be very enjoyable but DL is not necessarily better. And frankly, I liked the ending of Cruel Intentions a lot more. The look on Kathryn's face is priceless! And the growing chemistry is so sweet between Sebastian and Annette. This movie is very funny, too; plus there's THE ultimate smoooooch between the young ladies--I mean, how can you say it's not worth it?  "},{"Title":"BEST!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This had to have been one of the best novies ever made,one is I have seen it! It could not have been any better!! It was a top 10!Also evryone I know said this was the best they have ever seen!Also that Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Philippe and Reese Witherspoon were all in it! Made it even beter! "},{"Title":"Gellar's the main attraction but this is pretty witty as well.","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On paper, this was probably not a great idea Make a teenage version of a story that wasn't actually that well known in the first place (put it this way Dangerous Liasons isn't a classic).  However, that was before Sarah Michelle Gellar showed up- 'brunetted' and with vampire dagger firmly in pocket.  If you think she is sexy in Buffy, this is a film you really must see.  Prancing around the stage, torturing Ryan Phillipe's Sebastien, she really shows a dark side that no one really expected.  Suddenly, it seems this film can do no wrong.  A soundtrack featuring ultra cool Placebo and the Verve, and with enough bedroom suggestiveness to keep you awake when the plot starts to double up on itself.  This tale of black mail and sexual exploitation begins to shine in all its glory.Well, not quite. While all the ingredients are here, there isn't actually much solid plot here.  Yes, there's a lot of waffle about getting first base, finding the right person, and of course 'trust', but there are only about 6 or 7 scenes which actually effect the plot in  any way.  So while it's all fairly sugary and enjoyable in the first hour, you'll probably come out feeling a little hollow and unsatisfied. "},{"Title":"badly done remake","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, a badly done remake of Dangerous Liaisons (Glenn Close, John Malkovich, plus other fine actors) only had one thing going for it  the beauty of its actors.  And, yes, they are all quite lovely, but that fact will never make this a good movie.   "},{"Title":"Good Looking Rich People","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd heard this was an updated version of Dangerous Liaisons, set amongst the idle rich in Manhattan. I'd tried to watch that movie a few times, and despite my wife's exhortations I could never get past the costumes and enjoy the show.But Cruel Intentions was fascinating. From start to finish, I was continually surprised by what happened. Yet it all made sense, and that to me defines a great movie. I was especially impressed by Reese Witherspoon, and not surprised at all later to find out that she is married to Ryan Phillippe. Good-looking rich people and their problems are always fascinating watching, and that's what Cruel Intentions has in spades. "}{"Title":"This movie is a big giant stupid cornball","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was obviously made for the prepubecent WB crowd. They should stick all these actors and actresses in a crate and throw it into Niagra Falls, that way they can chase their credibility as actors and actresses. Ryan Philippe is an idiot and Gellar should stick to playing Buffy. I used to like Reese Witherspoon until I saw this.  If you compare this to Dangerous Liason, CI gets a woodshed butt-whoopin of galactic proportions except for one scene...the Gellar and the other chick frenching under the tree.But then again, my zip poppin' days are over and maybe I am just out of touch.   "},{"Title":"Excellent. Well worth seeing!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films i have seen in a long time. The film itself only lasts for 1,30 hours but in that time you will relate to the characters well and like the excellent story. But lets not kid ourselves, two of the good things in this movie are 1) Sarah Michelle Geller 2)Ryan Phillippe. Ryan Phillippe plays an excellent part and is the life we follow for the few days of the film. I watch this film alot because i just love the film because of it's wit, and sexiness. A must watch! "},{"Title":"Very cool movie.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very cool form the moment the film started. It is about a cunning, devious back stabbing sister Kathyrn who has a wager with her stepbrother, Sebstain,  that he cannot bed the headmasters daughter. If he does not do it, then he has to give his jaguar, but if he wins, then he would get to have sex with Kathryn. Sebestain believes that he could easily win the bet, for he has done this before, but a strange twist occurs. He actually falls in love with the daughter. Also he knows that this wager could cause people shame, just because of a car. I wont tell you what will happen nest for that will spoil it, but it is a very good movie. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe are brillant as Kathyrn and Sebestain and Selma Blair is so funny as the dippy and naive Cecil. Also before I go, look out for the very provocative lesbain kiss by Gellar and Blair.     "},{"Title":"Good Movie Destroyed By Bad Ending","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really good.  It was so close to being classic.  I read Ebert's review, and I totally agree when he said that It crash-lands with an ending of soppy moralizing, but until the end, it's smart and merciless in the tradition of the original story.  The ending was just awful.  It just didn't fit with the tone of the story at all.  But before that, it was compelling, often hillarious, and wonderfully twisted.  I especially loved Sarah Michelle Gellar and Selma Blair's performances.  They were cast well.  If it'd had a twisted ending that didn't try too hard to prove that no, you should not be like Katheryn, I would give it an A, but the ending is always extremely important in how you view a movie (and this had an awful ending), so I give it a C+. "},{"Title":"brilliant teen flick","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a great film showing that Sarah Michelle Gellar is more than just a vampire slayer.It has everything including violence,romance and sex.I'd recommend this to anyone who is in for a laugh and likes twisted films. "},{"Title":"Okay, but see Dangerous Liaisons first.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I can see where those who hadn't seen Valmont (1989) or Cruel Intentions (1988) might think how great the film is. It's certainly not a totally bad lite version of the film.The plot is intricate and yet believable, so the adaptation makes the script much more plausible than the horribly blocked standard teen flick trash. Unfortunately, this film is weighed down by its assets - the acting. The actors in this film are, for the most part, fairly good actors in their own light. I had a problem with one or two, but most are more than capable of handling this material.This is where the previous two films come in.Ryan Philippe doesn't hold a candle to John Malkovich or Colin Firth. Nor does Sarah Michelle Gellar stand up to Glenn Close or Annette Bening. Reese Witherspoon to Michelle Pfeiffer or Meg Tilly; Selma Blair to Uma Thurman or Fairuza Balk (really); et al...Simply put, Dangerous Liaisons and Valmont are each such GREAT, Oscar-material flicks, that Cruel Intentions pales by comparison. Which doesn't mean that you can't enjoy it! But if you do enjoy it, please, please, please do yourself a favor and see these two movies as soon as possible.Yes, they are period pieces, but they are very rauchy and uncensored looks at seduction. The language in both is modern and easy to comprehend. And, if that alone won't do it for you, they each have nudity. ;0)But more importantly, each gives a much better look into seduction and manipulation. Stephen Frears' (High Fidelity) Dangerous Liaisons gives a more malicious quality to it; Milos Forman's (The People vs. Larry Flint) Valmont is a more playful romp in the country. Both are superb adaptations; the only difference being that Valmont is adapted from the book, while Dangerous Liaisons is adapted from a play adapted from the book, which accounts for the differences in tone. Cruel Intentions is an adaptation of the latter film. So it's REALLY far away from the original.I had seen Dangerous Liaisons a couple of years ago, but when some friends from college were watching Cruel Intentions, I convinced them to try out Dangerous Liaisons. By the end of the film, we had a crowd of about 15 people gathered around the TV, mostly stragglers. Then we discovered Valmont; the turnout was even higher!So I'll leave you with the tagline of Dangerous Liaisons as an incentive to see itLust. Seduction. Revenge. See the game played as you've never seen it before. "},{"Title":"One movie you have to see through to the end","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't give away the ending, but for those of you who wish to see this movie, watch it through to the end.  Personally, I hated this movie until I saw the way it ended.  The story was rather flat, and the acting wasn't that great.  Truly, with the actors in this movie (I've seen all of them do other parts MUCH better) you would have thought they would have taken their parts in this movie at least somewhat seriously.  But, what do you expect from what is basically a teen movie.  At one point (about 2/3 of the way through) I actually fell asleep while watching it.  But when I saw the end, I knew it was worth the wait having to endure the rest of the movie.If you get bored with this movie...do not turn it off!  Watch through to the end, you'll be glad you did.  I was.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly Cool!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **********CRUEL INTENTIONS**********The Plot Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) makes a bet with her Don Juan step brother, Sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) that he can't seduce the lovely virgin Annette (Reese Witherspoon). If Kathryn wins, she gets to keep Sebastian's awesome car, and if Sebastian wins, he gets to seduce Kathryn, who he has been lusting about ever since their parents got married. 92%The Acting Sarah Michelle Gellar was astonishing as the evil Kathryn, if I had the choice, I would of given her the Oscar for Best Actress. Ryan Phillipe also gave a good performance as Don Juan Sebastian. Joshua Jackson was very pleasing in his quiet, gay role, Reese Witherspoon was lovely as Annette and Selma Blair, although at times the weakest actress, was still fun to watch. 94%The Screenplay/Directing Roger Kumble wrote an unbelievably outstanding adapted script from Dangerous Liasons, and his direction must have been full of effort, or else the performances, and the film overall, wouldn't of been as good. 93%Other Cruel Intentions has an awesome soundtrack, the songs match the film perfectly. And this film is just fine without any fancy special effects, thank you very much. 78%Overall Cruel Intentions is a must-have film with a stylish turn on the original film, Dangerous Liasons. It is a wickedly entertaining teen film that is hard to dislike. One of the best films of 1999, easily. 98%**********CRUEL INTENTIONS 98%********** "},{"Title":"A modern version of dangerous liasons. Fantastic.","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a mystique of its own. It's a modernized version of the Dangerous Liaisons story, which itself is a remake of the Valmont story, but I think this one is the best.Sarah Michelle Gellar, as Katherine, breaks out of her cute little Buffy the Vampire Slayer mode and gets as nasty as you can get in a PG movie. As far as I'm concerned she has found her element in this part.For example, the director makes a point of completely exploiting the shock value of a scene where she teaches Cecile, her girlfriend, to french kiss by practicing with her. If you are a Gellar fan your juices will start flowing freely.Ryan Phillippe plays the main character, and his acting job might seem a bit affected the first time you see the movie but after a second viewing it makes more and more sense. That's part of the attraction of the movie is seeing more subtlety in  subsequent viewings. He is constantly manipulating people around him in a surprising display of finesse.Selma Blair plays one of the four main characters, Cecile, a naive airhead, and does the best job in the movie. She is a pawn being used by the evil protagonists and her innocent stumblings are hilarious.The part played by Reese Witherspoon, one of my favorite actresses, has some badly written sections. 2 or 3 of her lines just don't make sense.Take the time to see this movie. It's worth it. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet symphony...","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I didn´t watch the other adaptations of Dangerous liaisons. But I  think it´s better that way, otherwise I would have watched Cruel intentions with another  attitude. This was the most romantic movie I have seen in a long time. Beautiful people, a sweet romance that make you sigh  - what do  you want more? Ryan Philippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar were wonderful as the perfidious siblings and, of course, Reese Witherspoon as the victim  of their cruel bet - which boy wouldn´t fall in  love with her? Classic stuff, but a modern love story. "}{"Title":"The most Entertaning movie I have ever seen in my entire life!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie about two step siblings make a bet witch involves two other girlsIf Kathryn wins making a girl named Cecile fall in love with a man named Ronald so she would brake up with Kathryn's ex-boyfriend,she gets Sebation's car/If Sebation wins seducing a virgin named Annett,he gets to also seduce Kathryn.And this movie has a great cast,great plot,and thats enough to make you see this movie,it awsome! "},{"Title":"a fantastic film","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe that the film is a good mix of sensuality, humor,and sweetness. The music is good used in the film. I believe that the actors are very good and fantastic. I like the love story and Sebastian is a very good character. "},{"Title":"a mix of sex, lies and a hell of a lot of good acting","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions. By far one of the best movies ever remade.Sarah Michelle Gellar..... what a knock out career changing role. She is amazing. Her performance as Kathryn blows the rest of the excellent cast away.This movie is the second best of last year, beaten just barely by the astonishing Fight Club.My hat off to the whole cast and crew.... "},{"Title":"Strong performances, but story needed work","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is probably one of the most intriguing films I have seen in a long time. Based upon the classic Dangerous Liaisons, most of the cast gives remarkably strong performances which make the film entertaining and interesting. However, the storyline is at many times ridiculous, unbelievable, predictable, or a combination of the three.The best performance in Cruel Intentions is without a doubt Sarah Michelle Gellar's, who takes a blind eye to the girly hero type she makes famous in Buffy the Vampire Slayer to play Kathryn, the morally conflicted and evil student body president at Manchester (a college which is the background and driving point behind many of the story). This performance made her follow-up in Simply Irresistible all the more disappointing. Frankly, I think the role of the villain suits her perfectly, and I also think she was robbed of a well-deserved bucket of golden popcorn at the MTV Movie Awards.Ryan Phillippe, as Sebastian, overdoes the evil aspect of his character to the point where his actions and words are almost completely ludicrous. Reese Witherspoon's Annette tries to balance this flaw in the script with the opposite problem her character early on quickly takes on the role of the morals preacher. The script enters its predictable stages they sleep together, fall in love, break up when Sebastian admits the truth about his past, then one dies in a car accident (I won't say which one); forever killing chances for true love. Blah. How boring.Selma Blair's Cecile adds a interesting dimension to the movie She falls for her African-American music instructor (who is later revealed to be a cohort of Kathryn), is seduced by Sebastian under false pretenses, then becomes an annoyance to both Sebastian & Kathryn with her persistence. I admire her character's persistence, but not her character's stupidity, which is omnipresent from the moment she appears on camera.The soundtrack is nothing to write home about - the only major standouts being the Counting Crows' haunting ballad Colorblind, and the Verve's Bittersweet Symphony.To sum, Cruel Intentions is a movie that tries to be original by exaggerating relationships between teens, but rather ends up being inanely predictable and at times too ridiculous to believe. However, the cast makes up for the script's weaknesses with well-rounded performances; the best coming from Gellar and Blair. And to continue the predictability, there will, of course, be a prequel... "},{"Title":"The most intelligent teen flick I've ever seen","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Cruel Intentions first came out I thought that it would be another one of those cheesy teen flicks with popular teen actors in the same old situations.  Boy was I wrong!  I watched it on HBO at one of those times when absolutely nothing else was on TV.  I must say, I was very pleasantly surprised!The mise-en-scene was what first impressed me about this movie.  The way that the scenery subtly alludes to the french origin of the story was captivating.  The rich colors of the surroundings as well as the costumes makes the movie a pleasure to watch.Then came the script.  As a twenty-something college student, I found that the characters actually had intelligent conversation and said things that my friends and I would actually say.  I was also impressed by the blatant-yet-subtle sexuality in the film.  The thought of sex was present throughout the movie, yet there were no breasts flying around and no actual sex scenes.  I feel that this left much more up to the imagination and added greatly to the tension.  I thought that although the movie was not terribly realistic in the situations, it is indeed just a movie, not a documentary, and fulfilled it's purpose in providing great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as i first thought.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched this film I thought it was absolutely exceptional. It was very funny and well performed at first sight, I found it interesting how the audience laughed at prejudiced comments which society usually (and rightly) condemns. But the more I watch it, the less I like it.The first time I watched Cruel Intentions I was instantly impressed by the performance of the characters of Kathryn (Sarah Michele Gellar) and Cecile (Selma Blair), and while my great opinion of Selma's excruciatingly funny performance in this film does not change no matter how many times I watch it, I now think that I at first over-estimated the quality of Gellar's performance. Her attempt at creating humour through stylising certain responses works the first time you watch the film. But when I watched it a third time, I started to notice that her movements and responses were quite 'clumsy' and often inappropriately silly. Selma's are, by contrast, expertly timed and executed and she brings an air of naive and innocent charm to the otherwise dark film. Another factor which changed the second time I watched this film was my opinion of Reece Witherspoon who plays the pure, untouchable Annette. I hated her the first time, I thought she was bland and boring, not the character, but Witherspoon herself. I felt that her performance lacked energy and charm or any good qualities at all. But after watching it a couple of times my opinion of her as an actress totally changed, she was totally believeable and full of a more subtle breed of spunk, independance and charm than either Kathryn or Cecile (who remains my fave character). My fondness (perhaps an inappropriate word for a cunning and seductive character such as this) of Phillipes character 'Sebastian' also increased, and I found that where Gellars attempts at humour failed, his succeeded admirably (especially the bit where he greets his Aunt). This film is a brilliantly entertaining film the first (and second ) time around. It will make you laugh and cry, love and hate (probably simultaneously). My advice is to just quit while your ahead, dont watch it too many times or you may find yourself becoming as cynical and critical about this film as I now am! "},{"Title":"the best movie- you gotta see it- to believe it","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the one of the best movies. Not only was the movie great, but so were the cast who played in it. Ryan Phillippe plays the part of Sebastian and Sarah Michelle Gellar as his step sister- Kathryn. When they read about the virgin Annette, (Reese Witherspoon), and that she is saving herself, they are determined to seduce her. If Sebastian wins he gets to get Kathryn (whom he lusts for), if he loses, Kathryn gets his car. Will Sebastian be able to seduce the unseductable Annette? You'll have to watch and see what will happen in this cruel, sexy, dramatic, romantic, seductive, sad, AND sweet movie. I would compare this movie to, She's all That, because Annette is the bet of Kathryn and Sebastian. Anyway, this movie was great- it's a got to see movie- I give it 100 out of 10. I've watched it more than 13 times. Yet it seems to get better more and more each time. Even if you don't think this movie sounds good, you should see it anyway- it has some of the greatest stars in it and they all do a fabulous job in playing their part. "},{"Title":"Cruel is Cool!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I still love this movie now as much as I did the first time I saw it. Cruel Intentions is a hilariouslly serious black comedy that is smart, engaging, witty and mysteriously intriguing. Sarah Michelle Gellar is incredible, her acting ability was good enough for Oscar quality! And you gotta love Roger Kumble's mean but cool screenplay and his ability to direct a hugely known cast. Ryan Phillipe is also a joy to watch as the seductive Sebastian Valmont.Cruel Intentions is one of my favourite movies of all time. Cruel is cool, nice is rice and this flick is definitely my pick! Don't miss it!Rating 10 "},{"Title":"Twisted and smooth , pure entertainment!!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel intentions is a superb movie.  Sarah Michelle-Gellers seductive, devious role as the evil Catherine is wonderfully tackled while Ryan Phillippe's- Sebastion character is the coolest man on earth!. The wonderfully thought out plot is accompanied by some great acting, this is Kumbles greatest victory. "},{"Title":"left me speechless","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie reminded me of the movie wild things, but the big difference between the movies is that you can see this movie more than once. I really love the movie, because it's finally a Hollywood movie which deals with sex in a confronting, but not rude way. I think the actors were very good, especially Ryan Philippe. he played Sebastian in a very convincing way.  It's one of my favourite movies.my rate 9  "}{"Title":"Clueless performances, awful film.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot tell you how bad the acting in this film was, it was just so, so awful.  The actors are so far out of their depth it is laughable.This was the main problem with the film.  The plot was good, the lighting was nice in places & the script was semi-ok.  But the fact that a bunch of inept children were cast in roles that could have had potential in the hands of serious actors, destroyed the film. I did not in the slightest way care about any of the characters, Sarah Michelle Gellar put on one of the worst performances I have ever seen by a professional actress and the movie was further ruined by the directors' decision to pitch the film towards an audience whom only watched the movie to see the pitiful sexual innuendo, of which there is plenty.What a truly awful film!  Maybe it says something that its only critical acclaim came at the likes of the MTV Movie Awards...calling all 14-year olds, time to get your popcorn. "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie about sex without full frontal nudity","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On the outside, Kathryn Merteuil is the perfect young woman. Kind, sweet, and beautiful, but on the inside she is evil, cold, and irresistable; just like her step-brother, Sabastian Valmont, who finds fun in using young women, and views having sex with them a challenge with virginity as a bonus, and the act of intercourse as a victory.Young and naive Cecile Caldwell unwittingly falls into a devillish trap by Kathryn to get back at her beau, Court, for dumping her for Cecile, by having Sabastian use her and send her back to Court as damaged goods. Alongside this, Sabastian makes a wager with Kathryn that he can take the virginity of Annette Hargrove, their new school head-master's daughter, who also plans to stay a virgin until marriage, before the school year starts in the fall. If he can't bed her, Kathryn will get his sleek, 56' Jaguar Roadster, if he does, he gets Kathryn -- the one women he knows he can never have.Cruel Intentions is a remake of the movie Dangerous Liaisons, except involving much younger characters and aiming for a younger audience. A lot of people immediately deem this movie as dirty, filthy, but if you put that all aside and notice how this is just part of the story, you'll see a different side to this movie. There are many back stories that all tie together to form one dramatic conclusion. The cast really brought out their characters as well, and I found myself caught in this movie.I give it a 10/10, a really great movie! "},{"Title":"Woah.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know, I have seen this movie several times since it has been playing on HBO, and I have to tell you, every time I see it, I cry like a little girl with a skinned knee.  And let me tell you, there's nothing worse than seeing a fat man cry(I'm huge).  The sad ending is, well, sad, and I'm a huge fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar(I see her and I can't move), but I hated her so much in the film.  If you get this movie for nothing else, get it for the kissing scene.  Still a solid movie, but WAY sad. "},{"Title":"Excellent Entertainment.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. And I think it is hard for anyone to actually dislike it. Since it is wonderfully twisted, excellently acted, well written and had great direction, Cruel Intentions has earned a place in My Top 10 Films of All Time. It is one of those movies you can watch over and over and over again and you can never stop loving it and never get bored. That is exactly the way I like movies to be.All the cast put on their best performances, Sarah Michelle Gellar is excellent as Kathryn, while Ryan Phillipe is cool and hip as Sebastian Valmont, while supporting actors, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair play their roles with commitment and perserverance, so everyone in this film was a joy to watch.This is one of the best films of 1999, and it is well worth a look for all fun-loving people who want a laugh and a great movie. See it!My Rating 10 "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Cruel Intentions is one of the best films! I was never really a fan of Ryan Phillippe, Sarah Michelle Geller, or Reese Witherspoon until after I saw this movie. Some people may say that it was inappropriate, but I think the plot and the whole twist of this movie was a great one. I think Ryan Phillippe does an outstanding job playing the part of Sebastian Valmont. Cruel Intentions was a very well acted film and if you haven't seen it already, I highly suggest you do so! -Kari "},{"Title":"Entertaining in an American Pie sort of way.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was a rather interesting film to watch. Sarah Michelle Gellar's great performance as Kathryn saves it from dying on the spot. The movir revolves around a bet that was made between Kathryn and her stepbrother Sebastian, who has probably slept with every girl on the school campus. But Kathryn is probably the same way. She's a rich little brat who constantly seduces her stepbrother and then turns her back on him. She wins the bet either way. She bets him that he can't bed the Headmaster's daughter, Annette. If he can get into bed with her, he get's Kathryn. If he can't, Kathryn gets to keep his fancy car. The rest of the movie goes off in different directions. There are pretty much two stories going on at once. Sebastian is desperately trying to get Annette to like him, when she plans to be a virgin until she's truly in love while Kathryn tries to ruin an old boyfriend's new girlfriend. Both stories kind of get tied in with each other and it leaves the viewer's brain in a confused mess. But you don't realise this until after you've watched it. You can watch the film again and then think to yourself, How in the heck did I understand this the first time?  "},{"Title":"SUCKED","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a horrible film. There is relly no reason you should see this, especially since the three other adaptions of the novel are so much better. Bad acting, bad directing and a horrible performance by Ryan Phillippe (or however you spell it) and it doesn't help that it has horrible acting. One great addition to the film though; SPOILERS. There was a great choreographic moment when Sebastian got plowed by the taxi cab!! I loved his twist on the top right before he flew face first into the street! It also had really bad acting... "},{"Title":"Twisted - but well done.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Easily Sarah Michelle Gellar's best performance to date. I really dont care how she's done on her tv show - movies are what counts, as far as Im concerned. This film was her first true opportunity to shine and she did so. People are calling Cruel Intentions a modern adaption of Dangerous Liasons - could be. Either way, this was certainly one of the best films of 1999, although granted - it did not have much competition. Also, good performances by Selma Blair and Reese Witherspoon. Overall rating 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"If you hate this movie, don't come near me!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When i saw this movie, for the first of many times, i just couldn't think of a movie that stood out as much.  I had always liked Sarah Michelle Gellar's acting but she shined in this movie.  Ryan Phillippe was fricken awesome, i had never seen his work before but now i follow his career and past movies.  But my all time favourite character in this movie was Cecil played by Selma Blair.  Also this movie has a outstanding soundtrack which these days is hard to find. "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  well, this movie has been out for a while, but finally, on july 2,2000, i watched it, and it was worth the wait.  this is now my fav movie.  it was so diabolically twisted and yet beautifully crafted that i hated for it to be over.  the plot line was pure genius.  i can't wait for cruel intentions II to come out "}{"Title":"Very sexy and very twisted","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film recently and it's one of the sexiest movies I've seen in a while. The entire cast portray their characters brilliantly especially Sarah Michelle Geller and Selma Blair. It's funny, emotional, sexy, cool, and twisted all at the same time. If you liked wild things then you'll definately love this one.  "},{"Title":"if you like thinkin' about sex, then this is your movie!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  simply wonderful....what starts as a who can get laid first movie..to a tear filled ending......cruel intentions...is all that. reese and sarah give strong performances that will keep every guy's attention.  If you like sex...then this is a clean version of it "},{"Title":"Obsession","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To be totally honest, this is the first movie that I have become obsessed with since Star Wars, Star Trek and Dune in the late '70s and early '80s. Since first viewing this movie a few weeks back, I have now seen it over 10 times. A major 'deja vu' happened to me during the Annette/Sebastien scene where he said damn it, I am not sorry... I can't keep these feelings bottled up... or something to that extent. It may be that sentimental moment that has me so hooked... The performances of the major four actors were stellar, though Mr. Phillipe seemed to take awhile to warm to the role. Reese was simply awe inspiring. The underlying complexity inherent in the portrayal of Annette Hargrove was delicious. She brought to life the woman of my dreams, what can I say. Sarah scared me at times, which is no easy feat. Selma (28 years old!!!) played the naive virgin with utter completeness. Having seen Dangerous Liasons and Valmont on a few separate occasions, I can say that this modernized version definitely brought to front some emotions that I had not realized still existed. I highly recommend this movie to all who believe the bad guy can turn good. "},{"Title":"sexual strong sexy crazy that's all for u young people","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm 20 and I think that for the young people like me this film is as an example that we all together we MUST follow  NOT only sex or fastlove as (G. Michael says) but love for always ,true love!!!! yehyeaaaaaaaa ciao belle donne........................... "},{"Title":"A very pleasant surprise","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't see this in the theaters because I was sure it was going to be terrible. I finally rented it out of boredom and was very pleasantly surprised. I was, and am, a huge fan of Dangerous Liaisons and thought any movie based on the same story would have to be a disappointment, but Ryan Phillippe, the lovely Sarah Michelle Gellar, and the equally lovely Reese Witherspoon turned in beautiful performances. Selma Blair and Joshua Jackson add some fun to the film as well. Overall a very impressive piece. "},{"Title":"Sexy and smart","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the movies, that live on its actors. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a must for this movie and not just presenting herself with changed hair color, but with changed moods from good and innocent (Buffy - The Vampire Slayer) to the bitch-type (Cruel Intentions) is a metamorphose at its best. She plays her role perfectly and no other actor may be as good as she was. Additionally Ryan Phillippe and Reese Witherspoon do the rest to make this into a fest of sex and bad things.Sarah Michelle Gellar shows herself in a way, Buffy can never do absolutely sexy and beautiful.The story itself is very clever and smart and the end is just to be expected. Never mind, this one is a masterpiece - not just because there is a lot to see ) "},{"Title":"Twisted, evil and other goodies.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a delight. Finally. Something this sexy and provocative has been produced by Hollywood. Not very common, but this might actually mean that the Americans are loosing up. The movie in it self is pretty interesting and sometimes fun, in an evil way. The end is kind of fare I guess. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A shocking, edge of your seat love story.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very similar to Dangerous Liasons, this film delievers big time. Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, and Reese Witherspoon's outstanding performances and the addition of newcomer Selma Blair make Cruel Intentions an unpredictable ride. I haven't seen a more twisting film since Wild Things.  The movie revolves around a bet between Kathryn (Gellar) and Sebastian (Phillippe) if he can get the rich girl virgin Annette (Witherspoon) in bed with him, he gets Kathryn in the sack. If she wins, she gets Sebastian's car. Everything goes according to planned until he falls in love with Annette. Their love spirals out of control and drives Kathryn to take desperate measures to seek revenge. The ending is sad, shocking, and the  evil, bitchy Kathryn gets what she deserves. If you like the mix of love, betrayal, backstabbing, revenge, and shocking twists, you'll love this movie! "},{"Title":"Really evil!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Jeez, who has all those weird ideas on how to make other people's lifes miserable?)This movie is not just 'cruel', it's plain evil. How come that two young folks like the protagonists can be so twisted in the same way when they are only step-siblings? Or is this real N.Y. Upper East Side behavior?But besides this movie _is_ a well done and intelligent social drama we get to see here, with the only weak point being that ridiculous accident near the end. "},{"Title":"Shameless Reproduction of Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two rich snobby step-siblings play the same manipulation tag-you're-it games that were much better captured in DANGEROUS LIAISONS. Sarah can just not match Glenn Close's salt-on-your-wounds style that still stings just as much now as it did then. This film would have been a lot better if it tried to stray further from the suffocating confines of D.L. with some harder shocks and added some humor to it, but instead, we get another movie that wants to be cruel but ends up being child's play. JAWBREAKER hit harder than this. "}{"Title":"A story of deceit love and lust. And a very good one.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Step siblings Sebastian (Phillippe) and Kathryn (Gellar) hatch a plan each. Phillippe's is to bed Virgin by choice Annette (Phillippe's real life wife Witherspoon). Gellar's is to ruin young Cecile (Blair). If Phillippe can bed Witherspoon he gets what he's always wanted. Gellar. If he loses she gets his prize possesion. His Jaguar. "},{"Title":"Sexy, seductive - Awesome!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is an un-missable teen comedy/drama/romance. It is definitely one of the most enjoyable films of 1999.Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe (Kathryn & Sebastian) star as 2 teens who have nothing to do in their school holidays except play with people's lives! Kathryn has given Sebastian a mission to seduce innocent virgin Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon). Can he do it? You'll have to watch and find out becuase this movie is one film you don't wanna miss!!This is definitely Sarah and Ryan at their best - they look great together. Sarah is the best part of the film!!My no. 6 film.  My rating  10/10.  "},{"Title":"I'll watch it until my VCR breaks, and then buy the DVD!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whenever I feel like nothing is going my way, I pop this in and realize how bad things could be, as they are for Kathryn. And there is the added enjoyment of watching Reese Witherspoon, Ryan Phillippe, Joshua Jackson, Sarah Michellle Gellar, and Selma Blair frolic in this sexually charged romance with everything on top. If you generally get embarressed when watching relatively explicit content around other people, watch it by yourself and I guarantee you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Truly Brilliant","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not much can be said for this film unless you have seen it yourself, finally some originality.  As one other viewer said, Wonderfully twisted, and one of the few films which can manage to pull off a happy ending without it looking cheesy.  If you haven't seen it, then I think you know what you should be doing right now! "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film. It has a great ending, Sarah Michelle Gellar is great as Katherine and Ryan Phillippe as Sebastian is great. Would recommend it to anyone.Keeps you enthralled throughout and is worth 2 hours of anyones time "},{"Title":"great movie.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie was great. i really enjoyed seeing Sarah Michelle Gellar doing something not so Buffy. She was genuinely evil, & i love it! Ryan Phillippe did an outstanding job as Sebastian Valmont, a rich boy, who gets everything he wants.... Reese Witherspoon was also great, & that scene where she makes him laugh is priceless....good movie, i think you should go rent it now!! )) kate ( "},{"Title":"The best film I have ever seen!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is just brilliant - from start to finish it is enthralling.  It makes me laugh, it makes me cry - well and truly an excellent film in every right!  I would recommend this to anyone - especially those people who, like myself, were left slightly confused by Dangerous Liaisons.  After all, it's the same story - just a different adaptation.  Cruel Intentions seems an odd title at first, but by the time you've finished the film, you'll realise that it is, in fact, a very clever choice of title! "},{"Title":"It wouldn't have looked that bad hadn't it be such a clumsy copy","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It wouldn't have looked that bad hadn't it be such a clumsy copy of one of the greatest films of the last half century. Dangerous Liaisons.Ryan Phillippe, did a talented but rather unoriginal repetition of John Malkovich's Vicomte de Valmont, still he is the best this film has to offer. Sarah Michelle Gellar is greatly appreciated for not trying to imitate Glen Close's performance (she is obviously aware that she has not Mr. Phillippe's great talent for imitation), but despite the display of respect towards la Marquise de Mertuil that that fact alone signifies, her performance still sucks, in this or in any other context.  The rest of the cast did ok, but Swoosie Kurtz!!!???, shame on you for endorsing this disrespectful and horrendous film. And don't get me wrong, I like teen films and some of them have provided me with great pleasures (The Faculty, the Scream series and even the first part of I know what you...bla, bla, bla' series),  is just that seeing one of my favorite films ever so disrespected and poorly recreated revolves my stomach ...way beyond my control. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Dangerous Liaisons.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a bad movie - it's based on a good story.  But it's been done before and it's been done better.  Though the actors can't be faulted for playing the roles they were given, some of the dialogue fits *much* better in the original french baroque setting than in this high school setting. Cecile, who I can only assume was supposed to be comic relief comes across as more mentally retarded than sweet and naive.  I also found the ending a bit patronising.  From the moment you saw the... well, that would spoil it, wouldn't it? ) the implications were clear.  It didn't need to be spelled out in crayon.This is a good movie but the plot's been done better before.  Do yourself a favour and see Dangerous Liaisons... "},{"Title":"Cruel is the word","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT - A COUPLE OF PLOT POINTS REVEALEDI was so looking forward to this film...It's a great idea to set Choderlos de Laclos' tale of conniving and adultery among decadent French aristos in the elitist world of upper-class young Manhattanites. One of the best I've heard, actually. I couldn't wait.My friend Phil summed Cruel Intentions up better than I ever could when he commented that the sleazy marketing men didn't even bother to wipe their grubby fingerprints off the patronising direction (I wrote it down). Now, no-one's pretending that the current trend for teen movies is a great artistic movement like the Nouvelle Vague. Neither is anyone suggesting that there's much more to it than exploiting a huge audience, as it's an audience that doesn't really mind being exploited as long as it's being entertained (Scream, 10 Things I Hate About You). But there's exploiting and there's condescending.This was heavy-handed, brainless, charmless cinema from petulant start to ludicrous finish. The directing and sets were utterly unimaginitive. The writing was clunky at best, offensive at worst. Of the leads, Sarah Michelle Gellar was woefully out of her depth, Ryan Phillippe copied every twitch ofhis performance from John Malkovich in Dangerous Liaisons, and the undoubtedly talented Reese Witherspoon was stuck with the thankless, superficial victim role of Annette. Only Selma Blair emerged with much credit sweet and sexy, she was a suitable foil for Phillippe's lupine Valmont. She wasn't in it enough.I was looking forward to seeing what the film would do with the horrendously downbeat ending (from about five minutes in, frankly) and I couldn't help but laugh when they got there. It's genuinely hilarious. Trust me.It's got a slight sense of its own ridiculousness, which is good, but too many people involved seems to be desperately trying to prove that they could do serious or do adult. If you want to see Buffy swearing filthily and getting it on with girls, or just want to look at Ryan Phillippe for an hour and a half (and I couldn't blame you, the guy's so good-looking he makes me want to chop my legs off), go for it. Just try to ignore the blatant cynicism behind it all. If you want a titillating story of 18th-century sexual intrigue, I suggest you read Les Liaisons Dangereuses. If you want a good teen movie, try The Faculty. Now that's what I call exploitation. Bring it on! "}{"Title":"Silly Rabbit","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was the best movie that was ever made!! I would suggest it to anyone. It may be weak but it has the greatest story. Sarah michelle Geller is great in this movie.Reese Witherspoon is one of the greatest actor. The movie was my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Devilish, Hip, and Seductive","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is probably my favorite teen film of the 90's. It's just ahead of Go and 10 things i hate about you. It's fun, entertaining, and just so devilish that you are sucked right into it. it's like a guilty pleasure. The best thing about this film is that it's a break from the happy giddy teen films that have invaded theaters. it's a clever dark comedy that deserves some recognition.The plot is based on a french novel called Dangerous Liasons. and there have been several other films that have adapted the book. Sebastian(Ryan philippe)is the ultimate play boy who has no problem dumping on people. in fact enjoys seeing people miserable. His step-sister takes his traits to the next level Kathryn(Sarah Michelle Gellar) is manipulative, cunning and will do anytihng to get what she whats. she whats to ruin the life of little Cecille(Selma Blair)because she is eeing kathryns ex. she wants sebastian to help ruin Cecille but Sebastian proposes a bigger challenge. he wants to corrupt the headmaster's daughter, Annette Hardgrove(Reese Witherspoon), who is a virgin> so a bet pops up. if he sleeps with annette he gets to sleep with kathryn, if he doesn't Kathryn gets his 1956 Jaguar roadster. all seems well untill after spending time with Annette he is hit with the best feeling of allLoveThe acting is trully terrific in this film. This was a role that sarah Michelle Gellar needed to prove herself as an actress and she does it well. i lvoed her int his movie. she was really good. Ryan phillipe was good too. in a very cocky performnance and resse witherspoon and selma Blair also do good in there roles.This movie is great. a must see "},{"Title":"Sexy fun","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever since the success of Clueless - Jane Austen's Emma set in a modern-day high school - there's predictably been a flood of high school films adapted from the classics (Romeo and Juliet, The Taming of the Shrew, etc).  Here we have one that has actually got real potential - the debauched, manipulative world of Dangerous Liasons translated to a modern American high school for the privileged.  It's a brilliant idea - with echoes of Heathers - and, up until the contrived ending, it's the best and sexiest of the bunch.As the modern day Valmont and the Marquise de Merteuil - the unsrupulous couple who manipulate the lives of those around them for their own jaded amusement - Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar have a real chemistry together, both of them convincingly evil and cunning.  The film works best when they are on screen together, constantly trying to upstage one another with plans of deviousness.Gellar steals the film largely because she doesn't have to go through the sudden, unconvincing change of heart that Phillippe does.  As the brazenly sexual Kathryn, she's allowed to remain delightfully evil throughout, weather it be snorting cocaine hidden in her crucifix, provocatively teasing Phillips to destruction, or, in the films hottest scene, teaching the innocent Selma Blair how to french-kiss - a lingering scene, complete with zoom-in, that makes the Denise Richards-Neve Campbell gropings in Wild Things look half-hearted.  Reece Witherspoon does her best with the more thankless (and difficult) role of the virtuous good girl that wins Phillips heart. "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar is wonderfully wicked","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions - or Sex Games in Denmark is one of the best films I have ever seen.Sarah Michelle Gellar really shows how great an actress she is. She shows us how wonderfully wicked Kathryn is and this is the best newcoming actress.It is a film that shows how cruel youngsters can be towards each other.Everything from music to Selma Blair and the rest of the team works in this movie. GREAT JOB Roger Kumble!3 thumbs up - great holiday fun! "},{"Title":"WICKED!!!!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A real wicked and entertaining movie from upper class NYC!!!  Cruel Intentions is an amazing twisted thrill ride that will keep you glued to your seat!  Okay, it's not an action flick, but once you're hooked on the plot, YOU ARE HOOKED!!!  Cruel Intentions features two of the most cold hearted characters in film history (Sebastien played by Ryan Phillepe and Kathryn played by Sarah Michelle Gellar), who love to take advantage on their victims.  For Sebastien, the girl whom he anticipates to be his greatest victory (Annette played by Reese Witherspoon) ends up being his one true love.  As his love for Annette grows, Kathryn's frozen, painted black heart becomes colder.  And the rest is history!!!A great movie to watch...and should I mention...high recommended!!! D  "},{"Title":"Good but not outstanding","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a good time killer but it lacks any substance.  It`s your basic movie about promiscuous teens. The best thing about this movie has to be Reese Witherspoon!! Let`s face it this woman could bring a dead man back to life with her irresistible charm and raw beauty! Their are some high points in the movie, but again it just doesn`t have any real element to it that would make it a hit. Rating (best of 5 stars) .....2 1/2.... "},{"Title":"Insulting","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I say anything else, I plan to display ALL my feelings about the different parts of this movie. So, if you haven't seen it yet, don't read this. (Better yet, don't even watch the movie! It's a waste of time!)Yeah, it was well-performed and made well and all that. But the content of this movie was terrible! I enjoyed most of it the first time I saw it, but I will personally NEVER watch this garbage again. I hate the message it sends to America's youth. All these trashy teenagers having casual sex with random people and talking like it's the only thing in the world and it's a need just like food and water. And then there is the one girl, Annette, who actually DOES have good values (unfortunately most people will disagree with this, but we ARE supposed to keep our pants on until marriage), only to go and throw them away! So it's like the script-writers of this movie are saying, Yeah, kids, that's the right thing to do. No! It's awful! And as if to prove my point, it's got most of the commentors on this website thinking it's just a masterpiece - the best movie that's ever been brought to screen! It's precisely this kind of junk that makes America's youth so corrupt. It ought to be illegal. "},{"Title":"Extremely good!!!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel intentions is great. It contains the following things sex-between the characters, humor-in the quotes and some actions, cruelty-between everybody in the movie, and excitement-which, you will have if you watch it! It's plot/climax is similar to Wild Things, but it's set in the big city. The girls are all sexy in this movie, reese is the hottest! And this movie is easy to understand. It has a little drama that may put tears in your eyes if your sensitive, but it will please even the ganglike people with it's cruelty. I give it a 9.1/10. "},{"Title":"Deliciously trashy!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike many other teen movies that have recently come onto the scene, this one is unique and unpredictable.  Although you can't take it too seriously (nor does it expect you to), Cruel Intentions is way more entertaining and interesting than anything I have seen in a long time, especially anything with those WB kids.Taking the story of Dangerous Liaisons and translating it to rich teenagers, this film is filled with interesting little intricacies.  Although it's true that in the tradition of Dawson's Creek, these kids speak as though their lives were scripted by a soap opera writer, that's because they are!  Suspending disbelief and living in the fantasy world of these rich kids is one of the true joys of the movie, along with some deliciously hot sex scenes and Sarah Michelle Gellar spewing foul language.Unlike many recent teen movies, such as American Pie, underneath the foul language and graphic sex scenes, there is still an interesting and intricate plot, which leaves viewers shocked and baffled, not to mention entertained.  Gellar is amazing as the supreme bitch of the bunch, spewing lines like, I'm the Marcia f--ing Brady of the Upper East Side... However, if you try to take it too seriously, the plot becomes ridiculous, inane and unbelievable.  So sit back, make some popcorn, and laugh along with this highly entertaining movie!  "},{"Title":"Some Good Performances","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is a decent movie if you're looking for something fun and not too deep. The best part is the relationship between Ryan Phillippe and Reese Witherspoon. They're married in real life and they have great chemistry on screen. Also, a fine performance by Joshua Jackson as the gay guy. His character was a scene stealer.  "}{"Title":"Delightfully entertaining update of Dangerous Laisons","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ryan Phillepe, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon star in this update of Dangerous Laisons, this time revolving around teens.Sebastion (Phillepe) and Katheryn (Gellar) are two spoiled step siblings who seem to be constantly scheming to take advantage of other people. After we see both in action we see the bet unfold.Sebastion shows Katheryn a copy of a 17 magazine featuring an article by Annette Hargrove (Witherspoon), in which she maps reasons why she wants to wait before having sex. Sebastion takes the opportunity to claim he will be able to seduce her into having sex with him. They make the bet, if Katheryn wins she gets his Jaguar, if he wins, he gets her, the one girl he can't have.Cruel Intentions is packed with plenty of dark humour which isn't for everyone, and pokes fun at racism and homosexuality among other thingsPhillepe and Gellar perform their roles excellently, Gellar straying from her typecast Buffy persona, while Phillepe showing why he is probably the best young acot in Hollywood. Reese Witherspoon is believable as the innocent Annette, although she doesn't have quite the flair Phillepe and Gellar posess. Selma Blair also does a good job, as does the rest of the cast.I would highly recommend this movie to anyone interested in seeing an intelligent teen film, which seems to be a rarity among current films.Definitely ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Beautifully performed","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Cruel Intentions has a bit of a bad rap, for some reason. This is a very intriguing story about two fiendish sibling-in-laws who inflict and take joy in others' misery.  However, where this movie really shines lies within the performances of the actors.  From the unbelievably prickish homosexual, played by Joshua Jackson, to the cold, unyielding Sebastion (Ryan Phillipe) and the absolutely devilish witch, which Sarah Michelle Gellar plays to a T.  The actors alone are enough to shell out some of that cash to see this one. "},{"Title":"This movie was great","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I thought it was so well made with Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippee and Reese Witherspoon.  I can never get sick of this movie because they and their co-stars are all so wonderful.  Their talents combined with the beautiful settings this movie will be remembered for a long time. "},{"Title":"a story to my heart","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorites because the game of seduction is well produced here. Sarah Michelle Gellar is perfect in her bitchy role. Ryan Philippe proves he's very talented. The story is not predictable and it's very attracting to watch. The way of seduction is well described and the plot is also very cool. Surely  i think it's a movie you must watch!! "},{"Title":"MUCH better than I thought! This movie is Twisted but GREAT!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie rocks!! I really regret not seeing this in the movie theatres. I think this movie is just awesome! You have got to appreciate the great acting by Ryan Phillippe to enjoy this movie even more. His acting,facial expressions, and tone of voice in certain scenes make this movie hilarious! He is SUCH a smart allek, womanizing jerk in this movie and he was perfect for the part! The storyline in this is pretty simple. Ryan Phillippe plays Sebastian and Sarah Michelle Gellar plays Kathryn-his stepsister. They are 2 rich, spoiled brats who make a bet on whether he can bed the headmasters daughter-a sweet virgin named Annette-played by Reese Witherspoon. If he beds her he gets to have his step sister Kathryn. If he fails then Kathryn gets his jag. These 2 are such stuck up,snobby jerks in this movie is makes this movie so funny! In the meantime, Kathryn is brewing up her own scandal,blackmailing and wreaking her own havoc with a girl called Cecile. Kathryn is mad at Cecile because Cecile is dating a guy that dumped her. So she figures its payback time! The drama starts to unfold when Sebastian actually starts to have feelings for Annette-something he has never experienced before-LOVE.My favorite scenes in this movie is when Sebastian kisses Annette in the subway station atop of the escalator. I also liked the part when Sebastian walks in on Kathryn and Ronald!!The ending was just the bomb as well. Although it was sad....the bitch in this movie got what she deserved.I give this 9/10!!! "},{"Title":"This is a Great Movie!!!!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love these kinds of clever and entertaining movies with a twist. This movie was so under rated. I give this movie 3 stars. If you liked this movie see Wild Things!!! This movie was so worth it. The sex scenes and the twisted ending make this movie really great and entertaining. "},{"Title":"It is worth watching !!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  NIce to see that this is one of the best remakes I have ever seen. The actors do actually a great job, especially Sarah Miichelle Gellar as the clever bitch. Other Remakes should take a note of CI and its qualities to give their new age remakes the same qualities.  "},{"Title":"The Best!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most people hate this movie, but I can't understand why.  This movie is great!  Four stars, a 10, must see, whatever, just fabulous.  Sarah Michelle Gellar gives a great performance as Kathryn.  The only thing that wasn't great about this film was the abrupt ending.  It leaves the viewer wanting more.  A sequel probably isn't on the way, but a sequel would kill the originality of this film.gradeA- "},{"Title":"Teensploitation at its shallow best, the Dangerous Liasons way","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a teenager, I roll with the punches whenever I see 'my people' ridiculed in movies.  However, I have a friend who's an usher at the local cinema, so I never pay for my addiction to teensploitation films.  Cruel Intentions features a rather two-dimensional cast with no real emoting.  Certainly, one sees lust, envy, jealousy and the like.  All of these characteristics are fun to watch in a film, but nothing in a teensploitation film ever bears any resemblance to anything in real life.  Yes, this modern version of les Liasons Dangeurus (sorry about the spelling) is entertaining and will be sexy for the next few years.  But just like the soap opera that it is, this film will hold your attention for the duration, leave you with an oh-so-predictable ending and seem pointlessly dated in five years--that is, if you ever desire to watch the film again. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really can't say much about the actual story and plot of this movie, but I guess it does have some originality in it.I gave this movie a 9. I gave it an 8 for having Ryan Phillippe(Sebastian Valmont) and for showing his butt and a 1 for not letting him screw Sarah Michelle Gellar(Kathryn Merteuil). "}{"Title":"Has some redeeming qualities, but I don't recommend this one","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main reason I wanted to see this one is because I am a big SARAH MICHELLE GELLAR fan. BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER is one of my all-time favorite shoes. I also rather like REESE WITHERSPOON and a few of the other actors in this movie. The plot also seemed original and interesting, and of course there was no hiding the sexy scenes that seemed like it would add to the plot. It turns out this movie is just a collection of these scenes, with a seemingly original, but actually predictable, plot to hold them together.Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe) are two victims of bad parenting. They are two rich stepchildren who enjoy making other students miserable. Kathryn, with a reputation as the perfect student, often uses others to ruin people's lives. Sebastian, who has a very nasty reputation that he is proud of, prefers to do the work himself. He finds an attractive girl, charms her over, sleeps with her, and finally ruining her reputation. Kathryn has set her sights on the ditsy Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair), while Sebastian goes for the great challenge of seducing and ruining the all-American, virgin, goody-goody Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon). Sebastian has a bet with Kathryn that he can win Annette over. If she wins, she gets his Jaguar. If he wins, she gets to sleep with her.The plot, in writing, sounds fairly original. This is really just a shield. In truth, this movie is a mixture of two things. One is a predictable love story. The other is a bunch of scenes intended to turn on the teenagers who watch it, and get them to watch it over and over. I am a teenager, and I had no real desire to watch this movie again afterwards.The acting is about even. Sarah Michelle Gellar does an excellent job as the scheming, evil rich-b***h. Reese Witherspoon did a pretty good job, but her character was not especially interesting. Joshua Jackson and Selma Blair are extremely annoying in this movie, which is good because it is what they are meant to be. Blair did better than Jackson, for the record. Ryan Phillippe did OK, but I really didn't buy his evil rich-guy character. The characters in this movie aren't anything great. This is probably because the two main characters are rich mean people, which most viewers can't relate to or enjoy much. The target audience is obviously teens, but these people, although cute, probably remind them too much of students they hate. Witherspoon's character is a little 2D, mostly because she was underplayed and the two main characters were overplayed. Blair's character is pretty fun.The movie is very predictable. I had the entire movie figured out by the previews, and my theory (which was correct) didn't change at all watching this movie. There is only one part I didn't see coming, which happens near the end. The ending of this movie is the best part, even though I saw it coming since the beginning.If you feel like getting drunk and watching a movie with college buds so you can drool and howl at the TV, this movie is a good choice. Most teenagers would probably enjoy it too, especially fans of the actors, but I can't say I recommend this one. "},{"Title":"i don't care what anyone says, it's great","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  see, i get ridiculed for liking this movie - too many people file it under teen flick.  whatever, man.  the plot is gripping (although a little predictable), and the actors and actresses do fantastic jobs.  ryan phillipe and sarah michelle gellar play wonderfully off of each other.  joshua jackson breaks his type-casting for a little while and does a fantastic job. reese witherspoon plays a timid innocent young girl fantastically.  selma blair does a perfect job of providing the film's comic relief.  all the actors and actresses have a chemistry together that a lot of films lack.and i'd just like to say, this movie has the sexiest cast EVER.  seriously, you just don't get any better than this.  i have asked all of my friends to find a sexier cast and they can't do it.  the film's plot drips with sex, and the actors and actresses do a fantastic job of spewing forth 100% sex appeal.  does it get any better than ryan phillipe, sarah michelle gellar, and joshua jackson all in one film?  i don't think so. "},{"Title":"I'm impressed","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I took this movie out of a rental machine since I wanted to see it back when it was out in the cinema, but didn't get the chance too. When I first put it in my VCR, I thought I was in for a stupid film all about sex and with teribble acting. As my VCR showed more time has passed since I first placed it in it, the movie became more interesting and I couldn't get myself away from the screen. By the end I was amazed at how this film that I expected to be teribble turned out pretty good.The plot is not only about sex, but it actually has a story going for it! (unlike some of the other teen movies in '98-99). In the plot Kathryn (Geller) makes a bet with Sebastian (Phillippe) that he own't be able to get the new girl in town, Annette (Witherspoon) to sleep with him, if she wins she gets his beloved car, if he wins he gets what he's been wanting ever since their parents got married- to sleep with her. As he tries to seduce Annette he falls in love with her, and the plot just twists and twists, in fact the whole movie is bloody twisted, but damn good. Also in the movie, Cecile (Blair) falls in love with her cello teacher, who falls in love with her too. Her mother disapproves. Kathryn wants to get revenge at Cecile since she is the reason her past boyfriend dumped her. So she impersonates herself pretending to be Cecile's friend, when in fact she's the one who has the real cruel intentions.The acting was very good. Geller gave a great performance and Phillippe did too, though hers was a bit better. Blair and Witherspoon also gave great performances. And Joshua Jackson as well, even though he's only seen for like 2 seconds. The acting was not bad, the end was fantastic and the movie itself was very good. Definetly recomended. You can always press 'stop' if you disagree with me.  "},{"Title":"it´s one of the best movies I´ve seen","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say it takes much to impress me but this movie was great. The movie has the perfect actors at the perfect roles they were great.It´s a great movie,it is funny, cruel and sad. It´s really cool, it´s really original, and have a sad, cruel and great end with the perfect music.  The sound track it´s cool, Bittersweet Symphony is one of the most beautiful songs I've ever heard, and there is also Colorblind, Coffee & TV, Every Me, Every You and others. And what is better the songs have relation to what is on the screen.WATCH IT NOW IF YOU HAVEN'T !!!!!! "},{"Title":"Morally bankrupt and devoid of character","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This vacuous piece of fluff has all the character of belly button lint.  As a comedy it fails miserably and as a moral drama, that love will succeed in even the most self-centred person it also fails.Life is too short to watch dross like this.  Dangerous Liasions did it better and with more style.  See that instead! "},{"Title":"CRUEL AND FUN","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say it takes much to impress me but this movie was great.Very seldom I watch movies over and over but this one never fails to amuse me.The movie has the perfect actors at the perfect roles they were great.My idea of a great movie is this one it is funny cruel and sad.I just wouldn't rate it pg13 I would rate it (16).The movie doesn't have sex but what they say and well... do might offend some stupid people.WATCH IT NOW IF YOU HAVEN'T !!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very good movie; great characters, unique and twisted story","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie quite a bit.  Sarah Michelle Gellar absolutely steals the show in the role of Kathryn, the evil and manipulative lead female.  If you appreciate villains, you should definitely enjoy what is a well-acted performance of a great character by Gellar.Ryan Philippe does an good job opposite Gellar as well.  He plays Sebastian Valmont perfectly and is excellent both in the early stages of the movie and throughout his character transformation.Reese Witherspoon was somewhat good as well.  Her character wasn't as wonderfully twisted as Philippe's and Gellar's, but she definitely pulled off the completely innocent and moral girl character.Many seem to have praised Selma Blair's performance...and while I don't have many negative things to say about her acting job, I thought her character was incredibly annoying and added very little to the movie.  I would've preferred the character of Cecile to be much, much different.  The innocence and stupidity was essential to the character, but I thought it was overdone and exaggerated.The story keeps you hooked from beginning to end, with a great combination of drama, emotion, and dark humor.  The storyline between Annette and Sebastian did lack a bit, as I thought it was rushed and lacked believability, but that and the character of Cecile are really my only sources of complaint about this movie.I went to the movie expecting some cheap MTV-style entertainment, and it exceeded my expectations greatly.  It has a deep storyline, great characters, and it will keep you thinking for days after watching it.  I recommend it, and give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No sympathetic characters","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  May have spoilersThe main reason I didn't like this film was that, for me, there weren't any characters I could sympathise with which is important for the ending to work.Kathryn is so totally loose in sex and morals. But she is not supposed to be a sympathetic character so it doesn't apply to her really.We are supposed to start feeling sympathetic for Sebastien near the end because he makes a 'turnaround'. But I can't really see anything that makes him at all likeable. The last thing he does is so predictable that it loses any impact.Annette, the sweet, intelligent virgin. Her boyfriend is mentioned a couple of times and we are told that he is 'backpacking around Europe'. He is never really mentioned again and he doesn't come into it at all when the 'romance' starts. You'd think that he might play a little part in her emotions.Cecil is so naieve and easily manipulated that is it impossible to feel sorry for her. She should know something about anything by that age. She also 'cheats' on the person she 'loves' who is in turn cheating on her.Which brings me to Ronald, who is as loose as anyone else in the film. He cheats on Cecil although he does try to separate himself from Kathryn later.I forget the names of the gay guys but one of them is so in the closet that he acts like a male chauvinist who also betrays one of his best friends so that he can stay in the closet. And the other is only in it for the nookie and the drug dealing.Add to that the racist mother and the selfish psychiatrist and the only nice characters in the film are Sebastien's aunt, the senile old woman and her carer. "},{"Title":"Summary? Save yourself some time and read the comment.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There could NOT have been a better name for this movie than Cruel Intentions. And the same expression goes for the actors that were chosen for it.Sarah Michelle Gellar.... What a way to improve! We all know that every Movie source said that Sarah had no acting talent, that she was only pretty and all that stuff... but she has proven that she HAS skills and talent, and I personally think that nobody could have done a better performance than her. Talking of something a little different from the movie... I think Sarah should make more movies.. We all know (or at least I think so) that she is one of the most beautiful (if not THE most beautiful) actress of the moment, and that excellence should not be wasted..I think Ryan Phillippe made a great job as Sebastian, much better than his role in I Know What You Did Last Summer and 54.1999 was a year with a lot (believe me, a LOT) of movies where the main actors are young people and teens, and this was one of the best ones.I'll rate the movie with a 7 out of 10. I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"A great way to admire the Goddess Sarah Gellar!!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you watch this movie you will be presented with an actor and three actresses that will be huge stars in a few years time . Ryan Phillippe had already shown his talent on 54 and here he completely took out any doubts there could be . This boy is good . Selma Blair does a wonderful Cecile that does not stay behind Uma Thurman´s and Reese Whiterspoon combines perfectly with the role and of course with her hubby  in real live Ryan . But for me there was something else that completely blinded me with such beauty . Sarah M. Gellar completely stole the show with her twisted Kathryn . This woman is going up , and she´s never going to stop . This is the star of the millenium. Mark my words , with her looks , acting talent and personality , this is a women who is just going to rule the showbiz for a long time  . As for the rest of the movie , the script is fantastic as the rest of the  cast , and the soundtrack amazing . I give this movie a 9 out of ten although because the ending is not what we wish , and maybe comes too soon ,even though later you realize its the only one it could be . I recommend it strongly to everybody from 15 to 99 . See it ,if not for the movie , for SMG .  "}{"Title":"beautifully presented, brilliant acting","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is one of the best films i have seen this year.Its themes of manipulation and deception are brilliantly played out by the well-cast actors, in particular Ryan Phillippe, excellent as the deliciously desirable Sebastian, and Sarah Michelle Gellar, the best screen-bitch i have seen in ages as Katheryn. The two leads have a sizzling chemistry which keeps the audience entralled throughout. Reese Witherspoon also stands out in her role. Her scenes with her real-life husband Ryan are beautifully sentimental and romantic. The art direction of this film is a character in itself. Keeping the 17th century style of the novel, from which the film is based, creates a glorious visual presentation as well as enhancing the romanticism of the movie. This is a great film. Its a classic tale which has been placed in a modern-day setting and this transition from 17th century French aristocrats to 20th century Manhattan teenagers works extremly well. "},{"Title":"Admirable Risks with a Wimpy Ending","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was a movie that I could admire for its guts, if nothing else.  I had to remind myself several times throughout the viewing that these were supposed to be teenagers in high school.  The risks that it took, however were outshone by an anti-climactic ending.  All this mean nastiness had built up to... ultimate redemption and morality?  I suppose it's possible, and it is a good idea to show the millions of naive girls who want to be like Kathryn that she can't get away with everything... but couldn't Kathryn and Sebastian have slept together BEFORE he realizes who he really is?  Just for entertainment's sake, I suppose.All in all however, it was a very nice change from the general cookie-cutter teeny bopper flick. "},{"Title":"Just perfect !!!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the best movie I've ever seen in my life. I mean everything was perfect the story, the actors, the music, the dialogues, just everything... I cant't find words how wonderful the film really was. To come to an end every person has to see this movie ! -) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good update","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    When I went to see this film, I had some qualms.  I didn't think that it could be pulled off.  Well, it did work.  Cruel Intentions sticks very close to the original plot line of Dangerous Liaisons, right down to details that one might not even pay attention to.  The cast is great, with Witherspoon and Michelle-Gellar leading the way.  Though, at times, it does seem a bit awkward (I doubt teenagers could plot like that), it always very entertaining. "},{"Title":"A magnificent update of Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clearly not everyones cup of tea given that its rating has slipped below 7 but I don't care because I loved this film. It's a clever, beautifully acted story of redemption in which Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon especially play their roles with aplomb. Phillipe clearly enjoys the role and plays a very good is he/isn't he sincere style in which you're never really sure if he's truly falling in love with Witherspoon's character or just toying with her. On the whole it's well thought out although the 'coincidental' nature of the film ruins it somewhat. The idea that everything could fall into place so easily at the beginning stretches credibility, although it never breaks it. What you have to realise is that it's not a successor to Dangerous Liaisons and so shouldn't be compared to it. It merely takes the base idea of two manipulative people and twists it wonderfully to suit it's new surroundings. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Phillipe are great as the cunning siblings, Witherspoon is a delight as the not-so-naive object of their attention and Selma Blair is quite good, but just a touch annoying, as the humourous and docile Cecile. I think Roger Kumble did a great job with this film and I look forward to the day when I can own a copy of my very own. Hurrah. "},{"Title":"Sick, Twisted, disgustingly funny.","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm still not quite sure what to think of this movie. I feel absolutely no sympathy for any of the characters, being as they are spoilt little brats on the whole. However, you cannot help but marvel at the manipulative skills of one Miss Gellar. I must admit to a little trepidation about a movie with Buffy the Vampire Slayer in but that soon disappeared as Kathryn slinked her way from scene to scene stealing whichever one she was in. Ryan Phillippe is not as appealing but he is effective as the not quite so smart as he thinks brother. The rest of the cast take it in turns to irritate and titilate as they ably support the two main characters. The sets are sumptuously rich, encompassing large English style mansions and upper east side apartments. The direction is well paced and I never lost interest in the film, partly because with these two involved you were never sure who was going to come out from under the bedsheets with them! If it's tits your after, look elsewhere but if it's titilation, a great plot, decent acting and as black a comedy as you can find look no further. "},{"Title":"Cool, sexy movie","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before this movie came out, I was really anxious to see it because the plot sounded really interesting and different from a lot of other movies (it also led me to see Dangerous Liaisons to get more background on the storyline). This movie didn't disappoint me.It was not your typical teen flick. It was a great black comedy (Selma Blair's character Cecile was really funny because she was just so stupid). Ryan Phillippe was cool as Valmont and Reese Witherspoon was good as the innocent Annette. However, I really think Sarah Michelle Gellar made the movie. She is such a great actress. I loved how she and Phillippe's characters interacted.I think Merteuil and Valmont had the best chemistry. Sebastian and Annette's romance was sweet, but they didn't have a lot of chemistry. One thing I wish they had done differently was to make it seem more that Merteuil and Valmont really cared about each other deep down.This movie isn't the best movie ever made, but it was very entertaining and it is one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"This movie is really mean","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After having seen Cruel Intentions I asked myself when I've been entertained so much while watching a movie. The plot isn't really good but the actors are so brilliant that you just cannot not like this film. Especially Sarah Michelle Gellar is so mean in her role as I've never seen before on screen. The original screenplay Dangerous Liasons is transferred to the modern times but it has kept that old-fashioned style combined with the behavior of teenagers today. The production design is just overwhelming so e.g. the designer has given the character of Gellar a room which is painted in blue what symbolizes her coldness, whereas the room of Sebastian is filled with books and painted in brown to show his smartness and knowledge , it tells you that knowledge is power what is exactly what Sebastians has got and use to use it. If you watch the movie on DVD make sure you won't miss the deleted scenes which are very, very humorous and some of them - in my opinion- were just too hot to show them to the audience in the theatres. So if you like movies about mean people and stories about hate and love then you're right in watching Cruel Intentions which by the way has a fantastic score and the songs really fit to the plot. Especially the song performed by Placebo at the beginning of the movie is nothing but great to tell you all about the character of Sebastian Valmont as he is driving in his car wearing sun-glasses and looks so cool. Another great scene is the kiss between Gellar and Selma Blair which is really, really hot (make sure you'll see it in slow-motion). After all I have to say.Watch it and have fun. "},{"Title":"'mmm...okay","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was okay. I'm not bursting with fruit flavor or anything, but it was okay. I wonder how this movie would be with other actresses, because I think that Witherspoon & Gellar make this movie. No offence, Ryan -)Reese Witherspoon was as good as always. And it's the first movie I've seen with Sarah Michelle Gellar and I have to admit that I am impressed. Not only because of her looks, but I thought she played very well in this movie. She's a keeper -)But the movie itself was...well...mmm..okay. I think everyone, without any expectations, would not be disappointed and will think this movie is okay...or better.Overall; 7 points  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought, but it still sucks bigtime !!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Script not too well written, film not well directed, Ryan Phillippe weak as usual !Some scenes in Cruel Intentions are so bad that they are embarrassing. But on the other hand there are a lot of scenes with steamy sex talk, that at least gives you some physical reactions ! Yes ! I'm not kidding !!But other than that, you can save your money and a trip to the movies. "}{"Title":"Not so bad.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was pretty okay.  It's a reworking of Dangerous Liaisons and translated to a 90's world much like Romeo & Juliet, except the film doesn't necessarily relate (in terms of characters, situation and dialogue) to the today's teen except falling in love.  Because the two main characters, Mertuil and Velmont are just plain cruel.   Sarah Michelle Gellar played the cruel coke sniffing b!**# pretty well.  Her character is a bit more cruel than Velmont, played by Ryan Philippe.  How Velmont falls for Annette Hargrove is not so convincing though.  Selma Blair's character seems such an airhead too.  The movie overall is interesting in the way that the situations are made, much like situations are funny if not interesting in the fictional chapter in the life of William Shakespeare in Shakespear in Love.Some people here have commented the ending as being moralistic or cruel, but I thought it was pretty okay and capped the career of a character, Mertuil, who lives to be cruel to others and of course, taking drugs is definitely not cool.The verdict 3.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Cruel to be kind.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You have to be cruel to be kind in this new twisted teen drama. It's like a teen version of soap opera, you got a evil women who likes having sex and ruining people lives. The characters are simple minded and unlikable, its just that this soap opera is compacted into two hours. TV soap operas have been going for many decades with kind of story and characters not to mention bad acting. I would have to admit I like this teen soap opera movie. It has some good moments of drama and twisted sexy style of the film is kind of fun. The love story is well drawn out and the movie has some decent acting. I would mostly recommend it to teens that are fans of TV soap operas. "},{"Title":"Prays on teens' hormones.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, it's kind of hard to actually comment on the acting or the story in this movie, because someone managed to hide it behind a cloud of sex. Seriously, the only reason this movie was a hit was because it appeals to the hormones of it's target viewer audience (yah, sure, pretend you saw this movie for any other reason).  No matter what kind of sex you like, there's something for you.  For instance, if you're gay, there's a gay football player getting caught in bed with Joshua Jackson, who plays a gay.  If you're a lesbian, you can watch Sarah Michelle Gellar kissing Cecile. (Also, I'm a girl, so I don't know if this is true, but someone's told me that guys get turned on by that kind of stuff?).  Or, if you're into any thing else, romance, anal sex, Ryan Phillipe's butt....well, you get the point.So go see this movie, and let your hormones run wild, but don't expect it to actually be a good movie.(P.S. If I actually should talk about the story line, Sebastian and Annette's relationship wasn't explored in enough detail) "},{"Title":"A remake of a remake of a remake.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the French original. I managed to see the first Hollywood remake without switching channels. But the only reason I watched Cruel Intentions in its entirety is that it was 2 am and I was too lazy to search for the remote.   There is only one thing that's good about Cruel Intentions and that is the character of S. M. Gellar. Please note that I am specifically saying the character and not the actress, for although Gellar is pretty to look at her acting leaves much to be desired (no pun intended). The overall plot has not been changed since the novel. Bored nobility (or in this case rich folks) make a bet on whether the male lead can seduce a prude woman. In the original the bet was about Valmont going to monastery if he failed, something that far surpasses the car that is bet in this utterly mediocre remake.My recommendation is to see something different, perhaps even the original (Liaisons dangereuses, Les (1959)), but leave this teenybopper screen wasting flick be.  "},{"Title":"Cheap","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  there is one word for this movie cheap. a cheap adaptation of the masterful dangerous liasons, cruel intentions doesn't even approach the former's beauty. my advice is to not waste your time on this buffy-the-vampire-slayer-meets-studio-54 junk and rent the real deal. "},{"Title":"one of the lamer movies I've seen recently","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't really see what people like about this movie.  I guess the acting was okay, and the premise of it was somewhat intriguing if you've taken a few aphrodesiac pills (or are a guy, I suppose).  I don't know, even alcohol didn't help me with this one.  Maybe it was all the hype, or maybe it was just that the ending completely ruined the rest of the film.  Nah, I don't think I liked a single part of it.  Lame, that just about sums it up.  It didn't even have that many good lines to make fun of ).   "},{"Title":"Thumbs Up!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Cruel Intentions' is by far one of the many best films I've seen so far. Everyone seems to act appropriately for their role, especially Sarah Michelle Gellar as the wicked stepsister Kathryn. Let's hope to see other films top this one! Thumbs up for Roger Kumble, Sarah Michelle Gellar and 'Cruel Intentions'! "},{"Title":"Smart and funny","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I put off seeing this for some time until someone whose taste in films I trust told me it was very funny and worth a look. Well I wasn't disappointed, it was a hoot. I've read a lot of negative reviews in here and can only surmise that a lot of folk missed the whole point of the film. It's meant to be funny...It's meant to be stylized. Of course the dialogue and situations are contrived. If the cast was a little older and the setting much older like ....um......Dangerous Liaisons we wouldn't be quibbling. I think this would make a great double bill with Wild Things...they both abound with pretty young things, smart scripts and a wicked sense of humor. I was a bit disappointed with the ending...way too moralistic although Buffy's comeuppance was hysterical. Anyway it was a welcome change from a lot of the drivel the PYT's (pretty young things) have been appearing in of late.  "},{"Title":"great stuff","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i think that this movie is one of the best i've seen from sarah michelle geller and ryan phillipe. great twists in the story and great ending. makes you wonder who was doing who!!!! "},{"Title":"GOOD!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ummm, ok so maybe this film might not impress the critics or many others, but personally, i really enjoyed it. for starts, ryan phillipe is simply gorgeous and sexier than ever!!!! also reese witherspoon has one of her best preformances, also being highly inticing. yes, possibly a slight sickness of humour, but it was shamefully enjoyable. fun fun fun, it was good. "}{"Title":"very good","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so sexy. I loved reese and sarah in the movie, especially when sarah and salma were kissing. I thought it was really funny at parts and cruel in the ending. I thought that ryan philippe was alright in the movie but they should have gotten someone who can actually act. I give this a 4 out of 4 and a 20 out of 20 for what sarah wore in the movie "},{"Title":"For a drama ... it was fiendishly comical!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Cruel Intentions and, although the film category read Drama, I was laughing my way through most of it. True, there are some moments that are truly dramatic, but on the whole, it's a stylish, wicked, bizarre comedy about a stepbrother (Philippe) and a stepsister (Gellar) who simply enjoy manipulating people, playing head games and the like. One thing is for sure Cruel Intentions lives up 100% to its title. And, for a drama ... this film was savagely, fiendishly comical! If you're old enough to watch an R-rated movie, I say don't miss it! "},{"Title":"yawn","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The believability of watching 12-year-olds pretending to be 15-year-olds posing as 35-year-olds acting like 15-year-olds is topped only by the surreality of drawing into this yawnfest the likes of La Baronski.  Louise Fletcher, for her miniscule on-air time, seems to be in the right place. "},{"Title":"Watch Out...It looks bad, but it's worse.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What an exciting night, it's not every day that you can say you have a new 'worst movie of all time'...and I've seen 'It's Pat'. But tonight I can say I crowned a new champion...Cruel Intentions. After seeing the previews, I thought it would be merely bad; was I ever wrong. It transcends bad. It's the single most vile, worthless, piece of garbage I've ever been unfortunate enough to run into. It makes you long for the sweet release that death would bring. Where upon entering heaven, you would tell your departed loved ones about this horrible movie you just saw.Several scenes are so bad that you feel like the Nazis at the end of 'Raiders of the Lost Ark'...you can almost feel your face burning off. Ryan Phillip's acting makes you yearn for the subtle nuances of Martin Short, or Shaquille O'Neal. And Sarah blah blah blah seems to think she's in a high school play.The dialog sounds like it's lifted from a porn movie...in fact...if you closed your eyes, you wouldn't know the difference. (Think of the first porn filming scenes in 'Boogie Nights', only worse)This one is so bad it actually siphons quality from the other movies around it...like a small black hole. I would wager that if you bought this and put it in your collection, sandwiched between 'Blade Runner' and 'Die Hard', both movies would eventually also become unwatchable.You may say to yourself 'Now, hey there Chester, what about those cheap z-grade movies on Cinemax, aren't they worse?' Not at all...those movies know they're bad, and are proud of it, they make no illusions...this repellent skunk thinks it's a serious 'film'. I even think you're suposed to cry at the end. Maybe they should flash that at the bottom of the screenWhat amazes me is that someone paid money to have this made. Money that could have been used for something more worthwhile; like trying to build a ladder that would reach the moon...or buying up and gold plating cigarette butts.It's also nice to see movies with such sickening sexual overtones marketed to the 'Felicity Dawson the Vampire Slayer' crowd. 'Hey kids, learn about abberant sexual behavior from your favorite WB and UPN teen stars!'Check it out, but keep all potentially lethal objects away from you and your family, as you may be tempted to kill yourself. I know I was.Thanks Andy "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions had Good Intentions","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions has it's moments. It's not a great film and barely a good one but it has a few nice touches hear and there. However my opinion of the film is based on my disapointment of it not being another Wild Things. I was expecting a twisted neo noir with sexy subplots and ulterior motives. That is not what Cruel Intentions is.Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe are the twisted Valmont siblings who are only intrested in hurting those stupid enough to trust them. Enter Selma Blair and Reese Witherspoon. Though the idea definetly had promise the film is slow paced and the leads are reserved in their roles. While it's obvious Gellar is enjoying the depravity of her role, she never successfully shook off her Buffy persona. Phillipe is the worst, with a smarmy obnoxious performance. The film though is saved in it's fantastic supporting cast with Christine Baranski and Selma Blair playing mother and daughter with hilarious success. Baranski delivers her lines with spectacular timing and Blair is perfect as her ditzy daughter.The film's direction is amazing. It's hard to believe that this film was made on a 10 million budget, the results are truly memerising. However these touches of brilliance can't make up for uneven scripting, plodding storyline and lacklustre leads. A Wild Things it aint. Grade - B  "},{"Title":"I want my money back.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What made me want to see this horror of a movie in the first place is beyond me.  Call it a moment of insanity.Cruel Intentions is over-acted, predictable, and far too dramatic for such an insipid storyline.  The characters are stereotypical and the two main characters (Gellar and Phillipe) deliver their lines as though in a soap opera.  But what can you expect when both of them started acting there.The plot involves sex and lots of it.  But instead of portraying sex as sensual, carnal, natural, this movie presents it as silly, a game, something to giggle about during your English class.  Perhaps the only bright spot is Selma Blair who is the perfect innocent turned naughty.  It's too bad she was cast in such an awful role.If you really want to see this for some odd reason, wait until it appears in the dollar section at the video store.  That's a dollar too much, but hey... "},{"Title":"HORRENDOUS","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *** Contains possible spoiler***This has got to be, without a doubt, the most terrible movie I have ever seen. It is even hard to put into words how unimaginably awful it was.  In this era of teen laden crap you have actors (I use the term VERY loosely,) who are handed roles. There are no more movie icons that cultivated a craft, who struggled their entire life to make their mark in show-business. Ryan Phillippe was so bad that I laughed at him most of the movie. This role was ENTIRELY out of his league. No amount of stupidly affecting his voice, or character glasses, or suits can conceal the fact that his acting is as flimsy as a matchbox. I just wish that there was some way to tell him how bad he was, although he would never believe it. Nothing he did convinced me that he was mysterious or that he had a bad side. It was all just cardboard! Cardboard as in cue cards. It seemed the entire script was written on cue cards. I don't care where you go to school, or what your upbringing was- NO ONE TALKS LIKE THAT!!! The script was enough to make me want to hurl. Let's just say that Sarah Michelle Gellar as the bad girl looked entirely stupid holding a glass of wine across her chest. How could you cast kids, put them in entirely adult situations, and expect it to work???? Reese Witherspoon had some promise as the torn virgin, but also went the way of the cardboard cut out. The scene where she is sitting in the yard reading is so hilarious. Again, NO ONE SITS LIKE THAT!!!! If you watch closely, you can see her look at the camera, as if pensively contemplating the book!!!! The characters were totally wretched and pathetic. I was surprised and disappointed to see some seasoned, veteran actresses such as Swoosie Kurtz and Christine Baranski stoop to the inimitably rock-bottom level of this film. This script might have worked with an adult cast, but it would have been better not to EVER have come into realization at all. The ONLY, and I do mean ONLY redeeming part of this film was when the suddenly compassionate Sebastian, (TRANSITION?!?) Is hit by the car, and surprisingly doesn't give the token dying speech. He is just gone, which was so refreshing, I almost got up and cheered. The cruel intention of this movie was having to sit through it. What's worse is the desensitized movie goers who will inevitably swoon over it. On a scale of 1-10, I give it a generous -35. Absolutely horrendous. "},{"Title":"Kiddos playing house","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very bad remake of Dangerous Liaisons. Two teenie-boppers play house as they lounge about in a mansion with Gellar having a personal servant and Phillippe driving a 1950s Jaguar- yeah, whatever. It's melodramatic, unrealistic, socially irresponsible, and full of conversations real people would never have. Witherspoon plays the virgin well, but even she's too hokey and her character is a hypocrite. If you're 12-18 years old and have never seen the original or Dangerous Liaisons, you might like it. If you've seen Dangerous Liaisons, don't waste your money with this one. Stick with actors who can actually act.   "},{"Title":"Just as good as Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally got around to seeing this movie.  I really liked it.  Out of all the Generation X and Generation Y movies that were released in late 98 and early 99, this movie was the best one of all.  This movie is basically the updated version of Dangerous Liaisons, and it's pleasing to watch.  I really enjoyed Sarah Michelle Gellar's performance as the vixen in the movie.  She's scheming and seductive--I consider her the essence of this film.  Ryan Phillippe and Reese Witherspoon were OK.  Selma Blair was hilarious as bubbleheaded Cecile.  If you've seen Dangerous Liaisons you'll know how this story goes and how it ends.  Yet, I liked this 90s version of the story.  I liked seeing the story take place in the modern age with young people as the main characters.  However, I do think that the people who will enjoy this film the most are Generation Xers (such as myself) and Generation Yers.  Older people may be more prone to criticize this film.  But this was an enjoyable film.  In fact, if I ever decide to buy a DVD player, this will be one of the movies I'll buy on DVD (along with Dangerous Liaisons). "},{"Title":"Ruined with horrible acting","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had potential and could have been pretty good, except for one thing- they forgot to hire people who can actually act! Every line is delivered in a monotonous tone and practically puts you to sleep.  The only way to enjoy this movie is has a comedy because their attempts to act are laugh out loud funny.  Selma Blair is the only one in the group who shows some talent, and unfortunately, hers was wasted on this movie.  "}{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie with great expectations only to be let horribly down.  This movie has got to be the worst version of an otherwise fantastic story.  Gellar is passable in her role, Witherspoon does a good job but Ryan Phillippe is terrible.  It's embarassing watching him as he attempts to play John Malkovich playing Valmont.  Don't waste your time on this bomb! "},{"Title":"this was one of the best movies I saw last year","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went unwillingly to this movie last year, and came out loving it.   This movie has all of the plot twists and turns you would expect, from an adult movie.   But this movie was made for people 25 and under.   Unlike some teen movies, the actors and actresses were not running around screaming because someone was after them.   This movie showed how deep these teens had gotten in the game of seduction.   Not that this movie is real to life, but it is more real than say I Know What You Did Last Summer.   Ryan Phillippe is the best actor in this film, he is cruel when he wants but he is also loving when he wants.  He does both wonderfully, Sarah Michelle Geller is perfect as the little tramp of a sister.   Reese Witherspoon is also good as the virgin of the moment. This movie is definitly one not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"THE FUNNIEST DANGEROUS LIAISONS EVER!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was wickedly funny. I was pleasantly surprised by Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Philippe, both of whom I consider marginally talented. Gellar was an evil delight; and Philippe's limitations as an actor (his monotone delivery and stiffness) seemed to suit the character well. Overall I thought it was a very effective adaptation of Dangerous Liaisons and a hoot to boot. "},{"Title":"A meaningless squandering of time, talent and money.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The perfect comment on this movie is made by Ronald, the black music teacher, who spends most of the movie with a wry smile on his face, and says There's some weird s*** going on this house !This is one of the worst movies I have EVER seen !  It starts from nowhere, goes nowhere and says nothing on the way.  The characters are cardboard cutouts, totally unbelievable, and the longer you go into the film, the less you care what happens to them.A very pretentious film that utterly squanders the talents of two sexy actresses.  In no way should it be connected to Les Liaisons Dangereuses, which is far above it (Cruel Intentions) in every way.I went to this film with an acquaintance. Afterwards, we both admitted we wanted to leave after 15 minutes, but stayed out of mistaken politeness to the other. Now, because of this film, we have devised a system of signals, to bale out of a bad film early.Life is short and precious - don't waste it on this tripe..  "},{"Title":"Excellent study of the cruelty of man....and woman.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. The characters were well developed and their manipulative adventures were splendidly interwoven. I kept wondering who they were going to mess with next. Sarah Michelle Gellar is wonderfully seductive in this movie. I'm positive that with her antics, any man who sees this movie will love to hate her. "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have I ever seen such a wonderful movie ? No . Have I ever cried so much in a movie ? No . Is it worth it ? Yes . If you watch this movie I guarantee a wonderful experience . It goes through human emotions and makes you feel them . It shows the true meaning of love . Only one word for it  Marvelous. "},{"Title":"Amazing!!!!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie for awhile so I decided to rent it about a week ago me and my girlfriend watched it. I thought I was going  to see an ok movie. What I got was a amazing movie. I thought it was well done very well acted and loved the ending. Sarah Michelle Gellar did some great acting be the bitch of the group. Reese Witherspoon gave a great performance and Ryan Phillpe did a great job on acting his part as well. I am 17 a teen. I can see why some adults would hate this movie.recommended yes3 1/2 out of 4  "},{"Title":"A total waste of time","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Totally unbelievable.  A ridiculous story about two wealthy New York teenagers whose lives are made up entirely of their evil machinations. Parental figures are suspiciously lacking, and the semi-incestuous relationship between Gellar and Phillipe is stomach churning.  Neither Gellar or Phillipe is sexy enough to lend believability to their characters, and  Witherspoon is just plain annoying.  The worst acting and directing I have seen in a while. "},{"Title":"One Good Turn Deserves Another","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can describe this movie in two words; EXTREMELY GOOD!  Are you tired of those cat and mouse movies where the plots are usually botched up by either bad actors or poor directing?  Well fear no more.  This movie delivers with a punch.  No bad acting,directing or weak storylines found here.  Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar once again dazzle fans with their tremendous performances.  With Reese Witherspoon rounding out the cast you've got yourself a winning team. Watching this film really opened my eyes up to the way people treat each other.  The mind games, secrets and lies usually end up destroying people's lives and even their reputations.  You know the old saying  What goes around comes around?   Well this movie proves it to be true.  I'm not going to ruin the plot but I'll tell you this; for all those that think you're invincible and nothing in the world can break you down think again.  I give this movie ****, two thumbs up and whatever else the critics give.  Recommend this hit to your friends.Other movies of interest  WILD THINGS Note  These two movies go hand-in-hand.  A must have for movie collectors. "},{"Title":"Not as bad (and much funnier!) than you might expect","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was just pleasantly surprised by Cruel Intentions. Probably the most unexpected feature was the witty and often-funny script. Gellar (as Kathryn) and Phillippe (as Sebastian) succeed in playing convincing siblings-from-hell. Selma Blair's hopelessly ditzy Cecile (who naively falls prey to Kathryn's scheming) is both pitiful and amusing.The plot of the film can be dizzying, but keeps a good pace. My only disappointment is with Gellar's performance; though not bad, she's better on television. Over all, a much better movie than most of the teen flick genre, and a testament to director/writer Roger Kumble's mature (yet hip) talent. Although not due to win any awards, I'd definitely see it again. "}{"Title":"Don't believe Entertainment Weekly","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Entertainment Weekly once described this movie as ..everybody has sex with everybody.  Okay, I'll be more honest that most people are.  I'm a guy, and I went there to see everybody having sex with everybody.  What did I see? I saw a movie that, as a subsequent review said, had less skin than a typical Lever 2000 soap commerical.  I'm not blaming the movie, I'm blaming Entertainment Weekly for describing it so poorly the first time.The movie was pretty good.  The ending will probably surprise you.  It did me.  It is no wonder that Ryan and Reese ended up together in real life. There was definite chemistry onscreen.  For you Ryan fans, the movie has his required butt shot.  (I admit it, he has a far above-average butt, however I don't need to see it everytime I see him act.)  For you Reese fans, she's as cute as ever in this movie.  She doesn't take over the role as much as she did in Election, but she does a good job here.I'll probably get this again on DVD, even though it doesn't actually show everbody having sex with everybody.  Oh well, I guess I can fall back on those Lever 2000 commercials.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Bad","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Selma Blair played her character wonderfully.  I did not watch it at the theater so I am be a little more kind than most.There were some really sexy scenes in this movie.  The story line lived up to the trailer.  In fact, you could probably guess the entire movie based on the trailer.  Except for added entertainment added by the Selma Blair's character.For a rental it gets and 8/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully 'Cruel'","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great, I loved it.. It really showed off Sarah Michelle Gellar's acting ability this movie followed her flop 'Simply Irresistible', and followed with a bang.. Gellar had the whole audience eating out of her palm.Reese Witherspoon is also great in this movie was with Swoosie Kurtz, and Ryan Phillipe.The movie is one of the best teen movies this year in my opinion being a teen, and was enjoyed by me ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"I thought that Cruel Intentions was a very good story about love and deception.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was one of those films that made you wonder if there really are people out there like that.  I was hooked from the beginning of the film till the bitter end.One of the reasons I loved this film is because the main character (Sebastian) didn't really know what it was like to find love till he falls madly in love with Annette.  I really liked how the story ended but, I can't give away the ending. So I can't add to that.If you liked Wild Things, you'll like this. "},{"Title":"Bad acting and directing really put me off","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this - it just doesn't merit it.  In brief, all of the actors were overacting on dialogue that was poor at best.  Attempts at making cutting remarks that drip with venom came off as a laughable high school version of daytime soaps.  The fight scene at the end where Sebastian ends up eating it looked staged and trite.And, above all, what in this movie makes you care for this creep?  Why should we be at all concerned about this guy who has done zero good and has no character depth whatsoever?  And what would cause Reese's character to do an about face on all of her opinions?  She calls this guy on all of his BS early, then falls for it.  What is she falling for, then?Dangerous Liaisons did not need to be remade, certainly not as poorly as this. "},{"Title":"Completely overated","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film which likes to call itself cunning, is a waste of people's time!  Resse Witherspoon is a beautiful actress and plays the innocent girl very well she is what makes this flick almost worthwhile, but the performances turned in by Sarah Michelle Gellar and her stepbrother Ryan Phillippe are horrible.  I grant you that Ryan is an incredibly handsome actor but in my opinion...that is not what makes a movie one of quality. Cruel Intentions is a movie with two witty and cunning adolescents(or at least they try to be), who have a demoralized and pitiless way of entertaining themselves.  This movie is way too full of cliches for me to ever want to rent it again.   "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it,but it made me a bit uncomfortable","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  No, Close and Malkovich weren't in it,but I thought the actors accomplished their goals. I was rooting for some of the characters and against some,and without spoiling things I'll say I'd changed my opinions a bit by the end of the film. It never became boring to me,and though I knew the basic story after seeing the film to which everyone's comparing this I was pleasantly surprised by the ending,typical contrived Hollywood or not. I thought the four main actors all did good jobs. I liked Selma Blair's comic relief,I laughed out loud a few times. I know she has a show on WB or UPN,Zoe and Jack or something,so I think I'll give that a look.The music was great. I recognized some of the bands,but some were new to me. Still,I liked every song. That hasn't happened since I Know What You Did Last Summer. Nice coincidence with the two leads. I enjoyed the musical score,it added to every scene without being overwhelming. All that being said,there were some things which made me uncomfortable. Again,without spoilers,some of the actions and reactions by the characters reminded me of some things my friends and I did not too long ago in high school. I won't get into lots of detail,but we often did not respect the feelings of of immature and self-conscious girls. My main group of friends and I were all football and/or basketball players and made good grades(the typical in crowd),and in a small Southern town that carries as much weight to many wide-eyed innocent females as Sebastian's money and charm. It's funny,even though some of us went on to places such as Vanderbilt and the the Air Force Academy,we were as stupid,misguided,and cruel as Sebastian and Kathryn. Several times there were some consequences,though not like in the film. Why am I sharing this? I guess it's to get some things off my chest and try to rid myself of some long-buried guilt in an anonymous forum. But it's also to let some people, possibly many parents,know that things portrayed in the film are happening every day. Whether it's at an upper-crust prep school or a one-horse town in the Deep South,there are Sebastians and yes,many Kathryns,plotting and scheming as I write this.     "},{"Title":"Movie nearly sunk by spoon","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much better and sexier than most teeny bop movies.  I wasn't really that aware of Gellar; now I'm searching for more.  Blair was good too as was the brother.  Great chemistry between bro and sis.  Whitherspoon was awful and definately broke the spell created by the others.  I just kept thinking Whitherspoon pretending to act like a prepubescent virgin. Yuck "},{"Title":"teen Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here's another one where the IMDB reviews are up and down.  I think this is because of age.  The movie is a 90210 or Melrose Place version of Dangerous Liaisons, with teen angst instead of adult emotions.  Gellar is super as the bitch, and Witherspoon is ok as the virgin.  I thought Selma Blair was a very good clutz dummy ... that type of acting is hard to pull off, and she has us chuckling all the way through.  There are only 1 or 2 adults in the flick.Women over 30 like my wife will think the male lead, Ryan Phillippe, is another skinny, greasy, twerp, hardly a major seductor of all these girls, like DiCaprio.   But if you're a teen, maybe Phillippe is cool.Those who like 90210 and Melrose Place will like this flick.  For those of you who don't want teen angst, but like the plot idea, see Dangerous Liaisons, which you will like. -Bob  "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie that I enjoyed watching","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was pretty good.  I enjoyed watching it, of course Dangerous Liaisons is better, but this movie was enjoyable also.  Nice performances by the cast, and an enjoyable movie to watch.  If you liked Dangerous Liaisons, you would probably like this, it's actually pretty good.  If you don't like Witherspoon or Gellar, I think you would still like this film.   "}{"Title":"Silly movie about silly teenagers","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a silly movie. Perhaps if you are a teenager, you might find it enjoyable and sexy. But as an adult, I found it unrealistic and disgusting. Although I don't run in wealthy, elitist circles, I find it hard to believe that teenagers have the kind of freedom, savvy and money depicted in the film. Yes...I know; it's only a movie. But the acting is bad too.  "},{"Title":"Soap opera","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gellar, Philippe and Witherspoon all did pretty good jobs. Philippe was actually much better than expected, as I had seen him in 54 some weeks before, and thought a rock could have done a better job than him in that movie! Witherspoon has done better though, and is without a doubt the most talented of the three.It certainly isn't their fault that I found this movie to be below average. Granted, it is not as heavy as the previous films based on the same book, and it does work pretty well up until the turning point, but from there I only have one word for it PATHETIC! The clichés are lined up along the way. We've seen all of this many times before, and it has for sure been done better.You get a little of everything sex, intrigues, sadness. At least nothing you won't find in a regular soap opera. So go see that instead, and don't waste your money on this movie. "},{"Title":"Decent Updated Dangerous Liasons","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. The idea of updating the original setting of the 1700's to 1990's was one that actually worked, seeing how Sarah Michelle Gellar's and Ryan Phillippe's characters seemed even more nasty and immoral in a modern world with more ways to wreak their havoc. Reese Witherspoon, an actress whose work I enjoy, had the thankless role of the most sought after virgin destined to lose what she held dear, but she managed to at least not make the role seem to have been better left on the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"Perfectly spoken dialog","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was not only directly very well, the dialog written for each of the characters is, well... for lack of a better word, AWSOME. Each character had such wonderful lines and executed them well.  I would recommed this movie highly.Highly erotic, without overloading you with needless sex sceens. This movie is very well put together. "},{"Title":"Doesn't measure up to Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm too much of a S. M. Gellar fan to not like this movie, but it's impossible to watch it without making comparisons to 1988's Dangerous Liaisons.  In that context, this film, while adequate, just doesn't measure up.  Ryan Phillipe is no John Malcovich (not even close) and Reese Witherspoon is a good ways from Michelle Pfeiffer.  Only Gellar puts in a performance that might even approach that of Glenn Close.  Needless to say the supporting cast doesn't match Keanau Reeves and Uma Thurmann.   This flick's ok, but if you want the real deal, look for the much better movie. "},{"Title":"Boring and pretensious!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, it is a movie for teenagers, played by teenagers...But, it's just so empty and boring! Maybe 17 year old boys (and girls, of course) can feel a bit excited, like Oh God, does anybody like that (argh!) girl and that boy (the threaten couple) really do exist outside?Well, my answer would be, if they do, probably the end of the story would not be the one which was shown! The bad guy that falls in love with the virginal blondy girl... Ok, we are talking about fiction, about the  movies magic, but come on!!! I just thought I lost my money and my time that night, sitting beside the whole high school (the female part of it) saying oh poor boy when Sebastian started crying for his brand new and also lost passion! "},{"Title":"Cruel, but GOOD!!!!!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar as a high school b**ch!  Ryan Phillipe as a male slut! Reese Witherspoon as a virgin princess! Selma Blair as a clumsy cellist! Joshua Jackson as Ryan's gay friend! But I must say they all played good roles.  I give it four stars out of four.  I saw this all four times in one day, and I must say you can't get enough of it.  A funny drama, and a sexy thriller.  Reese Witherspoon plays a goody-two-shoes; Sarah Michelle Gellar is a very nasty b**ch; Ryan Phillipe as a hot, sexy man.  And OH BABY, what a man!!!!!!  I recommmend this to women under the age of thirty, but be prepared for a glimpse of Ryan Phillipe's cute tush.  And OH BABY, what a tush! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally a teen movie with substance and a very good plot. The acting is excellent especially from the four leads, Sarah Michelle Gellar from Buffy, Ryan Phillipe, Reece Witherspoon and Selma Blair. This is the must see movie for 1999 so don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Crazy sexy cool","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw the film on video and I thought it was very sexy. The main characters were very twisted in their thinking and their morals. The writing was brilliantly witty and demure.  Overall I thought this movie was one of the best I've seen in a long while.  Good show. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!!!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What an excellent movie!!!!   Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks in this movie (just like anything else she's in).  This move has got the most brilliant ending, with so many twists and turns.  I'm buying this movie as soon as it comes out on video. "}{"Title":"Very cool, never boring, and I highly recommend it!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just rented this movie, and I was surprised to find what I saw in it. I had heard all the critics and everyone saying how bad it was in a porno way, but I was surprised, that it wasn't bad at all! I am only 14, and they said that absolutely no one under that age should see it, but I disagree. This is not as bad as every one would assume. I only found one fault with this movie. Towards the beginning, it flashes onto a couple separate scenes, which were kind of humerous looking to an extent, which really didn't belong in this movie. I found other humor in this movie to be enjoyable, it's just childish humor that makes you laugh because it looks funny just doesn't belong w/ such a serious plot. Although, this movie was extremely well acted, and I was pleased to realize that Sarah Michelle Gellar can be other darker parts besides her regular Buffy character. Ryan Phillipe played a character that was different than any other I have witnessed. He was dark, mean and you should've hated him (At least the first half of the movie) but there was something about him that you just had to like. This of all movies had to have about the best ending of any movie I have seen. It was obviously thought out and creative. Not like you had expected. I really liked how they would get a line in the movie repeated later for a hidden message, like at the beginning, w/ the therapist. (I need not mention, because I wouldn't want to give it away...) Anyway, to sum my oppinion all up, I strongly recommend this movie, for the romantic story, for the drama, and yes, they do have comedy in it, just more better comedy than you usually see, not the ditzy type, although, I do enjoy those types of movies too, I am really interested in the summaries for this movie!   "},{"Title":"Wicked movie","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read a lot of comments on this movie from- I hate it, it's the worst movie ever, to-  great,the actors are super. So, my opinion on this movie would be Compared to the movie before based on the same book Dangerous Liaisons I can say that it has its downs.But then why should we compare it to the book or to the movies before. It is a movie for it self and we should watch it like a new film with young actors. Because we are all aware that John Malkovich and Ryan Phillippe are not to be compared. John Malkovich is already known for his great adopting to different characters and for his great acting, and on the other hand we have Ryan Phillippe a young face, talent and still to prove him self to the people of the world. But after the last couple of movies we have seen him in I know what you did last summer and 54 and now Cruel Intentions we can without a doubt say that beside his talent he has a potential of becoming a great actor. So it is up to him to act and to us to wait and see.As for Michelle Gellar I have been pleasantly surprised, she was good. Really good. Reese Witherspoon is great in acting high school students(not that she is not good at other roles) and she is also cool. Roger Kumble did the best job he could. He has a wicked sence of humor and I like it. And at the end I must say that I liked the movie so that I have seen it ten times. I like the intrigues and the games (but only to watch).  "},{"Title":"It was cruel to watch this","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Sarah Michelle Gellar, and was dismayed to see the character she played in this movie.  We could barely stand to watch the whole thing.  In fact, the last 45 minutes or so, I was doing something else with the thing just providing noise.  Pointless sex, lousy acting, and a senseless ending. Sheesh. "},{"Title":"This was an excellent film","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is well done. The plot was different, and the acting was superb. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe do a wonderful job as being as mean and sarcastic as they can be.The first time director Roger Kumbel did a great job directing the film. The setting and music went well with the story.The ending was a wonderful twist. I highly suggest that everyone sees this movie. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently rented this, and I really enjoyed it.  Roger Kumble did an exceptional job writing and directing this, and the result was fantastic.  This is an excellent modern adaption of the 1782 French novel in which I cannot spell much less pronounce.  But out of all the movies that have followed the novel, this one is the absolute best.  Great performances all around.  Sarah Michelle Gellar (one of my fave actresses) does a great job, as usual.  Newcomer Selma Blair is surprisingly good playing the innocent and naive Cecile.  Reese Witherspoon is also very good, especially with a character that wasn't that much explored.  But I think I give extra props to Ryan Phillippe.  He is wickedly funny, yet very cruel and malicious, yet very much in love with Reese's character.  You can definitely tell he is having fun with the character, and this may be the best performance he has given in his career yet.  Now, some people didn't like the change of the movie toward the end when the beginning was about cruel, cruel teens doing cruel, cruel things to innocent people, and toward the end it changes to a supposed sappy romantic drama.  Well, I wouldn't call it a sappy romantic drama, but I do like the transition, it plays very well.  And the sex scene between Ryan and Reese has got to be one of the most love-filled, caring sex scenes ever displayed on screen.  I mean, it is not there to be erotic, or just for the audiences pleasure.  Roger Kumble respected that sex scene because it shows the love the two characters suddenly feel for each other.  And the end is one of the best, most saddening endings I have seen in a movie yet.  I really, truly felt sorry for both Kathryn and Sebastian at the end.  Go see this movie the way it is, do not watch it expecting anything.  Just watch it as it is, have fun with it.  ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Cruel, meaning that it was made","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is, at its absolute best, one of the weakest movies of this decade.  I do not have enough space in this review to point out all the bad things in this movie, so lets just touch on a few. Sarah Michelle Gellar, a very promising young actress, suffers a major career setback as Kathyrn.....a rich, coke-addicted slut who will stop at nothing to get what she wants.  She badly overacts and her rich witch voice mannerisms are quite grating.Ryan Phillipe continues to amaze me.  How can someone who cannot act continue to get parts???   Just when you thought that the acting lessons had started to pay off with 54, he takes the part of Sebastian.  The level of weak acting which he managed to achieve is usually reserved for the soft-core porn flicks you see on Cinemax on Friday nights.Reese Witherspoon is only mildly weak as Annette...the virginal Kansas girl who very quickly gives it up because she's told she's in love with Sebastian...some value system she's got there.Selma Blair as Cecille....I sincerely hope that she doesn't include this movie on her resume'All in all, this is an hour and a half of my life completely wasted.  Only the most easily entertained among us will find this movie amusing.  If I could give this movie a negative star rating I would...but since I cant, I'll have to give it a big 0. "},{"Title":"Plllbbbbbbb!!!!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the WORST movies I have ever seen.  I consider myself not only a movie buff, but a movie-lover as well as a movie-critic.  Unlike Candi Retiz thinks - being a movie buff does not mean attending the latest movie on opening night - that's just impatience. The only thing good about this film was the end.  The wrap-up for this movie was very well done.  The characters pretty much learned their lessons. And that is it.  No one in their right mind, except for a Backstreet Boys-I Know What You Did Last Summer-fan, would see quality in this too unrealistic flick of teenage manipulation and sex. It is one thing to suspend disbelief, but the reason a movie scares or thrills or excites us is because of its hint towards reality.  All the others just make us laugh.  Maybe that was what Cruel Intentions was intended to be - a comedy! "},{"Title":"For the most part an engaging and entertaining movie.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in present time, New York, this fourth version of Choderlos De Laclos' novel Les liaisons dangeureuses tells the story of Sebastian Valmont, a wealthy, spoiled young man with a compulsive commitment to sex (he's even screwing his sex-therapist's daughter). But the simplicity in seducing young girls bores him. Sebastian longs for a real challenge and his strong desire for his step-sibling Kathryn makes him accept the tempting and intriguing bet she proposes.If he manages to pop the daughter of the headmaster's cherry, he gets Kathryn for the night. You can put it anywhere, she tells him. If he fails, Kathryn gets his Jaguar.The bitchy dialogue and the sparkling cast make this modernisation of the French classic an entertaining and engaging experience. First-time director Roger Kumble successfully blends comedy with a tickling and clever story.Cruel Intentions bounces easily along to a cool soundtrack, featuring Fatboy Slim, Blur and Placebo. And though it's imperfect in places and heads to an artificial ending it is well worth 97 minutes of your time. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie I´ve ever seen!!!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is by far the greatest movie I´ve ever seen. Sarah Michelle Gellar was great in the role of Kathryn and showed us that she´s a good actress and that she can do a lot more than just run and scream. She even dyed her hair so that people wouldn´t relate her character to Buffy, Helen Shivers or Cici Cooper (her other movie and TV characters). Reese Witherspoon and Ryan Phillipe were great too and Selma Blair did an excellent job in portraying Cecile. Dangerous Liasons is a good film, but teenagers will prefer this version. "},{"Title":"Smart and Sexy!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie I thought was absoluty brilliant! It works! It really works! It's totally twisted and very sexy and that was the best thing about this movie. Sarah Michelle Gellar gave a wonderful and appealing performance that makes you look twice at her and relise that this girl has talent! I recommend to all TEENS that you see this movie! "}{"Title":"the best movie of the year","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie!!!!!! Yes it did have a lot of sex and foul language in it, but it shows you that it doesn't matter how much money you have your life still gets messed up. For example, kathryn (played by Sarah Michelle Gellar) spends her days sniffing crack! See it happens in all social classes. i think that this movie can teach everyone a few things about life and the way that teenagers think. this is a great movie and I suggest that all teens see it. I know not all adults will appreciate this movie, but they must realize that a lot of teens will!  "},{"Title":"OK adaptation of a famous novel. Low quality ending!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The original story Les Liasons Dangereuses is a masterpiece; this 1999 adaptation is somehow interesting.  The cast is OK, but I think they should have portrayed older characters, like in their mid-twenties or so. The villains are better than the victims. Annette (the blonde) looks a bit too dummy and the main victim (Cecile) overacts too often.  But the film moves and delivers, except for the ending The scene where everybody gets to know the real Kathryn is one of the most stupid dramatic scenes I've seen in a while. (6) "},{"Title":"Best of the Best","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a brilliant re-make of the previous two films Les Liasions and Dangerous Liasions. Although the latter film had an all star line up I think the acting in this one was far more superior. This film is top class for all the age regions. Roger Kumble's sense of humour has certainly developed from Dumb and Dumber as well as the Power Rangers. It has a twisted plot with a mystery ending. All way through the film your wandering what will happen at the end. Sarah Michelle Gellar displays her acting skills even better than before by playing the wicked step-sister. Reese Witherspoon also finds herself in the same situation playing the virgin, which is a difference from Pleasentville. I must say that Ryan Phillippe shines above them all though. He is a great actor with a bright future and so far developed from his small part 4 years ago in Crimson Tide.  The film is excellent with the Romance, the drama and the comedy. An all time great with certainly the right characteristics to take it into the top 50 all timers. The best movie this year, with great actors and a marvelous sound track, from Fat Boy Slim andthe Verve through to Faithless and Placebo, a must see film. "},{"Title":"Lust, Sex and Love","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well I went to see this film expecting nothing and then the story really amazed me. However I found the script had some unbelievable scenes. A film which guys who like dirty talking and degrading woman (or girls) will love. Unfortunately not my type of film since this stereotype view of life was not realistic at all. "},{"Title":"Modern retake on Les Liaisons can't decide if it's comedy...","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle 'Buffy' Gellar is a recommendation in itself, and her role as the devious woman in this modern remake of Dangerous Liaisons is indeed memorable. Actually, all four central actors / actresses play their parts with class, which is one of the reasons why the movie rises so far above the average. Even if you have never seen either of the previous cinematic versions of Les Liaisons, most of the plot is predictable, but that doesn't spoil the movie at all - plus, there's a good bite in the tail. The movie _is_ a bit unbalanced and sometimes borders on comedy without seeming to mean to... But that downside is amply compensated by a great sound track, featuring Skunk Anansie, Counting Crows, Blur, Faithless, and a climatic movie finale, brilliantly timed to 'Bitter Sweet Symphony' by the verve. All things considered, a movie well worth a visit... "},{"Title":"Modern day Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find Ryan Phillipe's acting is similar to John Malkovich's Valmont in the 1988 Dangerous Liaisons.  Is this a deliberation or pure coincidence?  Do rich kids of modern day America indulge in designer clothes meant for over-20somethings?  For those who haven't seen Dangerous Liaisons, please see it.  It got nominated for Oscars. I have to say that Sarah Michelle Gellar's acting is superb. The soundtrack is cool and I loved the car.  I suppose I have to give credit Roger Kumble for coming up with a brave screenplay.  "},{"Title":"A review of a delightfully wicked film","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  More than just 'suggested' by the novel, this Dangerous Liaisons reworking takes place on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, this time in the world of teenagers. The plot will be familiar to anyone who has seen any of the other films, but this modern adaptation is anything but uninteresting. Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar take on the roles of the rich step-brother and sister, Sebastian and Kathryn, both of whom manage to bed everyone in the area. In order to settle their lust for each other, they make a wager - if Sebastian can seduce the new headmaster's virginal daughter Annette (Reese Witherspoon), he gets Kathryn for the night, but if he loses, she gets his vintage Jaguar. From this point onwards we see the plot thicken as Sebastian seems to genuinely fall for Annette while, in one of the several subplots, Kathryn reduces her ex-boyfriend's partner, Cecile (Selma Blair) to a whimpering mess. Despite a sharp and often funny script, the ending of the film is it's worst point, unnecessarily mushy unlike the rest and attempting to wrap up the story with false morality payoffs. That said, there are some good moments in this film, for example, the return of Swoosie Kurtz, who appeared in Frears' version of the story in 1988, in a cameo and Christine Baranski, from the hit comedy Cybill, refreshing and amusing as Cecile's mother. Gellar seems to have fun pouting, preening and creating a great villainess, while Phillippe among others enjoy their parts too. Overall, Cruel Intentions is a pretty good film, a bit over-the-top sometimes in the character portrayals perhaps, but nonetheless easily enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Agile, entertaining and with excellent performances an excellent film!!!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is the type of films that was done by young, brilliant filmmakers and for youths!cheerful, entertaining, agile, with a modern sound track and counting on an inspired cast that demonstrates all the time that they are doing their job with joy,Cruel Intentions mixes young rising stars with consecrated artists (like Louise Fletcher), and the director Roger Kumble (who has just 23 years old!!) got to accomplish a work that, even being based on a well-known romance,is creative and original, because he innovates the main concepts of the novel. The film director sets the story of love, seduction and revenge of the Chordelos de Laclos's book in New York, and in the place of the French bourgeoisie, he gives us young, rich and rebellious teenagers as the main characters. Ryan Phillipe is a talented boy and he has future in the cinema, Sarah Michelle Gellar is excellent as a cruel and revengeful girl, whose favorite entertainment is to manipulate her university friends' lives. And finally, Reese Witherspoon demonstrates what it had already being demonstrated in her previous films she is one of the hottest names to become the next great star from Hollywood!! "},{"Title":"Absolute genius.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another example of a movie where the trailer misrepresents the true merits of the movie in order to try to sell it to the targeted audience, in this case teenagers.  Unfortunately, this was probably a marketing mistake as the exceptional dialogue will fly over most teenagers' heads.  I expected Dawson's Creek, and I got dialogue that I would love to see on the stage some day. "},{"Title":"what a nasty film. i loved it!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Cruel Intentions mildly sceptical, to say the least! i must say that i have not read the book it is 'loosely' based on but i did see the film 'Dangerous Liaisons' of which i thought this would be a poor imitation. I was pleasantly surprised.from the outset we see the characters 'cruel intentions' and although a lot of the actors in the film are new faces they certainly weren't overacting to compensate for this.Sarah Michelle Gellar (who looks much better with dark hair and should stick to film!) was devious, cunning and showed no sign of weakness all the way through. so nice to see her playing a 'real' part as opposed to the tiring stretch of the 'Buffy' series.The character Sebastian was compelling from the start and he held a lot of the very subtle humour that ran through the film.I was very impressed that such an old tale of deceit was put into the modern day so well and i have to say the ending was spot-on!I urge you to see it and if you can't fork out for the cinema then do rent it out.Classic! "}{"Title":"Great, campy fun.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood always loves to update classic and even not-to-so classic stories. Remakes of movies as vastly different as The Parent Trap and Psycho have all hit the big screen in the past year. Shakespeare and Dickens have even been updated to modern times in movies like West Side Story, 1996's Romeo + Juliet, and 1997's Great Epectations. In fact, later this year, a teenage version of Taming the Shrew is forthcoming with a name change to Ten Things I Hate About You. Maybe updating the classics for teens is way to make reading fun again? Heck, even Clueless was an updating of Jane Austen's Emma. Was it any real surprise then that Hollywood would attempt an update of the classic French novel Les Liasons Dangereuse? Previously filmed three times, Les Liasons Dangereuse is a sinister story of two manipulative French aristocrats. To update these two characters as two Manhattan prep school students might seem far fetched, but it's an premise to swallow before long.Cruel Intentions is great campy fun. It doesn't really add anything new to the tale of Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe) and Catherine Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar), but does it really need to?The story speaks for itself and despite a few additions (such as Valmont attempting to blackmail a closeted football star), it remains surprisingly true to the original.True, the story is so sinister that at times it takes itself too seriously, but that's aprt of its fun. Like Valley of the Dolls and Mommie Dearest before it, Cruel Intentions is destined to become a camp classic. The story, the dialogue, and the acting are all so over the top, you can't help but resist the film.As Valmont, Ryan Phillippe is a charmingly sinister pretty boy. You can't trust anything he says, but he's totally charismatic while saying it. Phillippe has the makings of a big star. He does a complete turnaround from his usually sweet, sensitive characters (White Squall, Playing By Heart, Little Boy Blue) and dumb (54, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Homegrown). His Valmont is calculating, intelligent, intensely charming, and utterly reprehensible all at once. With that face and that wardrobe, Phillippe can't fail.Sarah Michelle Gellar as Catherine is equally good, matching Phillippe's insidiousness. She's given many of the movie's best lines. When giving advice to Cecile, the budding virgin Catherine says, Sleep with as many people as people as you can. Gellar is cruel and calculating, a refreshing change from her role on Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Gellar shines on TV but on the big screen she's never come across quite as well, until now.As good as Phillippe and Gellar are, the movie is almost stolen from them by the talented young Selma Blair. As Cecile, the gawky virgin, Blair walks the thin line between funny and realistic and does a great job. She has great likability and could be the next Sandra Bullock. Too bad Reese Witherspoon isn't nearly as good. As Annette, who is saving herself until marriage, Ms. Witherspoon comes off the same as she does in every movie annoying. Why Valmont falls in love with her is a mystery in this version.A good cast, hysterical dialogue, and a classic story make Cruel Intentions an undeniable camps classic. Here's to more updates of classic stories that are as campy, as ridiculous, and as much fun as this one.Grade B+  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I assume that when I sat down to watch this movie, I wasn't expecting much, but within the first 15 minutes I was already loving the whole thing. It is greatly due the outstanding teen cast, especially Sarah Michelle Gellar. They portrait extremely sarcastic, smart, appealing and non-usual teens in a wealthy and non-usual atmosphere as well. And the story keeps on hypnotizing you as you get captivated by the characters. One of the best movies of the 90's, I really recommend it. "},{"Title":"Classy","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a classy remake.  Do not be fooled by the trailers which make it look like a 'High School High' version of the definitive Liaisons Dangereuse.  The cast give mature performances for their tender ages, and although I could not quite see how Sarah Michelle Geller got to be #1 woman in the FHM chart (my hubby says that she is a werepig), I could sort of see the attraction after seeing this movie.  Go see it. I don't think you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great Film! My new favorite movie!!!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What first interested me in seeing Cruel Intentions was my favorite actress Sarah Michelle Gellar. Plus, I also liked Reese Witherspoon, Selma Blair, Josh Jackson and Ryan Phillipe. They are all great actors and the cast alone would be great even if the movie wasn't. I am a big Buffy fan, and I was interested in seeing Sarah in an evil part, not the part that battles evil. Well, this movie was great!! It had a great plot, great acting and a good script. Such scenes as where Sebastian and Annette are in the pool and where Kathryn and Sebastian are alone in their apartment are sexy classics. The end was surprising and I actually felt sorry for Kathryn, this is great filmmaking. Cruel Intentions is wickedly dark and sexy, and if you missed it in the theaters, make sure you rent it on video when it's availible August 24th. This movie instantly became my new favorite! "},{"Title":"Simply genius","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel intentions is one of the best movies I have ever had the pleasure of watching. Starting with a wonderfull cast, continuing with a great production and editing, and ending with the amazing script.The cast starting with the 2 famous actors -Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe -  who are great together (as we saw in I know what you did...) and the 2 less famous actors - Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair - , they all work great together, and anyone who saw the movie can understand why they were casted.The script itself is more than great, I can't find the words to describe it. It's a script that even Tarantino (my favorite) would be glad to have a part in.The story have a bit of every known genre to man - Sex, Erotic, Comedy (just a bit), Betray, Love, Faith, hope, Good Vs. Evil, and more.The part which I loved the most is the dominant part, the betraying/schemes-planning/people-hurting/bitchy part. The movie (as I see it, some may disagree) is based about the fighting of both villains (Kathryn and Sebastian) on who's the greater Villain when the finishing scenes show who's the winner (can't tell you, it will ruin the movie). The movie is about destroying innocent girls without thinking about the consequence, the only problem is that one of the villain falls in love with our perfect/innocent girl, the movie is full of twist and turns, there's no way of knowing what will happen in the next scene or even in the end of the current scene.... The movie itself is simply genius no matter how you look at it, all aspects of the movie are great....This is what I call a MUST MOVIE, especially for those Tarantino fans.... "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen many movies, and I just love the twists and turns of this one. I have not seen the movie it was based on, but I plan to.  The casting was great, I will never be able to see Buffy as innocent again!  Very sexy. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"What a film","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well what can I say, I have found a new God, and his name is Sebastian (played by Ryan Phillippe).  He has a way with women that any man would be jealous of.  Sarah Michelle Geller, is she hot or is she hot.  I urge everyone to go and see this film it is very sexy!!!!! "},{"Title":"The Kids Are NOT Alright.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, at least I got the satisfaction of knowing I ruined some spoiled kids' good time, through consistent socially destructive behavior and all-around asinine activity. The only bit of fun I could get from this movie. Attractive youngsters engaging in promiscuous sex and (GASP!) double-crossing each other, oh my. And the acting.. superb. To hell with that. Screw watching the film, just grab a handful of junior mints and chuck 'em at the screen, or at the hordes of babyfat pre-teeny boppers with milk-hormone enhanced physiques, butterfly tees and flare jeans. String together some sentences with just a few random, unrelated words, and yell those sentences as loudly as you can. Then, be escorted from the premises, and go home happy. Well.. $4.00 poorer, but content with the knowledge that you made an absolute ass of yourself, and that you were talked about, albeit briefly, by all the mature kids. Who's more mature, the 13 and 14 year olds who shell out mommy and daddy's cash to see trite filth like this, and are thoroughly ENTERTAINED! Or me, the grown man, who throws stuff at them, sure, but knows better than to be tricked into thinking that such malodorous, pustulent cinema slime counts for anything more than what it is. In my admittedly distorted opinion, I come out on top. Ha ha.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To be honest I rarely go to see a movie more than 2 times but this movie I have seen 3 times and would not hesisate in going 3 more times. I thought it was the best movie I have seen in a long time. It had a good story, good acting and it had one of the most perfect endings in any movie, Everything is was perfect. Well done to all involved. Also a Great hand to Ryan Phillipe in his role. It is very hard to follow in the heels of John Malcovich but he pulled it of nicely. "},{"Title":"Truly disappointing and sloppy acting","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this movie was meant for school kids only, please forgive me for commenting. Unfortunately, I did see it as well. Although the story is fairly original, I haven't seen this many lousy actors together in a long time. What could have been a thrilling psychological drama, turns out to be a way too fast made teenage-wet-dream-come-true. A real shame. "}{"Title":"I give it a 10!!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is by far one of the best movies that I have ever seen. The cast was great and did an excellent job together. If you haven't seen it yet, you are missing out! "},{"Title":"Mind games and manipulation done with passion","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful film.  Portrays all the best and worst of human nature.  Mind games and manipulation are definitely strong flavours throughout the film. Sarah M-Gellar (Buffy) plays something other than a cute babe vampire slayer - and does it very well.  Soundtrack is a good mixture of songs which certainly fit the film well - adding to an already good film.  All round I thought it was an excellent film, but just get ready for the punch line scene at the end . . . .or is it ? ? "},{"Title":"A surprisingly well-executed modernization of a literary classic","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just came out of Cruel Intentions and it really impressed me. This must surely rank among the best literary adaptations as well as the best remakes in the 90s. The movie takes most of its power from its cleverly written script and I think the director who also wrote the screenplay deserves big praise for his work here. All the vital plot strands of the classic novel are there in neatly updated form and not for a single moment do they lose their credibility. While watching, I really wondered why no one has came up with the idea of doing this film before but in fact, the timing could not be more right. The millennium ends with a great question mark about the behaviour of young people, particularly in the US, and the film creates a terrifying view concerning the moral degeneration of a section of that demographic group, exactly the same thing achieved by Delachlos on the eve of the French Revolution. The director stated that that he decided to make the film after he saw Stephen Frears' 1988 version and although that film's influences are obvious (He even found a manor for Ms. Rosemond which looks exactly the same as the one in the previous film!)this new version creates a mood which is uniquely its own. As for the cast, the three leads are fine but I think this film belongs to Ryan Phillippe. His is a really nuanced performance, on par with John Malkovich in the previous one. While imitating Malkovich's vocal mannerisms to great comic effect, he also makes the character of a teen Valmont a really convincing one so that the end of the film rises to the same level of heart-wrenching tragedy as the previous version. All involved should really be proud of this one.  "},{"Title":"Please watch 'Dangerous Liaisons' (1988)","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the pleasure of watching 'Dangerous Liaisons', a superb movie. What I found strange is the almost identical plot as that of 'Cruel Intentions'. 'Dangerous Liaisons' by far is much better. I suggest you rent or buy a copy of it tonight. "},{"Title":"Good Flick","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just a good movie.  Admittedly it is no great piece of cinematic art, but it is worth the price of admission.  I thought it was just going to be a teen flick but it was actually a nice film.  Phillippe was good and worked well with Reese Witherspoon.  The one drawback is that the script is a little thin and the plot a little linear.  However even though you know what will happen, it does not take away from the film's entertainment value. In short it provides a good night's worth of entertainment "},{"Title":"Good Flick","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just a good movie.  Admittedly it is no great piece of cinematic art, but it is worth the price of admission.  I thought it was just going to be a teen flick but it was actually a nice film.  Phillippe was good and worked well with Reese Witherspoon.  The one drawback is that the script is a little thin and the plot a little linear.  However even though you know what will happen, it does not take away from the film's entertainment value. In short it provides a good night's worth of entertainment "},{"Title":"Hot, hot, hot.","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie. I sometimes couldn't stop laughing. And it's erotic too. It's almost dripping from the screen. The lead actors are doing their work fabulous, every actor is doing great work. Simple, hot and entertaining '90s film. (With a somewhat moralistic part I totally didn't like)  "},{"Title":"Slick, Sexy, Superb","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film totally blows your mind.  All the cast are spot on and the script is slick, witty, VERY sexy and has a terrific ending.  Sarah M Gellar is brilliant and provides a refreshing contrast to Buffy!!.  This is a must for video/DVD even if just for the ending! "},{"Title":"A great idea, but could have been much better","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Plot I actually felt sorry for Sarah Michelle Geller's character at the end of Cruel Intentions! I'm afraid the characters, Kathryn and Sebastian just weren't evil enough. By the time of the ending it became obvious how lonely Kathryn's character had become. To be completely honest I felt more contempt towards the Reese Witherspoon character at the end of the film - her attempts at innocence were completely sick-making throughout. The Actors I think that the actors did brilliantly with a script I would rate only slightly above average. I am a big fan of gorgeous S.M.G and am pleased to see her acting in different roles -she obviously got her teeth into this role and was brilliant from start to finish. Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon were not bad but the naive Selma Blair and a gay Joshua Jackson were incredibly funny and probably made the film worth watching for me. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what's scarier. This movie being so lame or the fact that so many people actually liked it. Well... Maybe I had Dangerous Liaisons in mind; now, that's a movie! Or maybe my expectations were so high that the utterly unrealistic plot couldn't live up to them. However, Reese Witherspoon and S.M. Gellar had a moment or two where they show some decent acting. Specially the final scenes. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great great acting from Ryan Phillippe, who outperforms Gellar in this movie. I am not familiar with the original, yet thus i judge the movie on its own merits.The plot is simply, remarkable. The plot twists constantly alter the audience's images of the main characters, one scene after the other. The unexpected ending went beyond all my expectations, when I thought we were up for a happy ending where boy with girl ride into the sunset.Some very fascinating and sharp dialog takes place. The chemistry of the characters in the movie is simply outstanding, overwhelming the entire audience. It will be criticised as a movie for the intense sexual language and some of the scenes, but most moviegoing audience will not be shocked.I especially liked the corelation between opening and closing films; much like the film's signature, in one he enters NYC riding his Jaguar and the next, SHE leaves NYC riding the Jaguar. "},{"Title":"Worst Film of the Year","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was TERRIBLE.  Did Joshua Jackson just HAVE to be in this movie? Although give him credit for playing something different...But this movie SUCKED.  That climax was so....anticlimactic....Worst movie of the year, hands down. "},{"Title":"Machiavelli would be proud.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions, loosely based on Dangerous Liaisons, was written and directed by Roger Kumble but set in 1990's New York City with teenagers instead of adults in 18th century France.  It is hard for me to believe that young people can be so cruel, calculating, callous, and smug, but the lead characters in great performances made me a believer.  I had seen Playing By Heart recently, and Ryan Philippe stole the show.  Same here!  This young actor playing Sebastian shows great depth and versatility.  He adds a dimension to the cold calculating young man in that there is a palpable vulnerability as well. I look forward to seeing more of his work.  Good performances were also made by Ms. Gellar who plays Kathryn, the cold, calculating, seductive step sister, and Ms. Blair who plays Cecille, the immature and at times silly young woman who becomes their target for different reasons.  Caution!  The film is richly deserving of its R rating. Scenes depicting young people in sexual situations and dialogue that is rough (stark) are common, but do NOT seem contrived and gratuitous.  This film is hard hitting.  I might also add that the film presents some of these situations in a humorous way.  Good entertainment. Three plus stars!!!  "},{"Title":"What I call very close to perfect movie.","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie!  Actually it is the best movie I have seen since Devil's Advocate.  I enjoyed it a lot.  Artists are performing bravoly.  A lot of different ideas in one movie...always was wondering how people can do it.  It is like listening to the story with few morals....Watch it, it is worth the time and money. "},{"Title":"Wicked, fun, sexy and hilarious","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar does good in all of her work, even Simply Irresistible. She carries the acting. Yet this time, she didn't carry the film alone. It has an ensemble cast, witty dialogue, a creative plot, great acting, good direction, and memorable laughs. It's mature in many senses, and even though you hate some of the characters, you can't help but love them. SMG and Selma Blair bring the most entertainment, yet Reese and Ryan, do masterful performances. It has a terrific ending, and both genders will enjoy it. There are good looking people, good acting, and finally... once and for all... a good romance plot. "},{"Title":"This is why I go to the movies","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie provided some serious entertainment.  Ryan Phillippe is awesome. When I saw this in the theater we talked and laughed through the whole thing.  Not just me and my friends EVERYONE.  This movie is really fun. Even the horrible acting by Selma Blair is tolerable because she gives you something more to talk about.   "},{"Title":"Lust, Sex and Darkly Comic Humor","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I may be a bit biased, because I love Sarah Michelle Gellar, but this has to be one of the best films I have ever seen, it is definitely much better then last years O.T.T. Wild Things, and shouldn't even be compared to it. It is full with humor, very sexy scenes, great acting(Gellar, Phillippe, Witherspoon and Blair are all great), and a plot. It is based on the novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses, but works well in the modern day society.Most people know Gellar from Buffy, well prepared to be shocked. Her character is a rich bitch, who has all the sexy lines. She turns on her side, telling Phillippe you can put it anywhere. So finally, it is a film for everyone, whether you like sex films, love stories, tragedies or comedies, this is for you. P.S. It also has a great soundtrack featuring Blur, Fatboy Slim, Placebo, Counting Crows, The Verve, Skunk Anansie and Faithless.  "},{"Title":"Creul Intentions","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions' dynamic hollywood representation of a fantasy world bad guy and an innocent protagonist is set in New york, New York.  Every aspect of this film was structured to keep a younger teenage audience interested, by giving the good verse bad roles an exaggerated presense.  Cruel Intentions was interesting from the opening scene until the conclusion. Throughout the movie we learn to hate sabastion but at the same time idolize him for his witty and know it all matter. This movie is a must see for teenagers but shouldn't be interpreted literally.   "},{"Title":"Hey..!It kept me smilin'.","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was a dark,sassy film which stars some of today's greatest newcomers and teens...The acting was pretty well done especially by Reese Witherspoon..The whole cast seemed to do some great acting,Cruel Intentions surely isn't a classic,but is a fairly fun and memorable film of which i like to continue watching,the ending shocked me,but this movie specialises in jealousy and revenge...Hey.!It kept me smiling!7.7  out of 10  B "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I Have Ever Seen! A true Classic!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Cruel Intentions not knowing anything about the movie. All I knew was that Sarah Michelle Gellar, Reese Witherspoon and Ryan Phillippe were in it; so I figured it was just another teen movie.  This wasn't just another movie. The plot thickened the whole way through the movie. The whole cast was terrific in their acting.  The story was great.I have seen this movie three times in one week.  I am not usually a movie freak but this movie is so good. I recommend this movie to everyone mature enough to see R rated movies. This movie is definitely a classic! "}{"Title":"The best movie ever.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Cruel Intentions is the best movie ever, the acting is amazing especially from Sarah Michelle Gellar who is my favourite actress I think now that I have seen this movie twice it shows she can take on any role, Selma Blair is great as the dim witted girl who knows nothing about sex,men,alcohol. Ryan Phillippe and Resse Witherspoon are very good together but that's probably becasue they are engaged but they are still great together along with the whole cast. a 10/10 a must see. And Joshoua Jackson is so great and hot in it. "},{"Title":"NYC as mirror of 18th century France","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie that hit me right in the special place in my brain that seems to be reserved for movies was.......VALMONT.Yes, this non-star version of DANGEROUS LIAISONS is one of my favorites. And in May 1999 I go to the movies, choose a movie by title not knowing anything about it and find myself in the middle of the 20th century New York set version of VALMONT. And I enjoy every second of it.Ryan Phillippe shows us a Conte de Valmont that has the same mixture as Colin Firth's had Irresistible, dangerous and in all his viciousness very vulnerable. Lonely, but the old ladies' and little girls' delight.But there is more Although I was holding my breath in these magical moments when I believed I had found a shot that resembled exactly a corresponding shot in VALMONT, there was a thing to CRUEL INTENTIONS which makes it a movie that goes beyond VALMONT.Mirrors.Mirrors with reflections of Ryan Phillipps that add a Dorian Gray Feeling to the character of Sebastian Valmont.Mirrors in the settings. The feeling of 18th century luxury is incorporated in many details of the indoor- and outdoor settings. And NYC provides an ironical, but irresistibly up-to-date version of Valmonts duel.Mirrors in the cast. Do I only want to see it, or does Sarah Michelle Geller really look like a grown and developed version of Fairuza Balk who did the part of Cecile in VALMONT?Thinking about it once more, I do not think CRUEL INTENTIONS is only a mirror of VALMONT, but even a broken mirror that shows us new facets in an old story that we have been told before - but never in the blue light of Sebastian Valmonts swimming pool! "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar is superb, outrageous, sexy, and a great actress!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good movie.   It is funny, sad, and wonderfully acted. Especially by Sarah Michelle Gellar who is just as cruel and unlikeable as Glenn Close in Dangerous Liaisons.  She deserves an Oscar nomination for this role. I give it a 9 out of 10 since it does get a little slow towards the end. "},{"Title":"The Sexiest Movie of 1999","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was a wonderfull theater experience. I loved every minute of it and it always holds your attention. This movie shows the sick and twisted minds that,believe it or not, some teenagers have. This film has gotten good reviews, but every critic keeps saying teenagers don't act like this, well lets just say they haven't seen how teens have been acting recently. It sucks but some teens love to inflict pain  on others and love it when they do it. This describes our characters in the movie. They enjoy doing because they know they can get away with it. Writter-Director Roger Kumble established quickly how rotten they are. He has written an excellent screenplay that never loses track and stays on an understanding level. The scenery is shown really well. These teens live in expensive mansions and one of them drives a 1956 Jaguar Roadster.The acting really shocked me in this film. Sarah Michelle Gellar, who is one of the best looking and most talented actreses out there, gives a stunning performance as Kathryn. She goes all out for this role. Her hair is dark brown and she knows how to play her character. She has enough sex appeal and attitude to play the role. Ryan Phillipe, who was in the very poor 54, does a little bit better as Sebastian. He plays the ultimate playboy very weel but he shows real acting talent when he lets his feelings about Annette come to light. Reese Witherspoon plays Annette really well. Reese Witherspoon has always played the good girl and she does it quite well here too. Selma Blair, who plays Cecile, Is hysterically funny. She supplies the film with most of its comic relief. Every one has great chemistry, especially Phillippe and Gellar. They know how each other works because they appeared in another film together, which was I Know What You Did Last Summer. Great Cast, Great Acting, and a Great Screenplay. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"A fantastic film","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Cruel Intentions and thought it was excellent. The plot was extraordinary and the acting was magnificent. I thought Sarah Michelle Gellar who plays Kathryn was the exact person to play this role! She portrayed her excellently. Ryan Phillippe(Sebastian) was perhaps the one who made the movie. He gave a wonderful performance and you couldn't get any better than him. Reese Witherspoon (Annette), although she did not have a large role she gave an excellent one at that. Selma Blair (Cecile) was hilarious and also was great. I loved the scenery, acting, the soundtrack and everything about it. I give it two very enthusiastic thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was pretty good but there was some pretty screwed up parts.  I mean, I guy wanting to have sex with his stepsister?  Come on! I mean, it might happen but people who do it usually don't do it on a bet. The end of the movie gets to me.  I may not be the nicest person in the world but even if I had never done anything incriminating in my life I would still hate for everyone to know how I spend all of my time.  My secrets should stay mine and know only to me and the people i decide to tell them to. Reese Witherspoon was terrible as the good girl though.  She didn't even seem  sincere.  At the end of the movie, her character totally changed. The girl throughout the rest of the movie wouldn't expose anyone's secrets no matter what they did to her. Anyways, no matter how much i put down the movie, i still gave it 9 out of 10 because I'd love to see it for a seventh time. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it, but did not think it was particularly good.","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw Cruel Intentions. I mainly went to see Sarah Michelle Gellar in a different role. I did not see Dangerous Liaisons, so I canÕt compare, but for me the simple problem with this film was that I didnÕt believe it. First, Valmont was such a bad person that his reform was unbelievable. In fact he was so bad that it is hard to believe that in America he would not have been shot by an enraged parent. Possibly his reform would not have lasted, so his death saves his soul? But my main difficulty was with Reese Witherspoon. ItÕs a bit hard to portray a girl who writes in the papers about her virtue, then has sex with a notorious rake, and Witherspoon couldnÕt do it. Her mugging and making faces in the car was supposed to win his heart? The part needed some sort of fragility. Sarah M G, on the other hand, wasnÕt too bad. I thought she handled the part well. I thought the tears on her face in the penultimate scenes were a mistake. I felt that it was a vote of no-confidence from the director in her acting ability. Selma Blair did her part well. I thought she was too old for the part - but I suppose she would have to be! Altogether, I thought the writing was the problem. Could any set of actors make it all believable? "},{"Title":"bad acting, bad plot, too much sex, I LIKED IT.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally I'm starting to tire of all these movies with people from the WB shows, but this one I actually didn't fall asleep during.  It was another tale of  teen angst, but as some other person stated about it, it showed them as they should be seen, as beasts instead of angels. It was a story of sex, lies, and cruelty to others; that's probably why I liked it. Plus, I got a little joke out of the music playing both times when Joshua Jackson's character was shown, watch and you'll see.In general, the plot was stupid, the acting wasn't amazing,  and I'm tired of seeing Buffy and those Dawson's Creek kids, but I still enjoyed it, chances are you will too, if not, don't blame me.  "},{"Title":"Cruel and Deceitful at its very best","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, and Reese Witherspoon star in this wonderful sick and twisted tale about making everyone's life as miserable as possible. In this film, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe star as Katherine and Sebastian who are brother and sister and they play games on people filled with cruelty and deceit. When Sebastian reads an article written by Annette Hargrove played by Reese Witherspoon (Ryan Phillipe's real-life girlfriend), he proposes a bet that entices his step-sister. The bet is to get Annette to break her virginity with Sebastian; the terms are if Katherine wins she gets his prized car, and if Sebastian wins he gets a night in bed with his step-sister. Can we say that we have sick and twisted terms to bet with? I think we can safely say that. I was wowed when I saw how Reese Witherspoon subtlely played her character with innocence but still knows what is going on. As the movie progressed I was angry at the characters because of what they were doing to everyone; they didn't care who they were hurting. This is a sign of a good movie in my opinion. Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar knew exactly what each other's moves and thoughts. Also, Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon brought magic to the screen that I haven't seen since I saw At First Sight earlier this year with Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino, and I have seen a lot of movies since then.I think we can safely assume that Ryan and Reese were in simpatico together. Sebastian eventually gains feelings for his intended target and begins to have second thoughts about going through with the bet. I like this element because it shows that anyone can change. There are several sub plots to Cruel Intentions but they are not as much fun to watch as the main plot is. I was in the theatre and I was in awe in how well Sarah Michelle Gellar played her character. Known to children as Buffy, The Vampire Slayer, Sarah Michelle Gellar is fighting on the side of good, but here we have another side to an already talented actress; she plays evil so well, I'm very happy to see that she can play a variety of different personalities. I also liked Ryan Phillipe's performance because of the way he carried himself. His body language and movements, dialogue and dialect are so excellent he can pass them off as how he really is. Cruel Intentions was an entertaining film that had a twist added on to the ending that made me go away with a smile on my face.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly Seductive","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie recently, and I think it is the best movie Reese Witherspoon as ever performed in.  Sarah Michele Gellar is an incredible and talented actress who does a great performance. Ryan Phillippe is fairly new to the big screen but is a very talented newcomer. This movie will make you not want to go to the restroom because if you don't pay close attention to what's going on, you will get lost and confused. "}{"Title":"One of the most entertaining films I've seen all year","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie!!! Ryan Phillippe gave a great  performance as Sebastian, plus he looked hot in every scene.  Sarah Michelle Gellar is great at being a B*TCH. She swears and acts like a slut constantly throughout the movie, which is a 180  from Buffy. Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair also gave good  performances as Annette and Cecile, and Josh Jackson was  hilarious as a gay drug-dealer who also says and does some  pretty outrageous things. The dialogue and sexuality in this movie was very shocking, but these things made it more  entertaining. For example, Sebastian stands by a pool naked, and Kathryn kisses Cecile. I couldn't believe what I was seeing. If you are bored with new teen movies with basically the same plot,  go see Cruel Intentions!     "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar shines.  Reese Witherspoon was great.  The film itself was excellent.  I loved SMG's evil side(Katherine).  Great film!!!!!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great young cast.  Everyone in the film was great with their roles.  I love Sarah Michelle Gellar in this film, especially at the end.  Great film. "},{"Title":"Cruel indeed","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw Cruel Intentions and I was disappointed. The characters were unlikable and their personalities are generally unbelievable. They are supposed to be teenagers but I can not relate to the at all ( I don't know about America but Australia is not like that). I was happy when it ended and would not recommend it at all. "},{"Title":"Wicked, Twisted, and Wonderful","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! That is all you can say about this movie. Ryan Phillipe and SMG are perfect together.I never saw Dangerous Liaisons or whatever it was called, cause I was taking my first steps when the two original movies came out.However, when I saw the previews for Cruel Intentions I knew I wanted to see this. I saw it with my uncle and then one time with my best friend. Each time it was great. Also, each time, the end left me sad, yet happy.The movie has only one flaw The word choice.Some of the words seem made up. If only they could have fixed this, the movie would have received four stars by me.Rating ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Who doesn't love to watch brooding, pampered sex-crazed Manhattan teens?","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions, writer/director Roger Kumble's 90s adaptation of the French novel Les Liaison Dangereuses, is the inevitable culmination of modern cinematic trends. First and foremost, it is twice blessed -- a remake of a remake. But, that's not all. There are manipulative private school kids, a supercool soundtrack, a wardrobe by Calvin Klein, teen heart-throbs from Buffy the Vampire Slayer AND Dawson's Creek, and of course, what self-respecting hip movie could be without a little same-sex lip action.Unfortunately, what Cruel Intentions does not have is good acting, a decent script or any discernable plot development.Playing the dispassionate high school predator, Sebastian Valmont, Ryan Phillippe seems hopelessly out of place. Lines like, I'm tired of sleeping with these insipid Manhattan debutantes, are forced out with a sigh and a facial expression approaching confused constipation. Though more natural in her role as Kathryn Valmont, the ice bitch of Manhattan's Upper East Side, Sarah Michelle Gellar evokes a giggle as she enunciates every word of, I'll f**k your brains out. Reese Whitherspoon plays Valmont's virgin conquest-turned-conqueror Annette Hargrove to no real acclaim. Dawson's Creek actor, Joshua Jackson briefly appears as the obligatory, pot-smoking gay guy. And, new actress, Selma Blair provides some levity, but most is at her own expense.The real flaw of the movie, however, is that it becomes sappy without warning.Okay, Cruel Intentions is no Dangerous Liaisons. But, while these young actors may not be as good as Glenn Close, John Malkovich, Uma Thurman or even Michelle Pfeiffer, there's always Keanu Reeves...  "},{"Title":"Ryan Phillippe as you've never seen him before..","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whoever was in charge of casting for this great film deserves an award. Sarah Michelle Geller as a bitch?, Ryan Phillippe as a smooth talking womaniser?.  You wouldn't think it would work but it does, and much more. With a great cast, as many twists and turns as Wild Things (but with much better dialogue), and an entertaining storyline, this film is well worth seeing. If not for Ryan Phillippe alone.  "},{"Title":"Oooompf!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You gotta have oompf, you know, that indescribable something that makes you jump up and down in your theatre seat, stops you from taking a mid-movie toilet break or causes you to stand up and applaud at the end of the movie, much to the dismay of your companions. Cruel Intentions has plenty of oompf that takes your pleasure to an unknown level. Cruel Intentions is the tale of two of Manhattan's upper class brats who have unrestrained fetishes for sex. Cathryn and Sebastien make a little bet that he can bed the eternal virgin Annette. Should he win, he also gets Cathryn. But if he loses, then he can kiss good bye his porsche.Sarah Michelle Gellar plays the perfect little vixen as Cathryn. She is vicious, vindictive and obviously has a knack of getting whatever, or should I say, whoever she wants. Ryan Phillipe (Sebastien) is the cheeky and charming 'bed hero' of the film. And in stark contrast to these two, is Reese Witherspoon, the Daddy's Little Girl as Annette.Powerful, entertaining and boldly offensive. Half the appeal of this movie is the way in which social taboos are shot down. It's naughty, it's bold and it's damn fine entertainment. If you haven't already, go and see the movie!  "},{"Title":"Filth","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went and saw this movie last week and I thought it was the most filthy and disgusting movie ever.....AND I LOVED IT. Sarah Michelle Gellar did a complete turn around from her previous role in Buffy to portray Kathryn devilishly. She had just the right amount of sluttyness and evil. She has great potential. Ryan Phillipe along with his cheesy grin did a good job as well. Cruel Intentions was exactly what I expected. A fun movie with some great new talent. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Masterpiece","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am no movie buff, and I'm not as fussy as the other people who have made comments, but I really liked this film.  The music was great, the characters were absolutely horrible (which is what they were supposed to be) and the ending was good.  Very bitchy.  Gellar played the perfect horrible devious cow, and I was just cracking up all the time at how evil she was.  I did find that it was a bit strange how the central male's character could change so quickly.  I found that Cecile was just a bit too silly, but it didn't spoil the film.  An epic.  Just lovely. But I must say, only teens, from a teens point-of-view, would probably like this.   "},{"Title":"So ridiculous it's almost entertaining...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have you ever laughed so hard that you thought that you'd burst a blood vessel? Well that's what I felt like after seeing this movie. I haven't found a movie this amusing in a long time (even if it was unintentional). I have a smirk on my face just thinking about this film.Whether it is a rich exclusive private school student with a dope problem or teenagers in this film being more deceitful, manipulative and vicious than some of the world's most ruthless dictators, or other, even more unbelievably improbable circumstances, this movie is comical on most levels.This is the most fun that you'll ever have laughing at a movie that is not a comedy.  "}{"Title":"Was the end serious?","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An extremely entertaining movie that has plenty of gaps, but it's so easy to get caught up in the character and the beautiful scenery that it really doesn't matter.  The end of the movie was the funniest scene I've seen since There's Something About Mary, although the friends I saw the movie with think it was meant to be serious.  Well worth the price of admission, but probably not an Oscar contender for 2000.  "},{"Title":"This guy is great","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ryan Phillipe really breaks out in this movie.  He has great potential, and is just so damn likable.  The movie had a pretty decent script and the other characters were interesting, but Phillipe is definitely the best part. "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Cruel Intentions expecting an entertaining movie, but nothing beyond that. I was pleasantly surprised. This is a standout film in a sea of mediocre teen films.The storyline of the film is nothing new. It is an acknowledged modernisation of the novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses, which was also the subject of the 1988 film Dangerous Liaisons. It is a storyline that works well today (and this is not often the case with modern versions of period pieces).The three lead actors, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon, are all excellent in their roles. I was unsure of what Gellar would be like, but she was very convincing as the deplorable Kathryn - a departure from her role as Buffy the Vampire Slayer! Phillipe's performance was quite moving in places. He was well cast in the role.Don't write Cruel Intentions off as another teen flick. It is definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions, with Ryan Phillipe, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon was the most awesome movie. I didn't even want to get up to go to the ladies room! It was so intense and such a good dialogue.  Ryan was charming and cute, Sarah-Michelle played the best witch and Reese was awesome!   "},{"Title":"Bundus Liga!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that this flick was well worth the $7.00 admission fee. Of course, I would pay $10.00 to see Reese Witherspoon and Sarah Michelle Gellar any day of the week. I had to literally put restraints on my buddy Ron to keep him from licking the movie screen. Personally I particularly enjoyed the dramatic sexuality displayed in the films context between S.M.G. and another supporting actress which her name I am not sure of. It was euphoric and tantalizing to say the least.My critiquePlot-------------------------- Good solid 7Acting performances------------Good solid 7 1/2Overall movie rating-----------Good solid 7Sarah Michelle Gellar / Reese Witherspoon---- Sky's the Limit AKA Perfect 10! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen Cruel Intentions and I would have to say that it is the best movie ever made.The actors are young and popular.Everyone loves them.Put Ryan Phillippe,Reese Witherspoon,Sarah Michelle Gellar,Selma Blair and Joshua Jackson together and you've got one really exciting movie.Sarah's character is completely evil and doesn't care about anyone, but herself.Ryan's character acts pretty bad, but he has a good heart.Selma is just young and her character doesn't really catch on to things too quickly.Reese's character is just plain good.She is the character that everyone loves.I really love the end of the movie.It's kinda sad, but the good triumphs over the bad and that's what I really love about it. "},{"Title":"Totally Enthralling","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Cruel Intentions' is one of the best movies I have seen. The combination of great acting, a twisted plot and a unpickable ending give a fantastic drama. Acting from lead roles such as Sebastian and Kathryn is great, with the two roles balancing each other very well. The way the plot thickens around their 'bet'is splendid, and they exhibit great charisma while 'seducing' others. Great movie viewing. "},{"Title":"a strong first half, slack off in the second.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Cruel Intentions, the director almost made two different movies.  This first half is a pretty good dark comedy, but the second half moves into the love story and really slows down, mostly due to the fact I could not believe the two were ever in love.  Acting is a mixed bag.  Gellar is good as Kathryn, Phillippe could have been a lot better in his role, it felt like he was just reading his lines, and Witherspoon was not on screen long enough to really make an impression.  I enjoyed the style of the first half, but after loosing its way about half way through, it ends fairly strong, in not a bit obvious.  This is not a great movie but I enjoyed most of it.  7/10  "},{"Title":"less than it should have been","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting was very good to superb, the lighting was excellent, set design was better than normal--  and the sound was the worst I've ever heard in an actual wide release motion picture.  Room tone, background noise, et cetera, was missing or mismatched. The music did not enhance the story line, it fought it.  The writer's whimsy was slightly overboard, and since it was a hyphenate movie (writer-director), the director did not pull it back to center, leaving poor dialog choices to wind up on screen.  The editor cannot invent footage, and if the material is written and shot one way, trying to cut it another would be beyond hope.Many times movies are hurt when they are made by committee, but in this case some strong oversight would have helped this story line tremendously.  "},{"Title":"Great story, good cast, only for teens","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story Dangerous Liaisons is a great one.  And whether or not you could take this movie seriously, it shows.  Kids would be grossed out by this movie or bored by it.  Adults would have a similar reaction.  By as teen movie, this works as well as Scream.  And it's nice to see a teen movie with both a good story and minimal violence, unlike most horror movies that are released.  This movie is a little trashy at times, but it shows in the end that the things that happened were not okay.  It was not glamorized. It destroyed all the characters.  Anyway, this a great movie, it has funny parts, and if you're a teen, go see it.  Especially if you like Sarah Michelle Geller or Reese Witherspoon. "}{"Title":"great film","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this one in the theater and I have to say that it is the best movie that I've seen in a LONG time.  The story was clever and well-crafted. Sarah Michelle Gellar did an excellent job.  I was shocked to see how well she could play a villain; I guess I'm more used to seeing her as the heroic Buffy Summers from her tv show, Buffy the Vampire Slayer.  I also thought all the other actors and actresses did great jobs in their roles.  Joshua Jackson's supporting role especially surprised me.  I can't stress enough how pleased I was with this one.  Young people will certainly enjoy it!  "},{"Title":"There is only one rule  Never challenge the audience","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's sometimes interesting to compare different versions of the same story. Cruel Intentions was better than I had expected.  But I have a couple observations on why Dangerous Liaisons is a much superior film.One of the memorable aspects of Valmont's (John Malkovich's) seduction of Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) was that he wanted her to continue holding her beliefs about chastity dear but violate them in spite of herself.  I found it to be a truly devious premise.But in Cruel Intentions Sebastion seduces Annette by convincing her that having sex is really a fulfillment, rather than a repudiation, of her beliefs.  I understand that the original script was changed from having Annette try to stand by her belief in virginity until marriage to having her concede to believing only in virginity until true love.  That was supposed to make her more sympathetic to the audience (read more sympathetic to the filmmakers themselves).  Good grief, what a cop-out.  Why does it have to be bad to have a character with unconventional beliefs?  Now we have a character who is supposed to be opposed to premarital sex for the sake of the plot-but no she's not really opposed to premarital sex because such a person is beyond the ken of Hollywood-so the entire challenge that Sebastion has made for himself has been phony the whole time.  For me, it turned Annette into a weak wishy-washy person, making her less rather than more sympathetic.  Note  I am not a Christian fundamentalist nor a cultural conservative.So why does Annette fall for this manipulative snake?  Malkovich was able to triumph by appealing to Pfeiffer's religious vanity; making her believe that she was responsible for his (feigned) conversion to a better way of life. But there is never any reason why Sebastion becomes appealing.  Annette is smart enough to see through his lame come-ons at first.  I guess if she stayed smart that would be unappealing also???Finally, we have Sebastion turning suddenly sensitive.  If you've seen both movies, you know what I'm talking about and the contrast.  After the triumph, Malkovich's Valmont continued his sexual conquests.  Again, I suppose they think it would be hard for us to feel sympathetic if Sebastion were truly conflicted rather than turning into an utter milquetoast overnight.Talk about losing your nerve.  "},{"Title":"Does not compare to Dangerous Liaisons or Valmont, but not too bad.","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This, the third cinematic iteration of Dangerous Liaisons is a testament to mediocrity.  It's watchable, and at times humorous and sexy, but it can't hold a candle to the other two movies Dangerous Liaisons and Valmont.  The dialogue is archaic and the characters are two-dimensional.  Even the most essential element of the plot, Sebastian's sexual desire for Kathryn, falls flat and inconsistent.  The secret to enjoying this movie is to enter with no expectations.  Those of us who marveled at John Malkovich's performance may be disappointed if we try to compare.  But if you take the movie for what it is -  you can have a fun time getting there. "},{"Title":"Terribly written remake of a great film","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is founded on an interesting premise - Choderlos de Laclos' 1782 novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses (Dangerous Liaisons) is re-played in moneyed Manhattan, where a pair of overprivileged prep school step-siblings set themselves to perversions fit for 18th-century French nobility.Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe) and his stepsister Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) lead silver-spooned lives in which they manipulate others in the most lecherous manner possible. Sebastian has seduced and left just about every teenage girl on the island of Manhattan, and is on the lookout for a real conquest - the virgin daughter of their school's headmaster, Annette Hargrove, played by Reese Witherspoon.  Meanwhile Kathryn has revenge in mind against Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair), a dim bulb for whom she was dumped.All manner of deceptions, blackmail and sexual intrigue ensue -- Phillipe works hard, but unfortunately his part is awfully written. The allegedly suave and attractive Sebastien is so obvious that any girl can would be able to see his cheap, transparent intentions a mile away.The film really belongs to Sarah Michelle Gellar, vamping as a manipulative seductress, but even her character is under-written and mystifying in its motivations. Witherspoon is fine, though she can't sell her affection for the cheap and obvious Sebastien. Newcomer Blair is a disaster - her actions make the least sense of all; her relationship with Sebastien is underplayed and under-written, and doesn't follow as a logical progression from their interactions. "},{"Title":"Wicked but flat","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is adapted from the 1792 novel, Les Liaisons Dangereuses, so the comparison with the film Dangerous Liaisons as foremost in my mind.  While the adaptation of the story over 200+ years was fabulous, it didn't have the same cleverness as Dangerous Liaisons.  Ryan Phillippe did portray the same cold-hearted snake that one would have thought only John Malkovich could pull off.  I thought Sarah Michelle Gellar eclipsed Glenn Close as the vicious vixen Merteuil.  The lavish sets rivalled those of the film's predecessor.  But the actors could go only as far as the script would let them.  There were no deliciously witty quotes to exemplify the high intelligence of the two main characters, bored with having all they could ever want in life and finding sport in trampling on the hearts of others. I had the feeling a lot of the storyline was left on the cutting room floor in order to bring the audience gratuitous scenes like the kiss shared by Gellar and Selma Blair, who played an innocent too stupid for reality.  Reese Witherspoon might have given a good performance, but without having been allowed the time for her character to develop, it's impossible to tell. Watching Dangerous Liaisons again after I saw Cruel Intentions helped fill in a lot of blanks.The ending was most disappointing, which I blame on the screenwriters.  It appeared as if they wanted to try to keep the audience guessing as to whose idea won out, when they would have been better off including a simple death scene with Valmont, like the original, in order to answer all the final questions.All in all, while deliciously wicked, the film lacked the finesse and clear storyline of Dangerous Liaisons apparently in order to cater to a generation to which the writers attributed more hormones than intelligence. "},{"Title":"Strange, weird, bizarre","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie reminded me of Wild Things without the nudity. It keeps taking twists and turns towards the end, but is ultimately predictable. The storyline was strong enough to keep the movie going, however there were a few unnecessary characters in the movie.  "},{"Title":"If you can make it to the ending, this movie is worth it.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An updated adaptation of Dangerous Liaisons, this film seems to concentrate a lot of the first hour on shock value.  As a result, people who are offended relatively easily might not even bear with the film all the way to the end.  From the trailers (which really didn't make me want to see this movie) it seemed as if the entire movie is like this and has no real point to it.  As it turns out, though, there is.  The film starts as a somewhat dark and tacky comedy, although it is entertaining if you enjoy movies like that, which I do from time to time.  At the point at which you might start getting bored of the same sort of material, the film changes to where you actually start caring what happens to the characters.  The film is about two step-siblings (Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar) who are basically rich brats with too much time on their hands and who use sex as a tool for revenge, to humiliate anyone who makes them mad (therapists, deans, ex-boyfriends, etc.)  The main plot-point is a bet that Kathryn (Gellar) makes with Sebastian (Phillippe) that he can't get the dean's daughter Annette (Reese Witherspoon) to sleep with him before school starts.  If Sebastian loses, Kathryn gets his car, and if he wins, she will let him sleep with her.  This plot can understandably offend some people, but not everybody is easily offended.  I am one who isn't easily offended, and I even liked the film a little more because the film-makers weren't afraid to include something in the movie just because it might shock people.  I think non-conformity is a really big plus for a movie.  For the first half of the movie, Annette is really the only likeable character.  But then comes the big turnaround, which is that Sebastian actually falls in love with her, and Kathryn turns against him.  At this point, the movie becomes actually interesting instead of just mildly amusing. Until then I was really getting annoyed because it seemed Annette was coming out on the bottom of the deal. It also seemed as if there wasn't an ounce of morality in the minds of the film-makers, but as the movie approached the end, it seemed to say, See, we were actually going somewhere with this one.  I'm not going to say anything about the ending, except that it really made the entire movie worth seeing, and that it was neither a big Hollywood grand happy ending nor a complete downer with everyone losing everything.  There are some very good performances, such as those from Gellar and Phillippe who were good in I Know What You Did Last Summer, and Reese Witherspoon, who really did well as a character I can sort of identify with.  Now I'm going to have to see Dangerous Liaisons.  I guess I wouldn't recommend this film to people who get shocked a lot by adult (?) language and sex, but if you can handle it, (which it seems the majority of teenagers like myself can) then you might want to give this one a chance.  "},{"Title":"Deliciously Evil and Scathing","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great!  All of the acting (yes, including Sarah Michelle Gellar) was great and right on.  This is one of the best teen movies I've seen in a long time.  I have heard a lot of people say that they didn't really like the ending, which I thought was great!  It was so evil.  One thing that I liked about the movie was music.  Also, the wardrobe and cinematography.  There is a bit of trivia in the film.  Swoosie Kurtz plays Cecile's mother in Dangerous Liaisons which is the film upon which this movie is based.  Well, Ms. Kurtz is also in this one.  She plays Sebastian's (Ryan Phillippe) shrink at the beginning.  Very entertaining.  I gave this film a 9. "},{"Title":"A poor remake of the 1988 film.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a classical example of teen exploitation - remake a film with the current teen favorites and you get an instant hit!? I found it to be a poor remake of the 1988 film staring Glenn Close, John Malkovich, and Michele Pfeiffer. The film, on the whole, is boring. The acting, with the exception of Selma Blair, was wooden and unimaginative.  "},{"Title":"Sly, Wicked Black Comedy","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting not to like it, because Dangerous Liasons, made in the late 80s, is one of my favorite films. While Cruel Intentions in no way matches the dramatic power of that movie, it doesn't attempt to. Instead, it concentrates on the dark humor of the story. In doing so, it creates its own identity. And why not? The original novel was written long ago.Much has been made of Hollywood's recent concentration on the teen audience - as if this was news!?!? Cruel Intentions is one of the best thought out movies for this group in ages.  "}{"Title":"weak","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The `provocative' scenes weren't provocative enough. The plot development, developed like a bad bruise. The acting was sub-par, even for SMG who usually brings a natural spark with her presence. Rent this after it falls from the recent releases shelf at your local video store. "},{"Title":"If Malkovich and Close were dead, they'd roll over in their grave.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie with high hopes.  Dangerous Liaisons is one of my top 3 movies of all time, and so I hoped that a remake would be a refreshing interpretation of the original.  Not so.This movie left such a poor taste in my mouth, then when I got home I re-watched Dangerous Liaisons for the umpteenth time.  And I felt much less dirty afterwards.Cruel Intentions is the next in a string of remakes of classic novels for teens, such as Romeo and Juliet, and Clueless, but it falls short because, while the main characters of the novels they were based are teens, Valmont and Merteuil were not teens in Les Liaisons Dangereuses, and furthermore were not meant to be.  There is just no way to suspend disbelief, and to accept that these high schoolers have the knowledge and experience that they do.  This is the movie's fatal flaw.Moreover the acting is just pathetic.  Phillippe seems to be doing a (poor) Malkovich impression throughout the entire movie, attempting to remain aloof, while Blair performance as the seemingly near-retarded Cecile is something I would expect to see on Saturday Night Live.  Gellar isn't so bad, except that all she seems to do is sneer sadistically at the camera.  I enjoyed Witherspoon's performance until the end, when she does a 180 degree turn for no real reason.The script needed a lot more revision as well. There was no reason for Valmont and Hargrove to fall in love, no real development there, just proof, it happened.  The dialogue seems overly rife with profanity for the sake of using profanity. Another problem is that CI too closely parallels Dangerous Liaisons.  There was nothing new in it, each scene was a parallel of a (much, much better) scene in DL.  That, to me, is unforgivable.  These kids just aren't the artists that Malkovich and Close are.  Period.If you liked this movie and you haven't seen Dangerous Liaisons, please, I beg you, go see it.  See the difference between a film and a movie.  See what real acting is.  Then compare the two.In summary, Cruel Intentions was aptly named.  It intended to imitate Dangerous Liaisons, and was cruel to anyone who was watching it. "},{"Title":"Buffy and the Virgin - Stay Away!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen Glenn Close in Dangerous Liaisons and Buffy, hon, you are no Glenn Close!  You are woefully miscast in this film and the virgin in the story is also miscast. I give this film one thumb up - for the brief glimpse of Ryan Phillipe's best asset during the pool seduction scene!  I also liked the fact his character was named Valmont - reminding me of a much better version of the film lensed by Milos Forman years earlier.Ryan, please continue to get sexy roles! "},{"Title":"Half Superb","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions has gotten a bad rap from the press. Yes, it is a sexually-oriented movie. No, it is not a morally-devoid movie.The first half of the movie probably could have been written a little better, but it was used to set up a wonderful climax in which Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe) learns the errors of his ways.I think, while a lot of people will leave this movie with the wrong impression, it serves to show true love's power in changing the course of people's lives. I give it a 9. It was a wonderful movie, one which I recommend those who are mature enough to go see.  "},{"Title":"WICKEDLY AWESOME","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those wickedly pleasurable movies, the plot had you at the edge of your seats.  The characters are very believable and played extremely, the plot is twisting and sexy with stellar performances by buffy and Sebastion, it takes a lot for a movie to keep my attention and the movie grabbed it and wouldn't let go.  Definitely go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Now This Is A Movie!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about 'Cruel Intentions' last summer (then called 'Cruel Inventions') I could not wait to see it, mainly because of Sarah Michelle Gellar.  I am a huge fan of 'Buffy, the Vampire Slayer' and loved her in IKWYDLS and 'Scream 2'.  I also remembered her from her 'Kendall Hart days'. Also, with a cast like her, Ryan, and Reese, who could pass it up?  Then I read the screenplay and was very intrigued, it is dark, but humorous, and also sexy and erotic.  I couldn't wait to see Gellar take on the role of Kathryn.  It is great to see actors take on totally opposite roles than what the fans are used to seeing.  'Buffy' fans definitely get to see a different side of Gellar, who, as Kathryn is no sweet Buffy!  But Gellar is brilliant in this film (I'm thinking, the first Best Actress of the new millennium!?!?) Finally, I see the movie and see it again, and again, and well 5 times so far and WOW!  I was impressed!  This story is great!  Yes, it is believable. Many people in their teens are 'cruel' and eager to fit in and this is what the story is partially about.  It is also about how manipulative some people are and the links they are willing to go to to get what they want.  And knowing of the real-life romance between Ryan Phillippe and Reese Witherspoon helps to make the Sebastian-Annnette romance that much more powerful. I also realized, even more, how really gifted Gellar is and that Selma Blair is a wonder, a great actress who deserves all the recognition she receives. My only disappointment?  That the movie ending is different from the screenplay ending.  But if you haven't read the screenplay, it won't make a difference. "},{"Title":"Watchable...But I don't recommend seeing it without a condom.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sex, sex, sex...If that got your attention, then you're more than likley to sit through this film that has more hormone release than Employee Appreciation Day at the White House.Hey, if you think that was cheesy...During the first act, I was a bit squirmy watching SMG and RP play dress up at their mommy and daddy's rich estate, it was like watching 5 year olds play house.  Even the shades SMG wore seemed to swallow her face. But hey, I think she's a hotty and I basically just gawked at her for the first twenty minutes.But as the story progressed, I warmed up to Ryan's character, Sebastian, and the story as a whole when Reese Witherspoon was introduced as the untouchable virgin that throws a monkey wrench into Sebastian's typical playboy scheme.The story continues to grow substance as we delve into Sebastian's psyche. We see he has deeper layers than what his seedy reputation has dictated thus far, and  indeed has a heart and is even capable of complex emotions such as (gasp) love. And seeing RW as a symbol for purity was a refreshing twist as to the characters she usually portrays.I have to admit, this movie had cheese splattered all over it... but the respectable performances by these young actors, and a story that was able to go deeper than a well hung man at a midget bordello, pulled me along for the amusing, sexy ride. "},{"Title":"So much potential ................","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a total contradiction. It tried too hard to be funny, and hip and romantic all at one, and failed miserably -- pick a theme and go with it! Also, what was with the horrible background music a la nintendo in the first half of the movie? It was just too unbelievable and trashy -- who needs to hear all that profanity? This is not the way real teenagers talk.Selma Blair's clueless character was good for comic relief, I think she has comedic potential, and Reese Witherspoon was great as always, she's an excellent young actress. I was really disappointed at Sarah Michelle Gellar's acting ability, she should stick to slaying vampires, but she's young enough to improve. Ryan Phillippe, who I adored so much in Playing by Heart can do much better. His scenes with Reese were excellent, but those with Sarah were mostly lack-luster, with a few exceptions.It's sad to see so much young talent fall completely dead, and the premise for this movie was good, but who can bring life to such a trashy script? "},{"Title":"a great way to spend the evening...","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I highly doubt Cruel Intentions will be up for any awards this year, it was definitely entertaining if you fall in the under 20 category, like myself.  The plot was interesting and the acting was actually amazing.  All the main characters, as well as the side ones, played their parts to perfection.  Reese Witherspoon is the best looking actress I have ever seen, too bad you don't get to see a little more of her, like in Twilight. Sarah Michelle Gellar is great as well, and she looked damn good.  Back to the plot.  It definitely keeps you thinking! It's a sexy mystery-sort of- with some cruel intentions, hence the name.  A few other people compared it with Wild Things, and justfully so, but it has about one fifth the plot twists- more like 4 or 5 as compared to Wild's 25.  Catch this one in the theaters, bring some friends, bring a date, you'll be horny after.   "},{"Title":"Better than Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is a good film.  I love Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon and could watch either one of them all day, but that wasn't what drew me to it.  Having known a couple of people who remind me of Kathryn, I couldn't help but think that she was an excellent portrayal of the character type.  I thought that Cecile stole the show, though - the actress (I forgot her name, but I will be sure to learn who she is) did a great job of playing the naive but curious teenager.The issue I want to speak to the most, though, is the comparison between this and Dangerous Liaisons with Glenn Close and Michelle Pfeiffer.  I had heard that this film was 10 times better, but I disagree completely.  Cruel Intentions features much more believable interactions between Kathryn and Sebastian - you can't see the supposed love between the main characters in the older film.  I can see how literary nuts would be upset at the adaptation of an 18th century setting to modern America, but I am not that closed-minded.  As far as the complaints that this film is about nothing but drugs and skimpy clothes, and is attempting to appeal to the teenage masses, this and the other films like it are going with what is really going on in America today, like it or not (and generally speaking, I don't, but that's another debate).Critics can keep their heads up their butts and believe that 18 year olds aren't doing drugs and playing sexual games with each other, but it happens, like it or not.  Films are not supposed to only reflect what is hunky-dory about a society, but to reveal our difficulties along with our strengths. If you disagree and want to see the fruits of your ideas, go watch Pleasantville.So, in conclusion, Cruel Intentions is a good adaptation of a story to modern America and makes a statement about the penalties for betrayal.  I recommend it to anyone with a mature and open mind - but don't take the kiddies.  "}{"Title":"comments are sincere.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a very appealing film. i believe that everybody wishes that life could be this interesting, playful, and even troubled--- at times. there is nothing like drama, and cruel intentions definitely has drama. the characters are nicely developed, with a clear understanding of each. in many films, when the characters are made to have an overly apparent characteristic, it comes across as false, or simply bad acting and plot development. in cruel intentions, the extroverted arrogance of both kathryn and sebastian makes the film all the more enticing. hats off to all of the cast members. the beautiful ryan phillipe suited sebastian elegantly with his debonair qualities. and the lovely, poised reese witherspoon gets my praise for her portrayal of annette. as for sarah michelle gellar....what can i say? very seductive, with a poisonous charm. (liked the darker hair too.) all of the scenes with selma blair made me smile. i recommend this film highly...it was thoroughly enjoyable. a perfect blend of comedy, drama, suspense, and romance. and i'm sure i'm excluding much. "},{"Title":"Actors are wonderful but the story line could be improved.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this film and the first thing I must say is that all the actor were brilliant! I had no idea Sarah Michelle Gellar could be so wonderfuly wicked. She is truly one of the people you love to hate in this film. Ryan Phillippe is charming and evil at the same time. You love him but you hate yourself for it and Reese Witherspoon played the role of the innocent virgin perfectly. Not too preachy but totally believable. I truly enjoyed this film, the only thing I found less then pleasing was the story line. I realize this is an update of an 18th century book and while they did do a good job of bring it up to date I still felt that something was missing and it could be improved upon. But over all I have to say this was a wonderful film worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"It starts with promise, but finishes poorly. Wait for the video.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Strong characterizations early in the film don't hold up past the middle of the movie. Predictable gimmicks and telegraphing upcoming events may make this easy for the under fourteen set to follow, but the content isn't (or shouldn't be) targeted at that age group. You might want to give the book a try instead.  "},{"Title":"Trashy, but has moments.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is like a naughty episode of Dawson's Creek. While Sarah is really good in her role as the bitchy trash mouth Kathryn, all of the actors seem too old and refined to be high school kids (even rich high school kids). After you get over the shock of Sarah saying the f-word in every other sentence, you can sit back and enjoy the fantasy of rich kids who love screwing up other peoples lives. It is really a film of almosts. The film is almost good, almost erotic, almost really evil. I never believed that Ryan Phillippe was a rich boy, his acting is so terrible so he's almost acting. Selma Blair is hilarious however as Kathryn's cousin in a geeky, awkward way. She is the most enjoyable to watch as the evil that they (Kathryn and Sebastian) portray are never really believable because their world is not believable. For instance Sebastian drives a 1956 Jaguar (*not* Porsche) roadster that must be worth at least $650,000. Also the apartment where they live looks like a museum and I don't have to tell you it doesn't matter *how* rich you are, teenagers are still teenagers and don't live like that! so if you can overlook the obvious plot devices it is a pretty good movie with a few very funny moments. Don't waste your money, catch a matinee or the video when it's released. Rated R for strong sexual implications and filthy language. No nudity and that seems like a cheat after all the teasing. Sarah looks beautiful in those expensive clothes. Reese Witherspoon is the Cybil Shepard of the '90's, very plain looking with no distinguishing features. Good actress though (I liked her in Pleasantville). "},{"Title":"Sick and perverted...I like it!","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to go see this movie at the theater I work at. I knew it was about sex, so it already had a plus with me. I didn't really expect it to be a good film, but I was bored at the time, and decided to check it out. The surprising thing is that its sex aspect is only one reason why I enjoyed this film. The story isn't award winning, but it is very good! I loved the Upper East Side setting, Sebastian's clove cigarettes, and Ronald's surprised face when Cecile showed off her amazing talent at a chelo class. I found this movie cathartic and memorable. One for my collection.  "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an experience.  An experience that I would have gladly traded for a good fingernail peeling, knee smashing, tooth pulling, or even temple poking.  First of all, not a line in the movie was delivered without a quirky, unreal, and downright annoying chirpiness to it.  It was like watching a lengthy Calvin Klein commercial, stylish clothes, punk kid attitudes.  Speaking of commercials, the only songs in the movie  were straight out of last summer's Nike ads, aside from the brain-battering pornoesque backbeat that NEVER, EVER, stopped.  And it drags on.  For an hour and a half, it sure sloshed along.  A bunch of orangutans could've made a better move.  Don't waste your money.  Please, for the love of god.  "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions a disappointment","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The premise was creative.  Take a classic novel, and reinvent it for the 90's.  I was really looking forward to seeing what this film had in store for its audience.  The movie starts out by showing us an immaculate house. Inside live step-siblings Sebastian and Katherine, rotten to the core. (Although where their parents are is anybody's guess.)  Throughout the movie, these two teens make bets with one another, and set out to destroy the lives of those who have somehow wronged them.  So far, fairly true to the novel.  In walks Annette, the focus of a huge bet made between Sebastian and Katherine.  This character has changed.  Annette is now an outspoken, strong-willed teen.  She is no longer as religious as the novel suggests. This was not much of a problem to accept.  After all, it IS set in the 90's.The movie goes through twists and turns, never really developing the characters. It thus makes it difficult to have pity for them at the end of the movie. Any hard-core fan of the book will be disgusted by the ending, in fact.  The highlights of this movie are found in actresses Christine Baranski and Selma Blair, who play a mother-and-daughter duo.  They did a wonderful job portraying their characters.  Unfortunately, these two were but minor characters, thus leaving Cruel Intentions an overall disappointment.  "},{"Title":"Kinky, cool, and a laugh a minute.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was great!  I was excited to see it opening night.  The people were great, especially Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar.  The two played off of each other well.  I loved how there was a cruelness to it, but not too cruel, and yet kept you laughing.  The pairing of Phillippe as Sebastian and Reese Witherspoon (now engaged in real life), brought a realness to the screen that is rarely seen.The Soundtrack just adds to this films greatness, especially the cut by Counting Crows Colorblind played during the scene when Sebastian and Annette finally consummate their relationship.Selma Blair, Sean Patrick Thomas and Dawson's Creek's Joshua Jackson play a superb supporting cast.  The sets were great, the clothes were great, and there wicked ways were awesome.If Gene Siskel were alive, he would have given this movie a big two thumbs up!Sarah Michelle Gellar finally gets rid of her good girl image, and Ryan Phillippe gets rid of his good guy image.If you have not seen this movie yet, go, run, and see it now. "},{"Title":"An eye-opening view of sex and love","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ryan Phillipe stole the show.  He shined as the ultimate jerk, but his exterior can always make you question the movie's ending.  Sarah Michelle Gellar is an excellent bad girl, just as good as her portrayal of Buffy. This is a definite must-see for those who still have faith in love, and Ryan Phillipe. "},{"Title":"It was ok","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought Cruel Intentions was ok. The scene I liked best was the first scene when Sebastian was with his therapist. I thought the movie was a bit too long and it sort of moved slowly. Selma Blair gave the best performance out of all the actors. She was really funny. Sarah Michelle Gellar was acting too much like a 40 year old. It was really weird because she looked so young but acted so old. She acted way too mature to be a teen...but I am not saying that's her fault, it was just that the part she played was written that way. I don't think this movie is appropriate for younger teens. I think only mature teens should see it or college aged people. I don't really think people over 35 would like it either. The ones in the theater seemed to find it funny whenever Sarah was being seductive since she is young.  "}{"Title":"Both much better and a little worse than I'd expected","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, this is NOT a date movie. This is the movie you take  your BF to when you're about to dump him, so he realizes there are more evil people than you in the world. I went to this movie with both high hopes and dread. I'd read some reviews that had  slammed it, I'm a big fan of 1988's Dangerous Liaisons, plus I  read and liked the book (for a Lit class, OK), but my friends had all raved about the movie. It wasn't as good as I'd hoped,  but it was a hell of a lot better than I'd expected! The updating is carried off very well, and it's both genuinely funny  and dramatic. The script is a bitchy riot, at least in the funny  bits. The serious parts are less convincingly scripted. There  are some awkward shifts between black humour and melodrama, as  the consequences of the main characters toying with people's  lives eventually catches up with them. It's not as good a movie  as Dangerous Liaisons, and if you haven't seen DL yet, I'd  recommend seeing CI first, or you might not get as much out of it. But it's a risk-taking movie that sees most of its brave  choices pan out. Most, not all. While Manhattan high society is definitely the equivalent of ancien regime France, and teens can be very manipulative, CI doesn't have the dramatic weight of the  original. The characters are so young it's hard to believe  they're making life-or-death choices, and the social pressures  aren't the same. Back in the 18th C women had to appear chaste  or lose everything, while now Monica brags about oral sex on TV.The switch especially hobbles SMG's role as Kathryn Merteuil.  Glenn Close's Merteuil has a great speech about playing games while maintaining outward respectability, and comes across as a twisted early feminist. When Kathryn has a similar speech, it doesn't work, b/c her hard-earned good girl rep seems more like  a choice than a social necessity. The double standard of men as studs and women as sluts still applies today, but Kathryn's  justification is unconvincing, b/c we don't see what really drives her to conceal her true nature. SMG is great in the beginning as the ultimate insincere bitch goddess, but she loses  momentum as the film goes on b/c the script doesn't let the  character grow, so we never see what's underneath the controlled  facade and vicious quips. Despite the 2D role, SMG is spirited  and believable as a self-centred manipulator, but she falls flat in 2 key scenes w/Phillippe near the end, exuding the same old  bitchy spite instead of the real menace needed to make the plot  twists plausible. In contrast, both Phillippe & Witherspoon  start out shaky & improve dramatically. At first Annette is   smug, self-righteous good girl but she develops into a strong, independent-minded, intelligent young woman whose goodness comes  not from her virginity but from her integrity and compassion.   When Sebastian convinces her her scruples are wrong, she gives into him with a wholehearted honesty seen in no other character.My only complaint is that the mind games he plays on  her to get her to this point end far too quickly, as if the writer is in a hurry to get on with the plot & is missing a  golden opportunity. But still, the Annette/Sebastian romance is compelling, due also in part to Phillippe. RP has the toughest role in the film he has to start out as a charming amoral  psychopath & gradually evolve into a man destroyed by the  conflict btwn love and his ego. He pulls it off. Never having  thought of RP as more than eye candy (can you blame me after  54?) I was shocked. He starts out shaky, giving a mannered John  Malkovich impression, but soon makes the part his own building from cocky, malicious,love-to-hate-him stunts to a young man  enraptured by love. Near the climax he is believably despairing  & confused, unfortunately more so than the lines (RP & RW pull off the big brushoff scene on sheer intensity, b/c they're given little to work with by the script. The dialogue in this scene doesn't hold a candle to the original) He can't match Malkovich  for dramatic power, but he does a hell of a lot better than any 23-yr-old teen heartthrob w/no serious movies under his belt has  a right  to do. The 4th star, Selma Blair, did little for me.  The character was a cartoon, more clueless than innocent, & her  slapstick bits didn't mesh well w/the more sophisticated humour  of the other character. I found the very ending of the movie kind of unsatisfying, although I can't put my finger on why. It  just didn't have the dramatic impact it needed.  "},{"Title":"Wicked, funny, and incredibly intense","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an amazing movie. It wasn't original but Roger Kumble did such a good job with the script that I didn't really care. This movie had a mixture of everything.Selma Blair was the most stand-out actress. She was perfect as the ditzy Cecile. She was hilarious, and at times you just wanted to hit her because of her extreme stupidity.Sarah Michelle Gellar was amazing as Kathryn. This is the first time, ever, that I have looked at a character played by Sarah and hated them.Ryan Phillippe did an excellent job as Sebastian. He played both cruel, and in love very well. And very believable in making girls swoon. Who knew?And lastly Reese Witherspoon she was unbelievably outstanding. Her character was uplifting and real. I couldn't think of anyone who would've been a better Annette.   "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the funniest movies that I have seen in a long time. Me and the other 9 people that were in the movie theater were cracking up!! Thanks so much to the producers for making a great comedy film. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing more than once","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw cruel intentions the day it opened in theatres. Three days later I had to have more. Sarah Michelle Gellar play her part with such brilliance that she deserves some kind of an award. If you are familiar with parts that she has played before, you already know how well she can act, but you are still in for a big surprise. Ryan Phillipe, Reese Witherspoon, and the rest of the cast all give performances to make this one of the best underrated movies of the year. If you are looking for a movie to kill time and have a good time while you are there then you do not want to miss Cruel Intentions. It is a movie that is definitely worth seeing more than once!!! "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar + two other hot ladies + a great update of Danger Liaisons = a damn good movie!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this new, great out take of Dangerous Liaisons, the teens take over making it more cruel and believable. Teens today will do anything to make themselves look good no matter who gets hurt in the process, and believe it or not there are people really this witty. The story takes place in the big-bucks part of Manhattan, where Kathryn and stepbrother Sebastian make a more than harmless wager. They bet on the young virginal Annette, who soon becomes their victim of all their wicked plans. If Sebastian can't seduce her as he says, than Kathryn gets his hot little car, but if he wins he gets Kathryn just as he has since he was a child. Along the way a lot more twists and surprises unfold, and eventually the bitch and player get what they deserve.Sarah Michelle Gellar plays the coke-sniffing Kathryn and will do anything to get what she wants. She portrays the role of the updated, teen version Kathryn wonderfully. It is definitely the sharpest work she has done, and it is a completely different role than anything she has ever done before. In this film as a bitchy brunette, I really started to hate her which came as a surprise to me since I am a total Buffy fan. But the one scene in which she finally gets what she deserves I felt so bad for her saying, she doesn't deserve this, Sebastian does!I applaud Ryan Phillipe for being able to do his best performance while working with all these lovely ladies. Not once did I see him come out of character and him and fiance Reese Witherspoon worked perfectly together. Ms.Gellar and Ryan team up once more playing completely opposite characters from their roles in I Know.... Besides being the player that he is, he also had many comic scenes, as you will see whenever his aunt wants to speak with him.What can I say about Reese's character Annette, she is no different from the way we picture herself. She is innocent, sweet, and just the kind of girl you want to take advantage of. Although I haven't seen many of her films including the recent Pleasantville, I enjoyed her.But the person that deserves the most credit is the overlooked Selma Blair. Her character Cecile is a riot throughout the entire film and kept me laughing the whole time. While she was acting with three very big teen stars, I felt she was brightly shining over all of them. I was also very impressed that her and Sarah Michelle Gellar went through with the graphic french kissing scene. Don't get me wrong, I loved it but I thought it was very...close-up and detailed.Other than the cast, I thought the script was much funnier than There's Something About Mary and 200 Cigarettes. Although it was not as sexy as Wild Things and didn't have as much sex and drugs as Boogie Nights, I found it much more enjoyable and entertaining than both these films. So vote for this film and go see it as soon as possible. With a strong cast, great writing and terrific directing, Cruel Intentions is not only my favorite film of the year, but also one of my top ten best films. "},{"Title":"There is a storyline.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is nice to see the younger tv turned film stars getting quality roles. Sarah Michelle Gellar was great as Kathryn. She was especially brilliant in her scenes with Ryan Phillippe (second of the lead trio---Reese Witherspoon in the third spot).   Sarah and Ryan worked together in IKWYDLS, which led me to believe that they would have a good impression of the others style enabling them to work up some chemistry. They provide plenty of it. I watch Sarah in the role of Buffy Summers on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and have seen her supporting roles in the movies IKWYDLS and Scream2; this was some of her best work to date.  *note I have not yet seen Simply Irresistible, her other starring role early this year, but from what I have witnessed her career should last for quite some time. Reese Witherspoon is the third lead in the film. Yet another rising star that fits well into the role provided.  She did not get a character as exciting to play as Sarah and Ryan were cast for, but did the job just as well. Casting for this film gets two thumbs up! Overall, I give this film a 7.5 star rating 10 being the best. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not necessarily painful in an objectionable way, but more of a mind-numbing, toe-nail peeling, tooth-pulling, knee-cap smashing, literal pain sort of way.  If the horribly delivered and always quirky one-liner perversity isn't enough, then maybe you'll be driven away by the horrible pornoesque back-beat that plays (without cease) throughout the ENTIRE motion picture. The only time it stopped was to play some songs that everyone heard four thousand times in old Nike commercials.  For a few moments, it looked as if it might be funny, but I soon realized that the only laughs I received from it were short chortles.  About as much fun as good case of guttural hiccups. If you don't want to be haunted by a dook-a-dink-a-dee induced headache, then do not go to this trash.  Or maybe you just don't want to waste your money.   "},{"Title":"a terrible display of sexual perversion","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Cruel Intentions, I am sorry I wasted my money.  The advertisement and the cast (all young popular actors and actresses) is aimed at teenagers; teenagers do not need to see this garbage, and neither does anyone else for that matter.  I was appalled and disgusted at what I saw. For those who say that this is real life, and that this is the way teens act, they are wrong.  Last time I checked, the sexual relationship between Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Philippe was called incest.  For ANYONE, parents or teens, who are considering this movie, don't.  I am 18 years old (female) and I was disgusted.  I took a younger friend (15 year old male) and I was embarrassed that I let him see it.  Don't contribute to the moral decay of America by seeing movies like this one. "},{"Title":"A slick, merciless and entertaining adaptation.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the longest time, I have been dying to see this film.  When I saw the trailer on I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, I was instantly hooked. It seemed like this year's Wild Things.  I love both films equally. Cruel Intentions is a very sexy and slick update of Dangerous Liaisons. Now, I haven't seen Dangerous Liaisons or the other versions, so I guess I can't give a full-fledged opinion.  However, this film had a great cast.Sarah Michelle Gellar went back to her All My Children days of playing a malicious character.  She oozes menace and sensuality beautifully.  Her style shined through her wardrobe, which was beautiful as well.  It was quite shocking how vulgar she was, compared to her character on Buffy The Vampire Slayer.  Whenever I think of her most classic line in the movie, (I want to f---!), I burst out in laughter because I could never have imagined those words coming out of her innocent, little mouth.  Her best scene was towards the end when she persuades Ryan Phillippe to do what she wants him to do.  I won't reveal what is he she makes him do, but the scene was all about power, control and sexuality.  She dominated on all three counts.Ryan Phillippe really impressed me in this film.  I'll never forget his innocent performance in White Squall, which was just as wonderful as this one.  I found him quite hilarious trying to act tough in I Know What You Did Last Summer being that I have only seen him in White Squall before. He was so-so in 54, but this role was more tailor-fit for him.  He was cunning, cool and intense in this picture and I hope this makes his career go further.  The best scenes in the film are between Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe.  They have progressed, dramatically, in their acting abilities since their previous outing together, I Know What You Did Last Summer.And Reese Witherspoon, I can never say enough about her.  She is such an amazing actress.  Her character in this film was the most rewarding and honestly portrayed.  I have been a fan ever since The Man In The Moon and an even bigger one with Fear and ESPECIALLY Freeway.  She is one of the best, versatile and most beautiful young actresses around.It's REALLY too bad that Joshua Jackson didn't have a bigger part in this movie because he has the most memorable line The only reason I let him keep up this charade is because the man has a mouth like a Hoover.  Here, he broke out of his Dawson's Creek character which he didn't do so successfully in Urban Legend and Apt Pupil.  He is great, my favorite character on Dawson's Creek.  I would have loved to see more of his character because he was so hilarious in that supporting role.A slight downfall was the performance of Selma Blair.  She's not a bad actress, in fact, I think she's very good.  It's just that her character was supposed to be naive, instead she came off as being mildly retarded. Sometimes, I just wanted to slap some sense into her.  Maybe that was Roger Kimble's intention, however cruel it may be.Perhaps the ending could have been different also.  It was all right, but it could have been handled in another way that may have made it more powerful and emotional.  You'll know what I mean when you see the movie, if you choose to.All in all, this is a great-looking, well-acted motion picture experience. While it may not win any Academy Awards, it had great cinematography, costumes and actors.  This is such a fun film that I may see again in theatres, if time will permit me to do so. "},{"Title":"Sexy and cruel... with a twist","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so I went to this film expecting another Wild Things. You know, a little of this, a little of that... basically a $7 erotic trip to the movie theater. Well, it was that, but it was surprisingly good too. Phillippe is just as delightfully manipulative and confident as Gellar is sexy and self-serving. Witherspoon turns out to be Phillippe's greatest challenge, she's the only one who can resist his advances. But can she melt his heart at the same time?  "}{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't have very high expectations seeing this movie but I must say I was wonderfully surprised.  Although there were some incredible stretches in the storyline, it was not an altogether bad attempt to create a delightful movie.  The acting was done quite well throughout.  The music served its purpose in creating the mood and some scenes were shot beautifully.  In terms of depth of character there wasn't much insight into any of their personalities with the varieties of subplots going on, which is one of the flaws in this movie.  But overall I was satisfied by the movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but to expect it to live up the caliber of Dangerous Liaisons (1988) is doing this film an injustice.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about this film I was rather anxious for its release, after all, Dangerous Liaisons is my favorite movie. I have read the original book Les Liaisons Dangereuses by Choderlos de Laclos, read the play by Christopher Hampton, and I own and have seen the movie countless times. Yet, as I waited to see Cruel Intentions I did not expect to see a film that would equal the original version of the film.This movie is aimed towards a younger audience.  To go in expecting Oscar caliber performances is not practical.  Sarah Michelle Gellar is no Glenn Close and Ryan Phillippe is no John Malkovich.  We shouldn't expect them to be.  These are still very young actors who are still gaining their experience in the world of film.  That is not to say that this new generation did not do a good job in their performances.  I found both Phillippe's and Gellar's performances to be note worthy.Roger Krumble does a wonderful job in adapting this wicked tale into a story that teenagers could enjoy.  It could not have been easy to modernize a story that revolves around written correspondence in an age of beepers, cell phones and e-mail, but he does so without a hitch.I enjoyed this movie.  I enjoyed watching an ageless plot take place in modern times.  It is even a movie that I would enjoy watching again and perhaps even owning when later available on VHS.  All this does not mean that I still do not prefer the 1988 version, it simply means that I found this one entertaining and worth my time.  "},{"Title":"The best, Ever.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this movie was so entirely cool.  Myself and others vowed to see it once per week in the theaters, and more when it reaches dollar theaters.  We found a full sized movie poster, and got it.  The acting was superb, the characters portrayed excellently.  In comparison to Dangerous Liaisons, it surpasses it in many aspects, a much more enjoyable viewing.  However, this was much easier to grasp all the little intricacies.  Okay, I'm so done. See it! "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is the best movie I have ever seen in my entire life. THE PLOT is perfect. It has amhy twists and turns and reminded me very much of the great film WILD THINGS. SARAH MICHELLE GELLAR does a perfect job of playing the cold hearted bitch. It is very refreshing not seeing her play a cute innocent blond girl (ALTHOUGH I'LL NEVER GET TIRED OF THAT). RYAN PHILLIPEE AND REESE WITHERSPOON are perfect. There is one scene in which Ryan makes Reese cry and it was absolutely the best acting I have seen in a long time. JOSHUA JACKSON is pretty good although his part is very short. I was looking forward to seeing TARA REID since I liked her so much in URBAN LEGEND but she had like a 50 second part, but her part was very funny. The stand out performance was SELMA BLAIR, giving the best acting in the entire movie. She made Cecile naive but not annoying. The best part of the entire movie was either the Selma-Sarah kiss or the ending.   This deserves 6 stars out of 5 because it goes a little bit farther than all of the recent teen flicks that have been released.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected; not very good, but not bad.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't see this movie by choice, I was outvoted by my friends and was forced to see it.  I went in with a poor attitude but was pleasantly surprised at how not-bad it was.Every time I saw the trailer for this film I cringed, but actually sitting through it didn't make me nauseaus, as I thought it would, in fact I wasn't even bored.  It had an interesting story but moved too fast...we're supposed to believe these two people fall in love in a matter of days? He falls so in love with her he is willing to give up his debauched lifestyle? Highly unlikely.Simply put, it wasn't bad.  There is a lot of other garbage out there that is a lot worse, some of which is even being nominated for Oscars ('The Thin Red Line').  I thought it could have been better, and God knows I've wasted my money on a lot of other movies, but I wouldn't consider this movie a waste of money...a waste of time, maybe, but not money; I was entertained, and afterall, that is the objective of going to the movies. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great, it is very unpredictable, very sexy, and intriguing!! Sarah Michelle Gellar masters the art of being evil in this film! Ryan Phillippe portrays his character wonderfully!! Reese Witherspoon is great at playing the young girl who falls in love with a bad boy, and changes his attitude. Selma Blair portrays her annoying, naive, virginal character, as if it were her. Joshua Jackson plays the gay guy great!! "},{"Title":"The biggest disappointment of 1998-99","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been eagerly waiting to see this movie for four months, so you can imagine my disheartenment to find out how lousy it actually is. The acting is rotten and the plot, while interesting in theory, falls completely apart midway through the film. I cannot fathom how with four sensational stars (Sarah, Reese, Selma and Ryan) Columbia could produce such a dumb end product. Sarah's character is hardly believable, Selma is an annoying witch when she should be playing the part sweetly, and Ryan comes across as a befuddled idiot instead of a master seducer. Only Reese is anywhere near what she should be, and even her character leaves something to be desired (no pun intended). If she is so honorable, why does she cheat on her boyfriend with Ryan? That's never answered--a real weakness in the plot.  The ultimate disappointment of Cruel Intentions? Unlike in her first two films, Scream 2 and I Know What You Did Last Summer, Sarah's character isn't killed off early.   "},{"Title":"A big step up from Simply Irresistible!!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My advice is to sleep with as many people as possible.  I couldn't have put it better myself!  This is of course the quote that, in the previews, makes this movie look pretty vile.  After having seen it yesterday, I can tell you that it's nothing of the sort.  Even though it is pretty trashy, vile it ain't.  The characters, which consist of a player, a grade-a b*tch, a giggly ditz, and a noble virgin, with their potty-mouths and skin-tight clothes, make this movie a true triumph.  Even though about sex, this movie has a real air of sophistication to it.  As you watch Sarah Michelle Gellar grab her breasts in a fit of seduction, you'll be thinking, My, she sure has come a long way from Very Resistible.....or was it Simply Irresistible?  It was so bad, I can't remember!  This movie certainly stands out.  A- "},{"Title":"Please make this teen movie cycle stop","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Squirm-inducing bubblegum update of DANGEROUS LIAISONS, with a cast of less-than-overtrained heartthrobs that suggests a high-school production of THE MISANTHROPE. Watching Ryan Philippe (whom the LA Weekly's Chuck Stephens memorably described as missing his true metier--silent gay porn) and Buffy the Vampire Slayer play with champagne flutes and lash each other with venomous remarks, you feel trapped in a claustrophobic game of dress-up. The gifted Reese Witherspoon gave a shockingly free performance in HIGHWAY a few years back, but seems to be willing herself into blandness with each studio film; only Selma Blair, as the nitwit pawn in the aristocrats' game, has any distinctive moments. Her small oases of blithering idiocy quietly make off with the movie.  "},{"Title":"wickedly intriguing...","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I liked this movie.  It is quite original and entertaining. All the cast members did sensational jobs playing their characters.  And no one could have played the part of the evil conniving little Kathryn better than Sarah Michelle Gellar. Wonderful. Great flick for those who enjoy these dark kind of movies. Plus, an unexpected ending...  "}{"Title":"So Cruel","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a good movie!!! It's entertaining to see a duel of young actors. The bet is very cruel and we see what love is for. Ryan Phillippe is excellent in his role and Sarah Michelle Gellar is so bytch... in his performance. The idea of transposing the story in our time is great and young people can identify himself with the characters.You know, it's not a future Oscar contender but a great MTV Awards contender. And, do you remember Joshua Jackson from the Mighty Ducks... what a strange character he is...So, go see this movie and comment on it!!!8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting to see a movie with a very thin plot, honestly I only went to see Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon.  I was surprised by how actually entertaining the movie really was.  The language was kind of racy for a movie which will undoubtedly attract younger teenagers.  Overall, I came out of the movie with a better impression than I went in with and I might even go see it again.  "},{"Title":"Anticipations met.  Great movie.  Although it was pretty twisted.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions, in my opinion, lived up to all of the hype.  It appeared that Sony spent millions on advertising, and judging from the attendance at my screening, it was money well spent.  There was not an empty seat in the house. The performances were outstanding.  Ryan Phillipe, as the John Malkovick character from Dangerous Liaisons, gave a tremendous performance.  I had seen him in a few films, but this was by far his best role to date.  His fiancee', Reese Witherspoon, shined in the Michelle Pfeiffer role.  The chemistry these two have is amazing.  Sarah Michelle Gellar, the Glenn Close role, was tremendous.  I have been a huge fan of her from Buffy, but this movie allows us to see her in a rather twisted persona.  She truly shows her range as an actor in the film.  Selma Blair's role was somewhat appealing, though I had never seen her before. She did a good job with the naive character from DL. All in all, the film was two hours well spent, and quite entertaining.  Two thumbs up!  Way up! "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun movie. The twisted story is just wonderful. The ending could use a little improvement though... All in all not bad. 7/10 "},{"Title":"This was GREAT!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everybody should definitely go see this movie!  It has two of the best young actors starring in it Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe.  It also has Joshua Jackson in it, and all the girls (and some guyz) apparently really like him because at the theatre I saw this at they cheered when he came on. It is has every single quality of a great movie.  It is a very modern version of Dangerous Liaisons and to make up with the changes in society, they added to it and adjusted it to today's lifestyles.  I could relate to this movie because it's a lifestyle that I lead to similarly (I'm not drop dead rich though).  All I have to say is GO SEE THIS MOVIE!  It's one of those that everybody should be forced to watch just to have the ideas in their head of how life really is.  One example being that sex is sex, love is not sex, and people get those confused...so use sex for what you need!! "},{"Title":"A rare opportunity","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intention is crude, rude, obscene and offensive; and it ought to be on the must-see list of everyone who has any interest in today's youth.  As a 50+ counselor to teenagers there wasn't much said that I hadn't heard, and a lot less shown than I have seen; but the humor, character developments, and plot twists were a delight.  I had not seen the original versions, but now I intend to go find them.  This is a fine film!  "},{"Title":"Deliciously Evil","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I consider myself a big movie fanatic and as a result, see a wide variety of movies.  Cruel Intentions is a perfect example of a guilty pleasure movie, such as last years Wild Things.  Sarah Michelle Gellar portrays her role of the posh Kathryn in such a mean and sadistic manner, you just love to hate her.  It made me want her to revive her role as Kindall on All My Children. Ryan Phillippe gives an excellent performance as Sebastian, the sexual being in search of a new game to pursue.  With all the twists and turns and humor Cruel Intentions offers, this movie is definitely worth seeing!  "},{"Title":"Yes, it is cruel","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess in some weird way, I can understand why some people might like this bizarre mixture of idiocy and under-achievement.  It's a film that begs the audience to share delight in its devilish behavior, but in the end, it never goes far enough.  I have no patience for Sarah Michelle Gellar.  This is well documented.She's a terribly vanilla presence, and her performance here is predictably one-note.  Ryan Phillippe has - easily - the more flamboyant role, but his lunkhead delivery, and his hysterical overacting sinks whatever chance he had to go legit with this film.  Reese Witherspoon and the rest of the cast are dull and uninviting.  Special attention must go to Selma Blair for her headache-inducing `Doncha think I'm funny?' role.  The movie has too much on its plate to give some very important plots the due time they need to ring true. The Witherspoon/Phillippe romance is especially given a short leash, rendering the ending nowhere near as cathartic as the film wishes it was.  Minor attempts to shock - the cocaine, references to anal sex, and the unforgivable `gay man with a Judy Garland CD' bit - come off as functionally retarded.  It just makes the film reach where it cannot possibly go.  I wish I could have wallowed in the excesses of this film, but mostly...  I was bored.---------- 1Brian "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was OK, but certainly not worth the rising ticket prices. It was poorly pieced together and was barely salvaged by so-so acting.  The first half was the worst, because the film tried too hard to be funny and sexy AND dramatic.  Selma Blair was insistently annoying, and I don't why Mr. Kumble wrote her character that way.  Being a ditz or a klutz is one thing, but come on!  The second half was redeeming in a sense, but the movie could've been a lot better.  There were only two performances to speak of Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon.  Ms. Gellar truly updated the classic character of the Marquise De Merteuil in such a way that it salvaged most of the scenes she was in.  Ms. Witherspoon was truly believable and enjoyable to watch.  My advice would be to rent Dangerous Liaisons-for better acting and writing that is.  However, if your goal is to stare at Ryan Philippe's butt, then this movie is for you.  All joking aside, if you HAVE to see this movie, wait until it comes out on video.  I wish I did. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high expectations for this film. In the previews, it looked smart, sexy, and a little demented. Sarah Michelle Gellar was overdone and melodramatic. Ryan Phillippe and the poetic justice of the ending are the only reasons I do not completely regret seeing this film. The characters seemed out of place in the plot, like children playing house. The update didn't work for me. "}{"Title":"Dark, Twisted, Wonderful","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is one of the best films I have seen in a long time. The dark storyline and devious characters are a big stretch from the fairy tale teen love stories that are so unrealistically portrayed in the media. I liked this movie for many reasons. (1) The story was unique. It wasn't just another stupid plotless movie aimed at teenagers. (2) The acting was magnificent. Sarah Michelle Gellar gave a powerful performance as an evil bitch (a big step from Buffy), Ryan Philippe was very good as the evil player with a heart, Reese Witherspoon was really believable as the innocent virgin, and Selma Blair was hilarious and stole every scene she was in. Although the movie can be sappy, unrealistic, and melodramatic at times, it was overall a wonderful masterpiece that everybody should see. "},{"Title":"Well acted and very cruel storyline","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe were good actors to cast, as they bring half the talent to the movie. The plot is very cruel and the outcome wasn't all that surprising.  LOVED THIS MOVIE!  "},{"Title":"Love?  She doesn't know the meaning...","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was one of the best movies I've seen this year, maybe even one of my very favorites.  This new adaptation of Les Liaisons Dangerouses was a successful one.  Compared to 1988's Dangerous Liaisons, it takes the classy, upper-class French society down to a more human, modernized perspective.  Cruel Intentions shows how vicious a person can be, and in contrast, how strong the power of love is.All of the cast members gave outstanding performances...pulling off this difficult movie with expertise.  Sarah Michelle Geller stunned audiences all around with her newfound antagonist acting.  Usually the heroine, she really did well with this role.  Compared to the acting of Glenn Close in Dangerous Liaisons, Sarah Michelle has something to be proud of...she did an excellent job.  As for the other cast members, they did equally well. There was nothing lacking in any of their performances.  Nor was there in the movie.This movie goes to show what things can drive people to do evils...some necessary, some not.  But one thing is for certain...love isn't to be tampered with. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I Have EVER Seen","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was absolutely brilliant.  Its devious, manipulative plot combined unbelievably enjoyable sub-stories into an ending you just don't see coming until it hits.  The acting is worlds beyond mere genius, and the sets, fashion, and props are absolutely breathtaking.  There is something for everyone in this movie - if you like romance, it's there.  If you like kink, it's there.  If you're gay, there's something for you.  If you're lesbian, OH BOY will you enjoy this movie.  If you're a fan of any of the phenomenal teen stars in this film, you will go home crying because you can't see this movie again.  I know I'm depressed.  But there's always tomorrow. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it...pleasing to eyes and to the funny bone!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The day before I went to see the movie I was so anxious, I anticipated it would be the best movie ever.  I really enjoyed myself and laughed a lot. It was a good movie.  The screen sizzled with Sarah Gellar and Ryan Phillipe, they were great together. The best parts of the movie, in my opinion,  were their scenes.  My favorite was when Sebatian was giving Kathryn a well needed massage.  All in all...it was very cool.  Definitely worth checking out.  Look out for Joshua Jackson as Blaine (Dawson's Creek), he is a crack up!  "},{"Title":"The intentions may be cruel, but with a new look to an old subject, it works.","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget the comparisons. This is the definitive story of dangerous liaisons. It works on all levels. A deliciously wicked storyline, witty dialogues when called for and that, tear your heart out dialogue when the time is right. I was even surprised by a couple of plot twists, naturally some of the plot was obvious but it was so well acted, that I didn't care.The ensemble cast brings life to these characters and I felt that the character development was just enough, not too much, not too little. The three main characters gave incredibly strong performances. They acted like veterans, and I believed the characters. Along with the principle cast members, there's a strong support group of very intriguing characters that just have to make you smile. The director may have gone a little overboard in setting up the diary payoff. I mean one lingering camera shot of the diary during the opening scene was enough, and we knew there would be a payoff down the line, but he gave us several more of those camera shots throughout the film to make sure we got it. OK, already, we got it. In defense of the director the opening sequence and the closing sequence were so symbolic that I do hope everyone gets it. I had a few problems with Phillippe's accent, and I'm not sure where he was trying to go with that, but it didn't distract me enough to not enjoy it.Be very prepared for strong sexual dialogue and not very guarded sexual situations. I suppose, given the subject matter, it had to be there, but it will turn off a lot of people. If I start talking about individual performances, this could go on for hours, suffice it to say that these young actors/actresses have a fertile future in films, even if their looks don't hold out.  "},{"Title":"Sexy, fun, and dangerously cool!!!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hey folks!  Just saw this flick, and it was worth it!  Sarah Michelle Gellar is dangerously sexy.  But more so, Reese Witherspoon is good at not being so overly pure that you hate her.  I like the twists and the quiet evil relationships.  It's fun, and that's most important, and I don't see much else this week that can compare!  "},{"Title":"Wicked, A MUST See!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To anyone who likes sex, betrayal, and love this is the movie for you. Ryan Phillippe is an awesome actor and he finally gets to prove it.  Reese Witherspoon is simply amazing.  Sarah-Michelle Gellar is a perfect fit for this movie.  The movie is about typical teens and sex.  Everybody does it and and everybody tries to get one over on everybody else.  The ending will absolutely shock you! "},{"Title":"Stellar cast... stellar film!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was a tremendous film, one of the best I've seen in a while. Ryan Phillippe, who plays Sebastian, is outstanding! I honestly think that he is the dream of every woman and the envy of all men. Ryan is one of the two best up and coming actors (along with I know what you did last summer co-star Freddie Prinze, Jr) in movies today. Sarah Michelle Gellar, who plays Kathryn, gives evil a good name. You can't help but love how condenscending she is. As for Gellar, who's been everywhere lately, the performance was (as expected) great. Based on the book Dangerous Liasions, Cruel Intentions is full of twists and turns.There are solid co-starring performances by a couple of actors from tv's WB. They include Joshua Jackson (Dawson's Creek) and Selma Blair (Zoe, Duncan, Jack and Jane), who is from Southfield, Michigan!! Reese Witherspoon portrays Annette beautifully, showing why she has established herself as one the best young actresses there is. It was neat to see Phillippe and Witherspoon on the big screen since they are dating in real life. With news that they are expecting, I want to say Congratulations Reese and Ryan!I recommend Cruel Intentions for just about anybody. I believe it's Ryan Phillippe's best work to date, and it showed the tremendous range of both Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon. With that being said, to sum it up... I can't wait to see it again and to introduce more people to the world of Cruel Intentions. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll admit I was expecting a big steaming pile of crap when I went into this movie. But I was relatively presently surprised. The comedic parts, mainly in the first half, was very funny. Unfortunately though there were some dramatic parts that received laughter as well. There were a few individual scenes that were incredibly improbable, and a few other that just plain didn't work. But all in all this was a good movie.And major kudos to Sarah Michelle Gellar. After IKWYDLS and Buffy, I was convinced the girl had no acting talent whatsoever. But she actually played the part of the uberbitch very very well. Ryan Phillippe lived up to my expectations (i.e. crappy), and Reese Witherspoon was actually good.It gets a 7 out of 10 from me. Not great, but definitely better than some of the teen flicks I've seen recently. "}{"Title":"Not Oscar worthy, but not bad either","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was not the worst movie I have ever seen.  Actually, I kind of enjoyed it.  I went in expecting a bad film, but I was surprised.  Sarah Michelle Gellar was good as the B**ch.  Lots of nice twists to the plot as well. "},{"Title":"A sinfully good time","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is a wonderfully wicked film featuring excellent performances and some of the best dialogue since Heathers.  Sarah Michelle Gellar ditches her good girl Buffy persona and delivers a bravura portrayal of Kathryn;  Ryan Phillippe continues to impress as a leading man; both seem to be having a great time with their characters.  Reese Witherspoon is good as the pawn in their game, and Selma Blair is perfect as the ditzy Cecile, providing the film with some hilarious comedic moments. Joshua Jackson and Tara Reid are perfect in their cameo roles, so good in fact that it's a shame they didn't get more screen time.  Cruel Intentions is sexy, nasty fun that never bores and keeps the audience consistently entertained with its decadent and illicit story.  Don't be surprised if it becomes a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Great Fun, but Leave the Kids at Home","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just returned from an advance screening of Cruel Intentions, and I must admit that I was blown away.  Roger Kumble's adaptation of this classic is marvelously twisted and wickedly funny.  As for the acting, anyone expecting to see Sarah Michelle Gellar deliver a variation of her Buffy character is in for a shock!  If the reaction of the audience at this screening is any indication, I'd say they have a hit on their hands.  Definitely not one for the kids, though.  The film's R rating is well-deserved.  "},{"Title":"A sickly wonderful drama that'll make you think again about playing games.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The comparisons to Dangerous Liasons are obvious-- while it's not original, Cruel Intentions makes up for in wit, drama, and an unforgettable cast. Sarah Michelle Gellar is, of course, great in this Buffy-gone-bad role. Reese Witherspoon makes the perfect innocent. Ryan Phillepe, well, what can I say? Anything with him in it is good. But the star I thought stood the best was Selma Blair. She's just great in the role, a far cry from her role as Zoe in Zoe, Duncan, Jack, and Jane. "},{"Title":"It was truly a cruel intention to make this horrid soft porn","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aside from the fact that it was yet another teen heart throb puree, there is really nothing more to say about this horrid film... there was nothing that really resembled a plot... there was nothing that really resembled acting (unless you think phone sex is really Oscar winning material)... worst of all, they just raised the bloody ticket prices, and I had to pay to see this piece of garbage...Oh yes... and getting drooled on by teen age boys with raging horomones is about the last thing that I need in a bad movie... "},{"Title":"The Only Thing Cruel About This Movie Is That I Didn't See It Sooner!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions was one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. The twisted plot, deviant characters and beautiful cast rank this movie up in my top ten.Sarah Michelle Gellar gave an award-worthy performance as Kathryn Mertueil, the seductive and spoiled high school student. The character was beautifully written, and Ms. Gellar's acting only took it further than anyone could have imagined. Her lines, actions and looks made her my favorite character in the film.Ryan Phillippe, not exactly one of my favortie actors after Playing By Heart and 54, redeemed himself as he once again teamed with Ms. Gellar as Sebastian Valmont, the guy who's had every girl in New York. Sebastian, in my opinion, is much better than Colin Firth and John Malkovitch in the Valmont role in the previous two films. Phillippe's great performance as the twisted and diabolical Sebastian made him a close second for best character.Reese Witherspoon hasn't exactly been chaste and pure in her previous films, but did a great job as Annette Hargrove. The bond that grows between her and Sebastian is fantastic, showing that no matter how cold the heart, it can always love. After this performance, I'd like to see Reese in more films.Selma Blair made off like a bandit when she snatched the role of Cecile Caldwell. Being that she's a little known actress, I predict Cruel Intentions will be the lauching pad for one great career.Roger Kumble's script blew me away, and his sense of humor is a keeper. This rendering of Les Liaisons Dangereuses beats out Dangerous Liaisons and Valmont by far. While some people may find this film vulgar, and that no high school student would do any of this then they need to go back to high school. *****/5 "},{"Title":"An adventure!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen the directors cut of this movie, and I have to say it is great! I'm a fifteen year old male, and I thought it was fantastic. Sarah Michelle Gellar gave an outstanding performance, as well as all of her castmates. However, the movie's language is very sexually explicit, but the overall plot is very intriguing. But, one of the non-sexual highlights in the movie comes from the delightful Mrs. Sugarman. All in all, a great film! "},{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons for the Dawson's Creek generation with MTV casting","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With unsuccessful ventures like The Crazy Ones and Ringer, on top of films like The Return and Southland Tales it's easy to forget that Sarah Michelle Gellar, at one stage, was a big star on both television and film. In this film she acted out many a pre pubescent male's fantasy and went full slutty femme fatale. Not coincidentally, Gellar finished atop the UK Men's magazines FHM's Hottest 100 the year this film was released.In this modern reboot of Dangerous Liaisons, Ryan Phillippe stars as spoilt rich borderline sociopath Sebastian, who is inflamed with completely justifiable lust for his step sister Kathryn (Gellar), who is a coke sniffing sexual predator. Kathryn makes a bet with Sebastian that if he can get outspoken save-it-till-marriage virgin Annette (Reese Witherspoon) into bed he can take her and I'll let you put it anywhere. Sebastian methodically goes about his task, stopping only to assist Kathryn in corrupting Cecile (Selma Blair). Of course it all goes pear shaped with Sebastian developing real feelings for Annette and it all ends in tears, though our antagonist gets a very satisfying comeuppance indeed at film's end. The soundtrack is full of what you would expect from a late 90s teen film and has one of 90s film's iconic moments with Gellar making out with Selma Blair in a scene about as believable as the film Basic Instinct.The principle cast all fare quite well, with Gellar surprisingly good at playing a seductress. Her things are looking up for you, lap dance deserves to be far more iconic than it is. Phillippe shows early promise as the brooding, conflicted Sebastian. Witherspoon really isn't asked to do much apart from fall under Sebastian's spell. Barely a hint here that she would go on to win an Oscar.To summarize Cruel Intentions is a sexy teen flick with an MTV cast and an immensely satisfying conclusion. One of the better examples of a late 90s teen film and Gellar's finest big screen outing. "},{"Title":"Interesting.","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For the last few weeks I've been exposed to female/girl-fare where movies are concerned. Most of these films regard some very negative aspects of the female psyche. Some very ruthless interpersonal interaction that takes no prisoners, and, indeed, causes one casualty at the end of it.So it is with Cruel Intentions, a film about a world of which I know very little, and am glad I was never exposed to. Privileged youths with hyper-active glands and desires for hedonistic pleasures play the worst head games with people to satiate sexual desires.I have to admit I found myself audibly saying What the hell? at the actions taken by the characters in this film. Incredible emotional cruelty is demonstrated for us, with no holds barred as to who is doing what to whom, how, why and when.I know it's only a movie, but one wonders if this type of thing actually takes place. Is this a world which exists on some level in the remote ranks of the children of the well to do? Maybe, but certainly it isn't as tawdry as all this. The truth is both sexes play head games with one another to see if the potential partner is suitable mating material (to borrow from my sphere of influence). But the characters in this film take little flirtatious games to a demonic level.Seduction and sex is a game for them. It is not the deep emotional experience it was meant to be. For them it has become a disposable commodity meant for cheap thrills at the cost of hearts and reputations. There is no love here for the purveyors of sexual games. I'm still in shock after seeing this film. Not so much that the characters did what they did, but that anyone could write such a script and make such a film. It really shows just how far the human imagination can be stretched when there are no boundaries for the characters' morals. Incredible.Yet, it is a movie, and as such we see that the characters are malleable, just like the subjects of their machinations. Through that we experience their redemption, but also see the unfortunate tragedy of the ramifications of their actions. We have the young blonde girl from the midwest with wholesome traditional family values as her aegis. We have the Park Avenue spoiled brats whose carnal cravings would be deemed incestuous were it not for the fact that their DNA comes from different bloodlines. We have the young naive girl who is just coming into womanhood who is blatantly exploited for pleasure and gain, and because of this come into her womanhood; transformed from an innocent waif. Again, I was shocked by what I saw, and in a bad way. But, it is a movie, and like a lot of Hollywood offers we do get a kind of Golden Era ending. Still, for me at least, this film is not for the squeamish of personal values and honor.On a personal note, I'm not sure why all of these highly sexed films were made in the first place. To me they seem very outlandish and insulting to anyone of any kind of moral fiber. This is in spite of the fact that justice is served in the end. To me these kinds of games are alien and disgusting. I'm at a real loss of how else to review this film. It is, to say the least, interesting.Technically on mark, I have a hard time anyone could imagine such a world. I'm not sure what that says about me, but there you have it.If you're into sexual manipulation in a teenage like vein, then give this film a try.Me, I think I'll leave it where it is. "},{"Title":"Excellent Storyline!","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intention was quite excellent, actually.Sarah Michelle Gellar absolutely steals the show in the role of Kathryn, the evil and manipulative lead female. If you appreciate villains, you should definitely enjoy what is a well-acted performance of a great character by Gellar.Ryan Philippe does an good job opposite Gellar as well. He plays Sebastian Valmont perfectly and is excellent both in the early stages of the movie and throughout his character transformation.Reese Witherspoon was somewhat good as well. Her character wasn't as wonderfully twisted as Philippe's and Gellar's, but she definitely pulled off the completely innocent and moral girl character.Many seem to have praised Selma Blair's performance...and while I don't have many negative things to say about her acting job, I thought her character was incredibly annoying and added very little to the movie. I would've preferred the character of Cecile to be much, much different. The innocence and stupidity was essential to the character, but I thought it was overdone and exaggerated.The story keeps you hooked from beginning to end, with a great combination of drama, emotion, and dark humor. The storyline between Annette and Sebastian did lack a bit, as I thought it was rushed and lacked believability, but that and the character of Cecile are really my only sources of complaint about this movie.I went to the movie expecting some cheap MTV-style entertainment, and it exceeded my expectations greatly. It has a deep storyline, great characters, and it will keep you thinking for days after watching it. I recommend it, and give it an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised!","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, now let me start out by saying I had never heard of this movie until 2008, when I was a senior in HS. It was one of those movies on the few broadcast channels (i.e., NBC, ABC, FOX, WB), since we had no cable or satellite. Normally those kind of movies suck, don't deny it, although this was actually good, even though it was edited for t.v. The basic plot for the movie is that Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar are step brother/sister, who have a bet that Valmont (Phillippe) can sleep with the virginal daughter (Reese Witherspoon) of the new Dean. They are both evil characters, but Valmont slowly changes into a better character. And in the end, the evil truly gets what's coming to them. That's what makes this a truly remarkable film. It's got everything, Sex, scandal, redemption, love, and the bad person gets what they deserve. "},{"Title":"Quite a delight to watch!","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Old movie yes, but this is a first time seeing.Cruel Intentions is a witty thriller which also has a romantic vibe to it. While I can easily see where Not Another Teen Movie got a portion of it's plot, this movie is still great. Not only does this movie have a stellar cast - which I'll get to in a moment - but the movie has a twist and a tear jerker ending.Sarah Michelle Gellar stars as Kathryn. She plays a stuck up rich girl who likes to have everything and everyone go her way. When her current boyfriend is stolen by the dim-witted Cecile (Selma Blair), Kathryn seeks revenge in exposing Cecile.Ryan Phillippe who plays Sebastien, Kathryn's stepbrother, finds the plan of Cecile too easy and all girls of Manhattan insipid and wants a more difficult challenge. He reads about Annette, a virgin girl waiting for love, in Seventeen magazine. With the help of her moving in with his aunt, his sees an opportunity to make his biggest conquest yet and bed her before the start of the new school year.Kathryn wagers a bet with Sebastien. The terms If Kathryn wins, Sebastien loses his 1956 Jaguar Roadster to Kathryn. If Sebastien wins, Sebastien gets Kathryn. While it starts off as a game, Sebastien begins to fall for Annette.Annette is played by my favourite actress Reese Witherspoon. While at first I was a little angry at seeing Reese cry on screen, it seemed alright a second time since her tears didn't ruin her beauty. Ryan Phillippe and Reese Witherspoon actually married shortly after filming the movie, even though the movie wasn't what brought them together.Selma Blair, finally, plays Cecile. While she is older than both Sarah and Ryan, she played the young freshman. She has a small role and thanks to Not Another Teen Movie, the kiss between Sarah and Selma is not as exciting, but it still adds to the movie.There is a few other small cameos including, Christine Baranski, Sean Patrick Thomas, Eric Mabius and Joshua Jackson, with a tiny 2 minute appearance by crying Tara Reid.The movie itself without the actors is great. While it's mainly a thriller/suspense, I find it to be more romance and I came out satisfied because of it. However, once again, this movie proves that nothing is permanent. In Wedding Crashers, the character of Claire (Rachel McAdams) cheats on her 3-year boyfriend. Reese Witherspoon's character Annette cheats on her 1-year boyfriend. Now I'm not picking on girls, but notice that the two I just mentioned are girls cheating.Nonetheless, the romance blossoms and I nearly was in tears just before the end. Kathryn is also a cleverly written character. When I got other's thoughts people told me that it was possibly Annette (Reese) who was the evil one in the entire movie. Anyone who has seen this can tell who the villain is.With the supporting cast, the excellent plot and romance and the fact of a small sex scene in the movie, you won't want to miss this. (Ryan Phillippe is probably the luckiest guy I know...) Not to mention, Sarah Michelle Gellar is hot as ever and the rest of the stars certainly put on amazing performances. I almost didn't like this movie on how the Annette character was treated. Not because I liked the character, but because I like Reese Witherspoon. However, since the movie ended happy, I'll say that I'm happy how the character ended.If you've yet to see this watch it, same goes for anyone who thought nah. If you've seen it already, watch it again. I can't get enough of Reese Witherspoon. "},{"Title":"This sure doesn't taste like an iced tea.","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kathryn Sarah Michelle Gellar & Sebastian Ryan Phillippe are devious, amoral step-siblings who delight in causing mischief to others purely to entertain themselves. Striking up a wager between themselves, a sort of sex for car type thing, Sebastian must try to bed the headmaster's virginal daughter, Annette Reese Witherspoon. But Annette is not for turning and more importantly, she's having quite an impact on Sebastian.Cruel Intentions is directed and written by Roger Kumble and is a comedic, dramatic and modern update of the French novel Les Liaisons Dangeureuses written by Choderlos De Laclos. While the other modern film versions of the novel are set, like the source, in France, Kumble's movie relocates to New York City and deals its tale of manipulation, seduction, sex and love amongst the affluent and socially superior youth.Make no bones about it, this may be a modern spin on the source, but it follows its template pretty rigidly. Which of course is no bad thing if one is happy to embrace its MTV body. But it can also be said that the comedy on offer here is sort of thumbing its nose at the original, because this does at time border on the ridiculous, with both Geller and Phillipe pushing for the 1999 most OTT performance award. That said tho, it's hard not to have fun as the double crosses and twisty twistersons play out; and the film is dam sexy to boot. Selma Blair is along for the ride, err, literally; and the soundtrack is appropriately rocky for the setting. A commercial success on release and the spawner of two straight to video sequels, Cruel Intentions isn't as smart as it obviously thought it was going to be. But with dark shades flickering throughout and the youths behaving badly reason to exist, there's far worse ways to spend nearly 100 minutes in front of your TV. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Film You Can Watch Again And Again!","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow! I love this film. The story is pure genius it centres around Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) making a very sexy bet with her step brother Sebastian (Ryan Phillipee) that if he can bed sweet and innocent Anette (Reese Witherspoon) also the new headmasters daughter, then he will get a chance to sleep with Kathryn, something he's wanted for a very long time.Sarah Michelle Gellar gives it her all in this film and it's interesting to see her play a bad guy after playing Buffy for so long. Every line she delivers here feels malicious and pure evil. The way she toys with Cecile (another well known face Selma Blair) is great to watch and Cecile herself offers most of the funny lines herself, especially when she admits to Kathryn about her first orgasm.The film also perfectly cast Ryan Phillipee as Sebastian. He's so cool in this film that you can see why people fear him and you believe about his reputation from the fist scene. He plays such a good role that you could see him being like that in real life because of how natural he is in the film.Reese Witherspoon who's now a big name in Hollywood is probably the least good in this film. She plays the role good however her bizarre sense in fashion and the stiffness in her first few scenes are quite noticeable when everything else is really good.I also have to mention that this film is horrifically filthy- but in a good way. Every line more or less has a sexual innuendo with some of them being quite funny. Most of the sex her is quite playful especially between Sebastian and Cecile and the very sexy scene with him and Kathryn. However there is one scene with Annette and Sebastian where it is very meaningful and believable with a killer song being played in the background. In fact the whole soundtrack is amazing and adds to the value of watching the film again just so you can here the amazing intro song and colourblind which are both amazing and fitting to the film.Overall this film is one you must get to put in your DVD Collection, not only is it amazing to watch first time but if you're like me with lots of different friends, watching it time after time with them never bores as it's a masterpiece of filmaking which unfortunately in this day and age we don't get from modern filmmakers. Well done cast and crew and Gellar accept more roles like this in the future instead of being the scream queen and you might be a big star yet. "},{"Title":"Cruel, Evil and Entertaining","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie just a couple of minutes ago because it was recommended frequently by my friends. So at last I got to see it.I have to say that the title of the movie fits quite well with it, it is pure evil and malice.The movie starts off with Sebastian the stepbrother of Kathryn (a popular girl who maintains her good image at school but is secretly well a B***CH). Sebastian is what every parent does not want in a child, he is careless, rude and most importantly sex-obsessed. Sebastian makes a bet with Kathryn that he can get Annette (the perfect good girl who swore to keep her virginity until true love) in bed, and if he wins he gets Kathryn his obviously long love and if he doesn't Kathryn gets his car.Sebastian goes ahead with his plan but with unexpected surprise he actually falls in love with Annette. I think it is quite a typical bad boy good girl story but it was enjoyable. However what I did not like was that he fell in love with her VERY quickly, seriously is that love? Looked more like a crush! Anyways other than that the movie was entertaining, was predictable at times but was also very unpredictable. The ending for examples WOW-ed me I have NEVER expected Sebastien to die, and it was quite satisfying that all Kathryn's bad deeds finally back-fired.About the acting I have to praise Ryan Phillippe he did a great job and I must admit he is very charismatic and charming.Overall it was a good and actually deep teen movie! I give it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best endings in film.","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" when most people think of a teen movie/chick flick they immediately assume that cruel intentions will fall into this category. however they are most certainly mistaken. not only is cruel intentions a insight into the depths of the human psyche of the rich and sexually devious young adults, but also it is about how these spoilt sexually wild teenagers can in once case change their ways and find true love which is the situation with Sebastian and in the other case with Kathryn whose reputation is destroyed by the help of Sebastian's journal and with the aid of Annette, his true love. This sudden outpour of information, relating to Kathryn's personal life which was told at Sebastians funeral, outing her for the person she truly is, refuting her head girl persona. And this is augmented by the fact that the song Bittersweet Symphony by the Verve plays in the background drawing the film to a satisfying and emotionally gratifying conclusion. "},{"Title":"Successful teen adaptation of classic material","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yet another 'Dangerous Liaisons' but one that works quite well. A teen drama rather than a teen comedy - it is probably a bit too scabrous and naughty for a lot of tastes.Some of the dialogue is too near the knuckle for comfort, especially Selma Blair's retelling of o*** sex with Ryan Phillippe, but it shows an honesty to both a modern re-interpretation of the original and the original's decadence. The acting is very good, even though Ryan Phillippe has to contend with a difficult and unevenly written change from seducer to lover - being involved with his future wife certainly makes it believable! Reese Witherspoon (prior to her transformation to Hollywood zero!) and Sarah Michelle Geller both put their all into difficult to realise parts, and when, one must ask, is Ryan Phillippe going to equal his emotional commitment in this film on screen again! A bold film that just about carries its huge premise off. It launched Ms Witherspoon, but Geller and Phillippe still have not fulfilled the promise shown here. "},{"Title":"A rare blend of disturbing and yet captivating beauty","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a web of deceit and manipulation pulled off by two young and rich adults.Cruel Intentions is surprisingly captivating from start to finish. It is an excellent plot executed very well. Though it stars a bunch of young actors and actresses, the whole film never gives off any hint of youth. In fact, the prevailing tone of the film is dark and disturbing that makes you wonder exactly why the characters want to mess up everyone's lives. All the characters are well developed and acted, which is rare especially in a teen film that one easily dismisses. The sexual tension between Kathryn and Sebastian is amazingly portrayed; this hidden and forbidden undercurrent makes Cruel Intentions all the more mesmerising. Their constant fight to be superior keeps viewers engaged and captivated, and the ending is the most satisfying.Cruel Intentions is a film that one must not judge or dismiss before watching. "},{"Title":".","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really liked this movie, because it is not another teen movie. The acting was performed great by those actors. I Sarah Michelle Gellar played out Kathryns character very well. And Reese Witherspoon really fits playing those sweet and innocent girls. Ryan Philippe was just perfect. In the end, I was really sad when Sebastian died. I really hoped when those pupil went out, they would see Sebastian or after when Sebastians car was driving, so you can imagine my disappointment, when they showed, that Annette was driving this car. But what happened to that Kathryn gets dumped for innocent girls plot line? I don't think I'll watch Cruel Intentions 2 or 3, because I've read a lot of comments which says that they are pointless so I'm not going to waste my time. Very good movie, but it would be better without Sebastian's death ;) "},{"Title":"I was drawn in... and it feels oh so good to be bad!","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never seen this movie until just yesterday... I can't believe I passed this one up.Now, being a guy, don't just assume I saw it for the reason that every other guy saw it. (Of course, I'm talking about the girl-on-girl kiss.) I saw it because I knew it was a good movie and I wanted to know just why.My answer came in the form of the plot and how Sebastian went from a cold, calculating womanizer trying to win a rather sinful bet, to a person actually capable of falling in love.My only nitpick about this movie is that it was too short. Other than that minor flaw, it's an excellent movie.Now, I won't spoil the ending for those that haven't seen this movie... however, I will leave you with one of my signature verdicts 9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Awesome!!!, Selma is perfect in this movie, i love it!","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is part of the pop culture of the teenagers like me, 'cause we can see all these pretty actions that we (in another moment) take in the high school, maybe not too bitch (ja!), but after you see that movie can question about your life, if you're doing something good or bad, i love the songs in the film, especially colorblind from counting crows, this love - Craig Armstrong, and obviously, the bittersweet symphony of the verve, this scene of the funeral, and the inoccent kiss of Cecile and Katharyn was from the posterity in teen movies, how do and told a good teen movie, now me at 20 can say that the film makes me thought bout my life and do and give every feeling and emotion inside me to other peoples. I'm not saying that cruel intentions be a moral movie, of course not, but we can live good and obviously, doing' funny and snatch things. I'm declared a fan of Selma, it's a good actress, maybe sometimes no chose the best films to do (like sweetest thing and down to you, bored!) but here she act so good, i can't believe that she was on 35!, she looks like 30. How she can do that, OK just in a scene in the fog in the radio stage when she open your present (the camera), in a moment she looks like 40, but whatever, doesn't matter, i love it. OH, I remember another reason because i love the film, the script it's so like we talk. OK, now everybody knows that i am in love of Selma. bye, i will see the chum scrubber, this movie it's freak. "},{"Title":"Devilish, Stylish and Sexy","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is dangerous, evil and seductive; her step brother, Sebastian Velmont (Ryan Phillippe) is cruel, ruthless and cunning; then there's Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon) who is smart, beautiful and clever.Sebastian has his sights set on Annette and Kathryn sees the opportunity for a wager - if he fails to entice her then she gets her hands on his priceless vintage Jaguar, if he succeeds then he gets the only woman that is out of his reach; Kathryn herself.Cruel Intentions is very entertaining and has a wonderful cast of perfectly portrayed characters that interact and scheme against each other with style and fluidity, and Sarah Michelle Gellar simply oozes sex appeal in every scene.This film has a brilliant script, it is superbly directed and despite the simplicity of the story the characters are complex enough to give it a real edge of other films of this type.8/10 Highly Recommended "},{"Title":"Best movie","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie for 11 times and I still can't get enough.I would watch it day and night.Seriously,it is a brilliant idea.It's almost perfect, I just love the actors and especially the soundtracks. After seeing this movie I even made a journal named Cruel intentions. I have pictures with Ryan Philippe all over the walls and as a coincidence many people have told me that I have the same look as Reese Witherspoon. This movie really changed my way of seeing life. Do watch it!I even made some mottoes concerning this filmSucker love I'll always find someone to bruise and leave behind Everyone loves me and I intend to keep it this way Down boy -this is the best.. I don't trust myself when I'm with you I guess we're completely F***ed up Keep your friends close and your enemies closer "},{"Title":"is there any better revenge?","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie is very good remake of original movie inspired by eternal novel.Katrine is seek for revenge and this is so cool.for the way she reached all, for the price she paid in the end.i think she is the real winner,because she stays alive.Katrine is smart ,sexy and she can seduce anybody.Sebastian is proud to be executor of her desires.but love is erased all of his mistakes.the best in this movie is tne song of the VERVE-BITTER-SWEET SYMPHONY. incruel intentions 3the cousin of Katrine-Cassie mentioned that Kathryn is in mental hospital.but she is so good hair of her.it runs in the family.for the rest of the characters in cruel intension i can say that Reese Witherspoon is not acting very well,but Christine Baranski & Selma Blair are good enough to make you laugh "},{"Title":"Watchable, but a missed opportunity","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ryan Phillippe's performance as a shameless Casanova makes the difference between Cruel Intentions being a poor movie and a watchable movie. But his comic and debonair exploitation of women is the only reason I can recommend this film. The rest of the cast are quite unremarkable. I've noticed some people saying that this is a great teen movie, but it doesn't come close to The Breakfast Club, for example. It just doesn't have the breadth of talent. My other big complaint is that the movie doesn't flow. With some movies I can comfortably sit back and enjoy the ride, but not this one. It's impossible to disentangle the jumble of relationships, and the plot is broken and disjointed with many things left unexplained. This is quite likely the way that a real Casanova sees the world, but it doesn't make for a good movie - there needs to be more continuity. I was left in two minds about the unexpected ending. I wasn't sure if it made the movie better or worse. Like the rest of the movie, it seemed like it happened by accident. "},{"Title":"The Most Unbelievable Redemption movie","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" WOW!!! After I saw this piece of garbage I really just wanted to rip my eyes out and wash them thoroughly so as to get the images out of my head. This is the most unbelievable redemption movie ever!! None of the characters are good, they all have an evil quality about them and the dialog just serves to try and convince us that these characters are actual thinkers with souls or brains for that matter. Ryane Phillipe is one of the worst actors ever; if he hadn't of done Crash I would shoot him myself. Sarah Michelle Geller proves even more with the addition of Buffy that she can't act her way out of a wet paper bag and then there's the virgin Reese Witherspoon who gives up her virginity to Phillipe rather easily. Plus the characters of Selma Blair (dumb bitch), the black guy from several other movies I don't remember (yep, he's that forgettable) and Joshua Jackson (to see a better Jackson movie watch Cursed with Christinna Ricci; it's much better.) You can't expect me to believe that Phillipe dies for Witherspoon and that is trying to convince me that he's forgiven, SCREW THAT!!!! I just don't realize what people see in this movie and why Ryan Phillips even has a career. Let's just hope that this goes like any other fad...quick....painless/or painful depending on the fad.....and dies horribly. In regards to a list of the worst movies ever...this is in my top 5. "},{"Title":"Lacks the Courage of its Lack of Convictions","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Once upon a time there were three young actresses named Sarah Michelle, Selma and Laura Jean, who for reasons best known to herself preferred to be called Reese. They acted together in a film called Cruel Intentions, after which fate had different things in store for our three friends. Sarah Michelle went on to star in the two Scooby-Doo films which achieved the difficult feat of making even the original cartoon series look intelligent by comparison. Selma may one day become the greatest Lady Macbeth of the twenty-first century, but even if she does she will have difficulty living down the I can't believe I'm making love to a big purple elephant scene from the awesomely tasteless The Sweetest Thing. (Yes, I know she didn't say making love but decency forbids a verbatim quotation). And Reese? Reese went on to give a cracking performance in one of the best films of 2005 and won a well-deserved Oscar. It just goes to show you never can tell.Cruel Intentions transfers the basic plot of Les Liaisons Dangereuses to a modern-day American school, thus doing for Choderlos de Laclos what Clueless did for Jane Austen. (Whether either Monsieur de Laclos or Miss Austen actually needed this service is a matter open to debate). The main characters become teenage step-siblings, Kathryn Merteuil and Sebastian Valmont, both pupils at an exclusive boarding school. Most of the action takes place during the summer holidays and, like most teenagers with too much time on their hands, Kathryn and Sebastian are bored. In order to combat the monotony of their daily lives, they make a bet with one another that Sebastian can seduce Annette, the headmaster's daughter who has publicly proclaimed that she intends to save her virginity until marriage. If Sebastian fails, he will have to give Kathryn his most prized possession, a vintage sports car. If he succeeds, Kathryn will sleep with him. (Kinky, I know, but as they're not actually related by blood no criminal statutes will be violated). In addition, there is a sub-plot involving the evil pair's attempts to corrupt the morals of Cecile, a terminally naive girl who has somehow managed to snare Kathryn's boyfriend.As is normal in Hollywood films about teenagers, the lead parts are all played by actors several years older than the characters they represent. This convention seems to be motivated by censorship considerations; the American film censors seem to operate a curious double standard whereby plot lines about underage sex are acceptable provided the actors involved are all in their twenties (or, in some cases, their thirties).The film has been compared unfavourably with Dangerous Liaisons, the straight version of the story from 1988. I have never, however, been a great admirer of Stephen Frears's film. Certainly, it is beautifully acted (much more so than Cruel Intentions), but it always seemed to me to be claustrophobic and airless, set in its own highly artificial world. Its atmosphere of world-weariness and heartless cruelty never seems real, except perhaps to those who take at face value all those History Made Simple textbooks that tell us that the eighteenth century French aristocracy were all creepily decadent sadists who thoroughly deserved their fate at the hands of Madame Guillotine. Cruel Intentions, by contrast, is not played straight, but transforms the story into a black comedy. Certainly, I doubt if real life teenagers would be quite as skilfully manipulative as Sebastian and Katherine, but this is not a realistic drama and has no ambitions to be one, so the question is not really relevant.Sarah Michelle Gellar has never struck me as a great actress. She was cute and sexy in Buffy the Vampire Slayer, but her character was never more than a cute and sexy version of a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle. About her role in Scooby-Doo the less said the better. In Cruel Intentions, however, her rather mannered, knowing style of acting serves her well. Kathryn is an upper-class version of Cordelia, the character played by Charisma Carpenter in Buffy- the attractive, seemingly popular girl who, underneath the surface, is a prize bitch. The difference is that whereas Cordelia was merely shallow and thoughtless, Kathryn is hard, brittle and positively malevolent. Sebastian is equally amoral- a hardened seducer without a though in his head for the rights or feelings of others. There is a hint in Ryan Philippe's portrayal that, like many hardened seducers, his seductions are undertaken in order to feed his ego as much as his libido.Of the pair's two victims, Selma Blair's Cecile is too much of a booby ever to attract our sympathy, the sort of girl who reminds us that not only did the word silly originally mean innocent but also that there is sometimes a close connection between innocence and silliness in the modern sense. Reese Witherspoon's Annette is a different matter. She resists the temptation to play her character either as another silly innocent or as a Bible-thumping born-again hypocrite. She makes Annette not only morally principled but also smart, shrewd and likable. At first she seems to have Sebastian's measure, but eventually neither her principles nor her shrewdness are proof against his lies and blandishments. She finds herself falling in love with him and allows him to seduce her.More surprisingly, Sebastian finds himself falling in love with Annette, so much so that he even refuses to claim his promised reward from Kathryn. It is at this point that the film abruptly changes tack. What started out as a cynical, amoral and sometimes witty black comedy becomes a sentimentally moralising conventional teen-film. The ending (which I will not reveal) is particularly tear-jerking. It is as though the film-makers lacked the courage of their convictions. Or perhaps I should say they lacked the courage of their lack of convictions. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This disappointed me - see only if you are a teenager","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie 'Cruel Intentions' yesterday because it was a hit with teenagers when it was released. After seeing it, I can understand why, what with the sexy young stars and sexual innuendo and all, but it disappointed me for other reasons.First off, the plot is predictable and anyone with half a brain will know where the movie will lead as soon as Sebastian, our sexual predator, talks to our two-faced seductress Kathryn about laying Annette, a 'paradigm of chastity and virtue' (example of virginity till marriage and righteousness). I won't explicitly say what it is, though I think I have indirectly ruined it anyway.Also, most of the acting here is poor. Ryan Phillipe is OK at the start, but increasingly plays Sebastian as a lovestruck, weak-willed young man, rather than as a cunning mastermind, as he should have done. Reese Witherspoon was OK, but her character came off as more of a ditz than the virgin of virtue that she was meant to be. Tara Reid was incredibly whiny and irritating as well. But the worst performance in the film belongs to Selma Blair, who played Cecile like a retarded 4-year old, rather than as the vulnerable, naive college student that she was meant to be. The ending of the film is also a real downer and ensures that you will be left with a sour taste in your mouth when the credits roll. It's good to see Kathryn get her comeuppance, but I read the original script and I preferred the ending in that one. The ending that we see in this film seems rushed and inadequate. The last half also sees us witness Sebastian's unconvincing conversion from soulless manipulative p**** to lover, starting when Annette makes a few faces (?!) On the other hand, Sarah Michelle Gellar gives a good turn as the sexy yet two-faced b****-goddess. The film itself is pretty sexy, especially when Kathryn and Sebastian interact. The film is also stylish for that matter, because of the film's posh setting. The much-famed lesbian kiss between Kathryn and Cecile is also eye-catching. The first half of the film isn't too bad, either, starting off nicely when we find that Sebastian has manipulated the therapist's daughter. Some of the music here is also pretty good and fairly well timed, depending on the scene.But all in all, as a whole, this film is a disappointment. If you are a teenager, see it, if you aren't, well, I would suggest that you don't.2.5/5 starsPOSTSCRIPT (4/10/2007) I notice that the next commentator rebutted some of my comments. I'm afraid that she misinterpreted them; sorry for taking so long to address this.This movie was actually OK. I disagree with the person who commented about this movie before me for a couple different reasons. 1) This was definitely not Sarah Michelle Gellar's best acting of her career! Buffy was much better, and I see Gellar as my idol as an actress but, her in this movie kind of disappointed me a little. I'm not saying she was horrible!, she was her normal fabulous self, but I felt she could have done better!I never said that this WAS Sarah Michelle Gellar's best acting of her career. All I said was that she delivered a good performance - namely, as a seductive ice-queen. Unlike you, I'm not a rabid fan of her work; as such, I cannot gauge her best performances. Her acting in Buffy, judging from the few episodes I've seen, isn't bad...but I've made my point. Make sure you actually READ my comment next time.2) The deleted scene where Sebastian slaps Katherine, if you watch why the director took out the scene, you'd realize that he's right; it takes away his sympathy for the final scene. If they put that scene in the movie, you would probably be glad that he dies.I wasn't aware of that scene, nor was I referring to it. I was referring to a script (dated February 1998) where Annette kisses Kathryn on the lips. Sure, this may have been a tad out-of-character for Annette, but it still would've been in keeping with the film's general tone - one of spite and vindictiveness. In the movie, Kathryn's comeuppance does not seem as satisfying, as Annette (the main victim of her plotting) does not confront and humiliate her directly about it. That's all. "},{"Title":"This modern adaptation just doesn't work","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The decisive scene in the story doesn't work here. Spoiler warning In the novel, Valmont finally conquers his love interest, but is convinced to abandon her out of a sense of status that fits well with the eighteenth-century setting.The writers for this version just couldn't find a convincing explanation for this plot turn in the context of the Park Avenue bubble. The appeal to Valmont's reputation simply doesn't work, because the movie is actually really thin on social environment. There are too few characters to convince the viewers that Valmont has any relations with people aside from the 9 that we see. And the character development actually moves in the opposite direction. We are shown a Valmont that doesn't give a damn what anyone thinks. So it is completely unbelievable that Valmont would suddenly break off a relationship he has been fighting for out of some perverse sense of status among his peers.As a result, the movie just unravels right as it should be climaxing. A big disappointment. "},{"Title":"Don't you see it's so sexy?","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I gave this movie a 10, because it has it all. It has good actors (I mean, Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar keeps this movie together), a sexy plot and quotes to die for. It made me laugh, smile and cry, and every time I hear The Verve in the end I'm sad, because I actually cheered Kathryn on! =) This may not be a movie that changes your world, but it gives you a couple of hours of entertainment and I promise you that you'll love the language and how it floats! And, this is something that really can happen. It's not that unbelievable...I've seen Cruel Intentions at least 15 times now, and I never get tired. Yeah, it has it all. "}{"Title":"I was very surprised with this movie.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very surprised that I enjoyed this movie as much as I did. From the commercials the movie looked like crap, but once I put the movie on, I was hooked till the very end. The acting by Ryan and Reese was great. They truly are a great couple in the movie and in real life. Sarah Michelle Gellar steals the show as the sexy, but nasty Catherine. Her lesbian kiss is the main highlight of this movie, and is the best i've ever seen in a movie. The rest of the movie is good, and all the actors managed to make sense out of the badly written script that goes on forever with no end in sight. Very entertaining movie that has alittle something for everybody. "},{"Title":"Poss the best film ever!","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions - With it's wonderful dark / delicious storyline and script, this film is truly a classic! I don't think i have seen a film with such a clever script.Its funny, dark, weird, bizarre and very very entertaining.All the cast are very good, but Sarah M G is awesome in this film.I really cant rate this film high enough. The sequel (or should i say prequel?..CI2 is also a good film, but the 1st one is a great film.)All i wanted to say on this review was how great this film is and it is such a dark / delicious film. But seeing as i have to make this review last 10 lines - sheesh! But its my fav film, if you haven't seen it - i cant recommend it enough "},{"Title":"everyone who like the film and the soundtracks please write me something","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that this film is great.Some people tells that it is corny but i think that it must be seen.It was really said when Sebastiandie but it was a good end of the situation because it is emotional and I think that most of the girls who watched this film cried in that moment it won't be that fascinated if it wasn't happened that and I like very much the end of the film when Kathryn got that what she deserved.Sebastian's death bound to happened because he was the bad boy and he reverse in a thoughtfully different person-love change him in a better person- but that kind of changes need a sacrifice and in that situation the sacrifice is Sebastian's death. I want to tell that the film is so good and the soundtracks are good too, especially Colorblind , Bittersweet symphony, Every you every me , This love, Ordinary life, Secretly.I think that they make the film so captivated and emotional. "},{"Title":"Good Film Excellent Cast","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This Is A Must See for All Movie Fans Who Haven't Seen Dangerous Liason's And Fancy A Change From Ther Normal Run-of-the mill films that are being made now As in the header The Cast is What MAkes Half of the film with powerful acting yet you are able to get right behind the characters at one point or another , This Film Will Atract a certain verity of people but should be viewed when the chance is given Ryan Phillipe Is A Shock to me in this film as hadn't really heard anything he had been in before this and turns out to be the films shining star Selma Hayek Is Also Convincing As Young Cecile Naieve and Inoccent But there are some flaws to this film which stop me giving it a ten sometimes it can feel a bit overdramatical and there are certain points in the film were you just start to say Why Would Anyone Do This! But overall a Vgood Film "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite work as a teen flick","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions was massively successful as a teen film that had Ryan Philippe's butt for girls and a lesbian kiss between Sarah Michelle Geller and Selma Blair for guys to drool over. Loosely based on the classic Dangerous Liaisons, this is supposed to be a movie about manipulation, backstabbing, and sexual politics.The problem is, in adapting the storyline to a modern, young setting, the characters and outfits are updated but the interactions between them are not. There is something forced about the movie since none of the characters talk like real teenagers or lead even remotely realistic lives. It feels like the lines should be spoken by different people, in a different era. Unfortunately, this version just doesn't quite work.Still, it is entertaining, no denying that. 6/10 for effort. "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions, in my opinion, is one of the best movies any person could see. This movie has everything a great movie is made of. There's conflict,plot, sex, great actors, great vocabulary, in this movie you actually feel for the characters, and at the end of it all, you come out feeling good about everything. I love the way the director put all the wording together. The actors vocabulary is so witty and insightful that it has made me want to be that intelligent. The casting was great also. these actors appeal to the viewers. There is nothing bad about this movie. I have watched it and reviewed it many times. I'm hoping to see the sequels in the future. hopefully they will live up to their expectations. i love this movie and recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Teenage trash -- but fun","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure I would have understood *Dangerous Liasons* when I was a teenager. Fortunately for teenagers today, we have *Cruel Intentions*. Reading the viewers' comments on various websites, it become readily apparent that many people enjoyed this movie more than I did. It's also apparent that many people who wrote the comments are young teenagers, who think Ryan Phillippe is a fabulous actor. I am not among that group, either. Ryan Phillippe is pretty. That is the nicest thing we can say. The film seems so amateurish, it is a shame to waste such a great story on such a minimally talented cast &#150; it comes across with made-for-TV acting quality that can't begin to grasp the nuances of the story. Phillippe's real-life wife, Reese Witherspoon, is somewhat adequate as Annette, the daughter of the school's new headmaster. The reasonably respectable Sarah Michelle Geller tries her hardest to be wicked as Kathryn, but is a little out of her league on the big screen. Selma Blair as Cecile Caldwell is dreadful. Christine Baranski is her usual snippy self, as Cecile's mother, and Swoosie Kurtz is a surprise since she played Cecile's mother in an earlier version. Though with nice production values, the movie still falls into the *Heathers* and *The Craft* sorts of productions &#150; perfectly geared towards their not-very-discriminating audiences who are blinded by their high-style. Not that high-style is meaningless &#150; it just begs for some content to back it up. But I probably would have loved this when I was a teenager, since it was set in a milieu I understood high school. A glamorous high school, to be sure, swank and private, but still loaded with the deadly vipers and demons that infest every high school &#150; and it would have been more fun to attend, just to watch the manipulations of this clique. This is the promise offered by the movie to all teenagers, and in that respect, it succeeds very well. "},{"Title":"A Great movie.","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" HEY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!WOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!This movie is outstanding !I mean man.It is so cruel and mean.One of the best movies ever in my opinion.I rate this movie a 12 out of 10.Sarah was outstanding.She turned the role of Kathryn into one of her own.So Dramatic and sexy.Sarah hid the real Kathryn very well,but on the other hand Ryan showed what kind of character he played.Reese Witherspoon was great.She gave a 100%.The movie starts of with a bet that Ryan and Sarah made.The bet was that if Sebastian could F*** the new headmaster's daughter Kathryn would give him what he has wanted since their parents got married....,but if he couldn't then she would get something she wanted..........This movie was FUNNY,SAD and a lot more.A very Good movie. "},{"Title":"It's like a how to seduce someone movie","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've loved this movie since the first moment i saw it. It has a great soundtrack, which i bought soon after seeing it for the first time. Cruel Intentions is about these two step siblings who find pleasure in ruining others lives. Sebastian has sex with as many girls as possible, then he further humiliates them. Kathryn on the other hand is selfish and seeks revenge on those who cross her. Both of them are sex crazed, and are extremely attracted to each other, but who could blame them, they sure are hot! Sebastian cocks up his ultimate plan to steal the virginity away from a prude who wrote about waiting for love in seventeen magazine. Kathryn thinks that he doesn't have a chance in hell of doing this and so they make a bet. If she wins she gets his fancy smancy car, if he wins she will f*** his brains out. Kathryn on the other hand wants revenge on her ex, so instead of going after her ex directly, she decides to go after the innocent twit who he left her for. Her goal is to make the poor girl a slut and to ruin her reputation so that no one will ever want her. Things don't quite turn out as either of them had hoped. "},{"Title":"very absorbing","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, and Reese Witherspoon star in this wonderful sick and twisted tale called Cruel Intentions about making everyone's life as miserable as possible. In this film, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe star as Katherine and Sebastian who are brother and sister and they play games on people filled with cruelty and deceit. When Sebastian reads an article written by Annette Hargrove played by Reese Witherspoon, he proposes a bet that entices his step-sister. The bet is to get Annette to break her virginity with Sebastian; the terms are if Katherine wins she gets his prized car, and if Sebastian wins he gets a night in bed with his step-sister.Can we say that we have sick and twisted terms to bet with? I think we can safely say that. I was wowed when I saw how Reese Witherspoon subtlely played her character with innocence but still knows what is going on. As the movie progressed I was angry at the characters because of what they were doing to everyone; they didn't care who they were hurting. This is a sign of a good movie in my opinion. Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar knew exactly what each other's moves and thoughts. Also, Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon brought magic to the screen that I haven't seen since I saw At First Sight earlier this year with Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino, and I have seen a lot of movies since then. I think we can safely assume that Ryan and Reese were in simpatico together. Sebastian eventually gains feelings for his intended target and begins to have second thoughts about going through with the bet. I like this element because it shows that anyone can change. There are several sub plots to Cruel Intentions but they are not as much fun to watch as the main plot.I was in awe in how well Sarah Michelle Gellar played her character. Known to children as Buffy, The Vampire Slayer, Sarah Michelle Gellar is fighting on the side of good, but here we have another side to an already talented actress; she plays evil so well, I'm very happy to see that she can play a variety of different personalities. I also liked Ryan Phillipe's performance because of the way he carried himself. His body language and movements, dialogue and dialect are so excellent he can pass them off as how he really is. Cruel Intentions was an entertaining film that had a twist added on to the ending that made me go away with a smile on my face.  "}{"Title":"Contrived Attempt","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nearly everyone has heard of the movie Cruel Intentions, and almost everybody knows about the famous kiss that won the MTV Movie Award.  Yet the content of this movie often seems to be ignored or at least overshadowed by the famous scenes.  What is actually portrayed in this film and the quality of what is shown is a good attempt at cinema, but ultimately fails to achieve greatness or even quality.Cruel Intentions tries to portray the ultimate contrast between good and evil, leaving the viewer to wonder which will triumph at the end.  The film does excellently succeed in portraying evil, but the good it presents is not really good at all, leaving the viewer to sympathize with no one.  There is also some good acting, but nothing consistent.Yet any good aspects of the movie are overshadowed by the poor ones.  The score, I thought, was completely incompetent, adding more sound to the movie than music.  The editing was also poor, and as the movie cut from scene to scene, the characters seemed to completely change their attitudes, except those that were the most wicked.  Also, the ending, to me at least, was completely predictable and could've used a little more thought. Altogether, a good attempt at trying to be unique, but ultimately below average.Final Grade C-. "},{"Title":"One perfect kiss","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I had a movie pass when this flick came out so I decided to check it out. The pass let me get in for free. I'm glad I did decide to look into this one because it has the most perfect kiss between two women ever put into a mainstream movie.*KISS SCENE SPOILER*So the rich kids are playing their games with Cruel Intentions. Selma Blair and Sarah Michelle Gellar are in the park talking about kissing. The right way to kiss, etc. So Selma is shy and doesn't know how... (I'm sitting there clutching my soda). So then Sarah takes her giant sunglasses off and says she'll teach her. In a stroke of cinematic genius, the camera frames it so that the entire movie screen is nothing but their two heads kissing.Filmmakers take note! THIS is how you film a kiss between women! Nothing else in frame is important! Focus on their mouths! Fantastic scene! Bravo! Encore!  "},{"Title":"There is no use in living your life without playing it!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A stunning movie...Cuts through the heart! leave all values behind!Get ready to enjoy your youth, to follow your sexual instincts and to manipulate everybody! It is very nice to see that everybody can be played just by using the right charmes. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie made me laugh. I never knew the upper class had so many problems and were so bored as to mess with other people's lives. It's a totally contrived teen sexploit plot, but amusing nonetheless. I knew right away it was based on Dangerous Liasions and was a little disappointed, but it was good. Ryan Phillipe is no John Malkovich and I think he knew that, but sometimes I think he was trying to be as cold and calculating as he was and wasn't doing a good job at it. Gellar shone as the bad girl that you had no problem hating. Reese was ok, but a bit hard to swallow when she became angry. It seems like she can't. Selma Blair is silly and fun to watch as the chick who grew up under a rock on 5th Ave. Jackson was good too and was a fun character. Not too bad. "},{"Title":"Cruel, but not enough steam","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The 18th century story about seduction, love and betrayal is a juicy one, deserving the many movie versions it has gotten lately. Here it is moved to a contemporary upper class late-teen setting, which is a splendid idea. Eros rules there, as well.The actors obviously take delight in filling their characters with lust and longing, hatred too, and the story runs along with youthful energy. The problem is the lack of steam, of sensuality brought beyond the level of romance. The siblings with their games of seduction, make sense only when allowed to show a most heathen worship of sexuality, but here at times it becomes almost Victorian.So, when love enters and conquers lust, it's not much of a change. The actors might have been aroused, but the camera was all the time prudish, closing its eye when things were about to get hot. The theme was treated with too much inhibition, and the power played with by the siblings, seemed like not much of a power at all. Seductions were so swift, copulations so lighthearted - no excitement, no taboo, no sense in the characters being so dramatic about it.Eros is a much more powerful deity than that. "},{"Title":"Barely entertaining at best","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is somehow possible to find the story in Cruel Intentions entertaining, but the overall very poor quality of the movie prevented me from having a good time. It is in fact, barely entertaining at best.The first thing that struck me when the movie started is how bad the actors were. I had never seen Sarah Michele Gellar in a movie before, and I never watched Buffy, but if this is her best performance ever, I don't feel like any more of her any time soon. Selma Blair plays an idiot, but tries so hard to give her character the mental capacities of a 10-year old that the result is, frankly, pathetic. Ryan Philippe just can't play, or at least that is the impression he gives as Sebastian Valmont, and seeing his wife Reese Witherspoon (perhaps the *only* good actor in the movie) share the screen with him in a much more convincing manner, you can't help but wonder if during the shooting of the movie she ever came to realize how bad an actor her husband was. The contrast between her and Philippe (and the rest of the cast for that matter) is striking. What we she doing in such a poor project?With the almost unbearable acting - or lack thereof, a  tacky musical background, a boring direction, Cruel Intentions would be almost annoying to watch were it not for a fun story - unfortunately filled with scenes that use sex in a not-so-subtle way in order to keep the viewer's eyes open. More romantic scenes, especially towards the end, are so cheesy, you almost need crackers to keep on watching. As a summary, this bad movie is a little bit entertaining, but not very much more.Cruel Intentions can still work if you are not picky, because as a modern adaptation (it is almost a teen movie), it appeals to, and is easier to understand by, a much wider audience that, say, the very good Dangerous Liaisons with Glenn Close and John Malkovich, another adaptation of Choderlos de Laclos' Les Liaisons Dangereuses that you may want to consider renting instead.  "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was hated by critics because it was pegged as another stupid teen movie but actually even though it is a teen movie it is rather refressing to see something original. Sarah Michelle Gellar is great as the evil step sister of Ryan Phillipi who makes him a deal. If he can get with Resse Witherspoon she will give herslef to him, if he can't then she gets his car. But things go horribly wrong when he finds himself falling in love. All three leads are good but it is really Phillipi who is the most interesting and real character in the movie. Although it is not the hard edge drama that the trailer suggested that it was, in fact some scenes are down right funny, it is still has a somewhat powerful punch and often times uplifting, well as far as teen movies go. The only problem is the climax that attemptes to be suprising but really is just plain dumb put the movie quickly regains itself in what is a delightfully devious ending. Although grown-ups or serious movie buffs won't find much to enjoy here that they can't find somewhere else this film is suprisingly good.    "},{"Title":"has some good elements, but ultimately turns goofy","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Phillippe is a rich, handsome and suave young womanizer with a reputation for bedding his high school classmates; Gellar is his wicked, manipulative and sexy stepsister determined to try and settle a score. Looking to enhance his reputation, he makes a bet with her that he can seduce naive young virgin and new girl in school Witherspoon, until he predictably falls in love with her. The cast is top notch, the story is interesting, and the film is stylishly directed, but it's sexual theme is awfully perverse, and the story only grows sillier as it goes along. The finale is especially ludicrous, but fans of the actors may not mind. ** "},{"Title":"A Scandalous, Stylish, and Clever Teen Film","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions came at the right time when it was released in March of 99. After sitting through lite teen fare such as She's All That it was a welcome change to see a teen film take a chance and be a little darker. This dark comedy was a pleasant surprise to me because not only does it qualify as a guilty pleasure; it is actually a good film as well. The basic story is taken from Dangerous Liasons(I know it's based on the French play but I wouldn't want to butcher the spelling). 2 bored teens enjoy playing with people's heads and playing deviant sexual games. Sebastian is a playboy who is planning on de-flowering the headmasters daughter. His stepsister Kathryn makes a bit with him and if he sleeps with her he'll get to have Kathryn, the one girl he has never been able to penetrate and if he doesn't she'll get his car. However things change when Sebastian actually begins to fall in love with Annette, much to Kathryn's dislike.What I Liked The wickedly good chemistry between Gellar and Phillippe. They give a truly sexually charged performance. Gellar is proving to be one of the better actresses of her generation especially when you add this to her great work on Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Phillipe is suitably charming as Sebastian and his transformation from bad boy to love seeker is believeable. The cinematography and set design is awesome. With a budget of only 10 million dollars it is amazing that they were able to come up with such a stylish look for the film. This is one of its biggest assets. I liked the balance of dark comedy in the first half of the film and drama in the second. it's not an awkward transition which could have easily been the case. Josh Jackson's cameo as a homosexual drug dealer is priceless. He eats up the two scenes that he's in. POTENTIAL SPOILER The ending, while some thought it wasn't suitable enough, I thought it was pretty clever. What a nice way for Gellar's character to get what was coming to her. In Kathryn's world her reputation as a suppossed goody girl was getting her what she wanted and in the end that was ruined. I thought it was a proper pay back. What I Didn't Like Selma Blair's character was funny at times but for the most part she got on my nerves. Too naive for my taste, anyone with half a brain could've caught on to what they were doing to her.I  thought that Resse's character wasn't developed enough. She's a good actress and makes a good impression here but her character is pretty thin. I felt her character should've been more drawn out to fully believe that Sebastian would change his ways for her. The first half of the film has a lot more energy than the second half. While the drama is good in the second half, it does tend to drag a little. In the end you have a teen film that comes out above the rest. For a change we get a mainstream teen film that isn't afraid to show how deviant some teens are. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons lite","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)It's probably better if you haven't seen Stephen Frears's Dangerous Liaisons (1989), starring Glenn Close, John Malkovich and Michelle Pfeiffer, or Milos Forman's Valmont (1988) with Annette Bening, Colin Firth and Meg Tilly. If you have, Roger Kumble's Cruel Intentions (1999), starring Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, and Reese Witherspoon, which is also based on the novel by the Frenchman Choderlos de Laclos, will seem to lack finesse. Kumble wrote his own screenplay as a kind of Les Liaisons Dangereuses in modern dress, whereas Frears and Forman relied more heavily upon the stage play by Christopher Hampton, depicting the aristocracy of 18th century France. While the two earlier movies sparkle with wit, insight and a cynicism to chill the fondest heart, Kumble's venture features a more prosaic brand of sexual humor adorned agreeably with young, nubile bodies.But there is no need to make odious comparisons. Cruel Intentions can stand on its own, and there is plenty to admire, especially Gellar in a role to which she is perfectly suited, and Witherspoon as well. Phillippe is also good, especially when he's being funny, although his unconscious imitation of John Malkovich was a bit obsequious. He delivered some of his lines with the same deadpan expression and intonation. But being as pretty as he is, Phillippe's character is more like Colin Firth's. Selma Blair's narrow-eyed and dotty Cecile was pretty, sexy, and funnier than either Uma Thurman or Fairuza Balk, who played similar roles in the above mentioned movies, respectively. The scene with the shrink to begin was very agreeable and should have been followed up somehow. We never see Sebastian quite so diabolical later on. Too bad. And seeing a little more of Swoosie Kurtz who played the self-centered, phony and hypocritical Dr. Regina Greenbaum would have enhanced the film.The idea of making Sebastian and Kathryn step siblings was amusing and spicy, and the inclusion of a raunchy gay footballer was appropriate. Using a black guy as Cecile's harp teacher was kinky good. And being rather up-front about sex throughout without being overly juvenile was refreshing. The business with Sebastian Valmont's diary of conquests worked well both psychologically and as a plot device.The main failing with Kumble's movie, aside from the general superficiality, was that Sebastian's 'conquest' of Annette was a little too easy, especially with the goody-goody build-up she had been given. Consequently, her falling in love was more like a stumble. There was some physical passion, but nothing like the full-blown emotional passion required. Also I think the ending needed a little work. It seemed that a committee divined it, part of them wanting a 'happy' love ending for Reese and Ryan, and the other half wanting to stay somewhat true to the spirit of the original, and so they came to a compromise, as committees will, and we got mishmash.Incidentally, there is yet a fourth movie version of this tale, Dangerous Liaisons (1960), from French director Roger Vadim. I am looking forward to seeing it, if I can find a copy. "}{"Title":"Strong story, teen stars, powerfull manipulation.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I first want to say that i loved this film because of the age of the characters. Most reviews i read (the negative ones) are saying that this film is not being presented well because of the age for the players. I just think that at that age it is very dificult to play those emotions, wich in my opinion are played very well. The film has en intriging start wich makes you think that it might not be worth while to see it but the closer you get to the end it becomes more clear why this film isn't so bad.For instance, the story begins with the therapist finding out that sebastian has taken her daughter, therefore trying to get him for it he gets a new girl as easy as that. It's quite small performance to pull that off. The further we go we see that kathryn tries to get sebastian as far as destroying the rep. of an innocent girl just to get payback for here ex-boyfriend dumping her. He thinks it is no challange at all and presents a new challange. This new challange is getting the new headmasters daughter before school starts. Kathryn thinks that even this is out of his leage. I at first would agree but as we continue we see that he is indeed made progress with his victim. At the end he does get the victim and he becomes the pray for kathryn. She gets him in the worst way possible wich also gets him killed and she even tries to make it up during the speech at his funural. But before our little marsha grady can pull it off she has been black mouthed by annette (sebastians first, last and only love), that causes her to burst in to tears and probebly getting arrested.There the foul play ends with death, a lost love and a mary sunshine turned into the tramp of the campus.The story line thickens at the end and all three (sebastian, annette and kathryn) really live up into their role and play as if it were real. The first and second time a saw it i personally almost burst out in tears myself....I gave it an 8 because of the lesser quality of the begin but the film was surely worth every cent i spent for it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, likely a camp classic in years to come!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wickedly funny and striking story of wealthy, spoiled Gellar making a strange bet with her equally wealthy & spoiled step-brother (Phillipe) that he can't seduce virgin Witherspoon.  Very enjoyable with strong, believable performances and amusing dialogue.  More of a teen version of Dangerous Liaisons, which did inspire this fun trash. Merits three stars! "},{"Title":"Cruel Watching","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surely there was something wrong with the construction of this film, as lots of the ingredients were good. I was often a little confused as to who was trying to out do who, I found unfortunately that I didn't really care. The locations seemed to overwhelm the actors. I wasn't convinced by Sebastions transformation. The two central characters needed to be giants rather than merely competent. "},{"Title":"Erotic, twisted and romantic.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very engaging and erotic drama. Sexual situations and very strong sexual dialogue keep this movie far from dull and moving at a good pace. A sex starved young woman (Sarah Michelle Gellar) makes a twisted bet with her step-brother(Ryan Phillippe). Phillippe is notorious for his sexual conquests. His step-sister bets that he can't bed a devout virgin(Reese Witherspoon) before school starts. The payoff is his Jaguar against doing the horizontal bop with his step-sister.Along the way, Phillippe adds another entry into his journal of conquests, a ditzy child like young woman played by Selma Blair. But the sexploitations come to an abrupt halt when he falls in love with the target of his bet.Also featured in the cast are Christine Baranski, Swoosie Kurtz and Louis Fletcher. "},{"Title":"Could it get any more painful?","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting something more from this film; what I got, rather, was severely bad acting, a very conveniently twisted plot, unrealistic settings and goals for the already perfect characters... I could go on, but why should I?  The only redeeming point this movie had was its soundtrack.If you haven't seen this movie, do yourself a favor and skip it.  Shallow, self-depreciating girls are sure to get upset because they don't look like her, and guys are more than likely to blow Sebastian off as a rich pr**k who uses words that he more than likely doesn't understand.  What a waste of my time. "},{"Title":"Much more than meets the eye...","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the first time a couple days ago.  I didn't expect it to be much more than another comedic, sexy, movie that I probably would not like.  But I was mitaken.I think to REALLY enjoy and understand this movie you have to have been in a relationship where you (1) Screwed it up yourself and always wonder what could have been, (2) Really loved someone that you couldn't have in the long run, or (3)  Fell in love with someone who may have been in love with you, but turned out to manipulate, corrupt and deceive what love is.If something like the above has not happened to you, then you probably won't appreciate it to its full potential.  Very stong characters played by the guy who plays Sebastian, Selma Blair (Cecille) and a dominating performance by Gellar ( who seems to be the perfect villian type for this film.You really could look at this as a love story noire type.  Sebastian who loves his reputation as being able to score with any girl he wishes, makes a bet with his sister Kathryn ( Gellar) that he can bed the new Headmaster's daughter ( Played by Witherspoon)   If Sebastion wins, he gets to bed his step-sister Kathryn, if he loses, Kathryn gets his Roadster.***SPOILER PARAGRAPH BELOW***Sebastian ends up falling in Love with Annette ( Witherspoon) and cannot bring himself to have sex with her, after she finally gives in and truly trusts him enough.  There is some VERY powerful dialogue in Annette's room right before she decides to have sex with Sebastion.  Anyway, Sebastion cant bring himself to sleeping with Annette as he has fallen in love with her, and to do so ( because of the bet) tugs at his heartstrings.  ( Later they do sleep together, but out of love and not the bet).Sebastian ends up telling Annette about the bet because Kathryn threatens to tell her and her father about it, which would ruin the reputation of Sebastion, as well as Annette.   So, Sebastian ( another great piece of acting) pretends that he never loved Annette, and tells her that he only slept with her because of the bet, (which causes her to break up with him, and quiets Kathryn's threat)Later in the movie, Sebastian decides that he cares no longer of his reputation, and that his love for Annette is the true force that drives him.  He sends Annette his journal that has all of his conquests, and the truth, in hopes that Annette will see that he really loves her.The end of this movie is very good.  You must see it for yourself.  One of the characters will die, one will be exposed, and you will see exactly where this movie gets its Title.9 out of 10.  Only flaw I can see is that you never see Sebastion and Kathryn's parents in this movie, yet they live in a lush, rich complex. hmmm "},{"Title":"One sorry film","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except for the performance of Geller, nothing worthwhile. Acting horrible and a poor plot with a miserable story. No substance whatsoever. Geller wastes her talent in a trashy movie. Hard to believe anyone liked this movie. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   A horrible adaptation of Les Liaisons Dangereuses. Though the story is basically the same it is greatly dumbed down for the American audience. If you care little for good acting or interesting characters and are wowed by pretty faces see this version, otherwise see a well made adaptation in the Glen Close/John Malcovich version Dangerous Liasons. "},{"Title":"90210 meets Dallas in a shoot out of bad writers","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seeing this movie, I was extremely disappointed. It pretends to be this remake of Dangerous Liaisons, but it introduces something that ruins it, extremely complex adult themes in the bodies of people who are not complex, nor adults. At one point Sebastian actually says... I tire of sleeping with these Pedantic Manhattan debutantes Yeah, I remember saying similar things at 17. I think when I had sex with young, really hot girls I said something like yippee!. The fact is, no one could have played this script off with a straight face.  "},{"Title":"Characters with all the depth of a piece of paper.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this movie on HBO last night, and was completely underwhelmed.  The story line involves two step-siblings who are incredibly rich, and whose parents are away (presumably always.)Both characters are morally bankrupt, and measure their success by the number of people they sleep with, and by how many innocents they can ruin the lives of.Character development in the movie is non-existent, and we see Sebastian (Ryan Philippe) go from ruthless womanizer to soft-hearted, love-sick fool in an instant.  The characters have very little complexity, and the plot makes no attempt to change this state of affairs.The only redeeming quality of this movie is that it is filled with pretty young people, and is so stupid that I found myself laughing at the sheer inaneness of it. "}{"Title":"A case study in film casting","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What this movie does is wonderfully illustrate the classic question of whether to go for looks or talent in casting your film. It is a remake of Dangerous Liasions, where the roles played by Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar, respectively, are performed by John Malkovich and Glenn Close. Phillipe and Gellar are both beautiful people, and Malkovich and Close are both sadly unattractive. But compare, in particular, the performances of Malkovich and Phillipe as the famed seducer of any woman. Phillipe comes on with all the subtlety of a peice of meat. His acting abilities being puerile and minimal he is able only to spout lines and display himself. Completely lacking depth or emotion, he cannot shift gears or indeed do a dam thing except look arousing. If you would throw yourself at any sexy beast that walked by, Phillipe's character would draw you in. But break down walls of resistance? Forget it! Malkovich, on the other hand, is able to shift gears easily, displaying persona after persona in attempt to win affection of a recalcitrant woman, and he imbues his performance with a shining intensity that makes even his ugly mug well nigh irresistible. If all your looking for is eye candy, Cruel Intentions is the film for you. But if you want a film that engrosses anything other than the sex organs, choose Dangerous Liasons and its carefully nuanced performances which will draw and hold your attention. "},{"Title":"A below grade update","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this is an update of Dangerous Liasons then this film lost the plot amongst it's glossy adolescence. This film was a chore to sit through. Endlessly attractive yet morally reprehensible characters behaving in a completely hedonistic manner did not make for an entertaining film. What could have been an interesting psychological drama about manipulation instead wallows in alternating sexual themes from lesbianism to step-sibling sex. The characters neither draw nor warrant sympathy and by the finale we are glad to watch them suffer in their decadence. "},{"Title":"strong beginning, weak ending","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For exactly two-thirds of its 97 minute running time, Cruel Intentions scores as a nasty-minded, wryly satiric and even mildly courageous teen update of Dangerous Liaisons.  But, like so many movies with one eye cocked towards the boxoffice, Cruel Intentions loses its nerve and settles ultimately for comfortable, safe and hopelessly dull conventionality. Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar portray a wicked pair of step siblings who operate together to prey sexually upon unsuspecting victims, manipulating others to achieve their goals of personal conquest and revenge. It's refreshing to encounter protagonists who make no excuses for their amorality and instead allow themselves to be completely guided by their own self-serving impulses, totally unmindful of the consequences to others. Their schemes are acted out with a callous gleefulness and self-absorbed relish that raises the film to a level of surprisingly sophisticated satire and audacity.  But, when Sebastian encounters his ultimate challenge - a midwestern virgin played by Reese Witherspoon, who has publicly declared in a magazine her decision to wait for true love before offering herself to a man - he falls under her charms and suddenly transforms from coldhearted predator to mushheaded romantic.  This is the major problem with the film. Sebastian is valid and interesting as a character as long as he stays within the realm of sly manipulator and acerbic scoundrel.  When he is called upon to function as a dashing romantic figure, he loses both credibility and uniqueness - and the film itself goes into a freefall tailspin.  For, as Sebastian undergoes his sudden conversion, all the sharply satiric wit simply drains out of the film.  We're ultimately left with little more than unconvincing melodrama, inappropriately tragic overtures and a silly evildoers-do-not-prosper resolution.  What a pity to see yet another in a long line of movies that start out with bright promise, but which finally end up renaging on their initial courageousness, leaving the audience in perpetual frustration.   "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My boyfriend and I went to see this movie opening weekend, and we both really liked it. Sarah Geller was wonderful as expected, so were Reese and Ryan. The clothes that the girls wore were great too! Get me their stylist! Although you want to strangle Sarah Michele, you want to see what she will say next. Go see if you liked Dangerous Liasons, it follows that pretty well.   "},{"Title":"It's just plain MEAN","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The thought of them remaking Dangerous Liaisons was initially quite hard to grasp, as a) the original received 2 Oscars, and b) no actor on earth, and certainly not any born in the 1980's, could do even 1/1,000,000th of the job that John Malkovich and Glenn Close did in the 1987 period piece.Ryan Philippe has obviously studied Malkovich at some length, and does indeed nail the impression of him in two or three instances.  However, as much as I enjoy Sarah Michelle Gellar on TV's Buffy the Vampire Slayer, she is no Glenn Close. She exudes bitch here in every scene she's in, and sexiness, yes, to be sure, but Joshua Jackson does more to show the depth of his character in 5 minutes of screen time than Gellar does with the entire movie. She's had some great moments on TV (compared to this movie), so for this we can perhaps blame either the director or her dependence on her Wonderbra.Regardless, neither her character, nor any other, are given lines as juicy as in the original, though the underlying attitude is there in spades.  I felt like it needed better lines to punctuate these moments, as director Roger Kumble has removed the classic, It's beyond my control, and replaced it with lines that pander to his teenage audience, like I'll let you put it anywhere.As an update, it is quite good, the story was pulled into modern times quite nicely. If you enjoyed this film, and have never seen Dangerous Liasons, go see the original, and find out why John Malkovich could eat Ryan Philippe for breakfast.If you've already seen the original, this is a mild curiosity (including the presence of Swoosie Kurtz in both films), but the 1987 telling is better, and has the better title, too. "},{"Title":"A bittersweet symphony","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Cruel Intentions'is an outstanding film. It is brilliant and superb on so many levels with a witty, intelligent script and marvellous performances by the cast to tie it all together.The main reason why this film caught my attention though was the extremely selfish, flawed characters. They were all enticing, and very difficult to like or relate to -even Witherspoons character was, being nearly inhumanly kind and self-confident. But none the less, they all offered something different and gave different perspectives on the play of events.I recommend this film to anyone, no matter how old you are, even though it is teen rated, it offers something different for every viewer. "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions won't break your heart","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kathryn Merteuil(Sarah Michelle Gellar) always gets what she wants and her step brother Sebastion(Ryan Phillippe) is the same. They break hearts and ruin others for the fun of it. When a high-morale, virgin(Reese Witherspoon) comes to his aunt's for the summer, Sebastion makes a bet on her virginity. If he fails, Kathryn gets his jaguar. If he succeeds, he gets Kathryn, who is the only girl that he's wanted but never experienced. Selma Blair and Joshua Jackson also star in the exciting teen thriller The movie had the great idea the whole way through. The acting was good and the writing was nice, but the real greatness came from the original score. Some of the best music during the movie ever. The music sets the mood instantly. Overall, the movie is a personal favorite of mine and is definite tear-jerker.I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Choderlos de Laclos and our times.","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When Stephen Frears made his much superior version,not only he cast two great thespians (Glenn Close and JOhn Malkovich) but he did not transpose the action to our times .Neither did Milos Forman for that matter.This movie repeats Roger Vadim's colossal mistake of the sixties (les liaisons dangereuses 1960),which cheapens the novel.What was amazing ,disturbing and ahead of its time in Laclos' s novel was that Madame de Merteuil ,who lived in the eighteenth century ,had the mind and the psychology of a contemporary woman.In our times,this character becomes banal,to put it mildly.You can find lots and lots of Kathryn Merteuil (sic) and Sebastian Valmont(re-sic) without calling Choderlos de Laclos to the rescue.IF you have read the book and you want to see a good adaptation ,take the Frears one.If you want another adolescent movie,well... . "},{"Title":"Unforgettable - a must see movie!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Teen movies have forever been stereotyped as lame, forgettable movies with stupid movie lines and plots - and actors that really can't act.Cruel Intentions is one of the few exceptions. Adapted from the book Dangerous Liasions, Cruel Intentions delivers a story one is sure not to forget. The movie is about Sebastian (played by Ryan Phillippe) and Kathryn (played by Sarah Michelle Gellar) - two overly sexually stepsiblings. Kathryn, one of the most loved girls at Machester Prep (the school her and sebastian attend) has a good girl image on the outside - yet is anything close to it truly),is found at the beginning and for a good amount of the movie trying to destroy the reputation of a girl named Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair), who steals away her boyfriend. With help from her brother (after much persuading) she succeeds, but how is the mystery of the story. Sebastian on the other hand has read an article in Seventeen magazine by a girl named Annette (played by Reese Witherspoon)who says she will wait until marriage before getting into the act of sex and is intrigued, for Sebastian has had a reputation of sleeping with girls and leaving them, and since Annette's father is the new headmaster of his school, he just can't wait to give a boost to his rep. by deflowering the headmaster's little angel. So a bet is made between Sebastian and Kathryn If Kathryn wins and Sebastian does not deflower Annette, she becomes the new owner of his beloved car. But if Sebastian wins, he gets to bed and possess Kathryn anyway he wants. Of Course, like in every good movie, things don't exactly go that way, and someone ends up feeling something unexpected love. It's like they say Love's a Bitch. With Oscar worthy performances, and a great movie, if you haven't seen it, you better, because it's truly a one of a kind. "},{"Title":"Whoever made this movie had cruel intentions....","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A definite must not-see.This was either a comic/tragic attempt to produce a dramatic movie based on a great play by using contemporary gimmicks, and casting a bunch of pop-culture performers or a parody of the original (in which case it deserves more credit), a very elusive one however (so the credit is taken back).Overdramatized acting, completely out of place and era, no emotion communicated by the actors--only annoyance at their pretentiousness which was not their fault anyway--and dialogues so full of cliches, that one would as soon watch infomercials on channel 21.In fact I felt insulted, considering that Dangerous Liaisons is one of my favorite films.Happy viewing (hopefully of something else!) "}{"Title":"Good? You cannot be serious","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was recommended to me by my younger sisters (15 and 17). I should've taken into account their age when I when I asked their opinion.This film is really rather tedious, designed for teenage girls who think they are watching a good film because it isn't the usual high-school comedy that film makers create for that age group. This film bored me so much I was checking my watch from 15mins in. The attempts at humour and emotion fell like lead balloons and there was no aim to the weak story line.NOT a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Teeny Boppers at an extreme","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if I'm the only one realizing the amount of teeny bopper films being released lately is alarming.  The same actors are constantly being put in more films together, and essentially being recycled.  Well, when I saw the trailer for this movie I instantly identified it as teeny bopper material, but it did seem to be a bit above that.  After all, it was BASED on Dangerous Liaisons.  So I paid my $7, and went and saw the movie.  Hmmm. Time for me to be blunt  bad acting, bad cinematography-nice try, bad story line, and BAD ending.  It was extremely unbelievable.  So, my good deed for the day is to tell you all to keep away from this horrid film and all other teeny bopper movies for that matter.  "},{"Title":"Pap.","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has very obvious directing e.g Reese Whetherspoon wears either white, baby blue or Barbie pink to make sure that everyone knows that she is the good virgin and Ryan Phillipe wears black to make sure everyone knows that he is a cad. Ryan Phillipe cannot act as he copies nearly every movement that John Malcovich makes in the scene where the cad ends the affair with the virgin. Buffy is alright but they only slung her in there for good measure as she was popular at the time. The only good acting in this film was by that women that use to be in Cybil.The cinematography was also rather obvious as well as the lighting. Close shots of the characters showing their displeasure or confusion and white light on Reese at all times because after all she is the goody.The only thing that keeps this film together is the writting. To keep up with the short attention spans that people have now-a-days they have added an extra twist. The two baddie characters are not ex lovers anymore but step siblings. Lets throw some incest in to shock people.I know I am being a bit harsh on this film but to me it was very dull. They have made a fairly good modern adaptation of the story by Choderlos de laclos but I wish people would watch films older then they are and people should stop making remakes. "},{"Title":"Very clever","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a teen movie, this is a cery good movie, which technically is a updated version of Dangerous Liasons with Ryan Phillipe taking over the John Malkovich character and the women this time played by Reese Witherspoon and Sarah Michelle Gellar.  Thanks to these 3 performances, this film gets to live up to it's reputation because this film isn't just romance and drama (even though it's chock full of that), it is also sweet and funny.  One of the honorable mentions of 1999, definately the best teen film of the year (besides American Pie).  A "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe anyone, ever, anywhere, gave this movie a good review. Someone said something about Sarah Michelle Geller having the best performance of her life.  And something about it being biting, or realistic, or good, or some other semi-positive adjective.  I can appreciate stupid movies as well as the next person, but this was execrable.  Incidentally, no one anywhere acts at all like the people in the movie; for example, nobody hits on their brothers like the stupid girl does.  Terrible... "},{"Title":"Quite simply the worst film ever made...","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movies have been getting steadily worse in the late 1990's.... But this really was the worst of them all. Representing all that is bad about modern film making... Plotless, badly acted, too dependent on a 'poppy' soundtrack, and, most of all, it THOUGHT it was a clever piece of film making.Some films which are considered to be bad, are often so bad, they're good. Cruel Intentions is so bad... It's bad. Not one moment of humour or sadness, not one good performance, not one witty or funny line.The acting is more wooden than Sherwood Forest, this is a prime example of putting good looks before talent... Something which has been rife in recent times.How anyone could think this film is anywhere near good, is beyond me. It makes fume with anger when films like this can be made, when there are struggling film makers all over the world, who have so many ideas, and they don't get a chance to make it in the world of film making.Truly and honestly, this is the very, very worst film I have ever seen, in twenty years of watching films.I've already wasted enough of my time writing about this god-awful film, so I'll stop here.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have every seen","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Awful acting, awful story, awful dialogue. Not at all entertaining, I could not get into the characters at all. You are supposed to want some of the characters to get theirs in the end but I couldn't care less if they played hop skotch with each other (that would've probably been more entertaining.) Just another dumb teen flick that the cinemas have been filled with lately. No was was this a witty or interesting take on Dangerous Liasons. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Adaptation from exquisite to superb to excellent to...borish teenage crap","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My rating of 6 out of 10 is a generous one. However, my opinion has become quite biased over the course of the past few months. When I first saw this film, I liked it very much--not just because it was a good story but because I considered it an adequate adaptation of a truly exquisite piece of literature. This opinion was poorly based on account that not only had I not actually read the novel, but because my only knowledge of the original story was a blurred memory of the first half of Dangerous Liaisons with the glorious Glenn Close. In the opening credits, it is announced that it was adapted from the novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses by Choderlos de Laclos. What it should have said was, Loosely based on the film Dangerous Liaisons by Christopher Hampton based on the play Les Liaisons Dangeruses by Christopher Hampton based on the novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses. Cruel Intentions completely misses the point of the book. Sebastian's relationship with Annette is shallow and based entirely upon his lies. His character does not change at all beyond falling in love with Annette and Katharine is a poor adversary. This isn't a grandiose story of a man who changes his life and dies in sincere repentance, it is a pathetic tail of spoiled rich brats who had it coming. If you have no desire whatsoever to understand the meaning and purpose of the story, enjoy this film with my blessings. However, if you have any respect for the dignity of one of the greatest novels ever written, please restrict yourself to the film Dangerous Liaisons or be content with the book and/or play. "},{"Title":"Weak and awful are both gross understatements...","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How did this ever get made? And how in the world did it ever get an average user rating of 6.5 stars on IMDb? The majority must have been teenage voters, because I doubt any educated cinemagoer could actually enjoy *this*.Essentially a lackluser teen update of Dangerous Liaisons, Cruel Intentions concerns the bet between step-siblings Sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) and Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar with black hair). If Sebastian can lay Annette (Reese Witherspoon), a virgin, then he gets to keep Kathryn for himself. But if he fails, then Kathryn gets his Jaguar. Simple enough, yes?This could have been an intriguing film. But Phillipe is one of the worst actors of the decade, and Sarah Michelle Gellar is no hot catch, either. Witherspoon (the best young actress in the film) is subdued here. She seems like an utter dipsy-doodle idiot cast between a dangerous game between two non-related siblings. Which is the point. But she doesn't seem very intriguing at all, and her performance in 2001's Legally Blonde is by far a much better one.Based on Choderlos de Laclos' Les Liaisons Dangereuses and its original 1988 film remake with John Malkovich, Cruel Intentions is nothing but a modern day pale imitation of a greater picture. Its dialogue is ridiculous and its characters are all stereotypical. We know where the film is going long before it seems to know that we know that, which means we get a lot of stupid and cliched moments in between.This is a bad movie, and a bad remake. Perhaps with someone cleverer behind the helm, and with better actors and actresses, this could have been worthwhile. But then it would have just been Dangerous Liaisons, would it not?* 1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"One feels like a voyeur for watching ... but one continues, with this impressive (im)morality play","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Given that this is - or at first glance looks very much like - a teen flick, it perhaps feels freer than many of the need to engage in adult-style moralising. Indeed in the first half it is (as the title suggests) cruel, brutally calculating and entirely open in its acceptance - and even its lauding - of the most highly cynical and manipulative motives. It is perhaps the way of the world, the way of human nature in film-viewer as much as film-maker, that all of this makes for a shamefully attractive and hotly erotic kick-off to the movie. The faint-hearted should make no mistake, this is a very (for me surprisingly) dirty film, notwithstanding the fact that virtually nothing of any openly sexual nature is even shown. It is well-enough known that Cruel Intentions gets its inspiration from late 18th-century French literature, and so it can come as no surprise that both characters and viewers seduced by the superficial desirability of the depicted life without moral compass must get their comeuppance. And so to the second half of the film, in which half of the cynically manipulative duo that controls the piece so mesmerisingly experiences a change of heart - literally - with gentle and genuine feelings overwhelming those whose roots lie in unbridled lust for sex and power. Inevitably, perhaps, the film looks far less unique and original, and far less compelling, from this point on, though we do have some (guilt-laden) fun in seeing the unreformed half of the duo get their just desserts. We as viewers are happy enough then to point the finger of condemnation at a character whose meanness had at first ensnared us in fascination! For me, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe offer spellbindingly good performances, while it is also interesting (if not especially impressive) to see Joshua Jackson in a pre-Fringe role. Selma Blair does a good job, and all the more so if one can really believe the truth that she was 25+ when the film was made! For this viewer there were far more problems with the Reese Witherspoon part, though this may in part have reflected the change of mood she imposed upon the film, perhaps a little artificially. "}{"Title":"Dull intentions. Dull movie.","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, talk about your overrated movies, huh?Well, overrated in terms of popularity, I guess. The critics didn't really love it afaik, but it sure is one movie most people have heard of. Pretty popular back in the day.So, what do we have here? This is clearly made for teens/young adults. I wont explain the plot, I don't think reviews should do that. Anyway.It's not bad, it's not exactly boring, but it's not exactly a roller coaster ride, either. While it's not bad, some of the acting comes off as pretty bad, though. At least the acting from Selma Blair. Is she supposed to be mentally challenged or something? She behaves really weird at times. The other actors are OK. Reese Witherspoon I thought was pretty good.The main problem with the movie is that it's a little dull. You never really get that wow, I wanna see how this ends!-feeling, and in these movies you need that.The ending is also really poor. You'll probably go what the hell!? with a silly look on your face. I saw this with my girlfriend, and we were like what the hell?! with a silly look on our face. (not that we share a face or anything, we ain't freaks! leave us alone!)So yeah, there you have it. I am disappoint. "},{"Title":"It was an alright film, but not terrific. I probably wouldn't watch it again.","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone, but me seems to love this movie and I thought it was going to be great so I was very disappointed with it. I mean, like it wasn't terrible or anything, but a lot of the film was boring and the only part of it that I really liked was the ending. Although, I did really like Sebastian and Annette's relationship as well and how she changed him and stuff, but I do have to say it was very typical and quite obvious that was going to happen, but I didn't expect the ending. Overall, it was an alright film, but I don't see myself bothering to watch it again and I won't be recommending it to anyone either, but I've definitely seen worse. "},{"Title":"A flat story - And a very underwhelming non exciting movie","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It could have been a good thriller - but it's not. It could have been a good drama - but it's not.Everything in this movie is very streamlined and predictable. It has no exciting highs of drama or whatever exciting twists - instead this is a movie which is slow cooking from the start to the end with a VERY cheap and predictable story.The acting is very below average - the characters don't have any depth but instead are rather stereotypes Stereotyped cliché characters as they come right off the hollywood mill - made for the typical, fast consuming VERY casual movie watcher who otherwise might find joy in the afternoon soap opera on TV. That being said, even in afternoon soaps or on lifetime i have seen movies with more drama and depth as opposed to this flat movie.While the story could have yielded an indeed more than average nice thriller it did not.Also, if you expected a rather erotic thriller (as the reviews/title actually imply) you will be disappointed - there is probably as much erotic in it as in your average Beverley hills 90210 episode.A Hollywood off the mill movie without any depth - predictable, streamlined, right out the 10 for $10 basket. "},{"Title":"Insane!","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Whilst I really like this movie, Cruel Intentions, I think that it is remotely insane for all those young teenagers to be having so much sex. Where were Kathryn and Sebastian's parents at that whole summer? I think it is insane that while Kathryn and Sebastian have so much sex, they don't receive any sexually transmitted diseases or become pregnant. Just because those teenagers are super, mega rich, it does not mean that in the long run, they won't turn a corner and make a mistake, causing one of those two things to happen as a consequence. If Sebastian clams to have slept with so many girls, why is his body so clean of disease? I know those wild kids probably use condoms and birth control, but those things can not always be one-hundred percent protective, especially if Kathryn and Sebastian will happen to sleep with someone who has AIDS, they both can really contract that disease no matter what. I don't think being super rich can be much of a factor in being fully well protected against diseases, HIV/AIDS, and pregnancy. Maybe Kathryn had her tubes tied and Sebastian had a vasectomy, but I'm sure the two want to have children. Landing twenty tricks a day with playing those dirty sex games, trying to degrade and destroy their innocent victims (Cecile and Annette), why don't Kathryn or Sebastian have any sexual consequences as well as Cecile and Annette sleeping with the gigolo Sebastian? It seems completely messed up that while a person is running free and wild, having so much sex, they do not receive any sexual consequences such as contracting AIDS, STDs or becoming pregnant. It's just crazy and does not make a lot of sense and is impossible! Who can have any ideas of how the things that Kathryn and Sebastian do are possible without any consequences? Who can make sense of it? I know that many prostitutes have sex and they don't seem to have any sexual consequences, though, I'm really sure they can at least pick up some diseases. That is my curiosity and wonder on this matter. I wonder who can make sense of these things. "},{"Title":"You wont find a film as deliciously evil or wickedly sexy","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Have you ever wanted to be in on an evil plot? Has it ever crossed your mind that you could change someone's reputation? Now you can by following Cruel Intention's Sebastian Valmont, a ruthless, cunning, young heartthrob, who has pursued more girls than you've had hot dinners.Behind Sebastian's good looks, charm and wealth, lurks a dangerous, evil and seductive liar. Armed with dazzling chat-up lines- he can promise girls the world to get them to do what he wants. What he can't have, he can't resist. He is always up for a challenge- and lucky for him the chance arises when his stepsister, Kathryn Merteuil, confronts him with a bet like no other. Kathryn acts like a perfect student at Manchester prep- who is highly respected by teachers and other students, but in the summer of 99, she returns to her normal stone-hearted self. She along with Sebastian is a dangerous individual with the worst intentions for everyone. She wants to attack her ex-boyfriend- but the only way is though his new girl friend- Cecile Coldwell. Cecile is starting in Manchester that fall- but she not conscious of what is going on.Sebastian's challenge is mainly to win over the new headmasters daughter, Annette Hargrove- who has been fully informed about his reputation. More treacherous than he is attractive, he has never muttered a single word without some dishonourable intention. For every girl he has successfully pursued, has regretted it. Stay away from him. She is smart beautiful and clever- the perfect victim.Set in Manhattan's upper east side this tale of love, advantages and betrayal Cruel Intentions will keep you on the edge of your seat waiting for the next sinful happening. You wont find a film as deliciously evil or wickedly sexy. It's manipulative, brutal and unfaithful. Could it be any more perfect? "},{"Title":"My favourite film.... ever.","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favourite film largely due to Sarah Michelle Gellar in the lead role of Katherine Merteuil. As many audiences before the release of this film, including myself, had only seen her playing 'good-guy' types of roles (e.g. Buffy the Vampire Slayer.) In this film she demonstrates her versatility as an actress and really pulls off her evil, seductress role.This particular format has been done before, as many reviewers compare it with 'Dangerous Liaisons,' filmed 11 years before this film, however, 'Cruel Intentions' is made starring teenagers, for a mainly teenage audience, also updating the language used to that of an understandable format for the majority of teenagers.The style of 'Cruel Intentions' is that of an intelligently written drama with elements of black comedy, the kind of genre that appeals to me, the audience grows to empathise with Reese Witherspoon's character 'Annette Hargrove,' which in films today is a rarity.Overall, 10/10! "},{"Title":"well made film","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, and Reese Witherspoon star in this wonderful sick and twisted tale called Cruel Intentions about making everyone's life as miserable as possible.In this film, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe star as Katherine and Sebastian who are brother and sister and they play games on people filled with cruelty and deceit. When Sebastian reads an article written by Annette Hargrove played by Reese Witherspoon, he proposes a bet that entices his step-sister. The bet is to get Annette to break her virginity with Sebastian; the terms are if Katherine wins she gets his prized car, and if Sebastian wins he gets a night in bed with his step-sister.I was in awe when I saw how Reese Witherspoon subtly played her character with innocence but still knows what is going on. As the movie progressed I was angry at the characters because of what they were doing to everyone; they didn't care who they were hurting. This is a sign of a good movie in my opinion. Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar knew exactly what each other's moves and thoughts.Also, Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon brought magic to the screen that I haven't seen since I saw At First Sight earlier this year with Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino, and I have seen a lot of movies since then. I think we can safely assume that Ryan and Reese were in simpatico together. Sebastian eventually gains feelings for his intended target and begins to have second thoughts about going through with the bet. I like this element because it shows that anyone can change. There are several sub plots to Cruel Intentions but they are not as much fun to watch as the main plot.I was in awe with how well Sarah Michelle Gellar played her character. Known to children as Buffy, The Vampire Slayer, Sarah Michelle Gellar is fighting on the side of good, but here we have another side to an already talented actress; she plays evil so well, I'm very happy to see that she can play a variety of different personalities. I also liked Ryan Phillipe's performance because of the way he carried himself. His body language and movements, dialogue and dialect are so excellent he can pass them off as how he really is.Cruel Intentions was an entertaining film that had a twist added on to the ending that made me go away with a smile on my face. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ''Cruel Intentions'' it's not bad but yes it's a classic teen movie whit that of apposing something for ''if you f*ck that girl I'm f*ck whit you and if you can't f*ck the girl you don't f*ck whit me and you lose your car, but to the end you end fall in love whit her and when you saying you end f*cked for she break whit you'' or something same how many times you see the same story, eh, eh, it's classic I see the same story very much times Other things it's bad directing and bad writing, the act of Ryn Phillipe it's not so good it's a little desvalanced , Sara Michell she is act good and very bizarre, Resse, I love Resse, here got until to not appear much and don't have very dialogs is good, Selma Blair it's the most bizarre thing seen in that assh*le character in difference of that evil characters in she acostumbred give, and I end saying that it's bad directing for don't put attention on the acting of Rayan Phillipe that don't are bad but if is not concentrated. The screenplay like I said it's a classic screenplay of the classic teen movie And that's the only problem "},{"Title":"the performance of Selma Blair Reese Witherspoon and Sara Michelle gellar","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i love this film!! i watched it a few days ago on t.v and i loved it. i think its so cool and funny as well as sad. this film is SO good and i like it because it really makes me laugh. i think it is really sad at the end though when Sebastian dies because that is sooooooooooo sad. it made me cry but when Selma Blair gets her own back on Sara Michelle gellar i think that is the best part of the whole film. Reese Witherspoon is amazing in this film and so is Selma Blair. Sara Michelle gellar adds a spark to the film which is really good. all in all this film is a must - see and i definitely recommend it to anyone who is thinking about watching this film. i wasn't actually thinking about watching this film but now i am really glad i did. i think you should too!!! "},{"Title":"Goes beyond the teen flick stereotype","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Step-siblings Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) are two rich teenagers with the power to manipulate anyone in their New York prep school. When Kathryn gets dumped by her ex-boyfriend for the innocent Cecile (Selma Blair), she takes the girl under her wing and recruits Sebastian to seduce her, planning on turning her into a tramp. Sebastian is bored with the usual girls he's with, and makes a bet with Kathryn over whether or not he can bed Annette (Reese Witherspoon), the new headmaster's virginal daughter, who wrote a column in Seventeen about how she was waiting till marriage. If he wins, he gets a night of pleasure from Kathryn. If he loses, she gets his car. The hunting begins as Sebastian tries to break Annette's hard shell, but complications ensue when true feelings begin to develop.This movie is amazing and incredibly addictive. Not only does it have a killer soundtrack, but the 3 leads are what makes the movie. Gellar seems like a natural as the evil and sexy Kathryn. Phillipe is equally convincing as Sebastian, playing the fake sweet character and the devious true person beneath. Witherspoon doesn't even seem to be acting. Annette seems like someone you could meet at your high school, someone troubled over the decision of abstinence and love.The music is a great addition, and will have you hooked, from when the beginning with Every You Every Me by Placebo, and ending with Bittersweet Symphony by The Verve.Witty, devious, and convincing, Cruel Intentions will make you laugh, cry, and aw at every twist and turn. A great flick. "}{"Title":"Cruel intentions","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great film , don't believe what they say about bad adaptation of dangerous liasons , if anything it out does it . The fact that it is 17year olds and not 20year olds is unnoticeable , the acting is done so well . Sarah Michelle Gellar is , as always , exceptional . She once again shows her talent and out shines the rest . Her character is seductive , cruel and twisted , and she portrays it perfectly . The other characters are good , but you can't help notice that Sarah Michelle Gellar is obviously the more talented . But anyway , the film is a very good adaptation , and is a must see for older teenagers and young adults . It's a stylish , sexy remake and it is a favourite of mine . 10/10 . "},{"Title":"One of my favorites...","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite movies it has everything sex,drugs and...Sarah Michelle Gellar!! Sebastian (Ryan Philippe,54) and his step sister Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar, Buffy the vampire slayer)are two wealthy, manipulative teenage step-siblings from Manhattan's upper-crust. Kathryn makes a bet that her step-brother, Sebastian, won't be able to bed Annette (Reese Witherspoon) before the start of the school year. If he loses, Kathryn gets his Roadster, if he wins, he gets Kathryn. This is my my 4th favourite movie after...1. Scream 2. The Godfather 3. Eternal Sunshine The film co-stars Selma Blair (Zoe, Duncan, Jack & Jane,Down to You), Sean Patrick Thomas (Drakula 2000,Save the Last Dance),Eric Mabius (The Crow Salvation), Joshua Jackson (Dawson's Creek),Tara Reid (Urban Legend,American Pie), Swoosie Kurtz (Outside Ozona,Liar Liar) and Louise Fletcher(A Map of the World)So if you are looking for a sexy, funny well acted movie, this is IT! "},{"Title":"Sincere Though Somewhat-Naughty Story","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although there was a lot of naughty sexually-implicit content, the plot 'per se' is very interesting & sincere. Too bad its sequels don't compare with this one; this one was very sincere, while the sequels were naughtier & not so well executed in my opinion.It's still a movie not recommended for young audiences; it's still an R-rated film because of its implicit sexual content. Besides, there's also a little male-butt nudity which might drive some girls crazy. Although I don't approve pre-marital sex (which was a main subject here), the story itself is very remarkable.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a excellent production. A formidable love story.....we see how love can change people. Sarah Michelle Gellar (Kathryn Merteuil) is a evil girl, his stile is superb, she plants the seeds of evil , with disastrous effects. Ryan Phillippe (Sebastian Valmont)is my personal hero ....his way to conquer the girls, is a 1 in million boy, i'm sorry for his dead. Reese Witherspoon (Annette Hargrove) In one word, is a angel. Selma Blair .... Cecile Caldwell . Like in Great expectations ....pople don't change, we are what we are. Sebastian motto was only god can judge me, but love can love change me I love this movie and i was content to see love making people happy "},{"Title":"This movie is so good it hurts and I ain't no shallow fella neither!","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll start by stating that I am quite the film fanatic and have never felt compelled to comment on the board, but the 6.5 rating is just insane. This movie does not deserve such a low score.I'd definitely say this is more a guy film than a girl film, simply because Ryan Phillipe plays a cocky, shameless womanizer and the typical male cannot help but love him for it. Girls might not like it for that, though the average rating with the female demographic says that females like it more than men (higher rating by .5). Curious. Older folks seemed to be the ones that gave it the lower rating too.Then again, perhaps it just starts off as a guy film, then slowly turns into a girl's film. It becomes more serious, romantic, drama filmed towards the end.I found the personalities and acting in this film to be just precious though, an absolutely rich sense of humor. Acting, cinematography, soundtrack, fashion - this movie had at all.It was also filled with some of the most potential actors and actresses of the next generation. Sarah Michelle Gellar, Selma Blair, and Ryan Phillipe. This is actually Phillipe's best role and will probably be impossible to top as the character is just awesome (in fact, Sebastion is a god to be worshipped by all single and horny men).Anyway, I just thought I'd give my two-cents on the film and it's unfair rating on the site. Make what you will of it. But if you haven't seen this, are under the age of 30, and have nothing to do, run down to Blockbuster and rent it. It's a great young person's film and not in a naive way either. "},{"Title":"There is More That Meets the Eye","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the movie isn't just about some guy who used a large number of girls and raped some; it is not just some thriller, nor do I think that it is necessarily focused just upon the point of how cruel the sister was in the movie, but I believe that the movie shows to the audience the moral that a person can change, and that it is NEVER too late to change. Quote from Cruel Intentions You thought you could just change overnight?..I know you...Your the same.... (- the Wicked Sister.) then the brother, Sabastian, does change. I don't believe that Sebastian was all evil; a.)Every human has a soft spot,regardless, and b.) Sebastian FELL IN LOVE at the end, he displayed signs of regret and remorse for his actions (he was crying when he was talking with the virgin girl about his feelings of denial for their love), and he RISKED HIS LIFE for the girl, and died in the end. I believe that there is a very strong and much more important moral(s) in the movie 1.) It is never too late to change. 2.) Every human has a soft spot, and b.)Never underestimate the power of forgiveness.And there probably are much more positive morals for this movie.There is more to this movie than it just being some thriller. ) "},{"Title":"Two bratty siblings ( Gellar and Phillipe) set out to ruin the lives of people who have crossed theirs.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When i rented this movie i expected it to be brilliant being a huge fan of both Ryan Philippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar. It exceeded my expectations. The plot is very interesting and love triangles are great. Ryan Philippe was amazing in this movie his cocky character was very amusing. Sarah Michelle Gellar was incredible as well. I've never seen her play such a ruthless character and i loved it. Selma Blair, Reese Witherspoon and Joshua Jackson all did a superb job as well. I've watched this movie over and over again and I've never gotten bored. It also has a great soundtrack with Placebo, the verve pipe...the ending absolutely blew me away it was very unpredictable. Some people may not like the complete change of Sebastian (Philippe)but i thought it all fit perfectly together. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Ever!!!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was absolutely amazing. I was hooked to the screen throughout the whole movie. I wouldn't even move to go to the bathroom. that's how good this movie is. Ryan Philipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar are unbelievable actors. Reese Witherspoon is just plain hot, and Selma Blair's kiss with Gellar is amazingly hot. Its not just the hot actresses that make this movie great. The storyline is extremely good. Sebastion (Phillipe) and his step-sister Catherine (Gellar) are evil sibling who take joy in wrecking other people's lives. The main plot comes to a bet If Sebastion can get virgin Annete (Witherspoon) to have sex with him, then Sebastion wins what he has wanted for a long time, to have sex with Catherine. But if Sebastion cannot get Annete in bed, then Catherine wins Sebastion's awesome car. Sideplot Catherine wrecks the live of naive and dumb Cecile Caldwell, as she is out to get revenge.Everybody hates the ending to this movie. i don't understand why. I think it's one of the best parts. it was great seeing the journal Cruel Intentions being passed out, and watching Catherine get busted with coke. This is a great ending. People talk about how the original ending is that Annette turns into someone like Catherine, and gets all bitchy, and steals the car, and mean stuff like that. First of all, that ending would suck. I like Annette as a nice person, not a whore like Catherine. 2nd, I could care less what the ORIGINAL ending says, the REAL ending actually in the movie is awesome. GREAT MOVIEI have not seen the prequel (Cruel Intentions 2) or the 3rd one (Cruel Intentions 3) though, so if anybody has any comments on them, let me know. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SARAH MICHELLE GELLAR & RYAN PHILLIPEE are a pair of evil step siblings attending Manchester Prep school & who set their sights on the beautiful ANNETTE as their next target for their cruel games that they play. The goal is for Sebastian to try & sleep with Annette thus earning Katherine in the process, but when he falls in love with Annette unexpectedly, things start to get out of control. Basically if you seen the movie you know the plot line, but if you haven't that was just a very brief summary of the plot, but there's more to the plot than that, CRUEL INTENTIONS was one of my favorite movies, the plot is fun, the directing was great & the actors obviously had fun playing their interesting roles. The characters of Sebastian & Katherine are so despicable but yet their characters you also love at the same time. Highly recommended & Followed by two sequels, the truly terrible (failed) TV pilot/Prequel for a potential series called MANCHESTER PREP, re-named CRUEL INTENTIONS 2 & CRUEL INTENTIONS 3 which is the only one worth seeing along side this one.**** stars "},{"Title":"Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair were phenomenal!","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair were phenomenal in this movie. This is one of my favorite movies. This movie is definitely worthy of 10 out of 10 stars. This movie definitely way underrated. It should get a full star rating.Everything in this movie was excellent, acting, script, directing, photography and production. Not bad about this movie at all. Ryan and Reese make a great couple in real life and in the movie.******** Spoilers Alert *******One character I hate is Kathryn. She is a self-centered, spoiled rotten little brat, who uses people and gets whatever she wants whenever she wants to, and hurts people. But the good news is in the end she gets her just deserts. Kudos to the cast, crew and filmmakers. Two Thumbs Way Up! "}{"Title":"it was so hot!!!!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this is an excellent movie, it is sexy and so fun, Sarah Michelle G. looks so sexy and hot and she did an incredible job playing this little rich bitch, it's her best performance ever, Ryan did a pretty good job playing Sebastian and Selma Blair was so funny as Cecily, the movie is a very good teen movie, it is not dumb and stupid like she's all that, a Cinderella history etc... this picture is smart and a little deep! with a great and sexy cast! my favorite scene and the best scene was the KISS of Sarah Michelle and Selma! what more can i say? i love this movie and i say everybody to watch! cruel intentions is THE BEST TEEN MOVIE EVER!!!!!! "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favourite films of all, I have seen it so many times i practically know all the lines, sad i know but i really do love it. Definitely Ryan Philippe's best film and probably the only film i think Sarah Michelle geller is good in. You do forget how old they are meant to be in the film, obviously because you know in real life they are older, but also because of the language and the sexual side of it. It has a great story line and has its funny moments, this film makes you feel a lot of different emotions. I loved Sebastian from the start but your meant to think of someone who's is only really sexually driven using girls for his pleasure. Kathryn is the manipulative evil step sister. When Annette comes on the scene a sweet innocent girl who's saving herself for when shes married and is also the new headmasters daughter, Sebastian has intentions to seduce her and change her vows about sex before marriage. Sebastian and Kathryn make a bet and his challenge begins. There are two other characters to this story to make it even more interesting, Cecile who will be another new member to their school who Kathryn 'takes under her wing' is really quite dumb and vulnerable, she does what Kathryn says. Cecile falls for her music teacher, Kathryn sees it as a chance to stir things up, there is yet another story behind this. Sebastian ends up helping Kathryn by 'helping' Cecile in her sexual life, giving her experience to impress her music teacher. This all ends up with a sad and twisted ending as everyone finds out about Cecile and him, and Annette finds out about the bet. Sebastian goes from this manipulative and ruthless person just trying to win his bet to a soppy, sensitive boy who falls in love. You go from thinking he a sleaze to loving him feeling sorry for him. Its a fab story with a lot more to it than you think, you will never be bored with this film it is thrilling and intriguing from the very first scene to the last. With funny one liners, its about sex, drugs and love. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Cruel Intention is  an excellent movie of all time","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found the movie exciting, beautiful works, cinematography is great,awesome and enjoyable to watch. I have learn so much thing in this movie. I'll watch it over and over and never get tired of it. I also love all the characters, there performances is the best, nothing to ask for. To the Director and Writers of this movie all I can say is You guys did the best and superb movie of all time, you did an excellent job. I respect you all. Thanks for making this wonderful kind of movie. I'm hoping and praying that you will make another movie something like this again in the future. Thanks to this site for giving me an opportunity to post a comment about my favorite movie Cruel Intentions. More power to this site. God Bless You All!!! "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sarah Michele Gellar is beautiful in this movie. And the movie is great, i promise. Good play, funny and exciting, but also sexy. What more can you ask for? I truly recommend this movie, and its one of my favorites.... EVER!! There are not many goofs. It is best for people in the age 14-17 It remindes me of the movie Boys are boys and love actually, because of the harmony in the film, But first time you see it, see the whole movie. I didn't see the end, so I had to rent the whole move to See the end So I gave it 10/10, because it was so exciting. Sarah Michelle alone is a good enough reason to watch the movie Love from Norway, Bjørn "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the characters are amazing and i admire the director for this movies but if you liked this movie don't see the sequels please for your own safety i think that the actors in this movie were very good Ryan's performance was unforgettable and so was Reese and i must not forget Sarah she was so good as the evil Katherine the way the writer took the old novel and turned it into this artwork i love it i love it how Sebastian realizes when it is too late that he has made the biggest mistake of his life and when Annette is about to forgive him he dies i mean beautiful and the ending sense omg!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! how everyone finds out about Katherine and she is crying it is mi far scene in all movies when she looks up after seeing that book and u see red eyes with one single tear coming down her face o it is so good and the music couldn't of been better "},{"Title":"Fabulous Film, (best teen movie ever) with some amazingly fantastic performances","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sarah Michelle Gellar is amazing as Katerine, the ultimate bitch, who you love to hate, but through her performance, understand, if not agree with any of her actions as she spirals more and more out of control. When she finally gets her comeuppance, you almost sympathise with her!Ryan Phillipe is sexy and seductive and you cannot not fall for his charms yourself as Sebastian. Famous scenes such as the A toast to victory over you Sebastian and the Sarah/Selma kiss are classic scenes in their own right.Reese Witherspoon is subtlety stylish in her performance, beginning playing it fairly straight but begins to show her comedy potential (for Legally Blonde etc.) and more dramatic scenes later in the script.Despite the high drama and romance, the film even has some side-splittingly funny lines, through wit rather than cheap slapstick. Ultimately a chick-flick, this is the sort of film guys will want to see (for obvious reasons) and then enjoy for others also. "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentions stars (Ryan Phillippe) as Sebastian Valmont and his stepsister Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) who bet against each other on Sebastian bedding the headmaster's daughter before school starts. There are appearances from (Reese Witherspoon) Annette Hardgrove, Selma Blair, Sean Patrick Thomas and Joshua Jackson. The original is clearly a well done seductive, revenge flick, many a type of film have been directed but none as well as the evilness of this. It gave me the sense of feeling that these kids really don't have life experience and take things of importance for granted.A very well thought out soundtrack with songs from Placebo, Bare Jnr, Counting Crows, The Verve, Blur and Marcy Playground, It was a film with songs that definitely made you feel the emotions. .Pros Well Acted, Well set out, Humorous, Evil and EnjoyableCons Predictable in parts, Not as original as it could have been "},{"Title":"best movie ever!!!","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OMG u guys ... this is the best movie i have ever seen and u guys will agree with me! i mean its just great and has a awesome storyline to it. Sarah Michelle Gellar is the best actress ever and this is her best performance to date! Ryan Phillippe and Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair were great too but not as much as Sarah. i could go on for years about his but i cant y'know? and like i don't even know why people don't like it like everyone at my school likes it i mean loves it! and why do they??? because its the best movie ever and it will always be the best movie and Sarah will be the best actress forever!!! watch this movie trust me you'll love it forever like i do. "},{"Title":"Watch it","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I 've seen Cruel Intentions about five times now, and I can still enjoy it.This is an excellent example of how good actors should be placed within a story of mistrust, love and ... cruel intentions. The characters were portrayed believable and and clearly distinguishable, the twists never made you lose the character. Great job from the whole cast (thank god Tara Reid had such a short appearance ...).The beautiful sets, well chosen soundtrack and the satisfying ending round all this up to a good movie, even though the ending was not a typical happy Hollywood ending ... good job done here as well!I'll never understand why you have to jeopardize the success of a movie by making sequels without the original cast and sophistication. If you want to see Cruel Intentions, make sure you get part one. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cruel Intentionsis the best movie ever made....and no mistake It tells the story of two rich Manhattan people...Sebastian(Ryan Phillippe)and Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar).They live in a beautiful apartment building and use sex as if it was out of fashion.But one day Kathryn makes Sebastian an offer he really cannot refuse.He tells him that if he can seduce the daughter of the private schools new principal Annette Hargrove(Reese Witherspoon)than she is his..if he fails then he must give up his vintage jaguar.He accepts the offer....but things start to go badly wrong when Sebastian falls for Annette.Cruel Inentions may not be the most original movie ever made but thanks to a great screenplay and direction by Roger Kumble and a fine cast(Sarah Michelle Gellar being the standout)it becomes an enjoyable and smart romp.It is worth the watch. "}{"Title":"How can you say that?","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is so easy to just watch this movie with supposed adult eyes and see an immature sequence of frolicking, but there is so much more to this movie than a hair-dyed Sarah Michelle Geller trying to get it on with her character's step brother. This movie bypasses the teenage drama label by creating an extremely complex spin to an easy plot line, while delivering a subtle amount of witty humour that can be easily missed. There isn't much other to say about this film without giving too much away, except a note to the nay-sayers It's so easy to say that this film is a blemish on the romance genre because of the copious amounts of profanity and sexuality within, but maybe instead of trying to let the world hear your simple judgement, be prepared to have someone a little more observant and open minded than you to put you into your place. "},{"Title":"Best romance/thriller out there.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie 23 times, and it just gets better each and every time I view it. Saw it first time in the theatres and got it on DVD later on. I’m still looking of the special or limited edition DVD, but sadly I’ve had no luck yet.The manus for this movie is indeed great. You can't really read the whole movie after 5 minutes as in most other movies, but nor do you want to. The acting in this movie outruns the manus by far. One rarely sees acting at this scale. Among the actors in focus it's almost like there are no acting, but reality.View it. Now. "},{"Title":"Teenage drivel - inferior & uninspired.","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Les Liasons Dangereuses/Dangerous Liasons was a great movie, slow at times but then it was a period drama. When are they ever fast moving?Watching Ryan Phillipe ham his way through the same scenes we saw John Malkovich convincingly act out only a few years before was uncomfortable to say the least. I can imagine Phillipe studying Malkovich's performance prior to playing his character because he basically did a scene for scene rendition (or impersonation..) of Malkovish's character.This movie made a lot of money from a largely teenage audience with a pretty cast, uninspired script and b-class acting.I suffered this with some much younger friends who did not make the connection to the previous film and loved this version of the story. If you are young and ignorant you may love this film! If you saw the earlier, better film you will probably do well to stay away - go rent Dangerous Liasons!End of rant. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable.","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a very enjoyable movie and i liked it. It had some very good actors in it that played the role to a high standard. The storyline is a great idea, many people say it's perverted and not needed but hey its only a film don't worry about it.Its about a young man called sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) i think at first he loves his half-sister but then falls desperately in love with another girl played by Reese Witherspoon, she in turn loves him back! however can he put his reputation at stake for the girl he loves? or will he go on cheating people with his sister (Sarah Michelle Gellar)It is a good script, good actors, well filmed it's all there! you should give it a chance it is a very enjoyable film! its also funny and over the top sometimes which adds to the enjoyment of the film!i give it 7/10 for my personal enjoyment and 6.5/10 for other people! but i do recommend it. "},{"Title":"devilishly good","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, and Reese Witherspoon star in this wonderful sick and twisted tale called Cruel Intentions about making everyone's life as miserable as possible. In this film, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe star as Katherine and Sebastian who are brother and sister and they play games on people filled with cruelty and deceit. When Sebastian reads an article written by Annette Hargrove played by Reese Witherspoon, he proposes a bet that entices his step-sister. The bet is to get Annette to break her virginity with Sebastian; the terms are if Katherine wins she gets his prized car, and if Sebastian wins he gets a night in bed with his step-sister.Can we say that we have sick and twisted terms to bet with? I think we can safely say that. I was wowed when I saw how Reese Witherspoon subtly played her character with innocence but still knows what is going on. As the movie progressed I was angry at the characters because of what they were doing to everyone; they didn't care who they were hurting. This is a sign of a good movie in my opinion. Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar knew exactly what each other's moves and thoughts. Also, Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon brought magic to the screen that I haven't seen since I saw At First Sight earlier this year with Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino, and I have seen a lot of movies since then. I think we can safely assume that Ryan and Reese were in simpatico together. Sebastian eventually gains feelings for his intended target and begins to have second thoughts about going through with the bet. I like this element because it shows that anyone can change. There are several sub plots to Cruel Intentions but they are not as much fun to watch as the main plot.I was in awe in how well Sarah Michelle Gellar played her character. Known to children as Buffy, The Vampire Slayer, Sarah Michelle Gellar is fighting on the side of good, but here we have another side to an already talented actress; she plays evil so well, I'm very happy to see that she can play a variety of different personalities. I also liked Ryan Phillipe's performance because of the way he carried himself. His body language and movements, dialogue and dialect are so excellent he can pass them off as how he really is. Cruel Intentions was an entertaining film that had a twist added on to the ending that made me go away with a smile on my face.  "},{"Title":"I LOVE!","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie for my first time just a few days ago. And I would have to say it is definitely one of my top top top favorites. I especially loved Ryan Phillippe he is so gorgeous !!!!! and reese, another one of my favorite actresses did extremely well. ALL OVER TOP I LOVED THIS MOVIE. I don't think I could ever get sick of seeing it. the role that Reese is acting ..and how the movie went about waiting until marriage and breaking that for someone she loves ... it truly made me cry (thats something i can relate to ) ... and to know that they are a REAL couple it just makes me love them even better. Sorry to carry on so much ) lol bye!!  "},{"Title":"I LOVE!","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie for my first time just a few days ago. And I would have to say it is definitely one of my top top top favorites. I especially loved Ryan Phillippe he is so gorgeous !!!!! and reese, another one of my favorite actresses did extremely well. ALL OVER TOP I LOVED THIS MOVIE. I don't think I could ever get sick of seeing it. the role that Reese is acting ..and how the movie went about waiting until marriage and breaking that for someone she loves ... it truly made me cry (thats something i can relate to ) ... and to know that they are a REAL couple it just makes me love them even better. Sorry to carry on so much ) lol bye!!  "},{"Title":"Probably the best romantic drama ever!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" CRUEL INTENTIONS (1999)starring Ryan Phillipe, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Reese Witherspoon, Selma Blair, Sean Patrick Thomas, Eric Mabius, Joshua Jackson, Louise Fletcher.plot Sebastion Valmont (Ryan Phillipe) and Kathryn Mertueil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) are two rich step-siblings who enjoy seducing and destroying their peers. But Sebastion has met his match when Kathryn makes a bet. If he can get the beautiful virgin Annette (Reese Witherspoon) into bed, he can have sex with Kathryn. If he loses, she gets his nice car. But what happens when Sebastion falls in love with Annette?the bad Nothing.the good Great characters! Great directing! Great music! Great drama! Great romance! Great cast! What more could you ask for? Oh yeah!This also has great sex scenes. It is a very sexy and erotic movie, but it also has heart.***1/2 "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movie about bored Sebastian and Kathryn, Kathryn plan's to get revenge on Cecile for stealing her boyfeind so she become's her friend and force's her to do stuff. Sebastian has a bet with Kathryn that he can de-virginise Annette if he win's he get's to sleep with Kathryn if she win's she get's his prized Jaguar 56 roadster but he unexpectedly fall's in love with her..Great Movie, very emotional, I cried, laughed and felt sorry for the characters. A must see. I've read a lot of the other review's and it seem's to me it's only the people who have seen dangerous liasons who are comparing it with cruel intentions or people likely to be in there 40's who are giving it a bad review. It's more likely to be appricated by 13-25 year old's (I'm 13). Very well acted a good performance by all of the actor's and Ryan Phillippe was charming, witty and hot! Sarah Michelle Gellar was great as the cold-hearted bitch Kathryn and Reese Witherspoon as the innocent virgin Annette, Selma Blair was funny as Cecile. I could watch the movie 24/7 without getting bored but I would'nt seeing as I got other thing's to do.The soundtrack is great, I love the song's now I don't listen to one of the song's without thinking about cruel intentions.I rate it 10/10. "},{"Title":"sebastian the life's true character.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel intentions is one film based on bare feelings. Sebastian's role represent those people who believe in love but they are afraid of falling in it.They are afraid of the pain they are going to face when the strong feelings will begin to overcome the reason thoughts of the min. When you become one with your partner and the separation can cause great pain.This character also reminded me the film great expectations and one main character of the film estela.She also was a person who did not want to fall in love but not a person who could not fall in love. As a conclusion i believe that those characters are the only possible characters that they can possibly survive in real life.The reason why is because the can feel, but they have the ability to control their feelings till the point they want to let those just please them and not harm theirselves. "}{"Title":"A work of art by Krumble","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I dont know where to start to be honest.... firstly i dont know why the film has such a low rating on imdb! - its 6.5 at the moment and things should change straight away! its probably my favourite film of all time- no question of that! Ryan Phillipe easily does the best performance of the main actors!- he portrays his character perfectly and anyone who says the acting was poor in the film is stupid! Along with Ryan Phillipe is Sarah Michelle Gellar who also gives her best bit of acting to date. The two act briliantly together and dont put a foot wrong! Reese Witherspood also puts in a great performance (not to the standards of Phillipe and Gellar) and i think this is the film that really kick started her career. The ending of the film is what done it for me anyway! The first time i saw the film i was angry at the ending but after the second and third time of watching i realised what a brillinat bit of directing.... abosolutely brilliant. If you havent watched it- it should be the first one your list...10/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific teen movie","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that after seeing Cruel Intentions 2 before seeing this,I had very little hope it would be worth watching. After all the second film is very poor, with poor acting and a diabolical ending. However, I still wanted to see this and after all, nothing is given away from the second movie as its a prequel. I have to say I thouroughly enjoyed this movie. It has terrific acting,  writing and directing and is very romantic with some decent one-liners in there just like the second one.The best thing about the movie is the ending. I won't spoil it for you but i found it very surprising and brilliantly done. It also wassn't a downbeat one as it gives off a beautiful message to everyone about love. Maybe i'm blabbering on, but I found it excellent all the same.Very enjoyable and suspenseful movie, which is definitely worth watching. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Black comedy at its best","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a real treat for fans of black comedy. Superbly twisted, it stands convention on its head and makes for some very interesting and funny viewing. Not for the easily shocked, the subject matter is so well handled, that you forget it could be controversial. Definitely, one of the films of the year. "},{"Title":"SECOND PART IS BETTER","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   After seeing a sequel of Cruel Intentions, which was surprisingly good, filled with eroticism, I surely wanted to see the first part. Since, the originals are usually better, I had a pretty high expectations for this one. So, was I satisfied? Yes and no. First half an hour is great. Anette (Reese Witherspoon) and Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) are sexy as hell and surely the perfect picks for their roles. At that part I was totally satisfied.   But than, the story gets just to predictable and loses sexual appeal. It's just like a guy falls for the girl and tells her all about how bad he was before. Give me a break, it's just like a soap opera. Ehhh with pathetic ending, naturally.So, if you want more arousing title, watch the second part. But for more romantic souls, I recommend the first part. Both are above average in the teen movies section.6 out of 10     "},{"Title":"Very sexy and steamy the first half, the second half is just boring and stupid","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have avoided this movie for quite a while now, I heard it was just plain bad, but when I read a lot of the user comments, they sparked my interest, so I decided to watch it.  I will say that the movie was worth watching for that very sexy first half, but the acting lacks terribly, and the second half is rather boring and dull.  I have seen the other two traditional versions of this, Dangerous Liasons(1988), and Valmont(1989), and this surpasses both of them in the sex part, but the acting is certainly better in the others.  The cameo appearences by Christine Baranski, Swoosie Kurtz, and Louise Fletcher certainly help this movie's success.  Overrall it wasnt a movie that changed my life in anyway or anything, but it wasnt awful.  I think that 6.6 rating is a little high, maybe more like 5.9 sounds about right. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Excellence","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently viewed this movie expecting a teeny-bopper ticket seller that only would appeal to people who have little taste as far as cinema goes. I was pleasently suprised at this movie after I watched it. Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar are perfect as two aristocratic youths in their twenties. The dialogue resembles that of Reversal of Fortune, it is witty, sharp, smart, and entertaining. The two act as mature adults whose favorite thing in life is to play games with sexual acts on other people. Gellar makes a wager that if Phillipe has sex with the new headmaster's daughter before school starts she will have sex with him, even though they are step brother and sister, if he doesn't she gets his 65' Jaguar. It is quickly and sharply explained that there is more to the deal than what has been wagered, and things will not turn out as both of them intended. I went in with little to no expectations and came out clapping, a must see for anyone. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not as satirical as it thinks it is...","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...mostly it's just perverse. The main characters are all pretty, spoiled rich kids who spend all their time having sex with other pretty spoiled rich kids and plotting to ruin lives. This is not the planet most of us live on.The filmmakers' probably wanted to make some sort of statement about the aimless apathy of upper-class youth, but it mainly gets drowned out by bland acting and overwrought dialogue (no teenagers talk like those in this movie--many of the lines sound ready for daytime television). Most of what's left is composed of shallow attempts to titilate the audience with scenes of hot up-and-coming stars flirting in the most cliched and utilitarian of manners. The movie's sole redeeming feature is the presence of the Verve's Bittersweet Symphony on the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"This version not to be taken too seriously","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In no way would I part with a 1957 Jaguar Roadstar for a few delightful minutes with any of the delightfully sexy actresses in this film - and that is about all of them more or less, even Herta Ware!The famous literary piece by Choderlos de Laclos has already undergone several treatments in several languages, including Polish and Japanese, and a TV mini in French is now being prepared. What was originally a serious dissertation into `affaires amoureux' among the `jeunes gentiles' of the fifties (last century), we now have this pastiche with a very tongue-in-cheek adaptation modernised into a comedy placed in New York.Within this context, Ryan Phillippe (evidently of French extraction) played his part exceedingly well he had me in stitches of mirth in his playing of a posh rich kid bent on seducing one and not getting the other. Madamoiselle Gellar only has to be on screen, and all's well that ends well. Indeed she pops up on my screensaver from time to time, which is a splendid idea. But at least we can say that she has certain interpretative abilities which other beauties of our sex-merchandising world definitely do not have and who should never have made any films of any kind. Selma Blair (Cecile) is imaginitive in her playing of the naïve virgin teenager. No doubt, the deflowering of her garden would lead to fertility....One should take this picture at what it is a skittish farce at most, by no means drama and nor even romance, as purported to be in IMBb's genre categorization. Transplanted from its natural `environ français', the film is no more than a charade, and does not intend to be so as such, it is worth an hour and a half of belly chuckles, mirth in a macho sense, and instantly forgettable.Unless, of course, your wife takes up a Witherspoonish  or Gellar-like happenstance at bedtime but that would be, on her part, merely cruel intentions.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Teen Sex Romp","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie which is suggested by Dangerous Liasions is a fairly entertaining teen take on the classic story. It has a young attractive cast, highlighted by Ryan Phillipe, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Resse Witherspoon. Many of the cast members including Sean Patrick Thomas and Tara Reid would go on to further starring vehicles. I saw this movie as part of a date and remember the evening as a whole was very pleasant. So I guess I will have a somewhat inflated opinion of the movie regardless of its actual merits. 7/10 but not worth watching again. "},{"Title":"garbage is too kind a word","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar ought to hide her head in shame, along with Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon, Selma Blair, and the rest of the cast of this utterly crappy remake of 1987's DANGEROUS LIASONS. Rich, spoiled, over priveledged high schoolers of a prim Catholic school, posing as chaste little model citizens, while they are indulging in sordid sex, drugs, and immoral behavior just for the sake of being immoral. The get the virgin plot is irritating to say the least. Planning and plotting to destroy someone just to win a night in bed with someone else??? All I wanted to say to Gellar's character is Get a life. At least DANGEROUS LIASONS involved ADULTS. This remake, whose stars are most popular with the teeny bopper crowd, is a class one excercise in irresponsibility, stupidity and need I say, pointlessness??? "}{"Title":"Oh my god...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not original.... It's a pale copy of Dangerous Liaisons...Why copying an other movie like that !  And Malkovich is better than Philippe for a role like that... "},{"Title":"A film of sex, not suitable for kids under 18.","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah's cast as Kathryn plays too flirt there. When I first saw Cruel Intentions/ Eiskalte Engel (Germany), Iwas completely shocked by its indecent scenes...especially for SM Gellar's role...SM Gellar isn't very pretty when compared to Mia Sara. SMGellar isn't very pretty when Ifirst met her TV-series, Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Her Buffy Anne summers isn't very winning in her appearance. Ugly girl that no one wish to woo her. Why Freddie Prinze Jr. loves her?The moves from SM Gellar here is too ... erotic that children under 18 shouldn't watch this sex movie. "},{"Title":"good and sexy movie","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie was great, it was perfect for teenagers, all of my friends ((who are 14 or 15 by the way)) loved this movie just as much as i did, it was great, all of the actresses and actors did great in it and it was just great, so watch it sometime. 8/10 rating! "},{"Title":"i love the twist at the end of the film","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER!!!!!! The bet is all about if Kathryn wins, she gets a car. If Sebastian wins, he gets Kathryn. but the bet is to see if Sebastian can seduce Annette, of course the plan goes awry. The film seems to be too much talk about sex, but the way the plot is set out is brilliant. Sebastian and Kathryn are excellent characters they're wealthy, they walk tall and they're confident. but on the inside is Drugs, sex and hurting innocent people's lives. that's why the twist at the end is fantastic, as Kathryn reads the book explaining about the bet, and what a bitch she is. only to make it worse when the whole school reads it as well, and who pays Kathryn back? no other than Cecile who nearly got her life ruined by 'the bitch' put all that together and the fact that Sebastian died saving Annette's life its about a drama you want to see again and again. I mean, come on, you must have been hurt by someone, or you've hurt someone's life, even if its a little bit so imagine if what happened to you was worse (a 100 times worse) then you'll know what it's like to be a character on this fantastic film. "},{"Title":"an amazing adventurous movie","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The amount of times that I have seen this movie still does not make me sick of it. I found it very humorous, different, imaginative and not a nother teen movie. A movie that is for the matured teens and young adults. Ryan Phillipe was once again  fabulous to watch and seeing his character, Sebastian, change and have to choose between his reputation and love is very interesting. Although some may think that this type of relationship between step sister and step brother may not be reality, and I do not know if it is, is what makes it so interesting and appealing. Something different The cast was a great choice and they all played their parts very well and in the right manner that made me love the movie. TEN  starts to the cast and crew as it is fabulous. ********** "},{"Title":"Very cool!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar is very good as a nasty girl in this film, its the side you'd love to see every time she's in a film on on buffy! Ryan Phillippe did a great job as well. A classy film, probably mostly for 16 years and older, but very enjoyable!9.5/10 "},{"Title":"I was surprised it turned out to be good.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Judging from the cover, the cast, and the title, you would probably expect this to be one of those countless teen movies with immature characters and stupid plots. I did. But oddly enough, this is something very different from that. This movie is about two sexually charged teens, Sebastian and Kathryn, who are out to get revenge on certain peers and end up making a bet that Sebastian can't bag the proud virgin Annette. Highly seductive, the two usually get whatever they put their minds -- and body -- to. But it's a challenge Sebastian isn't prepared for, as he begins to see the cruelty and deceitfulness behind everything that they do, leading him to fall in love. Sound like dumb teenage dreck? Well it doesn't appear as that when you are watching it. One reason I took a chance and watched this was because the plot, unlike most movies like it, is something we don't see in too many of these movies. Typical teens in these kind of films are horny, party-driven, and crack a few bad one-liners. On the contrary, these teens screw people whom they know they can play with like pawns, making them victims of their game. They don't go party and drink beer, but rather sit around and talk sex while relaxing in their material luxuries, and they don't crack bad jokes in stupid immature ways, they rather make cold, ruthless remarks about someone and use shrewd language delivered with an expression as cold as ice. They're characters too young to do what they do, and too young to even care. The direction in this movie is classy and doesn't resemble the annoyances of movies like Animal House and Can't Hardly Wait. While the cast and posters, etc. seem to be targeting this movie to young adults, the movie acts as if it's catering to an older audience, pulling them in with its slow, brewing pacing and with dialogue too good for a film of its kind. It doesn't stoop to trying to make itself a teen flick, it does exactly the opposite. One thing I loved was the cast, even though they make it seem like a teenybopper flick. Ryan Phillippe was great as the manipulative Sebastian. Sarah Michelle Gellar surprised the hell out of me because she was so good. I have only seen her in I Know What You Did Last Summer and Buffy, in which she was okay, but when I saw her here I realized this girl could act. She's terrific. Reese Witherspoon was great, as usual, and the rest of the cast was excellent as well. There is a moment at the end of the film where the ruthless Kathryn gets humiliated from beyond the grave by Sebastian. The song by The Verve called Bitter Sweet Symphony soars in the background as Kathryn discovers the contents of Sebastian's journal, now distributed to the entire school, which depicts her as a cold-hearted, evil bitch with a coke addiction, and a single tear rolls down her cheek in slow motion as the school stares in shock. It's a moment so moving that it's a shame you don't see it that often in movies such as this. What did I think of this movie? Well I give it *** out of **** stars. This rises above average for a teen movie. I think the marketing made this a teen flick, it really feels nothing like one. As a guy, I enjoyed it a lot without finding it a chick flick and the story and acting were so good that I couldn't stop watching. This movie really sends a message about deceitful, evil people out there and the reality that what goes around comes around. The only thing keeping this from **** stars is that it's a little awkward for adults to see teens behaving like this. This isn't like seeing them go to a party and drink. These teens are monsters. And this movie is great. "},{"Title":"What I thought about the movie","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I read the book Les Liasons Dangereuse I thought it was excellent. And when I heard that they were doing a movie of it I thought it was an excellent idea. And it was. It truly was. I loved the movie. I´ve seen about a hundred times, and I can see it a hundred more. The story was just great and the actors couldn´t be better. They´re all good actors, but after this movie they became much better in people´s eyes.If it´s possible that you havn´t seen Cruel Intentions, you really should do it right away. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie. I am a big Sarah Michelle Gellar fan and thats why I saw the movie. I didn't even know what it was about I just rented it because she was in it (I've bought this movie since). When I saw it it was wicked good! I really enjoyed it. Sarah. Reese and Ryan were the best. I loved this movie!  "},{"Title":"Very...Interesting Movie","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely one of the strangest romance movies that I've ever seen.  I'm not really sure who this film would appeal to.  I found it somewhat hard to care about Ryan Phillipe's character because he was such a ruthless person.  But, at the end of the film you can't help but feel for the guy and at least like him a little bit.  Sarah Michelle Gellar did a great job of being an unlikeable person.  Sure, she's beatiful, but just a horrible person on the inside.  The rest of the cast did a fine job as well.There is a actually a good amount of comedy in the film as well, most of which is pretty good.I'm not really sure what else to say about this film.  It is a good movie, but not anything to go crazy for.  I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "}{"Title":"Great combination of drama & dark humour... SPOILERS- BEST READ ON IF YOU;VE SEEN IT","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this film several times now (as I own it on VHS), and it's still a terrific film to watch.  It is very witty and funny at times, and at others, goes for straight-up drama. Both work fine.Ryan Phillippe is excellent as Sebastian. His mischievous smile as he humiliates his therapist's daughter (and his subsequent reasoningthat the therapist was overcharging) are very amusing. Also, his suggestive stroking of the tennis racket handle, treatment of the Caldwells in his home and treatment of the old woman he's supposed to be looking after is funny. Phillippe does drama well, too, and really captures Valmont's inner turmoil as he goes through the film. Sarah Michelle Gellar- I cannot believe how well she pays a callous bitch! She is deceitful and manipulative, and she's damn good at what she does. Her delivery of dialogue is great and two of her lines (When I'm through with her she'll be the premiere slut... and Keep your friends close...) were repeated in CI2, but poorly. I was surprised to actually have felt sorry for Kathryn at the end as she got her comeuppance. Was she crying because she was exposed, or as she found out what Sebastian really thought of her?Reese Witherspoon was brilliant as Annette, and Selma Blair was amusing as the rather dim Cecile.I really liked the soundtrack of the movie. I always associate 'Bittersweet Symphony' The Verve and 'Colourblind' Counting Crows with this movie whenever I hear them, and they really add to the scenes they're in.Finally, I was quite amused by the exchange between Christine Baranski and Sean Patrick Thomas, as she doesn't want Cecile dating a black man, but justifies she's not a racist as she and her husband gave money to Colin Powell.  "},{"Title":"A story remade almost as many times as Les Miserables","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Way back in 1782, the novel LES LIAISONS DANGEREUSES by Choderlos De Laclos appeared. The debauched and bored Vicomte de Valmont and the Marquise de Merteuil conspired to seduce the lovely and tantalizingly innocent Madame de Tourvel. If this sounds familiar, you may have seen the 1988 movie with Glenn Close and John Malkovich (Dangerous Liaisons), or the 1989 version (Valmont). Leave it to Hollywood to give the old story a teen slant. Remember the success of Clueless? Jane Austen was made to feel, like, right at home in the San Fernando Valley. Look out, jaded Manhattan! Here come the Ameritrash versions of Valmont and Dangerous Liaisons. Set among the wealthy preppy set on the Upper East Side, Cruel Intentions plays much like the aforementioned films.  It is most fun in the first half, when it is being nasty with a grin. When it turns serious, trying to convert the villain into a lovelorn hero, it goes limp. Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar (though a bit old for prep schoolers) do nicely as the hateful stepbrother/sister team, Sebastian Valmont and Kathryn Merteuil. They make a bet concerning the virginal Annette (Reese Witherspoon), who, according to a revealing Seventeen magazine manifesto, is saving herself for marriage. If sexy Sebastian can seduce her, he will then be allowed to have his way with the predatory Kathryn. If he fails, Kathryn will drive off in Sebastian's prized vintage Jaguar. The diminutive Gellar, as the bitchy mistress of thoroughly modern malice, seems a worthy successor to fill the stilettos of Joan Collins (or at least Shannen Doherty). Ryan Phillippe adds a hunk factor that Malkovich didn't; but as a lovelorn swain he's a tad soft. We could have used more screen time for the Cruel adults, Swoosie Kurtz and Christine Baranski, who do light up the screen for brief shining moments with their brittle deliveries. "},{"Title":"you got to be kidding","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It starts off as an intriguing, sexual thriller, but then turns into a sappy, cheesy, and cliched love story. The cast is good, especially Phillippe, but that can't save the rest of the film. I really liked Sarah Michelle Gellar as the wicked and manipulative sister, but am I the only one who found the sexual escapades and dirty talk between people of that age unpleasant? Could have worked, but it was clumsily written. 2/4 "},{"Title":"This movie has a good message at the ending.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie because of the plot and the ending, the ending was great because Sebastian (Ryan Phillip) understood that he loved Annette (Reese Witherspoon) after seducing her. At the beginning he just wanted to play around with Annette because of the wager that he made with his mean step sister. But he fell in love with Annette, so he died to save Annette as somebody's car was going to run over her. He saved her because of the love he felt for her. It was a good message from this movie, and also Kathryn (Sarah Michell Gellar) had what she deserved for being such a bad person. She cried because of shame at the ending, the whole college found out that she slept with many people, even with her step brother. Anyway it was a good one, see it and think about it even if sometimes this movie was rude.  "},{"Title":"Movie that will f*** you up","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Now, this is truly a movie that will mess with your mind.  People find this to be a romance movie.  But I find it to be very psychological.  Very good movie.  I like the tagline on my DVD. It states They were old enough to know better...but too young to care.  The whole movie is about a man who takes pride other people's misery and then when it finally backfires he succeeds on hurting the first person he ever loved.  His stepsister is a piece of work too.   The movie was great.  I would give it a ten out of ten because it is better than a whole lot of other teen flicks out there.     See the movie.  To me it seems you watch the movie through Sebastian's eyes.   "},{"Title":"A twisted but fun film.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"                     *****SPOILERS*****Cruel Intentions a very twisted film. It's enjoyable though. Sarah Michelle Gellar is good as the 'real cow' Kathryn but the real stars of the movie are her co-stars Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair. It really was quite sad when Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe.) died. I mean he turns 'good' and then gets killed off. Still, it did make the ending more exciting. I give Cruel Intentions an 8/10.   "},{"Title":"It's not bad at all.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film would be terrible, but I was pleasantly surprised, no, it's not great, but it works.I think one has to have a wry sense of humour to get the most out the film. It does feature a sub-standard script, and the film doesn't have much room, but seeing 2 rich evil snobs alienated from society is quite funny.The acting is fine, but let's cut the crap out, you want to see Buffy looking hot, and she is very nice in this. Ryan probably steals the show, his acting was excellent.The script wasn't the greatest, nor was the director's framing.Not a bad way to spend 90 minutes on a Friday night with friends. "},{"Title":"You have got to be kidding?!?!","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have no clue as to why some people feel that this is a good movie.A.) These people are supposed to be in High School??? B.) I'm supposed to feel bad for this dude at the end??? Simply horrible moviemaking. "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  excellent remake of a great classic.  superb performances so good that myself and my girlfriend watch the whole thing without pausing to have some....  the best teen movie ever .  Jackson performance is superb and Geller is stunning more of the same from the young great actor would be great i love this movie!! 11/10 "},{"Title":"this was baaaaaaad...","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is a very bad movie. Honestly i have no idea why so many people in here liked it. Why? Because it's about sex? I guess that's the only reason, cause i can't see another one. And that's the perfect proof of why the cinematography is going down, and why the movies keep getting worse every year. Because most people don't recognise real value anymore. Poor deLaclos (the guy who wrote the novel) is probably turning in his grave seing what Roger Kumble did to his masterpiece.This film is Dangerous Liaisons transposed to our days. What do our days mean? Sex, drugs and cruel intentions. Sebastien (Ryan Phillipe) makes a bet with his step sister Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) that he'll have sex with Annette (Reese Whiterspoon), a convinced virgin. Well the movie is watchable, meaning that you won't get bored, and all the actors play very well, especially Sarah Buffy Gellar. But the rest sucks, including the ending.Vote 4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Solid First Half","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     Story of rich, amoral and predatory step-siblings Phillippe & Gellar, who make amusing bet based on whether Phillippe can score with innocent Witherspoon.  The two leads are so deliciously evil that I can't make the adjustment when mood changes later on.  The first half of the movie, which seems really unique, shows better than the second; I also missed the movie's punch line.  Worth watching if only to see Sarah Michelle as a real b----. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Along with Jawbreaker, American Pie, and The In Crowd, this is one of the best teen movies ever made.  It's not tamed down in the least bit, and it's proud of that fact.  Dangerous Liaisons is one of my top ten but it doesn't even compare to Cruel Intentions in the way of seductiveness and pure evil. Sarah Michelle Gellar does an Oscar worthy performance as the main character of Kathryn Merteuil.  It is so great to see her out of her good girl roles in buffy, scream 2, and I know what... I would compare her performance to that of Glen Close's Madamoiselle Merteuil in Dangerous Liaisons. Ryan Phillipe has never been so believable. Reese Witherspoon was great at playing the innocent child of virginity. And if you don't at least crack a smile a Selma Blair's hysterically funny performance there is something wrong with you. "},{"Title":"I expected a poor movie, and I got it.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say?  It seemed strange that any director, no matter how stoned, would get the idea of staging Choderlos de Laclos' novel in the late twentieth century.  The addition of Manhattan made the scenario all the more improbable.  And when I discovered that the film was set in, of all things, a prep-school (!), I decided to sit back and check my blood-pressure, to make sure I wasn't seeing hallucinations on the screen. Alas, despite all my prayers to the contrary, all of the above proved to be horridly real.  As a result, the film sank to levels of trite mediocrity that *even* the Titanic did not reach. I had difficulty understanding why Roger Kumble would give the film the setting I described above, but whatever his reasons, the social conflicts described by de Laclos proved impossible to set in this place and time. As an example, let us take the sub-plot of Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair) and her seduction by Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Philippe).  It is true that when the original author described this scenario in the upper-class Parisian society of the 1700's, it was a social requirement that a woman must go to her wedding bed a virgin.  What she did after the marriage was her own affair (literally so), but this requirement was strict.  And so, when Vicomte de Valmont seduced Cecile de Volanges in a successful attempt to make her, and her future husband laughingstocks--the conflict was both real and important. However, Roger Kumble neglected the fact that 18th century Paris and 20th Manhattan, while similar in some respects, are not identical.  The fact is, in an exclusive prep-school, no one cares whether or not Cecile Caldwell is a virgin, particularly not her boyfriend (who might even be grateful to be relieved of the burden of de-flowering her).  Result--the subplot is out of place, and utterly pointless. There are a few more difficulties, but this is the major problem of the film.  However, no matter how tragically the film is disfigured by the faux-pas described above, the trite script, the two-dimensional roles, the Deus ex machina ending . . . these remove the last bit of potential. I have nothing to say against the actors.  Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair are good actresses, Ryan Philippe and Sara Michelle-Gellar are simply excellent actors, skilled and talented.  But here they fight against overwhelming odds.  For all their talent, ability and experience, they cannot defeat the wooden movements of their characters, the infinitely dull script, or the almost awesome stupidity of the revised plot.  Frankly, this film resembles de Laclos' original achievement, Les Liaisons Dangereuses, approximately as much as a hacked-up and re-assembled corpse resembles a living and beautiful human being, and the contrast is appropriately terrible.  "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst I have ever seen in my entire life.  It is poorly acted, the characters are cheesy and the ending is utterly ridiculous.  I can't see why people enjoy it at all. I honestly laughed out loud at the ending, which I am rather sure is not what the intent was.  "},{"Title":"Sick, twisted and funny","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is really a good film. The story as you may well know is based on the famous Les Liaisons Dangereuses and I know as well as you that this book has been made into a film a few times before ( the most famous version being the one with John Malkovich, Glenn Close, Michelle Pfeiffer, Keanu Reeves, Uma Thurman and Swoosie Kurtz (who actually is in this film too, as Sebastian's therapist)). I must admit I never saw one of the other films but after seeing this one, I can't imagine one of the other versions is better then this or can even live up to this one. Of course you could consider this top be some kind of a teenie film for all the young people playing the lead characters and maybe it is such a teenie film, but who cares it was good anyway. But leaving that out, the thing I liked very much about this film is that it is not set in the 18th century, but in present time. This makes the film much more believable and exciting, plus you can identify more with the persons and the situations they are in, because they are pretty similar to the world all around you right now.The story is about Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe) and his stepsister Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) who love each other but can not admit it. Instead they go around, having sex as much as they can and destroy people while playing their sick and twisted little games. Their latest games involves the daughter of the future principal of their university. Sebastian bets his sister that he can get Anette (Reese Witherspoon) into bed before school starts. If he does not succeed he must give his ride, a 56 Jaguar to Kathryn. If he succeeds though he gets Kathryn, who is the only girl he can not get into bed. Kathryn also has a little scheme of herself going on, besides that bet, which involves young Cecile (Selma Blair).All of the actors in the film deliver good performances, OK Selma Blair is the least of all actors in the film, but that is caused by the fact that she plays some kind of dorky girl who is kind of dangling behind the rest of the cast who all have had some experience in love or sex. The best performances in this film are clearly from Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar. They both play their roles great and are therefore most memorable. The other actors are good too, but they just do their job, these two characters however are most exceptional and therefore the best. Ryan Phillippe is really good as the wicked and Rich Sebastian, who can have every girl he wants but gets tired of it. He really delivers a great performance, especially in the beginning when he is very wicked and mean but also in the end. The enchanting, pretty and nice Sarah Michelle Gellar as we know her from Buffy really is the best one here (maybe I think that because I am a male but well, who cares). She does not only show that she can play something else then the nice girl but she also shows that she can do it good. In this film she is not enchanting, pretty and nice, on the contrary, she is wicked, sexy and horny. She really delivers a great performance, just see for yourself and be blown away by her. The only thing that I think is a bit pitiful in this film is that we did not see more of Gellar during her teasing sessions and that she had to wear these stupid sunglasses in the park scene with Selma Blair. If you think the same about that glasses, do not worry she won't be wearing them long, plus there will be a good repayment coming up (cool close up Mr. Kumble).On to the film itself, I thought it to be more of a comedy sometimes then a thriller, but hey that is what makes this film great, it's variety of contents, for I HATE it when in a comedy there is really only comedy. I want a mixture of fun, excitement, comedy and feeling and that is just what this film delivers. OK the excitement doesn't build up to the &#145;on the edge of your seat' amount, but you keep on wondering what will happen next, especially in the end which is a bit of a contrast to the rest of the film I must say. This is a film I can definitely recommend to all of you and if you liked Wild Things as much as I did, this is a must see for you.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A fantastic film; one of my all time favourites.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most interesting films I have ever seen.It was originally marketted to us as a softcore pornograpy film with some well known actors (Sarah Michelle Gellar, Reese Whitherspoon, Ryan Phillipe), and for this reason so many reviews for it are bad; as they come from disappointed teenagers who just wanted to see sex and nudity.However, this film has so much more.In a game of seduction, Sebastion is a top player. Any girl and every girl he wants, he has. But his stepsister has discovered a challenge, and a bet is made; to take the virginity of young, prosperous girl who believes that one should be in love before they experience the act of love.But things take a vicious turn as Sebastian falls in love, and can't comprehend the consequences.I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"It is soooooo great!!!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I personally think that this is the best movie ever made! It has such good actors. I think most people of my age 16 think this is a film that combines to the thinks they want to see. And that is Sex, bad language and no violence. Well, that is everything I'd like to say. So go and see the movie!!! You'll love it! "},{"Title":"Sit back and don't think about it too much.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two choices - one can sneer at the sheer hubristic ridiculousness of shallowly transplanting an entire social entity, with its own centuries-cemented tenets, historical justifications, codes and practices - to a story of bored adolescent WASPs; or we can just sit back and laugh and wonder at how people can get away with such things today, even if the comedy is problematic (we laugh at, not with, the victims), the acting less so, and the sentimentality and eventual morality hard to take.  Picnics have never been so much fun, though, and if we think of Sebastian's actions as based on unspoken social precariousness, the film is more perceptive than it first seems. "},{"Title":"Sexy, but characters difficult to care for","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is a slick and sexy movie (especially for fans of Buffy the Vampire Slayer).  However, I was left feeling little about the characters. The film attempts to show very basic notions of good, evil, love and hate. Unfortunately, these are blurred and melt into a bland unpleasantness.  I did not find myself caring for any of the characters and the portrayals of true love were insipid.Cruel Intentions is a wonderful movie to look at.  The cast, the locations and the props are beautiful.  This is not a film to watch to learn anything or gain insight into the human condition.  It is a glittering, sexy soap opera.  You enjoy it, but forget about it moments later. "},{"Title":"The bet","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I`ve never thought it would impress me so much. I didn`t know it gonna have such a big influence on me. This movie draws you in some other world. I don`t know, maybe some people will judge me, but I admire Kathryn. I love her ideas, her dirty plans. She`s smart, evil, communicative, sweet... the same is Sebastian. Cruel, cunning, dangerous. I bet my friend I`m gonna watch this movie 100 times. And i know i will. Everytime i find something new , something special....it drives me crazy. I can`t control myself when i see Sebastian. The actors were great. They did their best. You know, I wish i could be an actress... "}{"Title":"This movie blows goat balls!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie with some friends and I was actually 'sushed' - booed for making the sarcastic comments this movie so desperately, desperately deserved. Cruel Intentions now officialy joins my list of modern movies that will someday wind up on Mystery Science Theater 3000, or its latter-day equivalent. This cinematic offal-heap features marginal actors reading a marginal script with marginal skill... truthfully the only thing we're watching for is a never-seen breast shot of any of the hot young actresses. The movie's sole saving graces are extremely short plaid skirts and the unbelievably cool car. Don't be fooled by your friends or family - this movie exists solely to elicit your wittiest and most humorous wisecracks. Live it up and give Cruel Intentions the roasting it so richly deserves! Final Note Do NOT, repeat, do NOT see this movie sober! "},{"Title":"Cruel, twisted, yet moral.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great film from a great story. Ryan Phillipe's blatent and blunt interpretation of the character of Sebastian fitted in well with the innocent yet devious portrayal of Katherine, by Sarah Michelle Gellar; an actress whose talent is possibly still hidden beneath the Buffy stereotype. Her acting here is a sure sign of good things to come, and once and for all shows that she is not just the aforementioned TV character.Gellar and Phillipe's on screen chemistry is as obvious and brilliant as it was in their previous joint venture I Know What You Did Last Summer.Some people have questioned the content of this film; implying that it's sexually charged nature and general content are not applicable to the ages of the characters portrayed. In my view, the content being related to the teenage lifestyle is what makes the film. The shock which gives the film it's edge would be lost if the characters were older. The film also faces up to the fact that teenagers these days do get up to these things. People were shocked by the graphic detail in Saving Private Ryan, point is, reality usual does shock. Yet in true Hollywood style, there is a moral justice served in the finale. It definitely does portray The Bitter Sweet Symphony of Life and at last we have a film that shys away somewhat from the Disneyesque naivity still so common in movies today.An excellent movie with good acting, direction and some strangely comical moments. In-line with the tradition set by John Williams with Indianna Jones and Star Wars, followed my James Horner in Titanic, the music makes a powerful influence. The use of The Verve's Bitter Sweet Symphony in the finale was inspired. Well worth seeing!. "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the best film I've ever seen!!!So many good actors and the topic is really for youngsters.I can only advise you to watch the film.You can laugh nearly through the whole film. This film can be shown in English lesson!!!! "},{"Title":"Wicked, sexy and twisted.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Sarah Michelle Gellar(scream 2) and Ryan Phillipe(crimson tides) do extremely well as the hot headed brother and sister, and have solid support from Selma Blair(girl) and Joshua Jackson(scream 2). The beautiful Reese Witherspoon is the only disappointment as the 'bet'. Looking back, i can now say she was quite wooden, and not as good as she was in S.F.W with Steven Dorff and Jake Busey.The story seems simple when you look at it;Kathryn and Sebastian are two filthy rich youngsters who have a bet. Kathryn bets Sebastian that he cannot have sex with the strict virgin Reese Witherspoon. If he does, he can have Kathryn for a night, if he doesn't then Kathryn could have his car.But the story is not simple. Soon Sebastian has fallen in love with the bet, and Kathryn doesn't like it(very similar to she's all that) and she will stop at nothing to get Sebastian out of love. Jackson gives very funny support, as does Selma Blair, but Witherspoon just trails behind.A great sexy black comedy with terrific performances from the two leads, Gellar and Phillipe. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie Of The Century","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow...where should I begin?  The casting for this movie was phenomenal!! Sarah Michelle Gellar truly shines, as she does in every role she plays. Ryan Phillippe gives an awe-inspiring performance, and seems to work very well with his wife Reese Witherspoon, also giving an A performance.  The supporting cast rocked, from Selma Blair to Joshua Jackson.  No characters in this film could've been casted better than these actors and actresses.Now, on to the plot.  It's the most original, fun, sexy, and intriguing plot I've ever witnessed.  There's actually 2 plots, that eventually tie in together with the explosive finishing scenes.  Kathryn (Gellar) is out for revenge on her ex lover for dumping her for an innocent little twit, Cecille Caldwell (Blair), while at the same time, Kathryn and Sebastian (Phillippe) have a bet going on that he will be able to bed their school's new headmaster's daughter Annette Hargrove (Witherspoon).  The plot thickens to the point that you just can't get enough of these delicious, conniving characters!  It's the most fun I've ever had watching a movie.  10+++++++ All the way!!!! "},{"Title":"An excellent movie where the queen of mean gets what she deserves","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was incredibly impressed with this movie. I felt it was beautifully made and had some wonderful scenes. Ryan Philippe played the part of rich bad boy Sebastian perfect-they coulnd't have chosen a better actor for the role. Although the movie starred 2 actors who played real jerks, the movie had some fine romantic scenes like when Sebastian kisses Annette in the subway and Iiked the Counting Crows song they played during it as well. And you couldnt ask for a better ending.. . The love story that was developed between Sebastian and Annette was awesome. An excellent movie that will leave teenagers as well as adults with a huge crush on Ryan!  "},{"Title":"trashy fun","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a trashy,but fun movie. the first time i saw theending i thought it was sort of bad,but not as bad as  people had said. im used to the ending now. it's almostlike wild things except without the million twists,but istill thought cruel intentions was as entertaining as wildthings. because too many twists can be a little in bad taste sometimes. i give cruel intentions **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Do not be kinky, kids!","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie about High School intrigues, that wants to give us the impression that it represents more than the usual 90210-cliché-Teen-Farce due to the fact that it is based on a classic novel. That makes the movie even worse. Transforming the main characters into the typical stereotyped soap-opera beasts with flat characters to whom their reputations on the High School schoolyard are the only matters, was not only improper, it completely relieved the story of its tension, replaced by an absolutely ridiculous scenario, while the ludicrous story line is multiplied by over-exaggerated acting. The ineptitude of the final scene where the intriguing beast is exposed by the genus of the cool poster-loverboy, who has finally found the path of virtue (unfortunately a little bit late), is hard to bear. All the descent pupils on the schoolyard shake their heads in disgust, nearly mouthing `Boy, have you been a nasty, bad thing! I will never give you a piece of my morning break muffin again!', while a tear is rolling down her cheek, mirroring `Oh, my god, my reputation is gone!' Why not put a sign on the lawn that says `Be nice to each other. Indecency prohibited.'? It would have saved money for movies that matter.   "},{"Title":"Can I have my 2 hours back please?","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am horrified at all the positive reviews I am reading about this movie. I practically had to have people pin me down and hold my eyes open in order to finish watching this boring crap. The acting is some of the worst I've ever seen, the lines are soooooo stupid, and the characters are not interesting. I found it hilarious that the blonde girl (I've forgotten every characters name. oh well) who was supposedly so set in her not until I'm married ideals, gives up her virginity as soon as someone tells her that she loves him. I guess it doesnt matter since her character was never built up anyway. Don't waste your time on this one. Oh, and don't be fooled. The ending is not emotional or anything either. "},{"Title":"wicked fun.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A brother makes a bet with his sisterIf he is able to seduce a virgin and have sex with her,he gets to have sex his sister,but if he loses she gets his car.Wild,sexy drama is acted pretty good from a solid cast and Sarah Michelle Geller steals the show as the sexy sister.A really good ending.Rating**** (out of five)      "}{"Title":"Nothing But Stupidity.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I saw this movie.  Yes, I regret it.  I dearly wish that I could have that time in my life back.  I saw it at a second-run theater, and I still feel like I was ripped off.  This is DEFINITELY NOT a wonderful or witty movie.  This is just a vehicle for sex play.  If you want to hear immature bimbos discussing sex or see adolescent boys conducting activities with themselves that probably can't be mentioned in this format, then this is your movie.  This is just another piece of fertilizer that Hollywood has put on our plate "},{"Title":"Not a patch on Dangerous Liaisons...","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but not at all bad. Ryan Philippe was better than I expected after 54 and I Know What You Did Last Summer, and the rest of the cast was also above Neighbours-standard, though it could have used more bite. Give the makers credit for not making it an entirely happy ending (besides, as the wonderful Roxanne realised, these days girls are far less likely to take themselves off to nunneries), and ditto Sarah Michelle Gellar for not essentially playing Buffy Summers in a dark 'do. I also liked the fact that Selma Blair's character left all indications that she'd be seeing the black guy again.But Joshua Jackson's dye job... to quote Will Smith in Men In Black - Damn! "},{"Title":"An incredibly sexy movie!","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing more seductive than power and money.  Take those two elements and combine them with a cast that is beautiful itself, and you have the perfect mix for the sexiest movie since perhaps Basic Instinct.  When Gellar is telling Phillipe what she'll do to him if he wins the bet, well I can bet that every male viewer gets a little more excited than what he was only seconds ago.That is the true strength in the film is that it takes very good looking actors and puts them in situations that exude sexuality and I must applaud Gellar and Joshua Jackson in particular for taking on the roles they did. Both are against type cast for them but they pull it off without damaging their appeal.  And that in itself is amazing.The story itself is fun and the film is well made, but it is watching these young actors have fun on screen that makes the film worth watching.  When you rent this, don't analyse this film too much, just enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Spectacular!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that Cruel Intentions was absolutely spectacular!  The acting was the best I've seen from Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe and Reese Witherspoon.  Reese Witherspoon hasn't given a performance like this ever since Pleasantville.  Great new update of the classic Dangerous Liaisons. This is one of my top 100 films.  I give it 9 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is based on Dangerous Liaisons, a French novel of the 1800's which has been made into a wonderfully evocative film in 1988 directed by Stephen Frears. Roger Kumble who made Cruel Intentions claims to have never read the original novel. This version would lend credence to that!Ryan Phillipe (54) plays Sebastian who in Cruel Intentions is a rich, Manhattan Prep School student. He takes a bet with his step sister Kathryn (Sarah Michelle Gellar) that he can seduce and bed the virginal Annette (Resse Witherspoon) who is the daughter of the new school principal. If he loses he has to give his step sister his swish car. If he wins he gets to screw his step sister.This film doesn't work. The Stephen Frears film featured dangerous morally unstable French aristocrats; creatures who would always be more malicious and insecure than a couple of spoilt high school kids. It takes more years than these children have gathered to become conniving enough to be convincing bastards.There were deliciously desperate, ornate social conventions to be adhered to or broken in Dangerous Liaisons. One had the sense in the earlier film that the depravity of the main characters was a symptom of a wider breakdown in society.And the innocents were truly innocents in Dangerous Liaisons and it was awful to see what happened to them. In Cruel Intentions on the other hand the main innocent victim becomes an idiot, represented by Cecile (Selma Blair).And so Phillipe and Gellar sneer a lot and it's just annoying. But Kathryn wears very trendy rich girls clothes.   "},{"Title":"How did this movie get a 7+ rating?","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's see...the acting was okay, the screenplay wasn't THAT bad, but this was no good movie.  First of all, it looked as if it had been edited with a meat cleaver--I can recall only one shot that lasted more than 20 seconds and virtually EACH LINE of dialogue was followed immediately by a cut. Both of these are pet-peeves of mine.  Would it kill the director to let the actors act for more than a few seconds at a time?  Would it kill the editor to allow more than a yard of continuous footage to grace the final product? To be honest, I knew this was going to be an uninspired film before the opening credits had concluded(uninteresting footage, bland music, distracting).  Another distracting element was that of the score.  I'm talking about the back-ground music during those SMG/RP scenes in which the soundtrack did nothing but alert me to the fact that the score was monotonous and bland to a boredom-inducing level.  Don't these film makers realize the value of an interestingly shot, creatively edited, properly scored film?  I guess not.  A bunch of other things bothered me as well, but I'll limit the rant to these 1) no high-school students act like this.  I know it's a generalization but I'm willing to go out on a limb.  2) the 'virgin manifesto' writer succumbed to the temptations of sex by hearing the oldest after school special sex no-no(if you love me you'll...).  and after that didn't quite work out she waited, what, two days?  Come on.  3) I thought they had something with the ending but they crapped it up with the look/shake head scenario and the silly flashbacks.  It just shows that the film makers wouldn't know a good scene if it bit them on the ass(which this one practically did).  Finally, 4) Why was Reece Witherspoon driving Sabastian's car in that last scene?  Whassup with that?  I'd be curious to see what a competent director/producer/editor could do with the script. "},{"Title":"for teenagers only","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dangerous Liaisons did it so much better just a few years ago.  This is embarrassing by comparison.  Monosyllabic dialogue.  Caricatures as opposed to characters.  Why bother? "},{"Title":"A Big Surprise!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I thought that I was going to hate it. Just another lame teen flick, I thought. Boy was I ever wrong. This is a splendid little film that had me laughing about some of the events that had taken place, for a few hours afterward. This is a modern remake of Dangerous Liaisons with young adults filling the main roles. I think perhaps the reason that I liked this film so much is because it is the first movie that I have seen about teenagers that is really for an adult audience. The use of one's sexuality as a weapon is a concept that one would usually associate with adults, but in this film it is played out through young adults or teenagers in a very witty, smart and funny way. However, this movie isn't for everyone. There are likely to be many viewers offended at the frankness of the sexual dialogue and situations. But if you can get past all that, the moral lesson is sitting in plain view.  "},{"Title":"An evil pleasure","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a dark but funny satire of all the pretenses in polite upper-crust society. This is the same crowd that Mark Twain portrayed in his GILDED AGE a century ago and which is the late 20th Century's version of the Gilded Age's Eleventh Commandment -- thou shalt not get caught.People who have minimized Ryan Phillippe before because he has played wide-eyed innocents may have to revise their thinking. He plays a demon who conspires with his step-sister to destroy people -- but all in the most civil ways. Yet, he hasn't completely killed the soul within him.As to whether anyone violates the Eleventh Commandment -- I won't spoil that for you. See it. It is shocking and wickedly funny.   "},{"Title":"Wickedly Fantastic","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently viewed this film with a few of my friends and must say this film was wickedly fantastic.  Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe played their roles of Kathryn and Sebastian with great skill.  They made Kathryn and Sebastian as spoiled, devious, deviant, conniving, and of course, manipulative as those two characters could get.  Reese Whitherspoon acted the pure and chaste Annette very well and Selma Blair was great and very humorous as the naive Cecille.As much as I like the main characters and the actors and actresses who played them, I really would like to commend Joshua Jackson as Blaine.  His little five minute part in the beginning of the movie was one of the most hilarious parts, especially when he was in bed, filing his nails, that just made me laugh incredibly hard!Overall, this film was very well made, very good for a film capitalizing on the sudden revival of the teen flicks.  "}{"Title":"bored and horny society teens orchestrate sexual scandal","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Amy Heckerling with her on-the-mark version of Emma ala Beverly Hills circa 1996 (Clueless), director/screenwriter Roger Kumble transports the classic Les Liaisons Dangereuses to contemporary high school society with imagination, cleverness and clarity. But instead of the incredibly rich and spoiled teens of Bevely Hills, the incredibly rich and spoiled teens of Manhattan are the students of choice.Just like Heckerling, he chose the perfect students for the game.The film works in all the right places. Casting is surprisingly good, with even Sarah Michelle Gellar's annoyingly nasal voice quickly forgotten, as these performances attach themselves to the audiences directly, seductively, solidly. Simply put, all are immediately interesting.The script has ingenuity. The story moves exactly as the book, staying true to it's soul. The translation seems more like channelling.The production is of the highest quality, settings lush and detailed, well suited in establishing the enormous wealth that these young people have.Although the film's final moments may be a tad less than successful in conveying a real devastation between all those involved, the film as a whole is a wonderfully pleasurable experience, deliciously sinful, stimulatingly sexual, wholly intelligent.I would recommend this film, especially to those interested in psychology of relationships, contemporary society and family, the art of seduction, romantic tragedies. "},{"Title":"Lavish but Limp","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Cruel Intentions' has guilty pleasure written all over it. Sure it's tacky, sure it's tasteless, but damn is it fun to watch. Its sultry cynicism is difficult to resist, and for what it is, Roger Kumble will keep your attention as he keeps the motors turning and the film chugging along. It's breezy entertainment, and though it had potential, 'Cruel Intentions' eventually settles for something slightly less memorable.'Cruel Intentions' does start out with promise, the dark layers of comedy are sinfully sweet and wildly entertaining to watch. It's never believable in the slightest, but the over-the-top cinematics is just enough to make for great late-night fare. Ryan Phillippe's quest to take Reese Witherspoon's virginity, Sarah Michelle Gellar's efforts to corrupt Selma Blair. All in a days work for these two step-siblings apparently, who also happen to share intimate interests in each other.Unfortunately, 'Cruel Intentions' is also riddled with too many flaws that aren't as easy to forgive. Roger Kumble receives both writing and directing credits here, and his efforts are mediocre at best. The script is as stiff as an oak tree, and the dialogue forces a mostly talented cast to turn in horrid performances. Phillippe and Witherspoon have the desired screen presence, but even they can't make 'Cruel Intentions' any more convincing than it is.Ultimately, what begins as an audacious and sexy thriller unravels into a much more predictable and dull romance. As it goes through the motions, we care less and less. It ends with a bang, but there's nothing one can really take away from a film like this. It throws morals out the window, and a devilish atmosphere makes 'Cruel Intentions' maliciously entertaining for a while. Rich white kids doing awful things to each other probably comes off sounding better on paper than on film, but it's not a total disaster. A lavish but limp picture.More reviews at rottentomatoes.com/vine/journal_view.php?journalid=219276&view=public "},{"Title":"It was an amazing movie","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although most people think its disgusting due to the incest actions being portrayed in the film, it was a good movie. The movie shows many things and the whole incest thing was not the main part of the movie. The main part was pretty much, that Sebastian had changed. He was no longer a manwhore, because he fell in love with Annette. There was also the problem that Mrs. Caldwell had with Cecile's interracial relationship with Ronald. And how Kathryn wanted to ruin Cecile for stealing her boyfriend. Lastly there was the problem with Kathryn tricking Sebastian into thinking he didn't love Annette, thus leading to his death. If you still think the main problem in the movie is about incest your mistaken. Even though, they ruined it by making Cruel Intentions 2 and 3. Cruel Intentions 2 was meant to be a prequel, but it was terrible. They did not use the same actors, and I think if they used Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe the movie could have been better. And Cruel Intentions 3 was meant to be a whole other story. After seeing 2 I have no interest in seeing 3. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie surprised me a bit; after reading the plot outline, I didn't think the movie would be very good, but I was wrong. It's actually pretty good, the plot is interesting and develops nicely, the acting is very good, especially the actors portraying the main characters. The main characters are entertaining, as they have wit, intelligence and the useful ability to effectively manipulate anyone into doing what they want. As a result of that, a lot of people might hate them, but everyone gets pretty much what's coming to them at the end of the movie, so you don't leave after watching the movie unsatisfied. The humor of the movie is very typical teen, but no extreme stuff(like, for example, American Pie). It's all very down-to-earth, and it's entertaining and interesting to watch. The movie is good for the first two thirds, but then it starts to fall off a little, especially since the director suddenly decides to give the audience a moment of typical romance movie happy-ending near the end, but fortunately, it doesn't last, and the end is just as it's supposed to be; not mushy and ridiculous, but rather satisfying. If you like teen dramas, give it a try. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Genuinely entertaining","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yet again one of those surprises that I have seen quite a few of the last month; that is, films that I didn't expect much from that turned out to be rather good. Cruel Intentions is a genuinely entertaining film, although one of those films that is not for everyone. Well, no film really is, but Cruel Intentions is rather special and its language et cetera might not appeal to everyone. Well, Reese Witherspoon is great, of course, although she has yet to top her performance in the very violent, but funny Freeway. Sarah Michelle Gellar also did an acceptable job. Ryan Phillipe is not a very good actor, but I think the part as a young Valmont really suited him and I think he did a fine job.Of course, this film is based upon the French epistolary novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses and when you think about that book you will think about at least one or two films (other than CI) which are based upon that novel Milos Forman's Valmont with Annette Bening, Fairuza Balk, among others, and Stephen Frears's Dangerous Liaisons with, among others, Glenn Close and John Malkovich. Now, you can debate over which of these films is the best, personally I like them both, even though I call the latter as interesting as a cold fish in my comment on Valmont here at IMDb. Well, that's not true, and I've never thought that, I was just upset by the fact that I seemed to be the only one who saw the superiority in Valmont. And the two films are very different when it comes to style, tone and mood. Valmont is a very playful and sensual adaptation of the novel, while I feel that Frears's film feels a bit more distant, although still very good. What I'm trying to get at here is that the ones who prefer Valmont over Dangerous Liaisons will probably easier accept the playful wickedness of Cruel Intentions. Now, both Frears's and Forman's films are vastly superior to CI, but I still think that CI is a very entertaining film. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Takes poor films to new heights (or should that be lows?)","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh dear. No, in fact, oh dear oh dear. This was without doubt the most trite, cliched excuse for a film I've ever seen. This film was so full of tripe, they could can it up and sell it as dog food. The film was just bad on so many levels. Firstly, lets take the cast. Individually they're all capable, but put them together, and nothing works. Seeing Sarah Michell Gellar trying to pass herself off as a teenage student (ala Buffy) was just hilarious. I would have laughed out loud had I not been so depressed. And we all know how they choose the female characters for this film, don't we? I have a fair idea how they converted the original book into this film. A group of B-writers sat round a table with their tacos and they each had a copy of 'The Big Book Of Film Cliches'. They then proceeded to take every single one, whether it was applicable or not and work it into the film. Potential Spoiler; The final piece with one character getting killed by the taxi was poor in the extreme. Overall then? You can guess. Don't see this film unless it would save a human life, and chances are you'll take your own after this. "},{"Title":"1/10 is the lowest score allowed - would have given 0.15/10","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very poor acting, ludicrous unlikely characters, spiced up Berverly Hills 90210 dialogue.I found this film to be offensively awful and had to leave before the end.I can't believe so many people thought this was a good film. The makers obviously produced the right type of movie for their target audience. "},{"Title":"This is one terrible movie","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit something I will remember this movie for a long, long time. It ranks amongst the worse films I have seen in my life. The acting is down right horrendous, the plot never goes anywhere and the dialogs are just plain idiotic. At one point I was in total disbelief that I had spent my money on this, as well as the fact that I was discovering true competitors against the cast of Ed Wood's Plan 9 From Outer Space, in the Worst Acted Film of all Time Category. I also have a conflict with the movie's content and the way it is handled. The Breakfast Club inevitably comes to mind, because of its teen-oriented theme. After seeing that movie, we all got a clear message about tolerance, teenage relationships and real-world social problems. After seeing Cruel Intentions the only message I get is Cheap sex sells and overriding peers' convictions to build one's ego is cool.  "},{"Title":"An Utter Waste Of Time And Young Talent","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Given the combination of a sure-fire story (filmed to variously fantastic effect twice before in Dangerous Liaisons and Valmont) and two of the most vivacious young actresses around (Gellar, Witherspoon), how could this movie have been made so crude, boring, and pointless?  Posturing rather than conniving, our supposedly savvy characters spend most of their time trying to squeeze their motivations into the needlessly updated NY setting.Blair plays Cecile as village idiot rather than innocent, marring most of her scenes with stringless puppet pratfalls.  Phillippe keeps getting cast for his looks, and continually proves that they are certainly all he has going for him.  Gellar's wickedness is way overcooked, and Witherspoon barely escapes unscathed, if only because direction is lacking to such an extent that anyone could have stood in Annette Hargrove's shoes.Better to bite into tinfoil for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cruel Intentions is one of the most awful films I have ever seen in my life. Yes I have seen movies that were more poorly done than this but I have never been so frustrated by a single one.  The first half of the movie was very creative and funny, but an hour through the entire feel of the film changed and became depressing.  It is like seeing half of two different films and then putting them together as one.  Each half of the movie is good on its own but putting them together is like stopping Jurassic park half way through and then adding the Care Bear's Movie.  Further more, there needs to be a time when people in Hollywood realize that to make a good movie aimed at teenagers you need a good plot and not try to sell the film by having hot young actors doing drugs, talking about sex, and parading on film in little clothing. "}{"Title":"Another teenage rip-off film.","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the previews of CRUEL INTENTIONS I was hoping that I would like it.  It had a WILD THINGS quality that looked good, and a good music soundtrack.  Well, after seeing the movie, the soundtrack is the only good thing about it.  This is an awful movie, how awful?  Well, let's just say, it makes MY FAVORITE MARTIAN seem like an Oscar contender (and I hated MY FAVORITE MARTIAN as well). I didn't like Ryan Phillipe's character, he was a cruel and evil minipulator who get pleasure by humilating women, so why should I care for him?  And his bet?  If he loses to seducing the new headmaster's daughter (Reese Witherspoon), his step-sister (Sara Michelle Gellar) get's his nice 1956 Juguar.  If he wins, he gets to have intercourse with his step-sister. And who said that inbreeding isn't hip! And most of Reese Witherspoon's and Sara Michell Gellar's scenes consist of them unbuttoning their blouses to show cleavage to excite the men in the audience, but con them by only showiing cleavage (you get more cleavage from the poster than in the movie, guys). And when Gellar tries to teach a naive girl how to French Kiss looks like something that came from SHOWGIRLS.  Don't waste your time on this rip-off of the film DANGEROUS LIAISONS. What an awful mess!    * out of ***** "},{"Title":"AMUSING FILM!","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"                   I know this is not a comedy film, but it sure had me laughing in more ways than one.  The sexy scenes, the language and the horrible way in which the actors had to portray EVIL thinking brother and sister was WAY OUT!   I must say that Reese Witherspoon,(Annette Hargrove),Vanity Fair,'04 gave a great performance and was a very beautiful young virgin who did her very best to stay that way. However, Ryan Phillippe (Sebastian Valmont),Company Man,2000, romanced  Annette in every way that he could and teased her to death.  His great acting made you want to hate him to no END!   Don't take this film serious, just enjoy it if you can. "},{"Title":"why would the world create this film?","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll be brief. The plot line is schmaltzy. The dialogue is shallow. The character's are intensely annoying. The ending is predictable and unneccessarily over dramatic. The only thing redeeming about this film.....actually there is nothing redeeming about this film.  "},{"Title":"Probably the worst piece of trash I have ever seen","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because I am a big fan of Reese Witherspoon, a wonderful actress who was just great in Pleasantville, and because I also like Sarah Michelle Gellar. This movie, however, was a huge disappointment. Right from the beginning, I had the feeling that I was watching little kids play dress-up. Ryan Phillipe and Gellar are required to play two people who are very hard and cold and thoroughly evil, but they just do not have the experience or the depth to pull it off, and the result is some really awful acting. Neither of them is even remotely believable. Throw in a very predictable script, even for someone who does not know the original story, and you wind up with one sorry mess of a movie. I kept wondering why a fine actress like Reese Witherspoon would even bother appearing in something like this. Maybe because her husband was in it? I don't know. What I do know is that this is the first time I have ever wanted to march down to the video store and demand my rental fee back, because this movie definitely was not worth the $3.67 I paid to see it. Bottom line don't waste your time on this mess.  "},{"Title":"Disgusting, terribly stupid","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is disgusting. From the visual aspect, I've never seen a movie which such a lot of ugly men in my live. The main actor who plays Sebastian is unbearable he looks like DiCaprio, behaves like a girl, wears silly coats and believes he can play the big big man. I wanted to slap him the first time I saw him on the screen. Then there is this actor from Dawsons Creek, I also couldn't stand him. I also found it stupid that his boyfriend, that football player, didn't out himself to his team. Didn't the first player out himself in 1994? History and facts seem to have no meaning to the director. That he is so stupid and lets himself blackmail by Sebastian was also terribly silly. Don't waste your time on this movie. It's a big pile of trash.  "},{"Title":"The only cruel intent here is they want you to pay money for this","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie stinks so bad,that it gives off an odor.The acting is horrible with the possible exception of Reese Witherspoon. Sarah Michelle Gellar looked like little more than a little girl playing dress up in her Mom's clothes.It was far too mature a role for her.The film also suffers from a highly oversexed plot.A complete waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"What A HORRIBLE Remake","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could see how people who have never seen Dangerous Liaisons would think it's a good movie, but for those who have seen the original this is a horrible, HORRIBLE remake. To all those who think it's a great movie and a modern classic of course! It's because it was a tenth of what the original was. It's as if the writers didn't get, or didn't like, the harshness and the passion of the original's ending, so they made a nicer, prettier one (which no doubt would be more comprehendable by the younger audience). This movie not only has blatant catering to the appetite of hormone enraged teens, but bad acting to boot.If you're looking for lots of sexual innuendo (with no nudity) and heavy petting from hot girls, this is a good movie. If you want to see some softened, lighter themes of the original, this is a good movie. But the sheer idea of taking a classic, remaking it -while dumbing it down- blows my mind.If you're a real movie fan, skip this one and get Dangerous Liasons. Leave Cruel Intentions to the kids. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever.........","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do I require an IQ of 20 to appreciate this laugh of a movie??  When I saw the trailer for this, I just hung my head in sadness.  I could tell that this movie was made to cater to the little teeny boppers of the world who watch way too much Buffy and Dawson's Creek.This is by far the WORST adaptation of Les Liaisons Dangereuses ever created.  If it weren't for the strong original story line this movie would have been an episode of the usual crap on the WB.Phillippe should have stuck to his usual garbage movies, which don't require any acting skill.  And Sarah Michelle should stick to killing vampires. Merteuil and Valmont are two of the greatest villains ever created.  But in this movie they have neither the wit nor maturity to have the characters come off as the most evil people in the world.Besides the 'kiss'(which I didn't mind), the only redeeming part of the movie was the performance by Reese Witherspoon.  She did an admiral job, even though the script was weak.If you want to see the proper adaptation rent Dangerous Liaisons.  It is superior in every way (3 Oscars).  But if beautiful people who can't act is your thing go out and buy this one!!  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointing","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who has seen the original version of this movie or at least the american version (dangerous liaisons) should agree with me that  cruel intentions is all about tears, drama and tears again but in a very unfashionable cliché way and the idea behind it is how to make a lot of money by making some teenage girls cry a lot and get them touched by an only in your dreams kind of very unreal romance. The movie is so poor and acted so badly that you can only laugh about at the end. Avoid it in every possible way. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Appalling","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Garbage from the get-go. Nothing redeeming about this film. If you enjoy movies that deal exclusively with the baser instincts, then this one is for you. Stilted performances. If I had paid to see this missterpiece (get the pun) I would have demanded my money back. Who are these inept actors that think they might be gifted. Such a sham. I say, destroy the prints and make believe like it never happened. Whew!!! "}{"Title":"Garbage of the worst kind","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take a cast consisting of *very* popular youth actors, put them in a motion picture aimed for teens, and what kind of audience do you expect to see the movie?  Teens!  Well, I wouldn't dare let children ever view this filth. The language is obnoxiously suggestive, and the explicit homosexuality runs rampant.  I have nothing against sex/homosexuality/bisexuality, I just feel that we should not hype this kind of material as fun and entertaining for the youth of America when it is done in such poor taste.  What kind of world are we living in when our children go to a movie to hear Sarah Michelle Gellar repeatedly moan I wanna f***?  I am appalled that someone would release this material for a teen audience.  We've already got enough sexual immorality in our political and entertainment industries, so why subject to youth of America to this crap?  Whatever happened to the good old days of movies being comprised of *plot* and *acting*?  I know that these are hard concepts for current filmmakers to grasp, but I am not alone when I say that I am sick of this rubbish constantly invading the cinema.  And before you accuse me of being a grumpy adult, please realize that I am 19, this movie is aimed at my generation, and I still find it repugnant. "},{"Title":"A cruel detention","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being forced to watch this MTV-ish version of the 17th century novel Les Liaisons Dangereuses was like a cruel detention. I found the lead actors Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar neither sexy nor interesting, and the crude dialogue is used to try and hold attention to a tiresome plot that stretches the viewer's patience.As most people know, the story is based on a bet between the bored, rich main characters to deflower an innocent girl. Reese Witherspoon, however, is good as the target virgin.Throw in some hatred towards gays and blacks, and what results is a repulsive film that could only be enjoyed by the type of facists portrayed in the main roles. If you want some WELL-DONE dark humour, go see Election - also with Reese Witherspoon. "},{"Title":"I'd rather be at the dentist.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CRAP...Pure, unadulterated CRAP.  What garbage this poor excuse of a film was.  Where do I begin?  Sarah Michelle Gellar - Defines this new generation of actors.  A person with marginal acting ability who can somehow get far in Hollywood.  Ryan Phillipe.  His portrayal of Valmont is stiff, contrived and devoid of any emotion or substance.  Reese Witherspoon - One dimensional crier.  Overall this movie was horrible.  A modern adaptation of Dangerous Liaisons which is incapable of holding anyone's interest (Unless you're some female teenybopper between the ages of 13 and 17) that lacks style, dialogue and most importantly.......TALENT!!  I saw this bomb on cable and can't believe I actually sat through this abomination.  This film is exactly what's wrong with Hollywood these days.   Lets take an excellent story written in another century, adapt it to modern times in a high school setting, and pass it off to the brainless, airhead moron teenagers of today as some kind of avant gard perception of how the other half lives (if we're lucky maybe we can weave some kind of message in there).  Cruel Intentions is CRAP .....plain pure and simple.  Throw it in the bargain crap bin along with the other movie adaptations of the same ilk and marketing formula that are out there today (a la 10 Things I hate About You and She's All That) and light the whole thing on fire.  Do not waste your time on this garbage.  I wish I had that hour and a half of my life back.SSB - New York City "},{"Title":"What do People See in This Movie??","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie at running camp when I ran cross country in high school...that makes it about 9 or 10 years ago. I thought it was horrible, depressing, and depraved then. I saw the movie recently when it was on TV and, being one who likes to dissect movies, even ones that I don't care about, I watched a bit. It was every bit as bad as I remembered when I first saw it.The characters are poorly conceived, the character development is empty at best, and there really isn't a single likable person in the entire movie. Everyone is a rich, over privileged, shallow psychopath. Not even the good and pure characters are all that likable or anyone that one can relate to. Every bad thing that happened to anyone in this movie, I thought, Well, that's what you get for being an idiot and/or jerk. Action=Consequence. Plus, the acting and the script were laughable; it was as though this movie was written and acted as a group project in a high school drama class. Every last one of them, Phillipe, Witherspoon, Geller, Blair, all of them, while having little to work with, did not pull off their roles at all. Really sad for actors who already had pretty established careers. I thought Hayden Chrstiansen was better in Star Wars than Ryan Phillipe was in Cruel Intentions.This movie was Mystery Science Theater bad. "},{"Title":"Mostly well cast but let down by poor script","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is well known that I do not in general like frock films. For that reason I have never seen Dangerous Liaisons. Also I hate John Malkovitch, I can't tell you why it's just one of those things. Anyway I do like Sarah Michelle Gellar, in an avuncular and wholly healthy manner of course, and so I had to watch this film on DVD. It is, as you know, an updating of aforementioned D Liaisons. For all I know D Liaisons was a very good film and indeed my wife tells me that it was though I don't know if she can be trusted in the matter of frock film criticism. On the other hand I can reliably tell you that Cruel Intentions is not very good.Because the film has been out for so long I have read comments on SMG's performance that range from praising her abilities through to saying she is out of her depth completely. I think she tries hard but she has no chance of succeeding with this material. Ryan Philippe also tries hard and is more successful. I actually found his character almost believable and he clearly has a great future. Reese Whitherspoon did absolutely nothing for me and I think she was miscast. Selma Blair was completely outstanding and I can feel that familiar avuncular tenderness creeping up on me again as I think of her.To the material. This has to be one of the most appallingly written scripts I have come across in a long time. It was stilted and contrived and whilst older actors might just have got away with it, the dialogue was completely wrong for this set of young and very talented actors. If you modernise the setting then I believe you have to modernise the dialogue or at the very least give it enough idiomatic spin to sound right for the characters. If you've ever watched Buffy then you know how it's done. It is always difficult to divorce actors from long-running TV roles but this story really cries out for the Buffy treatment and I just wish Joss Whedon had been given the job of writing it. (As an aside I recently watched Alien Resurrection again and came to the conclusion that one of its biggest problems was that Whedon couldn't write so effectively for older actors).The overall problem is simply that you never believe in any of these characters or their actions and motivations. I believe that it would be perfectly possible to make this film work with better dialogue. Shame. Still it is still worth watching for SMG and Selma Blair. "},{"Title":"Biting,  bittersweet  and very very good.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A biting dark (drama?), plot discussed a lot here so I won't get into that but there maybe someSPOILERS AHEADMany people(including me) thought this would be a typical teen movie but it isn't. I was very surprised by this movie, never thought I'd lump it in as one of my favorites. It's got some awfully evil scenes, in fact the whole subject matter is pretty twisted but that doesn't take away from the essence of the movie.Great acting by all involved, Sarah Michelle Geller plays one of the most despicable female characters I've ever seen in a motion picture,I know a girl similar to this character once, I think the absolute realism of the film(sadly, there are people like this in the world) is what makes this movie work so well.I hope if people haven't seen this they will. It's so well done and unfortunately got lumped in as one of those teen movies. I think anybody who appreciates a movie like Heathers will probably enjoy this film.The fact that it ended the way it did showed how unhollywood the movie is. The last scene is absolutely PRICELESS, actually the last couple of scenes. I;ve also seen few movies where the signature song was so appropriate, Bitterswet Symphony was the PERFECT song for this movie, absolutely perfect.To sum up-9 out of 10. Excellent! "},{"Title":"Still entertaining, but goofier on repeat viewings","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though I still enjoy this movie, I have to admit that the film gets goofier and goofier on repeat viewings.  It's slick, funny and altogether entertaining, but the more I watch it the more I realize how unrealistic the film is.  It especially pales in comparison to Dangerous Liaisons, which has its flaws as well, but is much more smart and ingenious.  I still find Sarah Michelle Gellar attractive, but for some reason I no longer find her all too sexy--and this is a big leap, since I used to have a crush on her.  Plus, her performance is very one-note, failing to express the same subtle humanity Glenn Close did when portraying the same character.  With Ryan Philippe, though his acting still needs plenty of brushing up, he delivers the right amount of emotion needed for his character and nicely inhabits the role of Sebastian Valmont.  One of my problems is the film's dialogue, which is sometimes as goofy and unnecessarily raunchy as it is pretentious.  Some of the songs in the soundtrack are highly dated, and now sound way too lame (i.e.  Praise You by Fatboy Slim).  However, I did feel Bittersweet Symphony by The Verve fit perfectly with the final scene.  But the score is effective, helping intensify the film's erotic tone.  I recommend this film if you're in the mind for some fun, entertaining, Dawson's Creek-like fluff, since that's all the film really is.  It's not quite an artistic gem, though some of the set and costume designs are beautiful.  But one thing's for sure  it's a hell of a lot better than the sequel!  Except this film doesn't have a girl-girl shower/kissing scene, which kinda sucks.    My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"The Side Of Buffy You Have Allways Wanted To See.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i dont have much to say about the movie except that if you like Sarah Michelle Gellar (and who doesn`t)  then you should watch this movie. Sarah is perfection in the female form she uses what she has to get what she wants and it usually works to.she is lies and is decietful and backstabbing and two faced .and  that is not the way we usually see her act is it boys and girls.i think that is why i like her in that role as much .all the way through the movie she is a tease and she knows it she knows how a guy thinks     and what he thinks with god help us guys if all women were like her but would that really be a bad thing decide for your self on that one.me personally i think it would be great to a certain extent...yours sincerely..the person that is allways on Sarah`s mind (i wish)Trachtenberg. "},{"Title":"Sexual Games of the Young, Spoiled and Rich","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Geller and Ryan Phillippe play teenaged stepsiblings living a life of wealth and luxury on the East Side of Manhattan. Their life is devoid of adult supervision and they are free to let play to all their libidinous appetites. But sadly they're jaded and bored and to amuse themselves they use their money and sexual prowess to screw over their schoolmates. Their latest mark is a virginal classmate played by Reese Witherspoon who is marked for seduction by Phillippe.  The movie mostly works thanks to the efforts of the actors. The dialogue is not as smart and crisp as this type of movie requires, and the actors look a tad old to be playing prep school kids.  But for an evening's rental, it's not a bad choice. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Stupid","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this one was fun but it shouldn't be taken seriously.  The best performance was by Gellar, but that's not saying that much.  Rent Dangerous Liasons for the real McCoy. "}{"Title":"It is a cruel movie to watch, and dangerous to take somebody to","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie SUCKS.  I did not like it.  I guess I am being a little drastic on it, because I liked the beginning.  However, this movie's ending was total crap.  However, I liked the previews better than the actual movie.Plot This is a teenage version of Dangerous Liasons, which I highly recommend.  It starts off interesting enough, introducing the Phillippe character as taking picture and posting on the 'net.  It even continues good.  It has interesting twists-teaching how to kiss, interracial phobias, and teaching how to kiss-lesbian style-but they stop through the middle. Once the story gets half way through, it is as if the writers say, Well we are exhausted.  Let's just xerox the rest of the script.  Nope, no more gimmicks, this will be inoffensive from here on out.  It is as if they just ran out of imagination.  At least dangerous kept its steam.  The ending of this movie was awful too.  They changed it for the happy-happy teenagers who have nothing better to do than hope for the best endings.  GET A LIFE!!!  I almost forgot, this movie takes the sex scenes out of a sexual movie.  There is not nudity, save Ryan Phillippe's butt.  It would have been better if we had seen that when he has sex with one of the people.  This movie should have been PG-13, or if it got an R rating, it should have had nudity.  A non-offensive, no-nudity, no-violence, no-language, 'R film that tries to be offensive is retarded.Acting  It is too easy to compare the actors of one movie to the other, so I won't, except in saying that only Sarah Michelle Gellar nor Ryan Phillippe get the cruelty of the personalities down compared to the other two actors. Sarah Michelle Gellar is kind of believable as the evil one, but it doesn't ring true.  I despised her acting, although I loved her character, because I felt that somebody else could have done a better job, while others could have done worse.  I hate almost believable acting.  Ryan Phillippe was too flamboyant and gay to be the cruelty posterboy.  He just let everything hang out, and I wish he would put it all back in, and get a job he is good at. The innocent girl wasn't innocent enough, and the rich girl was too easy for her part.  The acting sucked.All in all, this movie was a bad movie, but if you see it, you should have seen it in the theaters  I heard people saying, in the back of the theater, Phillippe's nipples were erect, and they were.  It's hard to help yourself from looking.  Then I was grossed out.  It's hard to see this on a TV screen though.  The acting was horrible, and the script was unimaginative.  See the real version, at least it has nudity.-----------3 "},{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This attempt to renovate the classic French novel Dangerous Liaisons and re-market it for American teenagers is hit and miss, but it's more miss than hit. The thinking behind it is sound - Dangerous Liaisons has just the right amount of sexy backstabbing and scheming that would appeal to a large audience of younger viewers who wouldn't go for a film about 18th century France. The story is transferred quite well to modern days and rich American brats, and the script has a couple of very witty pieces of dialog.But there's far too much amateurish talent on board, too many trendy TV-stars of the time that can't really make the script work. Ryan Philippe and Reese Witherspoon do surprisingly well, bringing out quite a bit of depth into characters that might have been one-dimensional otherwise; bust some of the other actors, notably Selma Blair and Joshua Jackson, deliver flat, campy, over-the-top performances that belong on network TV - worst of all is Sarah Michelle Gellar who has no idea how to convey the complexity that her character should have.Their amateurish, soapish acting makes the witty, pseudo-intellectual dialog feel forced and very unrealistic, and coupled with the uninspired directorial work, cinematography and soundtrack, it makes for a pretty unsatisfying film, that has some good moments but not enough of them. "},{"Title":"Weak Ryan Phillippe in watchable but mediocre adaptation","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a watchable adaptation of 'Les Liasons Dangereuse' with the lead characters played by hormone-crazed teens. The film doesn't do justice to the novel and occasionally pulls its punches. Still, its watchable thanks to two decent performances. Reese Witherspoon has a natural charm and is sweet. Sarah Michelle Gellar has a lot of fun with the juicy role of the amoral vamp. She revels in making sexual innuendo. Alas, the male lead Ryan Phillippe is terrible. I never believed his transformation late in the film. This hurts the film since the spotlight is generally on him. Watchable but mediocre.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"The best example of poor film-making","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was so much taken aback and nearly outraged to see such a high rating for such a low-quality film that I couldn't help but give vent to my bewilderment at such a vast number of people who can praise such a lousy piece of poor story-telling, unconvincing, nearly bad acting, awkward film-making and enormous amount of pretentiousness and snobbery. The film was, I think, one of the worst efforts to adapt a solid classic novel to modern times with one of the most deplorable results, that is a Beverly-Hills enters aristocratic world of spoiled French nobility. Very unbelievable and strained! With a bunch of extremely unsympathetic characters! None of the brilliance of the classic Dangerous Liaisons!I think that too many unsophisticated teenagers are allowed to watch too many stupid movies. A provocative thought has just crossed my mind at certain moments some kind of censorship needs to be introduced to limit the amount of crap the youngsters imbibe at an early age. Otherwise they would grow up into adulthood with a distorted notion of what good film really is. A dangerous trend for the whole film industry! So let those teenagers stick to Beverly Hills, where at least a healthier kind of relationship is displayed. "},{"Title":"trite,unbelievable, poorly written and acted","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was obviously meant to stimulate the hormones of the teen crowd. I am well past my teen years but since I still remember being one once I tried to view the movie through younger eyes.  What I saw was a movie full of stupid dialogue and cliches (eg,Sarah M. Geller telling her stepbrother she would f**k his brains out if he won the bet) and over-acting.  Did the producers really believe Geller looked appealing in the costume she wore (and seemingly never changed)? Sarah appeared uncomfortable in most scenes and one can only think that her TV image as Buffy precludes her showing too much skin. I have never seen a worse ending than the one in this movie.  The writers obviously ran out of ideas and went to the melodramatic.    "},{"Title":"Watching self-indulgent jerks for 2 hours.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The end of this movie tries to make you feel sorry for this repulsive yo-yo having an attack of conscience for what he has been doing to this not-so-virginal virgin.  It doesn't work.  This pairing of wicked stepchildren has little merit, especially when the sister welches on her bet anyway, ruining the whole premise of the film! "},{"Title":"The worst movie of the year","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on a whim not having heard much about it and I can honestly say that it was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The acting was terrible and I found myself not giving a damn about any character in the entire thing.  If it hadn't been raining outside I would have left before the end.  The only redeeming quality of this steaming pile of a film was the amazing Jaguar that Ryan Phillippe's character drives.  I wish I had that hour and a half of my life back. "},{"Title":"You can stick this anywhere - like IN THE TRASH!","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I had a flame thrower, and there were no legal consequences, I'd very happily devote my time burning every copy of this film ever made. I have 10 words that describe this film, but I won't mention any of them, because censorship won't allow it.Yes, it's THAT bad.Now watch, as every teeny-bopper girl in the US tries to copy their new role-model, played by Sarah Michelle Gellar. I felt like an idiot watching this movie. It was also the first and only movie I ever walked-out on.Yes, it's THAT bad.I'd get much pleasure spitting on the producer. It's a cheap, quick money investment for them. In the meantime, it's a slut tutorial for young people (hey - I'm only 18 myself). They'd be better-off watching a porno. At least in a porno, the acting is better.  "},{"Title":"Sexy, glossy rubbish","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A youth version of the much better Dangerous Liaisons. This is the story of Ryan Phillippe and his step sister (Gellar). Phillippe lives to seduce and destroy young Manhattenites while his step-sister seeks revenge on an ex-lover. The bet is made that Phillippe cannot seduce the virginal headmaster's daughter (Witherspoon) - the stake's his vintage Jaguar against sex with Gellar.This takes the basic story of Liaisons and simplifies it for a younger audience. There are some funny moments near the start and it is wonderfully sexy - epically Gellar kissing her young (female) friend and teasing Phillippe relentlessly.I don't have any problem with the film using sex and titillation as a larger part of the action, however I do have a problem with the lack of anything else substantial. The acting is terrible - the only good performance being Gellar (but only when required to be sexy and nothing else). The script leaves a lot to be desired and fails to engage. This lack of performance leaves two problems.Primarily the acting fails to bring any spark to the characters but also all the players are totally spoilt Manhattan brats that have everything they desire - this makes it hard to care about any of the relationship problems in their lives.If you can past the bad acting and spoilt Ivy-League characters then this is a vaguely titillating film but other than that it's pretty vacuous - relying on Buffy kissing girls to bring in a MTV audience. Don't be taken in by the gloss - watch Dangerous Liaisons instead.  "},{"Title":"Horrible acting and storyline rubbish","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I know this movie was meant to be trashy and have some well known actresses in this but this was the worst film they were ever involved in!This is worst like the 50 shades of Grey movie, I mean it's just terrible! Why on earth did they have to add in such sick references with only just sex and no romance in the film? I honestly didn't think Reece Witherspoon's and Ryan Phillippe's character's relationship didn't quite seem to be lovey Dovey but only just sex just get the sisters bet.I honestly think they shouldn't have done this movie and they made that girl Cecile really ignorant then actually being smart about the whole thing! God, I just hate this movie, it's awful stupid! "}{"Title":"Cruel to Watch This-Cruel Intentions **1/2","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ryan Philippe does a great job as the vicious, mixed-up womanizer Sebastian in this film. Every woman on earth seems to be his conquest. He is equally matched by Sarah Michelle Gellar, the girl whose mother married his father. The two of them can outdo anyone in their plotting, viciousness and total regard for life's morality.Swoosie Kurtz has a brief stint here as a psychiatrist whose daughter falls victim for the preying Sebastian. Ditto for Christine Baranski, mother of Cecile in the film, an upper class gossip who riles Sebastian with her tales of his reputation.Reese Witherspoon is the angelic-like girl who Sebastian next sets his sights on but fate intervenes.The ending is uneven here as you wouldn't expect tragedy to befall our hero; perhaps, a rude awakening, but what occurs is totally unexpected.This picture regarding morality and the sexual revolution doesn't hit a home run. "},{"Title":"awful movie","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hated this movie. The whole plot was dumb in general. The acting was wonderful. but the movie was just unbearable to watch.i was just sitting there thinking 'why am i watching this' i bet there could not be any worse of a movie than that. maybe i just didn't appreciate it. but the whole thing was mean. i wont ruin it for those who want to see it. but unless you are looking for a dirty movie that is unjust and unmoral, its not the movie for you.I have to say that Reese Witherspoon did a wonderful job with the innocent virgin. and Sarah Michelle Geller was an excellent bad girl. but as i have previously said. it was a bad movie.If i could i would give it 1 1/2 stars "},{"Title":"A film as sexy as Paul Daniels.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Loads of my friends had seen this film and had told me I should watch it by the time I sat down to watch it on TV. Regrettably they forgot to mention how BAD it was. Putting to one side the unnecessary overuse of swearing and unlikely concept of 17 year olds behaving in this manner, why were all the lead actors in this film so bad? I had never heard of Ryan Phillippe before and I hope I never hear of him again. Honestly, it doesn't reflect well on women if his skills in bed are as bad as his acting. Sarah Michelle Gellar was also completely miscast. She may have been pretty, but she definitely wasn't sexy. Every scene was so stiff between these two and you end up not really caring what happens in the end. This film was a thoroughly disappointing excuse for a film. Go watch Les Liasons Dangereux instead.  "},{"Title":"Boring, but funny at times.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie waiting for it to get better, but it never did. It was slow and ridiculous. Ryan Phillippe showed no emotions in his eyes even at the end *ahem*. Reese Witherspoon and Sarah Michelle Gellar, on the other hand, both served up to their characters. Sarah was very convincing about being a teenager who had high sexual desires. Of course there were funny parts that made me laugh both AT them and WITH them. (ex. When Sabastian see his aunt and pretends to be happy.)  3/10 "},{"Title":"A horrible movie that leaves a bad taste in my mouth!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have always been a fan of anything starring Reese Witherspoon, however this is one movie I will not be re-watching.  This movie is a horrible representation of humanity.  According to this movie all people are totally evil.  Fortunately, most human beings are not at all like the characters portrayed in this movie.  Apparently, I am not alone in my views as, during the viewing, numerous people walked out of the movie.  I stayed only because I kept thinking that the movie would surely get better.  But in that I was let down.  This is one movie I refrain form publically admitting to having seen it.  I hate that I wasted @2 hours of my life and $10 of my hard earned money on this movie.   "},{"Title":"Stylish, sexy, and twisted. The third act loses momentum, however. *** out of ****.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CRUEL INTENTIONS / (1999) ***Starring Ryan Phillippe, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Reese Witherspoon, Selma Blair, Louise Fletcher, Joshua Jackson, Christine Baranski, and Swoosie Kurtz. Written and Directed by Roger Kumble. Running time 95 minutes. Rated R (for contorted sexual situations, sexually explicit dialogue including language, and some drug content).	Cruel Intentions is as fiendishly sleazy as movies now days come. The film begins introducing us to a lurid sex plot and gradually becomes more earthly. The main character is Sebastian Valmont, played accurately by Ryan Phillippe. His character is as close to being a gigolo as people otherwise come--without pay but earning more self respect for each girl he beds. Sebastian, rich and wicked, lives in a mansion in modern day Manhattan with his stepsister Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar). Together they run a prep school in their house.The film's opening scene develops Sebastian in a relative and accurate manor. He has just seduced the daughter of his psychiatrist, Dr. Greenbaum (Swoosie Kurtz). As he calmly trots out of her office, he keenly picks up another bimbo who kindly greets him. As he returns to his house, the movie has even more fun developing Kathryn. She has a new student in her prep school named Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair). This sheltered girl, daughter of the rich and snobbish Mrs. Caldwell (Christine Baranski), is the affection of Kathryn's ex-love interest. Keep your friends close--but keep your enemies closer states Kathryn in an enticing scene. Jealousy is the motive why Kathryn is in the midst of a cruel scandal to destroy Cecile's reputation. The proposition to seduce her is Sebastian's duty.Sebastian agrees to Kathryn's scheme, but is tired of having sex with so many easy targets, and imagines bigger fish to fry. His ambition is Annette (Reese Witherspoon), the virginal daughter of the new headmaster at their school, who has a strong will and believes in abstinence before marriage. Sebastian reads about her in Seventeen magazine in which she wrote an article. He lusts for challenge and conquest, and is proposed an offer by his stepsister If he can persuade Annette to engage in sexual activity with him, he will get his hands on Kathryn, the girl he has been lusting for ever since their parents became married. If he fails, his stepsister will receive his valuable classic automobile. 	The story is introduced through dialogue, although in this context the film does not run into problems with this conduct. The first act is a bit short and to the point. Whereas the segment still accomplishes its duties appropriately, it could have easily been more progressive.A lot of Cruel Intentions is short and to the point-and that is not always a positive variable. Some of the film's characters are a bit too obvious. Much of that is due to the movie's stunningly direct usage of explicit sex-related dialogue (even though I share considerable gratitude towards the smart and tempting colloquy). Take the scene in which Cecile frankly describes the feelings of sex, for instance. Her vulnerability and gullibility for relationships is as conspicuous as any poorly crafted, modern day teenage sex movie. Cruel Intentions is one of the most stylish and visually lush movies of 1999. Each scene contains either snobbish characters, splendid costume and set design, a glamorous atmosphere, or solid substance. Contributing to the film's mood is the embellished soundtrack that consists of many tone settings and rhythmic melodies. My recommendation is mostly in part by the movie's elegance.     Although convincing and applicable, there is a large amount of characters present here, as well as numerous occurrences and subplots, all of which are not precisely focused on the two main possible outcomes. Either Kathryn will win Sebastian's prized car or Sebastian will win Kathryn's physical willingness. Since these are cruel intentions, we really have no one moral enough to root for except Annette. The Caldwells do not contribute much to the real story here, acting as a subplot that drifts further and further from focus as the movie progresses into the third act.The production is effective in its storytelling with many shapely characters and a risqué theme. However, when the persuasive story follows the effects of cupid's arrow on Sebastian, it turns from a devilishly intriguing tale into a misguided love saga.  Cruel Intentions does a complete 180 degrees turn from appetizing seduction and cruelty to formulaic passion--losing most of its sense of style. Perhaps this is the only method director and writer Roger Kumble could conclude with this trashy of a plot. Even if that was the case, however, what is this film's climatic sequence trying to prove?  Without giving the ending away, I will state that it is unpredictable, but also unsuccessful. The film concludes with more positive areas than negative, but with a second half like this, Roger Kumble truly must have had Cruel Intentions for teasing us with so much unrestrained allure--then holding out on us for a modern morality tale.  Brought to you by Columbia Pictures.  "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You probably know the story of Dangerous Liaisons, this is basically the same idea portrayed in/as a teen movie. Basically Sarah Michelle Gellar as the horrible Kathryn Merteuil and Ryan Phillippe as Sebastian Valmont are two schemers who pretend to be brother and sister to others, and they have a bet to get their own loves, and the prize is getting together! Kathryn goes for many of the guys, while Sebastian goes for Cecile Caldwell (Selma Blair) first, but later gets closer to Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon). It seems as though Annette becomes not a scheme, but the real thing! (In real life, the actors married and had two kids) Also starring One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest's Louise Fletcher as Helen Rosemond, Joshua Jackson as Blaine Tuttle, Eric Mabius as Greg McConnell, Sean Patrick Thomas as Ronald Clifford, The Grinch's Christine Baranski as Bunny Caldwell and American Pie's Tara Reid as Marci Greenbaum. Kathryn gets away with so much. But she got what she deserved in the end, when Sebastian dies and the entire school gets a copy of his personal journal revealing all, and all look at her in shame and disgust. This film won Best Female Performance for Gellar, but also (number 2 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments) Best Kiss at MTV Movie Awards, deservedly! They were really tonguing and there was the trail of saliva! Sarah Michelle Gellar was number 16 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols. Good! "},{"Title":"Pure garbage is an insult to garbage everywhere","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A terrible, wretched vomitous waste of film, time, and fortunately not thought because obviously none went into it. The writers and director simply viewed Dangerous Liaisons, cut out anything remotely like character development or anything else that didn't speed this disaster to its puerile voyeuristic conclusion, and then substituted an endless stream of profanity for whatever still remained of the dialogue. An example, the two siblings Fuck her yet? Not yet. Working on it. Fag. Blow me. I haven't heard such uplifting prose poetry since Porky's. Come to think of it, Porky's was good by comparison. I mentioned Dangerous Liaisons (1988), because if you want to see this story the way it should be told, get a copy of this one. It stars Glenn Close, John Malkovich, Michelle Pfeiffer, Swoozie Kurtz (who should've been ashamed to be in this one too), and Keanu Reeves. The scenes between Close and Malkovich, the lines written for them and their presentation, with some intense interpersonal electricity, are worth the price of admission. Not to be missed.I urge everyone to order a copy of Cruel Intentions from Netflix, and throw it away and tell them it never arrived. Maybe they won't restock it and you will have done mankind a great service. "}]