[{"Title":"Choose between yesterday and tomorrow. Pick one. Stick with it.","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While on vacation, a single mother identified as Theresa discovers a 'message in a bottle' on the shore that has moving honest words of love addressed to a woman named Catherine&#133; The trail leads her to a sailboat builder named Garrett and also to his father, Dodge in a small North Carolina coastal town&#133; It turns out that Catherine is Garret's deceased wife, and the intriguing letters were written, two years earlier, after her decease&#133; Some people find the one true love of their lives, if they're fortunate enough&#133; Luis Mandoki's film, in part, turns out to be a choice about what occurs when a person finds that right kind of love, then when he is faced with the impossible, and then when he is given the right to continue with his life and is brave enough to love again no matter how unpleasant his grief is&#133; As a reclusive widower, Garret was still in deep pain, and entirely devoted to Catherine's memory&#133; He had hard time letting go of the past&#133; Catherine was dead but not forgotten and was simply everywhere&#133; As a sailor Costner didn't inherit the charm of Newman&#133; He was drawn to Penn by her smile, her beauty, even her mistakes&#133; Robin Wright Penn was beautiful, delicate and sweet as Theresa&#133; She soon insinuates her way into Garret's life&#133; Her expectations were always too high&#133; Since the beginning, she just had to meet the person that wrote those letters&#133; Her life was changed by them&#133; Eventually when she met Garret that morning, she accepted, without hesitation, to step aboard&#133; Paul Newman as Dodge liked Theresa instantly&#133; He saw in her the key to his son's emotional recovery&#133; With a very nice music, and a stunning coastal photography&#151;also the ocean scenes are wonderfully taken&#151;Message in a Bottle is definitely a weepy melodrama and a must see for those who believe, or don't, in love&#133; "},{"Title":"9 out of 10... Loved it!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed the peacefulness of the surroundings. The beautiful foggy mornings near the ocean is an all natural calmer. Just overall a wonderful movie. Very moving. Each of us Have loved or will have loved so deeply as to make our very souls leap into unfathomable joy. This movie grabs hold of the heart of the viewer and keeps you intrigued from the beginning to the end. It engages the inner self to want to reach out, take hold of life and love with the clarity to which we all want to be loved. It reminds us when you love, let it be always unconditional. Let it be forever. A well written movie. One, every person should take time to see. "},{"Title":"Allow yourself to enjoy the pace of the ocean in this romance.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The pace is set from the opening scene the ocean with its consistent but gentle force splashing against the shore.  `Message in a Bottle' follows this leisurely pace; it is not in a real hurry to give up all its secrets, but like the ocean, will surrender all in good time.  So relax, and allow yourself to enjoy!Paul Newman (Dodge Blake) and Kevin Costner (Garrett Blake) both deliver strong performances as father and son, initially content, though not really happy in their current existence.  Both have lost their love, for one reason or another, and are each other's companion and support.  Newman gets the fun punch lines, Costner gets the woman.  `If I were about 150 years younger' starts one of Newman's lines &#150; it must be different for him not to play the leading role.  Costner seems right at home playing a ship-building sailor who is lost because of his lost love.Robin Wright (Theresa Osborne) is equally strong, playing an independent and patient reporter, who follows her heart, and decides to find the author of the love letters from the ocean.  She gives Garrett distance gently when he needs it, yet pushes back equally hard when she needs to.Much of the acting relied not so much on the delivery of lines, as on the body language, on looks, on the strained silence between a couple who is unsure of each other, often unsure of themselves, yet strongly attracted to each other.Both Garrett and Theresa seem to struggle at conversation, both uncertain of how to discover each other, yet each finding an attraction they can't seem to deny.  Garrett is hanging on to the love he still feels for his wife, who died too early.  Theresa is still recovering from a divorce, and the busy life of a single parent.  Neither is sure they can be open to a new relationship, nor are they ready to say goodbye to something that is starting to feel so right.The photography of the sailboats on the ocean were enough to bring out the romantic in me.  What could be a more peaceful setting than a sailboat anchored privately in a small cove of the ocean in the Outer Banks?.  We're given just enough peek into the unfolding world of a couple discovering love, without it feeling like an intrusion.To talk more of the ups and downs would give away too many of the secrets that only the theatre, the bookstore, or the ocean will release. "},{"Title":"Very well-done love story, without the convenient happily ever after ending.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I generally like Kevin Costner movies, but had only moderate expectations for this one. But after seeing it, I think it is one of the best love stories I have seen. The pace of the movie, and the dialog, are not rushed, some may even say leisurely. But that is a welcome change from many of today's fast action, cut-to-the-chase movies which neglect character development.This movie developed characters. I found myself really caring for all of them. The dialog between Costner's and Newman's characters, son and father, is very natural and believable. The meeting and getting to know one another by Penn's and Costner's characters is also very natural and believable.This movie could have taken the easy way out, with a neatly tied together ending, everyone living happily ever after. And I suspect that is exactly what happened. But it does so in a way that gives a much stronger message about love, relationships, and living each day for what it is worth.Finally, the scenery and photography are wonderful. Definitely one of the most enjoyable movies I have seen. I gave it 8 of 10.Update 2008 I saw it again after over 8 years, and my opinion has remained the same. A somewhat underrated movie. "},{"Title":"it is just an unusual story, well played and shot. Paul Newman is great","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"30 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has all the ingredients you need on a Sunday afternoon--it is happy and sad, funny and melancholic, optimistic but realistic, expected but unexpected, just what life is all about. Photography is just breathtaking, and oh, Chicago looks fantastic. There are some witty lines. Paul Newman is doing a great little role--Oscar? MUST SEE!   "},{"Title":"Treasure","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie that proves that most critics don't know what they're doing. The critics shed their sentimentalism sometime in the mid-1960's, so how could they know or care?One must have a heart to enjoy Message in a Bottle. It's a treasure--beautiful, poignant, tragic. The cast is wonderful, and if you don't cry at the ending, you aren't human (which most critics apparently aren't). "},{"Title":"A romantic offering with appeal to women.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How private is a message set afloat in a bottle?  Not at all, according to this film.  Finders keepers, and if it makes a good story, publish it on the front page of the daily press.  Garret (Kevin Costner) loves Catherine beyond the grave, and being a boat-builder, with the sea at his doorstep, he sends messages to her in a sealed bottle.  Theresa (Robin Wright Penn) relaxing by the sea finds a bottle protruding from the wet sand and is much impressed by the expressions of love in the romantic message.  As a newspaper researcher she seeks out the author and predictably they fall in love.  I think this film would largely appeal to women.  The dialogue and the romantic situations are believable as the story slowly but steadily unfolds.  The photography of the seascapes and sunsets is very appealing and the background music suitably romantic and never obtrusive.  The acting throughout is very controlled.  The shy Garret devoted to the memory of Catherine slowly changes as this new woman enters his life.  Theresa still suffering from a broken marriage and still uncertain of her future is beautifully played as the message continues to weave its spell.  Garret's crotchety old father is played with all stops out by Paul Newman - a rascally fellow with firm ideas about what is good for his son.  There are a few noisy scenes in the film, and necessary, I think, because the overall tenor of the film is somewhat subdued with the two shy central characters.  Not a great film by any means , but the story has a certain charm.  I am sure we would all like to find a message in a bottle - much more exciting than receiving an E-mail - and I guaratee that, human nature being what it is, we'd read it too. "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner....","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't help but love this movie.  When watching this movie, I felt as if I was right inside with  the people and it was real life.  All the emotions that Kevin's character goes through shows  this sensitive side of him that is not always shown in his movies.  I cried for his loss and  cheered him on in finding another person to understand and love him for who he is.  The  depth of this film made me want to be in love and to share that experience with someone.   "},{"Title":"get swept away in this romance","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spread the message and let everyone know that Message In A Bottle was an incredible sight to behold because it was the type of movie that cleared my mind of everything else and allowed to relax in my chair.Message In A Bottle along with the writers as well as Kevin Costner, Paul Newman, and Robin Wright Penn swept me away to another place that gave me the chance to watch a brilliant film with no worries and enjoy an epic romance.Costner, Newman and Wright Penn share the screen to tell the incredible, emotional and powerful story of one reporter's mission to locate the writer of three mysterious messages that turned up ashore.The following events set off a tender and sweet romance between Garret Blake played by Costner and Theresa Osborne played by Penn. Also, mixed into this wonderfully crafted plot is Newman who plays Dodge, Garret's father who acts as a calming effect for his son when trying to deal with his newfound feelings about Theresa and those for Catherine, the object of the mysterious messages.The performances by Costner, Penn and Newman seemed so natural it was enjoyable to watch actors not try so hard to do their best. I got the feeling that the actors truly cared about making this film the best they could for their fans because of the integrity and sincerity they brought to their characters.Message In A Bottle was a powerful and inspirational movie to watch and will be treasured for years to come. In addition, it had two of my favorite actors and it gave me the opportunity to watch a brilliant actress come in to her own. "},{"Title":"I actually live something similar! Bravo! They got it right!","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I could scream, My eyes! My eyes! I realized I was basically watching my love story unfold before me. You see, I married a widower. I just hate it when people call my husband a widower. What does that make me? Dead? I think not.I was pleased that THIS movie somewhat shows what it like for the unfortunate woman (or perhaps man) who thinks they are just falling in love. My favorite quote in the whole movie was, It's getting pretty crowded in there. Because that's exactly how it feels.The scene where they were christening the boat and she witnesses the man she loves admit that he misses Catherine everyday. Funny, my husband's late wife's name was, grrr, Kathryn.So, even though it was painful to watch... I did come away with a new appreciation of the fact that my husband didn't do the typical push/pull thing that was shown in the movie. My husband realized that I was someone he didn't want to lose, and he realized he wanted to live for tomorrow instead of yesterday. "}{"Title":"Marginal recommendation due to attractive features, original screenplay, and some fascinating characters. *** out of ****","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE (1999) ***Starring Kevin Costner, Robin Wright Penn, Paul Newman, Ileana Douglas, Jesse James Director Luis Mandoki   126 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for sexuality)By Blake French	What do you do when somebody asks you a question? Well, if you're like any normal person, you'd answer it. How do you form romantic chemistry between two characters in a movie? If there isn't already dramatic fire when you look at two characters, then you have to form it will dialogue.In the new romantic drama Message in a Bottle, all that the two main love birds do is ask each other and respond to questions. They meet when a Chicago newspaper worker named Theresa finds a bottled up note on the shore while jogging. She becomes curious as her friends find more evidence leading to this man that she deeply wants to meet. When she does meet him, a boat worker named Garret Blake, (hey, Blake is my first name, isn't that neat) romantic music instantly surrounds them. And the questioning begins.Theresa asks Garret many questions, but all Mr. Blake does is answer. Is that a bad thing? Not really, but when a movie is trying to form romance chemistry, well, this is not the way to do it. The only character who seems to be at all alive here is Paul Newman, as Blake's father, who masters every scene he is in. 	The scenery in Message in a Bottle is absolutely stunning. From the busy landscape of Chicago to the blue sea waters and crystal clear waves. This kind of material sweeps me away every time I see it in the movies. I would compare this film to the beautiful Montana countryside's in  The Horse Whisperer, one of the best movies of 1998. 	The performances in this film are mostly quite good, but none are Academy Award material. Robin Wright Penn is realistic and well-casted. She uses confusion and sorrow to build up momentum for the Costner character. As for Costner himself, however, he is surprisingly bad. I mean, just recovering over last year's The Postman, this man should be rebuilding his career, not destroying it even more. He gives another Waterworld type of performance, acting dumfounded throughout most of the film. It's Paul Newman who is the real surprise. He adds comic relief from all the ineffective melodrama which permits most of the movie. The characters themselves are indeed likeable. Some are a bit stubborn and bull-headed, others are freewheeling and care-free. This is okay because variety is good, you know. I liked Newman the most, but Robin Wright Penn is right up there with him.A major flaw in the film, however, is the ending, which is completely out of place and disappointing. I have nothing against this type of closing, but I have already seen this in material in last years City of Angels, sorry if that gives anything away. It leaves the audience with a feeling of depression and disappointment as they walk out of the theater.In the end, Message in a Bottle is a close call, but I do recommend it. Thanks to some attractive features, original screenplay based on a Nicholas Sparks novel, and some fascinating characters, Luis Mandoki has created a satisfactory movie that I did enjoy for most of the way.Brought to you by Warner Bros.  	 	   "},{"Title":"Sailboats, storms, and basic seamanship","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For me, this otherwise good film is just ruined at the end by the sailboats event. I hate to be so pedantic, but the fact is that every person who has ever sailed -- and especially someone like Kostner's character who grew up on the water -- would know some basic facts1. Never sail into bad weather. 2. Never sail into bad weather without wearing a life preserver, and without being tied to the boat with a line and a harness in case you fall overboard. 3. Never sail into bad weather on your own unless you're seriously crazy. 4. Never jump in the water to save someone unless youa) Are wearing a life preserver.b) Have a life preserver or lifebuoy to throw to the victim as soon as you're close enough.c) Take a line with you, holding it in your hand or tying it to yourself in some way, i.e., a quick-release harness.That said, it's pretty obvious the movie -- and probably the book -- just wanted the Kostner character to drown. This he indeed accomplished, but the story would have been ruined, obviously, if it had shown proper, veteran behavior by an adult sailor.Pooey. Wrecked the whole thing for me. "},{"Title":"When is it going to end?","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy, was I disappointed with this one! It was probably the worst film I've seen since A River Runs Through It which would be the kindling for my bonfire of terrible films. This is a movie about a man who is obsessed with his deceased wife. That's it. That's the whole 2.5 hours. It is the second most agonizingly long, boring movie that I've wasted my money on (The aforementioned movie is still #1). The plot was awful, the acting was even worse. I think Kevin and Paul should be ashamed they made this horrible picture and the writer should be banned from ever writing another script. The cinematography was about the only redeemable facet of the movie. I actually applauded at the end because I was so happy it was finally over. Save your money on this one and rent any other Costner or Newman film, you'll thank me. Really you will. "},{"Title":"My True North","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While strolling on a beach one day Robin Wright Penn finds a letter in a bottle. Back in the old days stranded sailors were known to send distress messages in such items in the hopes the letters would be found and they would be rescued.But this bottle contains a message that's a beautifully composed love letter. Penn's been the odd woman out in a triangle that broke up her marriage and she's a naturally cynical creature. When she shows the letter to her boss editor/columnist Robbie Coltrane who prints it and writes an editorial in praise of it. It gets a really big response from folks touched by it.A little forensic science determines the origin of the letter to be Wilmington, North Carolina and the author to be carpenter/shipbuilder Kevin Costner. A man with that kind of poetry in his soul is guaranteed to move even the once burned Robin Wright Penn.Message In A Bottle is an old fashioned love story guaranteed to melt the most cynical of hearts. Also featured is Paul Newman who is Costner's father who has the wisest old head around. Hard to believe the guy who played Hombre and Cool Hand Luke is now playing wise elderly folks, but Paul Newman grew not just in age, but in expanding his once in a lifetime talent as well.If you think you've seen all the romantic pictures there are and know how this one is coming out then you're in for a shock if you see Message In A Bottle. But it's a worthwhile experience nevertheless. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, HORRIBLE ending!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was glad to read that someone, somewhere actually enjoyed this movie.I watched it with my ladyfriend, and at the end, both of us just stared at each other in disbelief. The acting, camera work, etc was all great. The ending just plain sucks.If you're the type of person who can sit for two hours, enjoying a movie, then have the rug pulled out from under you at the end, have at it.But if you're the type who wants to leave the movie feeling that the time, effort, and involvement in the story and characters was worth while, then my advise is to find something - ANYTHING - else to do.It's too bad, too. Because it would have been very easy to make the ending worth while. "},{"Title":"Very nice movie","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At first I thought it would be a predictable movie as it moved along. The ending was sad and not expected. When Theresa got the phone call at her meeting, it was a tragic message. It was even more tragic when she read the message in the bottle at the end. I got caught up in the sadness and tragic shift in what might have been good live for both of them, had Garret made a choice to be with her after she came to see the boat launch. I think the acting and direction was outstanding. Kevin handled his role magnificently and Paul was also outstanding. This is one of the first movies I've seen Robin in and she is indeed a great actress. I watch a lot of movies and am not much of a critic. But she turned in an Academy performance. Very nice musical score. I think overall, this movie deserves a much higher rating than the 4 or 5 rating on IMDb. "},{"Title":"Take Newman out, and there is nothing here.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was sort of hoping to enjoy this flick, but boy was I disappointed. First of all, the story is set in The Outer Banks of North Carolina, but clearly this film was shot nowhere The Outer Bank, and I would say nowhere near North Carolina.  My best guess would be that they took their cameras up to Maine or something and thought that no one would see the difference.  BIG MISTAKE!  People who have been there know how beautiful The Outer Banks really are, and will recognize the difference.  Secondly, this story is just dumb, drawn out, and overly melodramatic.  This story could probably have been told in just over an hour, not just over two.  The filmmakers got a little trigger happy when Costner signed on, and went overboard(no pun intended) with everything, the result being a confused, disappointing mess. The one bright light in all this muck of a film is the startling performance given by Paul Newman.  Sure, it is basically the same character that he played in Nobody's Fool, but who cares.  The man is still one of the finest actors that ever lived, and this performance is among some of his best work. If you decide to watch this film, do it so you can enjoy Newman's wonderful performance.  His work is the only reason that this film should be viewed. "},{"Title":"location, location, location","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't really like this movie, but then I'm not a fan of Nicholas Sparks. The thing that really did this film in for me though was the location. It's supposed to be in the Outer Banks of North Carolina, they SAY IN THE FILM that they're in the Outer Banks, but it looks nothing like the Outer Banks because it was filmed in Maine! Why why why would they do that. Do they think that no one knows what the Outer Banks looks like?Maine Coast - Hilly, Piney, many small coves Outer Banks - Flat sand bank, Sea Oats, one long Stretch of beach that goes on for ever with nary a cove in sight!The Outer Banks are one of my favorite places on earth, and so beautiful and unique. If they wanted to film in Maine because they don't get the beauty of the Outer Banks, then SAY IT'S IN MAINE!ugh! "},{"Title":"Mills and Boon with elevated production values.","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Robin Wright Penn is a researcher for a newspaper who comes across a message in a bottle while jogging on the beach. The message is a beautifully written Mills and Boon type love message to a dead woman. Intrigued, Ms Penn uses the newspaper's resources to track down the writer of the message and travels to his hometown to discover he's an emotionally-wounded boat-building hunk in the shape of Kevin Costner. A tentative romance begins, but it's overshadowed by the fact that she neglects to reveal how she found him in the first place.This is the kind of slushy romantic melodrama Hollywood was producing on an almost weekly basis back in the 1940s. You could just see, say, Ronald Colman and Claudette Colbert in the Penn and Costner roles here. While a throwback to the golden age of Hollywood movie-making isn't necessarily a bad thing, what does shackle an otherwise acceptable story is a sluggish pace and unnecessary sub-plots that serve only to test the audience's patience. While some have criticised Kevin Costner's performance, I think he does fairly well by a character that is supposed to be dour and awkward around people. Penn gives an appealing performance, but it's Paul Newman as Costner's crusty old dad who gets all the best lines and effortlessly steals the film from the two leads.Had the direction been tighter and a few superfluous scenes been jettisoned &#x96; that sub-plot with Costner's ex-wife's family, for example, and a couple of those excruciating scenes in Penn's apartment where they laugh nervously at each other for what seems forever &#x96; the film would have worked a whole lot better for me. It would still have been little more than a typical Mills and Boon tale with elevated production values, but it would at least have been more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Love Story?","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was bored within 15 minutes of this movie. I didn't believe for a second that Teresa and Garrett were in love nor did I think the pairing of Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn worked...It was a waste of time. Beautiful scenery and Martha Stewart houses do not make a movie.  "}{"Title":"The weakest all the Nicholas Sparks movies","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is the most boring of all the Sparks big screen adaptations. It lacks chemistry between the leads and just isn't romantic. This is no Notebook.Kevin Costner looks too over the hill. Robin Wright is pretty here but she doesn't seem to connect with Costner's character. Even Paul Newman is out of place too much stature for the role.The ending is an anticlimax. The drama with the in laws is contrived. In most other Sparks stories you feel something for the main protagonists even if the sentimentality can be a bit clichéd and obvious. But here it just left me completely cold and unmoved.What a total yawn. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the ones that gave 1 to this movie are the ones that gave 10 to Doom. Otherwise there is no way that this movie can be rated as low as a terrible production such as Doom..It is a story of a guy (Kevin Costner) that is stucked between living the past or looking for the future after meeting Theresa. It is a well acted love story the end of which is not signaled as some other argued!It is not a cliché at all.If someone claim otherwise, i would like him/her give me an example similar to this movie in plot. I would recommend this movie to everyone for a nice evening! Watch it you will not be regretful. "},{"Title":"overall good movie","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I hadn't read the book long before I saw the movie, I would probably give this movie 10 in the rating. The actors are great and the overall movie is very good. But, as I mentioned, I had read the book. Let me rephrase it I had fallen in love with the book. Nicholas spark is a great writer. I completely dislike the sugar and vanilla love story books that many authors tend to write today, books that you read and throw in the recycling box. Nicholas Sparks stands well above them all. All the words used in that book are great, and because I loved the book so much, I already had imagined my own version of that movie. To tell you the truth I saw the male character in my dreams to be Kevin Costner, because I love him. Robin was a very nice surprise. The movie is very good, I would say it is not a waste of time to watch it, but I would strongly recommend for you to read the book and create your own, very personal movie. "},{"Title":"A lovely contemporary love story that will move you...","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A step above the average chick Flick, MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE is a beautiful contemporary love story with characters that you come to care about and a story that is emotionally manipulative but richly entertaining. The story follows a divorced, Chicago newspaper researcher (Robin Wright Penn) who, while jogging on the beach, actually finds a typed message in a bottle that actually washed onto the beach. The message in the bottle is so moving that our heroine is determined to find out who sent it and after some brief investigative efforts, finds out the note was sent by a widowed boat builder (Kevin Costner)who lives off the coast of South Carolina. The meeting of these two lonely people sparks the best love story since THE WAY WE WERE. Costner is sensitive and enigmatic as the lonely widower and Wright Penn offers one of her best performances as the researcher whose heart is melted by the man. There's also a grand and stylish supporting turn by Paul Newman as Costner's father which is just icing on the cake to this beautifully photographed romantic drama that will induce tears if you catch it in the right frame of mind. A winner. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just rented this movie...now I am buying it!  Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn are beautifully paired.  The chemistry between them is very realistic. Would like to see them together in future projects.  Paul Newman, as usual, is fantastic.  A must see romantic movie!   "},{"Title":"life is so bittersweet","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This love story just gets me every time, no matter how many times I see it. It feels so good that there is someone, who is so devoted to his love that he will keep the memory of their romance alive, even after she has passed away a long time ago. Wanting to believe in love larger than life lives in every woman's heart (and, I believe, many men want to believe it too) and finding The One becomes the most important matter in your life. Very solid performances from Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn, but the real scene stealer is Paul Newman. He is amazing in this movie. Have someone to cuddle beside you and watch this movie, you will not regret it.  "},{"Title":"A Classic Story Of Love","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a classic. For anyone who has any real feelings and tragically lost the love of their life, they'll be able to relate to this movie. Excellent story line, a real tear jerker, but a love story just the same. It will continually hold your interest the entire time, and it's over before you know it, even though it is 2-1/2 hours long---it doesn't drag on like a lot of movies do. Paul Newman, Kevin Costner, and Robin Wright Penn are all perfect in their respective roles. It's a story to show there can be life after a love is lost. One of my Top 10 favorite movies of ALL time! Kevin Costner says it best near the end---when he says a person is VERY luck to find true love once in their lifetime, but to find it twice is a true miracle! my Top 10 movies of ALL time! A real must see! You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Moving, well filmed love story","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robin Wright Penn lends intelligence, warmth, and just the right amount of anxiety to this role to support the whole film. Costner's minimalist charm has the perfect showcase as a wounded widow and Paul Newman reminds of us of the time when our biggest stars were really stars. It is a slow film, and not the most subtle, but for those who can accept the movie on its own terms, it is a romantic, beautifully filmed story that will remind one of both the pain and exhilaration love can bring.  "},{"Title":"It's all the parts put together to give a message","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message in A Bottle packages the strength of a love story about finding love again, with the breathtaking beauty of the sea, and seasoned actors who make endearing characters come alive to bring an unforgettable romance to the screen.It reminisces of Bridges of Madison County but with a stronger and more real-life appeal.  Theresa Osborne (Robin Wright Penn) is from the city, quite happy in her work as a Chicago Tribune researcher, and as a mother to Jason.  But in her moments alone, she has to deal with the reality of her husband leaving her for another woman, sometimes forced to face the two of them and their own toddler when she brings Jason to visit with him.   Garret Blake (Kevin Costner) restores sailboats in a seaside town, he looks after his father Dodge (Paul Newman), and keeps a shrine for his wife Catherine in his house, even after her death 2 years ago.  He has left every brush, oil, pastel crayon and easel where it was as when she died.  It was through the letter he wrote to Catherine which Theresa found in a bottle at the beach that brought him and Theresa together.I thought the development of the story was fast paced at the start, when the mystery of the letter sender was quickly revealed  in the first quarter of the movie that I wondered what was to be expected to happen for the rest of the story.  And after that initial, exciting build-up leading to the meeting of Garret and Theresa, the pace slackened - a bit too slow for my taste as the pair discovers their attraction.  What added relief to the intense, romantic, but sometimes, dragging moments is the appearance now and then of Paul Newman's character Dodge.  Dodge has his own hurts to heal, but his stubbornness not to let Garret go through the same path he did, and his curt but witty remarks brings out laughter and makes him truly endearing.   One notable scene is in the diner when he flared up when asked why he chose a particular seat.  The romantic scenes are also complimented by the scenery. The glorious backdrop of the sea - you'll almost feel relaxed as you hear the breeze rustling the leaves, the lapping of the waves on the shore and the cry of the seagulls.Kevin Costner as Garret could have done better.  He convinces us that Garret is a simple unassuming man, but I was hoping to see the same man who wrote with such sensitivity and passion to his wife and I just couldn't find it in Kevin.   Robin Wright Penn however, is very inspiring. She shows you just what it is like to fall in love in these times.  She shows both the vulnerability and the strength of which Theresa is made of.   She draws the viewers into feeling for her - her courage to go into something so unsure, her excitement, her joy in letting go and loving again, and then, her fear of expecting too much.Another character who brings comic relief is Theresa's editor Charlie. Robbie Coltrane couldn't be more perfect for the role. He leaves the audience on guard, wondering if he is really the big bully which he seems to be or someone with a soft heart. Anyway, I end up laughing at his antics whenever he comes on screen.  Best scene is when he gave Theresa a framed picture of himself.  In all of the movie, I think it is Charlie who is the most unreal, as I find it hard to believe that there could be editors who are genuinely caring for their staff in this way.Perhaps it is also the script that adds to the magic of the story - the dialogue was written so cleverly and the scenes made just so that I can say, hey, this is real life, this is what everyday people say and feel and think. No false pretensions. You will especially be drawn to it if you were broken yourself.  You will recognize the same words that you said and the same odd things that you did and only you understand that is right.  You will also not miss the glaring contrast of the two  lifestyles - Garret in slickers, literally smelling of grease and sea salt in his beach home; and Theresa in her power suits,  in a modular office and a sea of computers.   How  they are able to bridge this difference gives me hope.  I'm not really sure myself if this kind of relationship will work, but who knows what can happen if we really try?The message of love in Message in a Bottle is courage.  To go on, in spite of, despite of. In spite of the hurt in the past, in spite of the uncertainty of the future. There will be others who have been broken too and their courage will inspire and sustain you.  "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Story Except For The Terrible Ending","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Message in a Bottle tells the tale of a middle-aged boat builder named Garret Blake who has never recovered from the loss of his wife. As a way to escape from his inner doldrums he starts writing letters and placing them bottles and throws them in the ocean. A Chicago Tribune researcher named Theresa (Robin Wright Penn) finds the bottled messages and embarks on a mission to see who's the gentleman who's writing these provocative and yet sincere letters. Once they unite they start to exchange one's personal trials and tribulations and to seek comfort to one another.This is a rather simple adult story of grief and finding comfort to heal the wounds that manifest in each other's veins. The pacing of the movie is horribly slow, the romantic scenes are quite soothing, the acting is very well done, but the ending is a major turn-off. For those who were looking for an entertaining, thrill of a lifetime, light romantic tale will better check with me to seek elsewhere because in this movie it not happening here. Granted this movie has very gripping romantic scenes, but the film follows on a plot that involves a man who just can't seem to overcome grief. This film could have reflection of those who have experienced this tragedy and have never fully overcomes this permanent obstacle. Sure there's an engaging romantic story involving Garret and Theresa, but it was just outweighed by the grieving plot and the struggle to get over it.The performances were excellent as Kevin Costner turns in a remarkable performance with his trademark, tough, rugged, but vulnerable character. Robin Wright Penn was also very good in her role, but doesn't offer anything authentic here. Paul Newman who seems to have been getting on in age here seems badly clichéd, but much-needed to prevent this story from being overly melancholy as the cantankerous old father of Costner's. The feeling of the movie is quite serene, especially the scenes where the sweet romance materializes. For those who like the seas then this will double the appreciation to those who like the movie already. The water scenes symbolize the lives the characters face as each time passes.All I can say is that it truly visual eye-candy, the performances were all very good, but sadly the snail's pace and the uneventful scenes make this film more cathartic rather than a romantic drama. It wasn't a terrible movie, but it surely wasn't the greatest. "}{"Title":"Not a fan of Sparks and predictable romance, but...","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a well done romance genre that you may even be able to watch with a spouse or boyfriend. The Notebook was far too sentimental and trite. But this film has some good visuals, an unusual (if far-fetched) premise. And solid performances by Robin Wright, Kevin Costner as Garrett Blake, and Paul Newman in a cameo role as Dodge Blake, Garret's cantankerous father.Primarily Teresa Osborne is divorced, lonely, and on vacation finds a bottle with a love letter Dear Katherine The letter is a mea culpa, an apology to a true love.Osborne works for the Chicago Tribune, and returns from vacation, motivated to create a story and research the true origins of the bottle and who actually sent this to whom. Yes, this requires suspension of disbelief. At any rate, the region is traced to an Outer Banks, NC location.The visuals, ocean and sense of loss are used repeatedly, beautiful and invoke a sense of longing and loss. Teresa at first meets Garret Osborne's father Dodge. He is humorous at times, drinks beer and tell his son (Garrett, who has been mourning the death of Katherine) that he needs to get on with his life.Garret Blake, who has spent an inordinate of time in mourning for his wife, is the author of the letter. Teresa tries to engage him in more conversation about his deceased wife. Eventually as this is a romance, she and Garret develop an intimacy. It is visual, candles, ocean and rain. But nicely done and not overly talky or trite.I will not spoil the ending as there is a twist to the ending in this story. It is an interesting story, and not overly mired in sentimentality. 8/10. "},{"Title":"The Typical Costner Romantic Drama Vehicle","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This romance drama has Costner in his typical flawed adult male character who discovers himself with a message in a bottle twist. The movie straight forward with several plot moves that has the females swooning one moment, crying the next. This is definitely a female movie though its serious moments outweigh the anticipated light moments making this movie more of a somber serious movie that can't be considered a feel good movie, more of a tear jerker. Nevertheless, it has heart, meaning that may offer an enduring haunting message. Autumn in New York (2000), Somewhere In Time (1980), and Up Close and Personal (1996) have similar tonality and memorable themes. "},{"Title":"Why people rate this movie that much low????","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm wondering why this movie got only 5.7/10 from IMDb reviewers??OK there is not a car exploding every single minute and there are not gunfires with plasma weapons to destroy huge buildings, but still....I'm afraid people's criteria of what a good movie is, well are wrong. )Yes i know democracy et al, but how can people give to such good movies such low ratings? All actors act very decently, you couldn't anyway expect differently from Costner or Newman, and the story is original. A great love and drama story! And it's not one of the usual ones where the plot is a straight road, boy meets girl, boy loves girl, some fight in the middle and in the end we have a good ending where everyone is happy. This was a plot that can happen in real life.The music was great also! Very touching. So yeah it's a disgrace of people's criteria IMO. "},{"Title":"Really touching","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Nicholas Sparks's writing, so I was looking forward to Message in a Bottle, especially when the book was so good. And I was really touched by the film. While it is overlong, it looks beautiful with a beguiling soundtrack and a great cast, plus it resonated with me.The characters may be clichéd, but I could say the same for the characters in the book and in all the other film adaptations based on his work. But being clichéd isn't necessarily a bad thing, when a character or film is written well it doesn't matter for me. The characters for me were engaging and likable, and the story is an emotional one, with a I think genuinely poignant ending.The script does have a strong emotional core too, the pace was purposefully mannered but rarely boring and the whole movie is beautifully directed. Message in a Bottle looks beautiful, all the Sparks adaptations do but Message in a Bottle with its stunning coastal scenery gets my vote as the most visually beautiful. The soundtrack is soothing and very beguiling, and the acting is very good. Kevin Costner is good, Robin Wright Penn is perfectly enchanting with a gorgeous smile and eyes and Paul Newman the great actor he was is splendid with a more restrained method to his acting than his usual intense persona.All in all, a really touching movie. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the best  LOVE movie  I've ever seen!...","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this movie was about four years ago in the midnight at home. From then maybe I have watched ten times but never got bored or press forward button.It is a modern but at same time old love story between two lovely people. They live in their own worlds till the girl 'Teresa' (Robin Wright) finds a bottle by the seaside. From the first scene till the end I could not leave my eyes on her. Then I recognized I had seen her before from 'Forest Gump' and 'Last Castle' even she had just a little role in it. Anyway in this movie especially with the dress she wore at Garret's house (Kevin Costner) she was awesome, gorgeous. The house of Garret was so wonderful, a dream house. It is a home near the seaside. You may even listen the sound of waves from the kitchen. I won't tell so much about script of the movie. I am simply someone who is so affected of this movie. The sea, the waves, the yacht, the house, the girl... "},{"Title":"Love bears no boundaries","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had watched this movie 9 years ago when it was released. Then it was mostly one among the many movies to watch during the college days. I watched it again yesterday night with my wife and some family friends. I won't give you the story line and the characters since that's mostly available in all the reviews. What I want to talk about is what it left me with.Message in a bottle (MIAB)is a movie to experience the honesty of real life's twists and turns as we go along. Each characters is honest and sincere (to the extent of being unsure at times) in expressing their challenges. Garret (Kevin Costner) who is still holding on to the yesterday because that gives him comforts and completes his life, in a way. His father, Dodge (Paul Newman), displays his persistence in nudging his son to move along in life and find the courage to face the life (and its unpredictability) yet again. And we have Theresa (Robin Wright Penn), who has lost her love only to find it again. I couldn't help feeling a sense of peace in me after watching the movie. Not because it has some breath taking coastal frames (i would have love to click those shots on my camera; the framing is near perfect), but it allowed me to let go of the notion of holding on to someone to feel the love. Both the lead characters show how to love without boundaries--of time, distances, contrasting lifestyles,and possessing each other. Theresa falls in love with Garret for his love for his wife. For me, it was so pure and honest. She wants him in her life but at the same time respects his love for his wife (who is no more). Garret struggles between his present and past. He doesn't want to let go of either. Isn't it how you or I would have done. The vulnerability, frailty of human nature is very well depicted. Garret can continue to feel the love of his dead wife every moment of his life. Theresa can experience love every moment in her life by setting Garret free to choose between yesterday and tomorrow. As they say, 'If you love something, set it free. If it is yours, it will come back. If it doesn't, it never was!Not to mention the great performances by Kevin Costner, Paul Newman and Robin Wright Penn.Watch it for its honesty and purity. Cheers "},{"Title":"Touching and Brave Love Story","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie could have easily been another average romantic-drama had it not been for an above par performance from Kevin Costner and solid direction from Luis Mandoki.Message in a Bottle is lavishly photographed and blessed with a reasonably plausible script and a believable, realistic ending; one I appreciated very much - not enough movies are brave enough to finish like this. Should touch the hearts of most audiences too.The screenplay from Gerald Di Pego is based upon the Nicholas Sparks novel.Saturday, November 13, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"A truly remarkable and touching love story","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't generally comment on many films I see, but I couldn't let this one pass by without an honorary mention. This film simply rocked me to my core from the very beginning as the emotions completely caught me off guard and blindsided me.This film was perfectly casted in my opinion, the characters were all rock solid and very believable! Usually stories like these are extremely predictable and therefore get quite boring within the first 30 minutes into the film, but this film kept me glued to the screen to the very end. A very emotional, touching and loving film. This one is going on my all time favorites shelf. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This production was quite up to par, as far as I am concerned. Mr. Newman's performance was too under stated for my taste. The movie was much better than the book which is strange.I would have loved to see another actor play the lead. I love Costner, but he was too movie star for this film.They need more family films like this.As an actor, myself (many, many rungs below Mr. Newman's stature) perhaps I am overly critical. However, a masterpiece like Our Town should leave the audience with a feeling that they have been to Grovers Corners. "},{"Title":"A message from the past","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes the adaptation of a best selling novel gets the right treatment for the screen, something that is not easy to do. Message in a Bottle, directed by Luis Mandoki, and with a plausible screenplay by Gerald DiPego, achieve the almost impossible in films of this genre, a credible story that, like in real life, doesn't turn out to be what one would might expect whenever Hollywood tackles projects such as translating this Nicholas Sparks novel for the movies.The best thing going for the film is the excellent cast that was put together for it. Robin Wright Penn is an amazing actress who goes from one appearance to the next lending her beautiful aura to whatever she is asked to play. She is an intelligent performer who gives her character, Theresa Osborne credibility and class. An inspired Kevin Costner is seen as Garrett Blake, the man who has suffered the loss of his beloved Catherine and having sent her a message in a bottle, can't believe the secret that Theresa has uncovered.The great Paul Newman, in one of his last roles, plays Garrett's father with his usual flair. It was always a pleasure to find this man in anything in the big screen. He clearly shows why he was simply one of the best players of his generation, bar none. He had the quality of saying so much with a minimum of gestures. It is almost as though he is not even acting because he is that man at that moment of his character's life. Even though he is no longer among us, he will live forever thanks to the medium in which he excelled. "}{"Title":"Chick Flick Without The Neat Ending.","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an engrossing movie up to the final few minutes. I really got into the flow with very competent performers fulfilling their roles superbly. Then the plot twist ending really started to rankle. In the determination to avoid the perfect resolution to all the characters desires, they badly misjudged.I do not review the plot here, as this is covered in the summary and numerous comments.I could accept Kevin Costner's California version of a man who lived his whole life in the South and somehow lacked a Southern accent. I could accept Robin Wright Penn who was supposedly raised on Cape Cod and moved to Chicago to lack a New England accent. I could accept Paul Newman who could not even attempt a Southern accent even though I recall he managed to try in the film 'Hud'.I could not accept a plot that has an experienced sailor set out in a small sail boat and get caught in a gale when it was so easy to monitor weather projections for foul weather ahead. Compounding this lunacy is the decision to jump into a raging sea while wearing foul-weather trousers guaranteed to drag you under as they filled with water. The plot also glosses over how the two people Garrett rescued managed to sail Garrett's ship home when they made such a disastrous effort with their own boat.The Kevin Costner character Garrett has just resolved to put his obsession with his dead wife in the proper context and pursue a relationship with new love Theresa. He then virtually commits suicide in an attempt to save the life of a drowning woman. A man so experienced with the sea would not act so recklessly when he now has so much to live for.The Theresa character seems to have little regard for the effect of bringing a strange man into the life of her son. Her son already has to deal with the breakup of his parents and part-time life with a stepmother and half sibling. Garrett is not a parent and may not interact at all well with children. If the two males do bond, there is another huge impact if the new romance fails to last or in this case the new man dies.Still, the film has great cinematography and the score is outstanding. The film has a haunting beauty for the most part, the scenes of the sailboats are especially appealing. The romantic characters are both wounded and scarred and longing for love while afraid to try again. The Garrett character is especially dense about how to relate to a woman. Without wise old Dodge pointing out some major blunders, Garrett would have never made any progress in winning Theresa's heart.This film is better than the majority of chick flicks in many regards and one of Kevin Costner's better efforts. "},{"Title":"Inspired in one of the finest romantic novels... which works and doesn't work out at the same time","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Message in a Bottle is one of the most beautiful and intense romantic novels ever written. It is a favorite of mine, not only for a Nicholas Sparks's book, but also for the genre itself. Message in a Bottle is a wonderful book, together with The Notebook (another brilliant romance).Of course that, as an assumed fan of the book, I had to write something about this movie and that is precisely what I'm gonna do now.This is one of those cases which the movie isn't as good as the novel. I used to like this movie better than nowadays, perhaps because I knew it before the novel. However, after reading the novel, my point of view about this movie began to change a bit.The movie is not bad. Far from that. What happens is that the movie is clearly more incomplete comparing with the book and that's exactly here where the movie fails. I'm not the kind of person to list the differences between a movie and a book one by one, so all I can say is that the movie is romantic, emotional and dramatic, while the book is not only much more complete but also more intense, more beautiful, more enchanting, more romantic, more emotional and more dramatic. Perhaps that's why this movie is so dramatically underrated. I can sort of understand why people in general don't like the movie as much as the book, but many people also talk about this as if it was terrible, which is so not true.If the movie isn't as excellent as the book, on the other hand the movie has its good side too. For example, it shows us some beautiful landscapes, wonders of nature and details, such as sunrises, sunsets, seas, lakes, wind, beaches, green places, sailing boats, etc...About the actors, Robin Wright Penn was very good looking in this movie as Theresa Osborne. Kevin Costner has one of his best performances and roles here as Garret Blake. Paul Newman, on the other hand, plays Dodge (the same name of a car's make), Garret's father, a serious but simultaneously funny guy with a very particular sense of humor. This is Paul Newman's best role after the voice of Doc Hudson in Disney/Pixar animated movie Cars. "},{"Title":"Deliver the message that this is a great movie","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spread the message and let everyone know that Message In A Bottle was an incredible sight to behold because it was the type of movie that cleared my mind of everything else and allowed to relax in my chair.Message In A Bottle along with the writers as well as Kevin Costner, Paul Newman, and Robin Wright Penn swept me away to another place that gave me the chance to watch a brilliant film with no worries and enjoy an epic romance. Costner, Newman and Wright Penn share the screen to tell the incredible, emotional and powerful story of one reporter's mission to locate the writer of three mysterious messages that turned up ashore.The following events set off a tender and sweet romance between Garret Blake played by Costner and Theresa Osborne played by Penn. Also, mixed into this wonderfully crafted plot is Newman who plays Dodge, Garret's father who acts as a calming effect for his son when trying to deal with his newfound feelings about Theresa and those for Catherine, the object of the mysterious messages. The performances by Costner, Penn and Newman seemed so natural it was enjoyable to watch actors not try so hard to do their best. I got the feeling that the actors truly cared about making this film the best they could for their fans because of the integrity and sincerity they brought to their characters.Message In A Bottle was a powerful and inspirational movie to watch and will be treasured by me for years to come. In addition, it had two of my favorite actors and it gave me the opportunity to watch a brilliant actress come in to her own.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that 'Message in a Bottle' was a great movie, definitely one of Kevin Costner's better films in recent years. Unlike the last reviewer, I did not feel that the movie was too long, although I saw it on television and it may have been cut considerably. Robin Wright Penn and Paul Newman also put in excellent performances and follow a great plot by Nicholas Sparks. It is quite an emotional film about losing and finding love; a real tearjerker. The beauty of the North Carolina location adds to the background of the movie and heightens the depth of emotion expressed by the actors. The film is reminiscent of 'A Walk to Remember (also a Nicholas Sparks novel turned film) and will probably be enjoyed by the same audience. "},{"Title":"A very romantic movie and a great love story","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    **POSSIBLE SPOILER***   If you like a good, soppy love story (and WE ALL do on occassion), this movie hits the spot. The two attractive characters (Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn) have great chemistry, and the story (though a little unprobable) appears to work. Kevin Costner is a widower who lost his wife to cancer. After she died, he wrote letters to her to help with the grieving process, and he put them in bottle, and threw them out to sea. A writer, played by Robin Wright Penn, stumbles across one of them while jogging on the beach, and then she comes across more. She does research and finds out who the gentleman may be, and finds him in North Carolina, where he has a boat and lives with his father (played by Paul Newman). She pretended to not know about the letters and she starts a relationship with this guy. She falls in love with him and he doesn't find out about the letters until later. Another tragedy occurs in this movie as well- I won't give away everything- but this is one of my favorite love stories, and one of Kevin Costner's better movies. "},{"Title":"I Felt Cheated","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for a movie that will manipulate you like a seasoned con-artist, and then kick you in the gut at the end, this is it.I haven't been so depressed by the end of a movie since...well, *ever*. "},{"Title":"a heart-warming tear jerker","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an ideal movie to watch with your closest loved ones.  I never read the book but I feel the movie did a excellent job in capturing a range of emotions in one fat film.  I was practically mesmerized with the whole story of a couple who were possibly brought together under so-called fatefully strange circumstances. "},{"Title":"A really true love story","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful film. a real true love story. Kevin Costner gives what I consider to be one of his best performances. Although you know it's a film, it is believable in all aspects. The interaction between all the characters is so realistic. A must see film.  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece - Brilliantly Portrayed and Executed","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that this film is a masterpiece!  I do not know why it seems to get so little respect.  I dislike stereotypes, boilerplate plots, and predictable character behavior.  I do not think this fine film had any of these negatives.  I felt as though the actors were portraying real, honest to goodness people - people with whom I can relate and not gross exaggerations, or caricatures.  I actually know people like those in this film, and they say similar things and act in a similar manner.Bottom line is that this film grabbed me from the beginning and never let me go until the end.  The sound track is terrific - I went to the local record store and purchased it the next day.  Cudos to Mr. Luis Mandoki for his fine directing and to Kevin Costner, Denise Di Novi, Leslie Weisberg, Jim Wilson for their skillfull production.And finally, great praise should go to Robyn Wright Penn for her masterful portrayal of a real person.I recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Top 10 Movies of 1999","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a must see for anyone who has loved and lost a spouse through death.  Although it is a tear jerker, I thought it was absolutely fabulous and would highly recommend seeing it.  I usually don't like movies with a sad ending, but this was an exceptionally well-done movie. But be forewarned, bring tissues!   "}{"Title":"Despite obvious and almost crippling weaknesses, Message In A Bottle comes out on top.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message In A Bottle is the interesting but extremely unlikely story of a woman who tries to find the author of a romantic message she found in a bottle that had washed up on a beach. Robin Wright plays the part of Theresa Osborne, who works for the Chicago Tribune. She is touched by the beautifully written note, and upon her return to Chicago, she manages to get it printed in the newspaper. Needless to say, the paper is flooded with responses, someone reports having found a similar note, and the search begins. This is where the real problems come along, because some of the clues that come along and the way that they are followed are just too unlikely, and this is made even worse by the quickness with which Theresa finds Garrett (Costner). Think about the possibilities of finding a note in a bottle on a beach somewhere that been floating for who knows how long, conducting some kind of search (however thorough), and then finding the person who wrote it.(spoilers) On the other hand, this is a romance, and the premise is nothing if it's not romantic. Because of that, Message In A Bottle makes a great date movie, but in that case, the ending was probably too much. It's cool to go out and watch a tear jerker every once in a while, but you don't want your date to be crying her eyes out all night. That's not cool. It's actually kind of hard to form a quick opinion of Message In A Bottle, because the way that Garrett was searched for and eventually found, although it was probably the most efficient method, was extremely unlikely. But on the other hand, it makes for some quality romance. Then you find that the ending was almost too painful for it to be effective as a romance film, but on the other hand, at least they didn't slap on a cutesy happy Hollywood ending to make all the saps happy. I have to admit that that impressed me, because it makes this a unique film. While I was actually watching the movie, I noticed a lot of things that really bothered me, but when I looked back after it was over, I could see that it was really a good film. The ending doesn't satisfy as a romance, but it's good to see something different once in a while.   "},{"Title":"A movie about letting go","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found the movie to be quite good but I also lost my wife at an early age and so could relate to how he felt. I am not sure if I would still feel it is a good movie if I did not have the emotional tie to it.I found it hard to believe that a seasoned veteran sailor like him would venture out into a storm knowingly. "},{"Title":"A moving film about moving on in itself","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't normally stomach a romance but 'Message in a Bottle' just appeared on the TV so I watched it.The film does not try to do anything new or for that matter, anything particularly exciting, but it does portray a beautiful story.One of the main ideas of the film is that in order to move on, you sometimes need to let go, because you may not be taking your memories with you, but instead holding your life back with your own memories.The film jumps about a little, as if it was edited whilst the director was on a coffee break. There are parts that seem to be missing, some of which are probably in the book which I am now going to read. Other than these few bumps, most of the scenes flow like the water itself, showing the hesitation without boring the viewers.The final element for me is always the music. This fills in the gaps, says the unspoken, and shows what the camera can't. The music in 'Message in a Bottle' does all these discreetly and adds that extra emotion to the film.'Message in a Bottle' is not a film of which I would run out to buy the video, but if you do get the chance to watch it on a quiet night in, it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of the best romance films out there","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I usually do not like romances, but there was something about Message in a Bottle that captured my attention, and kept it the whole way through. The actors were great(especially Paul Newman) and the music was even better. It was played appropriately in each scene, and the songs actually made sense. The romance between Penn's and Costner's character is something extremely rare that you don't see in every movie. The scenes between Paul Newman and Kevin Costner were some of the best in the movie. This is the type of movie to watch by a warm fireplace on the couch...go rent it if you haven't yet/already!!! My rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Message in a Bottle A tenderhearted love story","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie!  Not only was it a tender and sweeping romance, Kevin Costner did a wonderful job as Garret Blake.  I could just feel his emotion through his actions and expressions.   Paul Newman delivered a superb performance as well, and provided some comic relief for the movie. All three of the actors delivered Oscar-worthy performances.  The instrumental portion of the soundtrack is also wonderful.  I am also anxious to read the book.  I absolutely loved this movie.  I recommend it to anyone!  (Just bring some tissue!)  "},{"Title":"A return to a true Kostner role","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's about time Kevin Kostner got back to a role he knows how to play. A decent looking guy with no people skills or personality. The role fits him to a T. Maybe it's just that in reality he cannot act but no matter, it works here. Robin Wright Penn is a wonderful actress and quite beautiful. The climatic scene is utter nonsense and not too realistic, but I guess they were going for a surprise ending. The movie worked well without  a contrived scene to make you grab for the hankies. Despite that it's a good movie, if you have to get dragged to a chick flick. Oh yeah--Paul Newman is great!  "},{"Title":"Watching Message In A Bottle is like viewing a fine Impressionistic painting.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that is as beautifully composed as a fine Impressionistic painting.  The direction and cinematography are not only beautiful to look at, but reflect the subtle emotional turmoil of the characters.  Who would have thought to cast Kevin Costner and Paul Newman as son and father?  Who will not now think of them as perfect choices?  Paul Newman turns in a supporting role Academy performance, but Kevin Costner is a match for him. Costner's characterization calls for some of the best acting that could be done, and Costner rises to the occasion.  Newman's Dodge Blake blusters and yells, while Costner's Garrett Blake is all hidden turmoil.  Robin Wright Penn is lovely and believable as Theresa, and it is so good to see John Savage back in the mainstream movie world.  He has long been one of my favorites.  If you are familiar with Nicholas Sparks' work, the ending will not come as much of a surprise, but for the performances and the visual pleasure, this movie is one you don't want to miss. "},{"Title":"Very good film!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will admit that this is definitely a chick flick.  But it is such a wonderful film.  I only hope that someday I will find someone who will love me the way Gerret loved Theresa (and Catherine).  I think those who are disappointed in the outcome don't understand that it's about appreciating what you have, for however long you have it.  It points out that the quality of your life is what matters.   "},{"Title":"Costner is  perfect as Garrett","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whatever the imperfections of the movie Message in a Bottle, Kevin Costner's performance as Garrett is wonderful.  He is completely true as the quiet, heart-broken widower. Costner can do more with his face than most actors can do with the entire dictionary. In this role, he is entirely believable, utterly desirable and (oh, too bad) not for sixteen-year olds. As in many previous roles, he embodies an inner calm and a maturity that is devastatingly masculine.  Robin Wright Penn is much too likable as a character than she should, given the circumstances but does an excellent job.  Paul Newman's star quality and acting ability shine through a role that is too small for him (please let's see him in something deserving of his stature).  "},{"Title":"A truly outstanding film!!","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My favorite romance movie of all time! If anyone hasn't seen this movie, you have to! A dramatic romance the kind of movie every girl loves! And even though this is a chick flick, i suggest all you boys see it too, it's fabulous. Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn really pulled it off. With the comic relief by Paul Newman. Costner and Penn had so much chemistry on the screen, it was outstanding!I was a little shocked at the end, when Garret dies saving a family. It turned into a little bit too much of a 'lover boy saves the day' movie, but i loved it anyway. Also, i loved the location of the movie. And it was a smart choice to film it in Maine, rather than actually in North Carolina. I loved what they made the town to be, just a simple fisherman's town. Garret's life seemed very appealing to me, a life of simplicity. I was very intriged by Garret Blake; a man who has a passion for the sea, he is 'rich in simple pleasures'(from the movie)he likes to be isolated form the rest of the world. And though he is a real gentlemen, and the way he acts makes it seem like he's so confident, and has everything under control, you can see how deep his pain goes, his loss. And it is just beautiful how much Garrett still loves Catherine. Garrett is a very mysterious person, with so much pain stuck inside him. I love one of the last scenes, when he's riding out to throw his last bottle out to Catherine. and he yells to his dad from the boat. You know exactly what's going on; he's finally discovered what to do, his wound is finally healing and he's beginning to have love in his life again. He's finally chosen, like his dad told him to do, you have to choose, between yesterday and tomorrow He chose tomorrow and he chose to let his heart love again, love Thereasa. This film is truly magnificent!! "}{"Title":"Can be appreciated at various levels","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The obvious attraction for a casual viewer would be the poignant love story. The writer cleverly mixes the rare attachment of two individuals, a sailor's son turned boat-maker and a beautiful, sensitive artist an attachment of the boat-maker that that does not diminish after the death of the artist. Such strong feelings have been the core of great cinema in the past (Truffaut's Story of Adele H, Polanski's adaptation of Hardy's Tess, etc.). The film may pale in comparison to Truffaut and Polanski, yet the subject matter, the performances (Newman, Penn, Kostner, and Coltraine), and photography make it noteworthy.Mexico-born director Luis Mandoki loves to film stories with strong attractions and unusual bonding (Angel Eyes is an example) and attract the viewer to the cinematic work by providing all-round positive connotations to the material. If you examine the film closely all characters are positive and uplifting--the varied personalities in the newspaper office, a supportive father (a well-defined father-son relationship), a strong bonding among the family of the dead artist that gradually transforms from the negative to the positive, a male child who accepts a strange new father figure without a whimper...The only negative characters shown almost as a cameo is the journalist's ex-husband who cheated on her. Mandoki seems to make a habit of picking up uplifting, candy-floss subjects. Is he playing safe or is it a Catholic upbringing (reference to Angel Eyes) at work? As a director's decision, the storm sequence filmed entirely with music and no words raised the film above the usual films.Mandoki as a director has potential to make great works but is evidently not a director who works to get his details right. He has filmed at locations that do not resemble the Carolinas. Yet Mandoki has a rare ability he always picks top-notch cinematographers (Oscar nominated Caleb Deschanel here and late Piotr Sobocinsky in Angel Eyes). Most viewers would love the picture-postcard locations captured in the film. But I was captivated by the indoor camera-work playing intelligently with light and shadows reminding one of works like Godfather II. For some quaint reason Mandoki's films seem to attract Razzie awards for bad acting (Jennifer Lopez in Angel Eyes and Kevin Kostner in this one). In both cases, I feel Mandoki did extract fabulous performances from other actors (Jim Caviezel in Angel Eyes and Paul Newman in this one). Perhaps the bad performances have something to do with whether an actor controls the production rather than Mandoki abilities as the director.On the whole, the film will be remembered not merely as a great love story well told but for Paul Newman's fine performance and the intelligent indoor photography. "},{"Title":"The book was better!","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read the book first, and was disappointed in how the movie turned out.  The novel was extremely touching, and told equally from both of the main character's perspectives. In the film, the emphasis is placed more on Garrett's character, and even then, the story doesn't get deep enough into his heartbreak over his wife's death.  The subplot about a disagreement between Garrett and his late wife's family didn't exist in the book, and adds nothing to the movie. Message In A Bottle should have had a lush, intense romantic feel about it, but it came up short. "},{"Title":"There was a very good thing about MIAB Paul Newman!","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really love these kind of love stories, movies like Jerry Mcguire meets Titanic. Well, this one has both of best worlds. A defensive man and a boat. And Kevin Costner and Robin Penn. I thought the movie started well. Kevin acted better than ever and there was drama but also humor. But then Theresa went home and from that point you know what's going to happen. I don't want to spoil the plot, but I was disappointed. About the ending, it worked before in other movies. But it had no use in this story, so I was left thinking did they have to write this? I guess not. "},{"Title":"A Romantic Weepy that is Neither Romantic Nor Weepy","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a sucker for romantic movies, a Kevin Costner fan who actually liked Waterworld, The Postman and Wyatt Earp and who easily cries at movies, I went to see Message in a Bottle. The only sniffles in the theater of girls and women were from one with a cold. Not a good movie. Not even CLOSE to a date movie as there's zilch to appeal to a guy. The kind of pretty movie where you have time to speculate why Costner as a producer made the movie -- because he enjoys being a sex object so I guess it was revenge on his ex-wife somehow? Not a single romantic scene or supposedly sexy moment replays in my head.Robin Wright Penn was luminous and manages to appear not age-inappropriate with Costner because she's very much lived-in. Paul Newman will have a second career as the ultimate Grumpy Old Man. Robbie Coltrane is wasted but he managed a fair American accent. I hate when characters die of Movie Star Disease -- even when another asks TWICE What the heck did she die of again? and poor Newman has to answer She was frail. Oh for goodness' sake even in Victorian novels they had consumption!Best was the use of Sinead Lohan's No Mermaid, but the other music was bombastic and I hate when the lyrics of a prominently placed song don't match the action you're seeing. (originally written 2/13/1999) "},{"Title":"Dear God, please can I have those 2 hours of my life back","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What a suckfest.I was talked into watching this by my wife. She loves a good weepy-drama-rom-com type thing and this seemed to tick all the right boxes (for her). But even my wife couldn't muster up a tear - and believe me she will cry at every episode of Cold Case.I on the other hand cried all the way through - mainly at the appalling waste of time I was experiencing but also because I stubbed my toe on the door frame as I headed to the kitchen for more beer to dull the pain I was experiencing...A more obvious film I cannot remember seeing. Each slight bend (I can't even use the word 'twist') was sign-posted about 3-weeks before it happened. Right to the very end.Even having Kev eaten by a CGI shark couldn't have livened up this still-born sorry excuse for a film.It immediately goes in to my top 10 worst films of all time - straight in at position 1.If you are thinking of renting it (or worse still, buying it), take my advice - kill yourself. "},{"Title":"Overlong and Clunky","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (Major Spoilers) At over the 2-hour mark this bloated drama directed by Luis Mandoki features an over-the-top monologue from Robin Wright narrating to a string orchestra fading to credit in blaring fashion. Message in a Bottle is poorly edited and taken from a novel by Nicholas Sparks. It stars Kevin Costner in his usual light-talking and pause-filled acting and Wright doing a Satisfactory but perfunctory job. Paul Newman thankfully shows up in about 25 min of runtime to breath reality and some spots of fun into this clunky, overlong, paperweight. The director employs intercut cheese-fest MTV music shorts that are so common today, and signal a lack of thought in cinema. Moreover, dialog is weighty and there's too much droning on of the past. By the end, Costners character's demise is an epilogue of the actual story, and an eye-roller. 5/10 - not recommended "},{"Title":"Superb cheese movie with a terrible ending","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Message in a Bottle (1999) is a superb movie in a universe of N.Sparks. I do like his adaptations, and this one didn't disappointed me. I'm a man, but sometimes i do like to watch these kind of movies, they are easy to watch, easy to appreciate, easy to be he target of jokes as well. Jokes, because they are very predictable, action always takes place in North Caroline (do i want to live in there after watching almost every movie by his adaptation now!), it usually has very good actors, and Message in a Bottle is not an exception. Robin Wright is perfect here, this is simply one her best performances. Kevin Costner is usual Kevin Costner, but that is not a complaint. The great Paul Newman steals every scene he is in, what a marvelous thing to simply watch him on screen - miss him so much. So the acting and actors here are superb. Story is simple but very good one for this kind of movie. But then the ending happened....I didn't understand the ending. Don't want to spoil anything, but WHAT was he thinking??? After such a good movie (my actual vote would have been 9), the ending was such a nonsense. Could somebody explain it to me? I mean WHY? Overall, Message in a Bottle is a superb movie if you like predictable but lovable love stories with great actors doing their very best. But the ending to me was a nonsense in comparing t the rest of the story. I didn't get it. If you do - this movie will be great for you. My final vote is 8/10 simply because of bad ending, overall i could have voted 9/10. And this is the 3rd movie with bad ending from N.Sparks along side with Safe Heaven (that revelation at the end with one of the female characters...), and The Longest ride (whit cheating ending). If you like N.Sparks adaptations, you should definitely watch Message in a Bottle - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"In Memory of Tracy White","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I fell in love with a man only for a brief time and due to unforeseen circumstances we parted ways. Months later he sent me this book and told me inside if I never read anything else again read this book love ya T. He died on Dec 9, 2004 shot by a cop and the book was in my glove box of my car I pulled it out 2 days ago to read the book he told me to read. I have seen the movie and I know he is sitting with me as I read the love story that ended. I am sad and always will be my knight in shining chrome didn't come get me and now even though I am in love with a wonderful man I will always wonder about the love of a man that god has now. thank you to you T I love you and will see you in my next life. your baby girl today, tomorrow and always....i miss you. "},{"Title":"Spread the message; watch this film","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching Message In A Bottle was an incredible sight to behold because it was the type of movie that cleared my mind of everything else and allowed to relax in my chair. Message In A Bottle along with the writers as well as Kevin Costner, Paul Newman, and Robin Wright Penn swept me away to another place that gave me the chance to watch a brilliant film with no worries and enjoy an epic romance. Costner, Newman and Wright Penn share the screen to tell the incredible, emotional and powerful story of one reporter's mission to locate the writer of three mysterious messages that turned up ashore.The following events set off a tender and sweet romance between Garret Blake played by Costner and Theresa Osborne played by Penn. Also, mixed into this wonderfully crafted plot is Newman who plays Dodge, Garret's father who acts as a calming effect for his son when trying to deal with his newfound feelings about Theresa and those for Catherine, the object of the mysterious messages. The performances by Costner, Penn and Newman seemed so natural it was enjoyable to watch actors not try so hard to do their best. I got the feeling that the actors truly cared about making this film the best they could for their fans because of the integrity and sincerity they brought to their characters.Message In A Bottle was a powerful and inspirational movie to watch and will be treasured by me for years to come. In addition, it had two of my favorite actors and it gave me the opportunity to watch a brilliant actress come in to her own. "},{"Title":"Worst book adaptation I have ever seen","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I consider myself a huge movie fan and I rarely see movies I do not like. But when I saw this movie after reading the book I was so shocked at how different they were that I actually started making a list of all the differences.  I understand that sometimes changes are necessary for an adaptation, but there were too many changes made.  I strongly suggest you do not see this movie but if you do, pay more attention to the acting because it was just fine. Paul Newman, Kevin Costner, and Robin Wright Penn all captured the essences and spirits of their characters.  They are the only thing good about this movie.  The book is SOOOO much better.  It would be more worth your time to read the book than see the movie. "}{"Title":"A movie with a message and a sad ending. Good part for Newman","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a very sad movie, about love and death. It made me silent, especially the end was hard. The actors (Robin Wright Penn, Kevin Costner and paul Newman) did a great job, but what would you aspect with such talented people. That the title was very good chosen because it is all about that message. Looking for love and hold it is for me the message in this film, and we have to keep this message in mind.Newman was for me very remarkable in his part of Dodge as the father of Kevin Costner. He is still great, I hope he will make more pictures in the future.It was a good movie but not the best that I ever saw, Splendor in the grass with warren beatty was a little bit like that and was a little bit better, but you have to see the film when you are a romantic person!rating 8/10 or *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last week I read the book Message in a Bottle by Nicholas Sparks. Tonight I watched the movie on cable TV.  I was extremely disappointed in the movie rendition of a wonderful story line, so much so that I feel I wasted 2+ hours!  The movie leaves huge gaps in the story, rushes the characters through the scenes and takes such liberties that I truly wonder if the screenwriters/director/ producer even bothered to first read the book. While the core of the story remains the same, the fringes are sorely lacking and more often than not don't even resemble the printed page.  If you want to enjoy a beautiful love story, read the book and don't bother with the movie.   "},{"Title":"Mostly loved it, but it falls short sometimes","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The scenery and music are beautiful, as is the story. Overall, I thought this was an excellent movie, but there were little things that detracted from it. I liked much of the dialog, but there were some poorly written scenes, including a couple of very dramatic scenes. I thought Robin Wright Penn and Paul Newman's acting was excellent, but there was something missing in Kevin Costner's performance--sometimes he would seem very much like Kevin Costner acting, rather than his character, which was especially troublesome when he was in scenes with the two other main characters. The editing of one scene near the end was awful--there was an abrupt change in what was shown of a main character's emotion, which left me feeling like I had missed something, which reminded me I was watching a movie, and then I was no longer as caught up in the character's emotions. Yet, most of the editing seemed very good.  Similarly, most of the directing seemed very good, but there were some scenes that seemed like they must had a substitute director. I definitely recommend this movie, but I also recommend expecting a few shortcomings and being prepared to overlook them.  I liked the movie enough to buy it, and I don't buy many movies. "},{"Title":"If you liked City of Angels, this is a must see movie!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***Warning, review is full of spoilers***City of Angels (1998) has had the distinct honor of being the only movie to make me cry by the end.  That was until today when I watched Message in a Bottle.    Kudos to Luis Mandoki for directing such a beautiful film, and creating that unique feeling of grieving over a lost love, finding love again, and ultimately grieving over another love lost.  As with City of Angels, Message in a Bottle takes you on a journey through the trials and tribulations of loosing a loved one and trying to cope with the loss.Garrett Blake (Kevin Costner) has lost his wife to an ailment brought on by their first pregnancy.  Blake has spent the last 2 years of his life mourning the loss by `cocooning' himself and cutting the world off.  He has his father Dodge, played brilliantly by Paul Newman, and his love of restoring old boats, which he takes very seriously.  Theresa Osborne (Robin Wright) works for the Chicago Tribune in the research department.  While on a trip to the cape, to drop her son off with her ex-husband, she discovers a bottle on the beach.  The bottle contains a message addressed to a Catherine, and goes on to say how sorry the writer is for `not understanding' and `not helping in her time of need'.   The more she reads, the more she feels the love the writer has for this Catherine, and how much she really meant to him.  The letter, as precious as it is, is signed simply with &#145;G'. The editor of the paper where Theresa works decides to print the letter in the paper, and hundreds of letters are sent in return.  One particular letter contains a copy of a letter found by another woman in a town a few states south of that cape where the original letter found by Theresa surfaced.  With this second letter, Theresa begins to piece together the puzzle, and when a third letter, this one not addressed to Catherine or signed by &#145;G' but on the same stationary is found, she convinces her editor to send her off and find this &#145;G'.   Theresa gets the name of the author of the letters, and goes to his small town to meet him.  When she does, she begins to fall in love with him, just like she fell in love with the letters.  After learning much of each other, Garrett (G) begins to have strong feelings for Theresa, but his undying love for his deceased wife Catherine keeps him from expressing those feelings.As time wears on, Theresa heads back home to Chicago, and doesn't hear from Garrett for a few weeks.  Finally he calls her, and they set up a trip for Garrett to visit her in Chicago.  While there, he ultimately finds the bottle and letters in her nightstand drawer and storms out of her home.  Garrett heads back home, and Theresa starts to put her life back together.Weeks go by, and Theresa receives a letter from a Garrett telling her that he has finished building the boat that he and his wife started, and will be sailing it on a specific date and invites her to join in the festivities.  She does, and when she arrives she hears Garrett christen his boat, the &#145;Catherine', with loving words about his lost wife.  Theresa leaves, and later Garrett catches up with her where they discuss what future they have.  Together they ultimately decide that they have no future, and Theresa heads back to Chicago.At this time, Garrett and his father have a touching heart to heart talk, and Garrett finally realizes that he isn't willing to let Theresa walk out of his life.  He writes another letter, this one to tell Catherine that he loves Theresa `&#133;just as much as he loved her.'  In the final scenes of the movie, we see Garrett take his boat out to sea presumably to throw one final bottle into the water, and begin his life with Theresa.  While sailing, Garrett reaches another boat in distress with a family on it.  The treacherous sea has damaged their boat, and Garrett tries to save them.  He manages to pull the father and daughter aboard his boat, but the wife is still in the water.  He decides to jump in and swim to her, but when he gets to her he realizes that he has no chance, and in the end he and the woman drown. The final scene shows Theresa receiving a phone call from Dodge explaining to her what has transpired, and we leave watching Theresa and Dodge after the funeral hugging and grieving with each other.Choosing Kevin Costner for this role was brilliant, and Paul Newman added that sentimental appeal of Garrett's father.  The choice of Robin Wright for the role of Theresa might have been a little too rushed; I really could have seen Kelly Preston (For Love of the Game) in this role.  The story is original even though the ending may have not been (City of Angels).  The movie grabbed my attention from the opening scene, and held onto it until the last of the credits were shown.   Throughout the entire film, Catherine's family wreaks havoc on Garrett's life regarding possessions of Catherine's that he will not let go of.  The moment we meet them, we hate them; however, by the end of the film, they have changed and we begin to understand what they feel, and begin to like them.  All in all I liked this film very much, and I would recommend everyone see it.   Now if you'll excuse me, I need to get another box of tissue.  "},{"Title":"A great romance story.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best love movies that Kevin Costner has acted in.Kevin Costner Plays Garret Blake who is grieving over his loss of his wife . When Robin Wright Penn finds a message in a bottle and it touches her heart. So she sets out to find out who wrote them. She soon finds out that who wrote them will change her life forever. When she finds out about Garret past and that he still loves his late wife she backs away. After she left Garret writes the finial letter to wife and said to her that  he has fallen in love with another woman but the letter never gets out to sea you have to watch the movie to find out what is next and all the other details. Overall I say it is a must see next time you are out to the store buy a copy of it , it is worth every dime.    "},{"Title":"A great romance story.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best love movies that Kevin Costner has acted in.Kevin Costner Plays Garret Blake who is grieving over his loss of his wife . When Robin Wright Penn finds a message in a bottle and it touches her heart. So she sets out to find out who wrote them. She soon finds out that who wrote them will change her life forever. When she finds out about Garret past and that he still loves his late wife she backs away. After she left Garret writes the finial letter to wife and said to her that  he has fallen in love with another woman but the letter never gets out to sea you have to watch the movie to find out what is next and all the other details. Overall I say it is a must see next time you are out to the store buy a copy of it , it is worth ever dime.    "},{"Title":"A beautiful example of Fate.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be moving in that the two Characters were brought together by fate. The characters were very well played and I feel that the director did a very good job indeed on choosing the actors.  Although I found the novel by Nicholas Sparks to be much more detailed and more moving as well.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely Enjoyable","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised myself that I enjoyed this film, as I am not a fan of Hollywood blockbusters.  However, wonderful production design and excellent casting won me over in this event.  I  notcied some say hard to believe and wouldnt likely happen,  but that is the art of cimena.  I was rather sad at the conclusion of this film and wished things had gone the other way.  Anyhow, well done and enjoyable "},{"Title":"A spectacular and sweet romance","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching Message In A Bottle was incredible because it was the type of movie that allowed me to clear my mind of everything else and allowed to relax in my chair. This movie completely swept me away to another place that gave me the chance to watch a brilliant film with no worries and enjoy an epic romance. Kevin Costner, Paul Newman and Robin Wright Penn share the screen to tell the incredible story of one reporter's mission to locate the writer of three mysterious messages that turned up ashore. What follows is a tender and sweet romance between Garret Blake played by Costner and Theresa Osborne played by Penn. Also, mixed into this wonderfully crafted plot is Newman who plays Dodge, Garret's father who acts as a calming effect for his son when trying to deal with his newfound feelings about Theresa and those for Catherine, the object of the mysterious messages.  The performances by Costner, Penn and Newman seemed so natural it was enjoyable to watch actors not try so hard to do their best. I got the feeling that the actors truly cared about making this film the best they could for their fans because of the integrity and sincerity they brought to their characters.Message In A Bottle was a powerful and inspirational movie to watch and will be treasured by me for years to come.  In addition it had two of my favorite actors and it gave me the opportunity to watch a brilliant actress come in to her own.  "},{"Title":"Highly unlikely but entertaining love story","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message in a Bottle is one of those Hollywood love stories that are unlikely to ever happen in real life but are nonetheless entertaining to watch.Robin Wright Penn plays a newspaper researcher who stumbles upon a bottle on a beach containing a message. She is moved by the message and sets about to find out who wrote it. As luck would have it, it turns out to have been written by Kevin Costner who is grieving the recent loss of his wife. Well, you know what happens next.Costner, after those two mega turkeys Waterworld and The Postman, turns in a good performance as Garret, and Wright Penn is adequate as Theresa, however, it is veteran Paul Newman who walks away with the picture as Costner's father. He still has that screen presence and charisma that have kept him a star for over 35 years. Robbie Coltrane also contributes a nice but brief appearance as Theresa's boss.The ending is a bit unexpected, but all in all, Message in a Bottle provides for an enjoyable evening's entertainment. "}{"Title":"a lot of tears","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since Mandoki is a very good actor´s director, Message in a Bottle looks interesting. It is too its splendid photography. But I think that there is a exaggerate dramatic climax during all the film. I was not able to count how many tears Robin Warren had to share with the seascape. Message in a bottle has the risk to look too much beautiful, common and dangerous sickness of that kind of film (and that you can find in The horse whisperer, for example). Message in a bottle believes at the bottom in the little community that is  a very old dream in popular culture- it heart and threat (in this case the beautiful (again!) life besides sea). This film deserve 6/10. "},{"Title":"Doesn't compare to the book","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After learning a favorite book of mine will be made into a movie, I always hope the film version will follow closely to the written word.  This was not so, though, with Message In A Bottle and I was sorely disappointed.  I enjoyed watching both Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn as they had good chemistry, but I felt not enough time was based on the development of their relationship.  Also, in the book, there is more bonding going on between Theresa, Costner's character and Theresa's son as they all have a visit in NC which is not explored in the movie.  Also, the addition of new characters to stretch the plot was totally unneeded as they were not present in the book.  Had they enhanced the Father's character more and had Costner's character read more of his dead wife's letters, we would see the true heartache these two men are going through - the grief of a husband who lost a wife and the grief of a father who's wishing his son would get on with life.  If you've never read the book, please do and it will give you more insight into understanding the movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a good movie. It is a tragic love story. But worth watching all the same. Although the plot is weak, the inner threads are strong and the end is not what we expect. This is what makes the movie worth watching after all. Kevin Costner is often seen in what seems to be his favourite environment - water. "},{"Title":"A splendid movie","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading good and bad reviews about Message in a Bottle, I have decided to express my sincere opinion about this movie.  It's beautiful, very well made, and both Kevin Costner and Robin Wright are perfect in their roles.  There is a fantastic chemistry between them and everything seems completely real.  The photography of the film is marvelous and you feel inside the movie from the beginning till the end.  My evaluation 9/10. "},{"Title":"Love and its dynamics shown in a breathtaking scenery","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reviews about this movie I had come across before had been reserved, however it had not been distracting for me. From the very first moments I was overwhelmed and sure about having taken the right decision. The scenery is simply wonderful and I took great pleasure in following the camera during the very first shots.The plot adopts its suspense from the two protagonists both facing a similar fate. While Theresa (Robin Wright Penn- tender and determined) has not yet fully got over her divorce, Garret (Kevin Kostner- self-conscious and taciturn) is still admiring his beloved wife. By writing the messages, he intends to strengthen the everlasting bond to his great love, yet he does not realize that he more and more goes into isolation. Theresa, deeply impressed by his emotional selflessness, gently manages to break Garrets shell. Nevertheless it requires time to get to know him properly...What I appreciate is Mandoki´s gentle and careful treatment of the development of the two protagonists. To underline the atmosphere and both the protagonist´s feelings, he applies a great deal of symbolism, e.g. the weather, the music or the actors´ movements. The stories-within-the-story contribute to the colourfulness of this movie and allow the audience to appreciate the dynamics of the main plot.The whole movie is very touching and will certainly have its place in the viewers´ memories. The ending is maybe a bit disappointing; in my opinion however, it even raises the significance of this elaborate and artistic movie.My assessment 9 "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this book, and then I decided to see the movie.  Normally, I like when movies are different from the books.  However, in the film, the changes they made were tragic.  Removing key characters, creating extraneous and shallow new ones, changing the very nature of the lead female role, leaving out major events...bad moves.  Instead of a moving story about two vulnerable people struggling to fall in love, you get two typically gorgeous people doing sentimental and romantic things together.  Not a bad movie, but not a good movie to see after reading the book.  Your money will be better spent in the bookstore on the book "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY AMAZING BOOK, GOOD MOVIE","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was extremely touching. The book on the other hand is one thousand times better, and my #1 favorite novel I have ever read. I totally recommend reading it, you will not be disappointed unlike most of you were with the movie!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"For Once I Read the IMDb First","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well I was braced for this one, because for once I read the IMDb first. I've heard so many times for so long how bad this movie is, so I figured I should know why. And I can't say I don't concur with the consensus of opinion here. Yes, the photography is brilliant - especially in the beginning. Yes, the plot is intriguing, up to a point, at least the first ten minutes. Yes, the movie is seeable for the first hour. Yes, the style is stilted and reminiscent of When A Man Loves A Woman. But no, I can't see a happy ending coming of this movie no matter what, no matter what effort is made to erase bad screenplay. It's inevitable that the twain do not meet, and what really seems contrived is not so much the accident as the sentiments in the last message in a bottle. They, if anything, seem wrong. Costner's character is extremely introverted, and Costner plays it well - or as well as a noodle can, to describe him as John Huston did. Whatever. For the point is made. Up to the point where Costner returns home and finally starts to get things out of his system we are fine. Somewhere along here a happy ending would have been possible, if we wanted one, if it was justified artistically. Penn's speech in the end narrative sounds like so much female college sophomore poetry - trite, pretentious, and preferably never heard. It makes one wince. I don't agree with the authors either, that this is a valid and even worthy topic. To each his own, but I just don't see life like this at all. And my goodness, but why oh why film Carolina beaches and harbors in New England? Another review suggested openly to Kevin that he think about a new day job. MIAB is not uncourageous, but on another level it is still about as lame as lame movies come. Kevin need not get another day job he has enough stashed away by now to get by without a day job at all. But he should definitely stop making movies if he can't come up with anything more significant. Kudos to Penn for a fine job. She's been passed over as one of the big dramatic stars, and the shame of it all is that this movie will not bring her any closer to stardom. "},{"Title":"This movie HAD potential","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a guy but I have seen chick flicks that I have enjoyed. I dont mind romantic movies that are original and interesting. Unfortunately this movie was neither. First of all Kevin Costner's role in this movie left much to be desired, he was boring and predictable. Robin Wright Penn was better but not good. The beginning of the movie grabs your attention and gets you interested. But after that it is snooze time. But wake up to see the end. I do have a bone to pick with people that did not like the ending, yes I know it was sad but without that ending your left with nothing but a far fetched fairy tale. So the bottom line is this - If you like romantic movies try to look elsewhere or you are your loved one will enjoy an evening of nap time.   "},{"Title":"A moody love story begging for redemption.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of a journey of the heart for Theresa Osborne, a researcher-writer for the Chicago Tribune and a divorced mom with a young son, Jason.  When Jason's dad takes him for a summer visit, Theresa's journey begins at a deserted beach on Cape Cod when she finds a message in a bottle.The message Theresa reads quite obviously tugs at her soul as she proceeds to share it with her hostess at the bed and breakfast where she's staying, with her co-workers back at the Tribune where she returns one day early, and with her boss, who does her the favor of sharing the message with Chicago.Theresa sets out on a mission, with the paper's encouragement, to find out who the message was written by and the story behind it all.  Using her job's resources, she tracks down the author in the Outer Banks of North Carolina.  He is Garret Blake, a terse ship-builder and restorer whose discomfort with the world around him is alleviated only by his passion for the sea.Kevin Costner (Blake) does well with roles that don't require a lot of overt emotion and he does well here.  Robin Wright-Penn as Theresa was very good as the reporter who gets all too caught up in her story.  A special mention of Paul Newman here doing yeoman character work as Blake's father Dodge, who understands his son's pain all too well and who tries to help all around him keep their emotions in check and headed in the right direction.The movie's downfall comes from a meandering plot from screenwriter Gerald DiPego (Phenomenon) and a decidedly downbeat denouement.  However, the acting, locations, and direction of Luis Mandoki are good, bordering on excellent.My score 6.5 "}{"Title":"A delightful movie that will touch your heart & make you smile.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message in a bottle, is one of the best romance stories I have ever seen. I am not a big romance fan, but Kevin Costner fan I am. I do not feel that anyone would walk away from this movie disappointed. It really touches the heart on falling in love and the long painful healing you have when you love someone with all of your heart and they leave you. But.... it also shows the hope for love after love. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, but..","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The producers needed to pay more attention to details.  I live in North Carolina and know what the coast looks like.  That's not it.  It's very very obvious it was filmed in New England.  If you want to base a movie in NC's Outer Banks... please film it in Wilmington. And NC doesn't have a license plate on the front of the car.Having gotten that off my chest... AWESOME movie.  Made my heart sing. Wonderfully sweet.  Kevin Costner played his patented role of the silent, sweet, still waters run deep man.  Robin Wright Penn played a great role. Not your normal perfect female role.Great great movie... Ending does not meet your normal expectations, but takes you by surprise. "},{"Title":"Love lost and found...","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's going to actually be a spoiler in this one. I can't really describe my reaction to this movie with out it. This movie starts out painfully slow. The location shots are wonderful. The scenes on the ocean make you feel like you are there. Paul Newman is wonderful and he has a few really good lines. Kevin Costner basically snoozed through this one. He has good movies and this wasn't one of them. This movie starts out so slow I'd start to lose interest and started to write it off as good background noise, the sound track is very good, then towards the end of the movie it finally got me involved. I started to actually care about the characters. Now here's the spoiler this movie has a tragic ending. It isn't as heart wrenching as City of Angels with Nicolas Cage and Meg Ryan but one of the main characters does tragically die. So if you are looking forward to an upbeat romance this isn't it. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie - I give Kevin Costner a 10 on this one!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out in February this year and have seen it several more times since then.  Very good story which can happen to anyone.  I loved the Newman/Costner father/son pairing - they should do it again.  They look like they could be that in real life.  Newman has always been my favorite anyway.  And Kevin Costner's acting is as good as always if not better.  He can speak a thousand words with his face.  Robin Wright Penn played a very good part also. I just loved this movie, except for the ending. Rent the video!  I highly recommend it.   "},{"Title":"The cinematography is terrific. This movie is  a sweet love story, with touching moments and with its sad moments.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Costner,  (JFK, Dances with Wolves, For the Love of the Game) Garret Blake is a widower. He wrote a message to his deceased wife and put the note in a bottle and threw it in the ocean. His wife also had done the same thing.  Robin Wright (Forest Gump) Theresa Osborne, is a divorcee who is really disillusioned with men. She has a son. Theresa is jogging and finds the bottle with the note and has to find out where Garret lives. She is a researcher/writer and tracks him down and decides that she should meet Garret.  When she goes to meet him,  she meets his dad  Paul Newman (Nobody's Fool)  Dodge Blake. Dad is a wonderful guy. He and his son are close and they watch out for each other. The cinematography is terrific! This movie is  a sweet love story, with touching moments and with its sad moments. We enjoyed watching. I recommend it.  However do not expect it to be a chick movie because it is not. It is a romance. The beginning reminded me somewhat of Sleepless in Seattle. But it is completely different.  Favorite Scenes  Garret Blake working in his boat. What a craftsman!  When Garret takes the kid sailing is a nice moment of male bonding.  The brother-in-law coming to help Garret to work in the boat is another moment of male bonding and it is very nice! Favorite Quotes Mrs. Blake the prayer is that everyone in the world will know that kind of love and be healed by it. ...not even death will knock down this house. Dodge Blake You choose between yesterday and tomorrow, pick and stick with it. Garret Blake  So you will always know where you are and where home is . . "},{"Title":"The Loss and the coping","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The amazing thing about this movie is the insight into loss of love/parent/death/suicide(well OK that is not there but...)I think it is very hard for those without loss/snakes in their past to appreciate this movie. This movie has been derided for not having a cathartic ending. However in real life there is no catharsis. My favorite statement is the one of Titanic survivors waiting for a redemption that never came. If you still suffer from snakes, watch this movie , and it will provide relief by not providing one. If you don't have any personal snakes to kill, then watch Sleepless in Seattle. You'll be better off.Sinan  "},{"Title":"Who came up with the ending?","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I found many parts of Message in a Bottle well done, but the pace, wildy out of place music, and sometimes stiff direction water down the impact of the film. It has occassionally good acting, and emotions run deep within the story, but the film's goals are set so high it falls all the more short of it's goal. We are given a decent love story in the first 90 percent of the movie, not a great one, but a good one. We also see a decent depiction of a man trying to overcome personal obstacles so that he may love again, and we finally see him triumph.... when suddenly, for no reason at all, the carpet is pulled right under our feet. The ending of Message in a Bottle disturbed me, not because of the fact that not all life is happy endings, but that the filmmakers thought this was their best option available to them kill off the lead actor so that we can make our movie different and more sad than the other romances out there. I have not read the novel, but the movie itself is a study of redemption, of forgiveness, and familial love. The ending is a study of nothing other than a desperate attempt by the filmmakers to tug at your tear ducts all the more. And that is all. "},{"Title":"Mush","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those who enjoy lacrimating, especially women, you'll like this film. Some beautiful scenery (why so much in Maine in lieu  of NC?) Contrary to some comments, I thought its saving grace, in addition to the actors, was the ending. Overall, though, in the immortal words of Snow White's Grumpy, Mush. "},{"Title":"Enough with the gender stereotypes!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a guy and I did in fact enjoy this film.  Why is it that everyone thinks that men just want Sylvester Stallone or some other jock who only does shoot em ups?  My father grew up in the 40's and he also enjoyed this movie because it was little more old fashioned and a little less rushed than most love stories.  In other words, the couple don't rush into the sack to have sex on the first night.It's not a great movie, but it's not bad either.  And I actually happen to hate Costner.As for the location, while the story might have been placed on the Outer Banks, just about all the coastal shots were in Maine around around the Popham Beach area.  How they thought they could pass off the rocky coast of Maine as the flat Outer Banks is beyond me. "},{"Title":"It is almost a ten","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a man, and a french man and I would like to tell you that I just love that movie. The cast of actors was excellent, the scenery beautiful and the story is a lot better than the story that we are seen these day's. You know, a little bit of violence, a lot of special effect and no story at all. You no what is the best thing in life, well it is LOVE, in all form. I hope that we, as human being, become more loving to each other's. That movie show us the way to get there. "}{"Title":"Wonderful chick flick","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"                                   Although this movie tends to drag and suffers from melancholy, I did enjoy watching Kevin Costner. While the                                   movie was pleasant enough, the book is certainly much better.                                   This is what a good friend of mine said about the movie.                                  This is what I have to say about it.                                  The actors had no drive whatsoever, the screenplay was just bad, the sets looked fake, and there was hardly any                                   talk in it.                                  I found it to be very boring and dull.                                  The end gets to be a lot better, and so does Robin Write Penn's acting.                                  I thought the only really good actor in it was Paul Newman.                                  He was very funny, and was right to the point.                                  Two movies that reminded me of this one (which were much better than this keep in mind) were, Up Close and                                   Personal, and To Gillian on her 37th Birthday (Both Michelle Pfeiffer movies).                                  I don't recommend this movie to any guy, or young teenager.                                  But it's probably more of a movie for an older middle-aged woman. "},{"Title":"Tearjerker","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message In A Bottle isn't a good movie; at the same time, it isn't a bad movie. For sure, though, it's much too long. Kevin Costner whines too much, and Paul Newman as his father (good bit of casting) is a tad too grumpy. Robin Wright Penn is the best thing about the film She's an undervalued, underused, intelligent actress. (She  runs well, too.)The folks who made the film should have studied some of those 1940 weepers more closely, which is what this film unsuccessfully aspires to. Those great Bette Davis, Olivia DeHavilland, Claudette Colbert films were nicely paced and moved right along. As far as Message is concerned, I wanted to shout, Get on with it, gang! So let's give it **1/2.... "},{"Title":"great movie, great plot, pathetic ending","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an exceptionally good movie.  I was captivated during the entire film.  That is until the end.  The ending was one of the worst I have ever seen in my life.  The writers/directors really bombed on that part.  Other than the horrible ending though I really enjoyed the movie. "},{"Title":"Best movie in a long time for Kevin","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outstanding.  Definite improvement for Kevin.  Great surprise ending. Emotional all the way.  Paul Newman still shows without a doubt why he has always been such an outstanding actor.  Age has only brought a richer vintage.  The characters portrayed are so down to earth and so very realistic in actions, emotions and dialogue.  I'm not a chick flick person, but this movie grabbed me. "},{"Title":"Definitly a women's film, however...","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Si-Fi action adventure thats my kind of film.  This one is definitely a women's film, a love story that I only ran  to mollify my wife. However, this wasn't a boy meets girl story.  It was Man meets Women, a real man, a guy you'd like and convincingly played with more ability then I thought Kosner had.  And the women, not the paper cut-out girl from The Prince's Bride but an adult women with some depth character  play by a  Robin Wright.  Consider, if this film touched me, a Si-Fi nut, what will it do to you?jnj        "},{"Title":"one of the best romance I have seen","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched it six times now and I still have tears in my eyes.  One of the best movies I have seen in a while. I am buying this movie and will watch it again.  It brought me and my boyfriend closer. "},{"Title":"How love becomes beauty","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone dreams of a love so beautiful and true, one that wraps your heart up in knots but in a way that makes you happy.  After watching Message in a Bottle, I felt inspired that this kind of love does exist.  Whether it may be for me or others, it is rewarding to know that if someone can write a story of love so beautifully, then one can live it as well. "},{"Title":"a perfect love story","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Message in a Bottle with no great expectations. In fact I had deep preconceptions because of Variety's panning review. But what a pleasant surprise it was! The mood and pace of the film were cleverly arranged to have you wrapped within a wave of emotions. By the end of the film all I could do was to clear my throat, leave the theater and rush out to buy the soundtrack. I think this is one of those films where the soundtrack plays a great role and the images are fixed to your brain in close relation to the music. Gabriel Yared's original score really blew me in this context. Hollywood is so lucky to have discovered him. Is there another composer currently working who gave three awe-inspiring scores back to back? After The English Patient, City of Angels and now this, he's one of my top three composers. The cast was mostly on autopilot but Robin Wright Penn did a good job expressing her character's feelings about this man of sea in a convincing manner. This surely is one of my all-time favourite romantic films, right up there with Titanic and City of Angels.  "},{"Title":"High quality chick flick","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed Message in a Bottle.  Okay the plot is not exactly original but the story is romantic and most definitely hooks the viewer, so much so that I was weeping and wailing by the end.Tip  don't go to see this film with your boyfriend.  "},{"Title":"An incredibly romantic movie!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message in a Bottle is not just a 'chick-flick'.  It's a movie for anyone that has loved & lost, then had the courage to try again.  It was interesting to watch the mystery unfold as the female lead tracked down the author of the notes.  When she finally finds him, the interactions of the couple is wonderful. It was interesting to watch two people wounded in previous relationships slowly reaching for what might become that 'one true love'.  The end will blow your mind!  It was the first time I've cried in a movie in years.  It took my breath away! The photography was spectacular and the sailing scenes (big water, wooden boats, etc). are outstanding.  It's a movie I would see again and again and one I will most definitely purchase.  "}{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another classic Costner. I really enjoyed this film, though I have to admit I cried a few times during it. The ending was pretty expected, as most classic films are. I would've appreciated a chance to think of Garrett as being a happy man. Here was a good man who loved until death do us part. Kind of old fashioned, don't you think? These thoughts, and the wholeness of the characters, especially the female lead, really took me on a journey and was pure enjoyment. I'll buy this film as soon as I can find it! Even my 79 year old Mom who saw it with me enjoyed it - in the middle of the scene with Paul Newman (where they were arguing on the dock) she leaned over to me and said 'EXCELLENT ACTING'.  "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking excellence","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Upon leaving the cinema, I sat in quiet contemplation of the truth of the story,the excellence of the presentation and the beauty of the visuals. I enjoyed it, thought over the impact it made on me and then saw it again. Costner and Wright Penn are in top form, Paul Newman steals the scenes he appears in. Lovely scenery, good acting and the inevitable tug of the heartstrings in these romantic surroundings play for a Theatre ticket worth paying for. Thanks to all concerned.  "},{"Title":" A beautiful, sad and touching film, Paul Newman is excellent and gives the movie's outstanding performance!!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Leaving the failures back, Kevin Costner works in a pleasant and nice film, beside consecrated stars, and he gets to inject a new breath in his career. Beautiful but at the same time very sad,Message In A Bottle made a lot of success in the box offices and it deserves to be seen and applauded by the sensitive effort of everybody involved in the production the cast, the story well written and the surprisingly effective direction by medium director Luís Mandoki. The film is beautiful and perfect aesthetics (above all in the beginning) and the sceneries are pretty and they combine accurately to the sad and romantic climate of the film.The plot is simple Garret Blake (Kevin Costner) is a melancholic and wounded man who lives in a little town in an island, with his father (Paul Newman,who gives a brilliant interpretation and who gets to rob the film from the star Kevin Costner). Garret is widower, he lost the woman puts them in bottles and he throws them in to the sea. One day, Theresa (Robin Wright - Penn reads one of the letters accidentally. Solitary and with a daughter to create, this lacking woman, in a certain way, falls in love for the author of the messages and she decides to find him, beginning a great relationship based on love as the only way to reach the redemption! Message In Bottle is not as good and beautiful as The Prince Of Tides but has a good,touching story and it pleases! it is the kind of  film that should be watched with your girlfriend, because talks about important subjects as love, loss, accuses and redemption. Paul Newman is excellent and he deserves to receive an Oscar nomination, his veteran presence transforms the film and turns it in a singular and beautiful film! thus, this is a beautiful film and not pretentious that deserves to be seen!! "},{"Title":"For the most part a great movie, but with several disappointing plot elements","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On the whole I really enjoyed this movie, at least at face value.  It was a fairly entertaining and well thought-out romance.  Several instances in the movie, though, destroyed any realism the film had.  The ending, especially, left me rather disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner's BEST performance to date","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like most people in America, I read Message In A Bottle before I saw the actual movie. Kevin Costner, Robin Wright Penn, and Paul Newman star in this touching and moving romance about love lost and found and the chance to love once again. Kevin Costner is Garret Blake, the mysterious writer of the message in the bottle, writing to his deceased wife, Catherine. Paul Newman, a movie veteran, adds his name to this film as he portrays Dodge Blake, Garret's father, who adds strong support to an already awesome movie. Robin Wright Penn is Theresa Osborne, a divorced mother of one and researcher for the Chicago Tribune. Theresa finds this bottle on the beach as she goes for a morning jog, and becomes intrigued into looking for the writer. As she reads the letters, it surprised me that such a person could put to words his feelings and make them flow and make them touch emotions inside people who are watching the film as it did to me. This takes Theresa on a journey that not only across state boundaries but one of the heart, spirit, and true love at the highest level. She locates the mysterious writer in Garret Blake and is determined to find out all about him, his life and the life and love he shared with his beloved Catherine. As I was watching Message In A Bottle, I thought to myself, too bad this has not happened for real to a couple. Wouldn't it be great to get inside the mind of these two people as it happened to them, I almost want to put a message in a bottle and throw it into the sea just to see what comes of it. Kevin Costner is one of my favorite actors and he proved in this film that everything he touches turns to pure gold; from Field Of Dreams to JFK, to The Postman, he works his magic this time as a producer. Pure perfection by everyone involved from Kevin Costner to Robin Wright Penn, and Paul Newman, not to mention the man who gave this masterpiece life, Nicholas Sparks. After Message In A Bottle, romance hit the movie theater like cupid's arrow since every couple in the room were either kissing, hugging, standing in back of their mate in a romantic position, and holding hands. What I saw is true testament that Message In A Bottle was so moving, touching, and romantically powerful that it made these couples come together in this way; You won't see many movies today with as much power over people as Message In A Bottle did. Will it live up to your expectations? There is only one way to find that out and that is to watch it for yourself; I must give a word of warning though for those who want to see Message In A Bottle, bring tissues for an unexpected but must needed finale to an excellent film.   "},{"Title":"Costner Improves","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Costner has been in some seriously poor films in recent years. Waterworld and The Postman were spectacular flops, but there have been plenty of actors who have fallen away when they've taken on the extra chores of direction and production.Luis Mandoki (When A Man Loves A Woman, White Palace, Born Yesterday) takes over direction on Message In a Bottle and even though Costner still is a co-producer he seems much more relaxed, indeed ideal for the part.Message In a Bottle is a romance, very much so. Robin Wright Penn is the very effective love interest for Costner. Add plenty of schmaltzy cuddles, sloppy kisses, Paul Newman and Robbie Coltrane and we have reasonably effective piece of entertainment, if you settle back, slow yourself down, and merge into the uneventful plot.Garret's (Costner) wife died about two years previously. He wrote a couple of beautiful letters to his dead wife, pushed them into a bottle and threw them into the sea. One of them is found by a newspaper researcher called Theresa (Robin Wright Penn). Her boss (the wonderfully acerbic Robbie Coltrane) publishes the letter in his Chicago newspaper. Women readers swoon and so does Theresa. She leaps at the chance to track the author down.Off she goes to Garret's sea side town and the inevitable will happen. Garret lives near his Dad who's called Dodge (Paul Newman) providing some of the best scenes in the film when Dad and his boy exchange jibes and roles.But what makes the film work as well as it does is Robin Wright Penn ( The Playboys, Forrest Gump, Toys, The Princess Bride, She's So Lovely) who's honest performance is enchanting. And Costner makes a fine fist of being a reluctant lover.Much has been said about Message In a Bottle being too slow but it's not so much the pace of the film that's the problem so much as a lack of events. Really nothing much happens. What most romances have is a beginning a middle and an end; boy meets girl, boy loses girl, etc.Message In a Bottle doesn't really bother with the etc bit at all. In fact it spends nearly two hours on Garrett and Theresa getting to know one another before it rushes into about ten minutes of them having a tiff and then headlong into an exceedingly improbable catastrophe.But still Message In a Bottle might convince you that there's nothing more romantic than a good day's sailing on a fine yacht and that yet again in the movies old geysers get the young women.   "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner is back in this Superb Romance.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few love story that touched me. I am not a usual fan of romance story but this movie really reveals how wonderful the love can be. I am delighted to see Kevin Costner back in the screen with such a good story line. His past few film after the 'Bodyguard' was a disappointment but I hope this movies will be a turning point. Not forgetting Robin Wright Penn, it was the first time in the movies I know about her. She did a good job. She was able to express well in every parts of the cast as 'Theresa', the way she express can really tell how much she love 'Garret' without even have to say in words. I will recommend this show to anybody.  "},{"Title":"A romance that feels real","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, more than any in recent years, touched me deeply. I could identify with the relationship between the two main characters--their hesitancy, shyness, joy of discovery, palpable attraction and the baggage they carried from past relationships. Corny as it sounds, love can be that magical, and this movie perfectly captures that magic that only the lucky among us actually experience ourselves. Even beyond the love story, I loved how all the characters, big and small, had dimension and complexities beyond the confines of the movie itself. It is so rare for me to think about movie characters like real people who exist after the credits roll, but I thought about them for days afterwards. You can't be a cynic to fully appreciate the depth of this movie, but speaking for myself, I was swept away.  "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are a number of unique things to say about this movie. I was positive I could predict the storyline and outcome from the beginning, however I was wrong more often than right. So, that is in its favor. Also, the ending was a total surprise to me.It wasn't a feel good movie (which I like), and that is ultimately why I gave it a 7 versus an 8. My date cried much of the time. I personally didn't think the movie manipulated our emotions, so I give it a good score for that.Unfortunately, despite excellent performances by Robin Wright and Paul Newman, I was left minorly shaking my head. The reason was Kevin Costner. I like him and I generally like his work and I think he did his best here. It's just that I  felt that he was seriously miscast in the role.And, as to the letters. Thank God they only read the first one and most of the second and part of the third. I swear I was about to heave listening to that crap.Oh, and the movie was about 2 hours and 20 minutes. I mean come on! There were totally unnecessary scenes involving extraneous family members that could have been cut. Had it been 1 hour 40 minutes as it should have been, it probably would have gotten an 8 from me.Bring a hanky. "},{"Title":"Very good but ....","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very good. It is a lovely romantic movie that pulls you into these two lives. They both have been hurt so much you want them to be happy. But love's road is rocky and the end is a tear jerker.But if you've read the book, be aware there were some changes made and not always for the better. Frankly I think if they had been truer to the book it would have been a better movie. Though I still wish the ending had been different in the book and movie. "}{"Title":"Good message!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. Kevin Costner finally return to his roots and he deserves a good review. Despite an easy story, the characters are true and splendid. The performance of Paul Newman in the role of the father is so fine. But, the end is too special and understanding. Is it no love for the man with pain? So, this movie is in the 0,01% of american movie, a not happy end movie. I wish I could see a second good performance for Costner...8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Good movie but is drawn out and does not follow the book closely","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why do Kevin Costner and the writers continually change the screenplay so the movie does not follow the book?  If the Postman followed the book, the movie would have been entirely different and probably a lot better.  They did the same with Message - the movie added a lot of events that did not happen in the book including a Hollywood ending that did not make a lot of sense. They events that happened to Garret in the book tied the story together in a more coherent manner. Also, a total of 19 messages were sent in the book and Catherine never sent the message in the bottle.  I recommend that people read the book if they liked the movie and want to know the true story. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, take your tissues!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A three-hanky film at least, and much better than I expected. But by far the best thing about this movie was Paul Newman. In a seemingly effortless performance he is the most believable character in the story. "},{"Title":"liked the movie","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie. Paul Newman was great. He should be nominated for an acadamy award. Cosner and Penn were good too. What I like the most was how shy they were when they were getting to know each other. I always think that I have to have it all together when I meet some one new. I would recommend the movie to friends. I didn't like the end.   "},{"Title":"Great film spoiled by premarital sex","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had all the makings for a great and enduring film.  Although predictable it was a very touching story.  The scenery was beautiful and the cinematography was outstanding.  But for those of us who don't like Hollywood's interpretation of love, the premarital sex scene was long and unnecessary.  Let the movie succeed on its own merits.  If you haven't seen the movie yet, don't.  There are other videos available that have the romance, scenery, and story line without the sex.  "},{"Title":"Realistic characters and breathtaking pictures...","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, so the basic plot may not be original, but the pictures in this movie are absolutely breathtaking!  The best views of the ocean and classic sailboats you'll ever see without seeing them yourself.  Kevin Costner will be as irresistible as ever, but what's up with the hair?  Robin Wright Penn is a great actor, but doesn't match Costner in the sex appeal category, not that that matters for the primarily female audience.  Another highlight is the realism of the characters, every little nuance reminds the audience of a real person, without that, the movie would be little more than a beautiful painting.  Watch out for the surprise ending! "},{"Title":"Slow moving love story","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Paul Newman still has it. When he is on the screen you know the story will come to life. But that's it. The rest of the tale drags along interminably. Robin Wright Penn tries her best, but her scenes with Kevin Costner have no chemistry. The sequences with Penn and her co-workers have more interest than the main story line. So if you are a fan of Mr. Newman, there is something for you here. Otherwise, rent a good Paul Newman video. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie but the scenery is not the Outer Banks!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and enjoyed it very much.  One thing that I did find extremely misrepresented is the scenery.  I visited the Outer Banks for a week last summer and have lived in Maine all of my life.  There is a vast difference in the landscapes and the styles of the buildings.  Everything looked so New England, it was actually distracting.The story was good and the interaction between the characters worked well. The ending was a little disappointing but somehow it didn't surprise me. Kevin Costner in a polo shirt, well what else needs to be said?  I enjoy his work as much as just looking at him!  I enjoyed this movie and would recommend others see it as well.  "},{"Title":"I could have had a V8 instead.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I really did love almost the whole movie. The characters were funny, sad and more than romantic enough for me. You can't lose when you have both Paul Newman and Kevin Costner chewing up great scenery and proving more than men enough for their surroundings. I have only enjoyed Robin in two previous movies - Braveheart and The Princess Bride - but I found her quite likeable and her character is more than a match for Garrett (Kevin) and Dodge (Paul).However, no matter how great the characters were and how meaningful the movie was to me, I left the theatre both disappointed and very unsatisfied. I did not empathize with the character over the ending because it distracted 180 degrees from the fantasy the movie had spun up until then. Movies are our escape from life, our fantasies come to life and a bolster for our every day humdrum lives. We don't go to movies to see real life, we go to live out our fantasies. My fantasy bubble was popped with Message in a Bottle. I don't recommend it, I won't see it again and the eventual video will not end up in my extensive collection.It's too bad the Kevin chose this movie to bounce back from previous flops. He had a wonderful part in what could have been an unforgettable movie, that I will not be wasting another thought on. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman, Kevin Costner, and the ocean are wonderful, but the plot is cliched and disappointing.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't be lured by the romantic advertisements.  This movie sends out a very strange message.  Robin Wright Penn is boring as an unhappy single mom reporter who stalks a man whose grief stricken letter to his late wife she finds washed up on the shore while moping through a vacation at the most beautiful B&B I've ever seen.  She lies to him and then, ridiculously easily, picks him up.  Men who look like Kevin don't have that hard a time meeting women.   Imagine her surprise when he finds out about her deception and is upset!  More ridiculous plot twists follow.  Except for Wright Penn, the casting is excellent. I would like to see more of Illeana Douglas and Robbie Coltraine, and the scenes between Kevin and Paul Newman as son and father are wonderful.  They should have made a movie, focussing on these men and their life along the lovely but rugged North Carolina shore.  "}{"Title":"Too long and a bit boring.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some good acting. The scenery was gorgeous. The pathos seemed to be forced or demanded from the director with one sad situation after another. The believability level was strained. Best scene was non-verbal with John Savage and Kevin Costner making up after a long running battle about deceased's paintings. Cutting 15 mins or so from the movie would have made the story line much tighter and enjoyable. If I were grading a paper in school the grade would be a C to C+. "},{"Title":"Movie delivers message, not only in a bottle","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie very moving - I fell for the actors the minute they appeared on screen, and was touched by the poignant conclusion.  This film delivers a message, not just only in a bottle, that reminds us all of our own mortality and the risks required to attain the things we most need, especially love.We all long for this certain type of adventure- a quest for a true love, not so easily attainable.  A good heart and a twist of fate can change our lives in a matter of seconds.  Once this sort of love is acquired, it will never be forgotten.This film reminds us what it is like to take a chance and to make something good come of an uncertainty.  "},{"Title":"A great movie to share with someone you love.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is not for those that are cynics.  It touches your heart and makes you look carefully for life's precious moments.  I will definitely own this beauty one day. "},{"Title":"It left me dry-eyed","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sappy, contrived and a waste of good actors and great scenery. I'm usually a pretty soft touch, but this movie didn't get to me at all emotionally. Even Paul Newman was a waste. One of the worst scenes was his tantrum threatening to tear up the painting in response to the feud. Costner and Wright-Penn were OK, and I liked the first half of the movie OK, especially the awkwardness with which they first got together. Great pick-up line Do you eat meat?  "},{"Title":"Five Hanky Movie","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Back in the old days of the studio system, the studio bosses had a rating for what were called women's films the hanky system, going from one hanky for a mildly sad film to five hanky for a real tear-jerker.  Well this movie is definitely of the five hanky variety.Kevin Costner, who co-produced, appears to be staking out the 30 to 50 year old, single mom demographic.  In recent years he seems to make only this kind of film.  Whatever happened to the actor who was great in Bull Durham, or Under Cover?  Now all his movies are either epic disasters (in every sense of that term) like Waterworld and The Postman, or maudlin hanky movies.  IMO, now that he's become a sure box-office seller he's begun to take on only safer roles.  And answer me this Mr. Costner  how can a character who was born and raised in the outer banks of Carolina, who's never lived anywhere else, not speak with a southern accent?  I guess the same way that Robin Hood could speak without an English accent.The storyline is basically this  Boy and girl meet by some coincidence; despite having absolutely nothing in common boy and girl fall in love; boy and girl can't seem to resolve their circumstances to continue with a real life relationship; either boy or girl dies or leaves.  This storyline must be as old as humanity itself.  Cavemen were probably telling this same story.  When done very well it can indeed illuminate for us the nature of love (notice both Shakespeare in Love and its predecessor Romeo and Juliet), but when done poorly it appears trite and phoney, like something specifically geared to getting an emotional reaction.In this version, Theresa (half-heartedly played by Robin Wright Penn) finds a fabulously romantic message in a bottle one morning when jogging along the beach.  Being an ace Chicago newspaper researcher, she tracks down the author, who happens to be studly Garret (Costner) in a small beach town in Carolina.  The above story then ensues with a few variations.Some people are upset at the ending, claiming it is too sad.  Other's say that this is reality.  Well, reality is that when a woman from Chicago falls in love with a man from Carolina, one of them usually moves to the other's location and learns to adapt.  Incidentally, my date observed that the movie ending is different, more heroic, than the book ending.  I believe after hearing the book ending, that would've made more sense.  "},{"Title":"Not good.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt every minute of this 5 hour and 25 minute movie. Oh, wait, that's right...is wasn't 5 hours and 25 minutes.  It just FELT like it...The slowest most boring movie since Plan 9 from Outer Space.Many turkeys to it... "},{"Title":"Awesome Chick Flick!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I have to say that this is a really good movie.  I mean it had romance,tears- everything!  A guy, well most guys, would probly hate it due to lack of action but I loved it.  The only thing that I can really complain about is the predictable ending but Kevin Costner's sexiness makes up for it! "},{"Title":"","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only reason this film did well on its opening weekend, is because it misrepresented itself through previews as a date film.  What a perfect bit of trickery for all those Valentines Day movie goers.Thing is, I was hooked for the first hour and 45 minutes.  But then, for some reason, they do the Hollywood patented we're _not_ going to do a hollywood ending ending.   It had me boo'ing at the screen.  There was no fore-shadowing, no reason, and nothing to fall back on after that moment.People laughed when I yelled out. No told me to shut up.  I asked for my money back, though I didn't get it.I really wanted to like the movie.  But I could think of ten different endings which would have had the same impact, and yet been fulfilling. bleah.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner...yummmm!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is like a beautiful impressionist painting.  The story is quite good overall yet the middle of it, where they do so much giggling could have been tightened a bit.  Robin Wright Penn is beautiful to watch and plays most of the nuances of her part well.  The only place where she seems a bit naive is when she is running a board meeting.  Why would that be?Paul Newman was disarmingly funny.  The small son was darling and well cast. The sailing scenes were breathtaking.  The end was very very surprising and I would have liked it to have been different or at least that they would have spent more time together.  I also did not understand why a man who is such an excellent writer wrote only three letters during the whole story.I do recommend it for a rainy cold night by the fire.  Romantic and moving.  "},{"Title":"Worth a Look","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a bit formulaic and melodramatic at points, but overall works pretty well. Direction, casting, and cinematography are all quite adept. The screenplay, though somewhat shallow, is genuine and sweet, and the film builds some artful and richly textured scenes around it. Paul Newman is charming as always; he and Kevin Costner make a surprisingly effective father/son team. Some great ocean scenery too. "}{"Title":"A more interesting than usual romance flick with strong performances by Robin Wright Penn and Paul Newman.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lonely newspaper correspondent tracks down the sender of apoignant message in a bottle. Newman is great, as is Penn, butcan Kevin Costner find a new role? The strong, yet taciturn manwith a hidden past needs a new twist, already. Worth seeing,well written. "},{"Title":"The tearjerker you could never bring enough tissue for.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought I was prepared for the movie, but I guess half a roll of toilet paper wasn't enough for me and my three friends. ;-) The movie was EXCELLENT, absolutely beautiful. Robin Wright-Penn and Kevin Costner are a great pair and great actors. For the most part, I enjoyed the movie. I didn't particularly like how some stuff turned out, but I think Paul Newman deserves an Oscar -- best supporting actor I've seen in a long time. ;-) "},{"Title":"Costner is back in this well-written romance story","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Costner's movies are enigmatic.  He deals with subjects that are slightly off-center, and is not afraid to be seen on screen doing things that may not be positive to his career.I personally liked his Dances with Wolves, and even found Waterworld somewhat enjoyable.  But it is his romance movies that have really been my favorites.In Message in a Bottle, we have an excellent storyline, and personal chemistry every bit as strong as that in Robin Hood and Tin Cup.The plotline begins with a divorced mother (played by Robin Wright Penn) running on the beach, and discovering a poignant letter in a bottle.  Using the investigative techniques of her journalistic profession, and the public exposure afforded by the newspaper she works for, she is able to locate other letters.  These clues allow her to track down the author of these heartfelt letters (Costner).  She travels to Costner's home town, where she first meets his father (Paul Newman), and gets to discover much about the town, its people, and the relationships between Costner and his fellow townspeople.As in many conventional love stories, the letter writer and the journalist eventually fall in love.  When Costner plans a trip to the city to surprise Penn, the audience knows the secret will be discovered. Predictably, when Costner discovers this secret, he feels betrayal and doubt, and this leads to a parting in their ways.However, the way in which these conflicts are resolved, and the love these characters have for each other is revealed is not conventional, and makes the movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A well done, well acted romance","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would recommend this movie to everyone, but only with the added warning, do not expect a happy ending. The acting is wonderful, the cinematography excellent.This film shows a real romance, with very well-defined characters. The three leads all did a very good job. I was especially impressed by Robin Wright Penn and of course, Mr. Newman. Costner's performance was also excellent, but no more than I expected. He's played the same type of character before.I went in expecting a happy ending, but afterwards, I saw the ending as fitting the overall story. I'd still rather have had the two live happily ever after.  "},{"Title":"A moving, well-made love story","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not the kind of person who normally likes romantic movies, but I must say that this was one of the best I've seen in a long time. Indeed, there were several parts that had me close to tears. Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn both give excellent performances (especially refreshing after Costner's recent films), and Paul Newman is great as always, stealing every scene he's in. And the cinematography is absolutely gorgeous; it alone deserves an Oscar. However, there's one thing that keeps it from true greatness- the ending. It's not a bad ending per se, but it simply doesn't fit with the rest of the movie. Had the ending been changed, it would have been a near-perfect movie. But all in all, I'd definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Book vs movie","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Naturally, I believe the book is better then the movie, but I also believe that the movie was done very well.  Some key things from the book were changed (ie, her location and that she was not the one who published the articles (in the movies she was just a lil peabody UNDER the editorial writer) that I believe should not have been changed.Despite some things in the movie I do not agree with or do not particularly like, I must admit that the movie overall was very well done.  The main reason I say this, the cast was selected wonderfully! The chemistry was just there, the actors/actresses seemed to truly put their heart and soul into this film.  It showed.  The movie portrayed the various emotions just as well as the book did.  This really surprised me, because generally you can not find actors/actresses who can visually SHOW what were mere thoughts in a book, yet they were able to.   "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I sat STUNNED in my seat expecting a miracle at the end of this movie! How could they take something so wonderfully beautiful and massacre it? And of all weekends, Valentines! Word to writers of the the '90s - shock value is overrated!!   "},{"Title":"A great Valentine's Day date!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Are the critics all cynics?  I have not read one positive review of this film.  Yet, it is a beautiful love story, with beautiful photography (but not the Outer Banks).  It is the kind of movie that appeals to all ages.  A feel good about life kinda of movie.  I am sure it will get labeled a chick flick but that's okay.  Paul Newman is great and so is Kevin Costner for a change.  True to the book in most important parts, better than the book in a few.  Don't miss this one, ignore the critics. "},{"Title":"Most Distracting Soundtrack of the 1990s...","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Someone should have thrown the preachy new age soundtrack of Message in a Bottle out with the bilge water.  This is a score that tries to tell you how you should be feeling before the scene has developed to the appropriate emotional level, sometimes just a distraction (the scoring is never subtle), but frequently destroying the momentum of a genuinely affecting moment.  The actors are top-notch, the cinematography and art direction a treat, the songs used in the background are ok....but the feely-touchy yuck enveloping you in Dolby Digital impedes any honest emotional involvement. "},{"Title":"Unfulfilling romantic movie","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very entertaining, well-acted movie. The chemistry between Costner is Penn is very strong. And Paul Newman practically steals the movie. My only reservation is the ending. I like reality, but not when I'm in the mood for romance! "}{"Title":"Mopey Costner","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're a big Kevin Costner fan, then you will probably like this film.  But, if watching Costner mope around on screen for nearly two hours is not your cup of tea, this film will probably be a very tedious experience for you.Paul Newman is great. The film flies by while he's on screen.  When he's not, the film drags.  He deserves an academy award nomination for best supporting actor next year.  But seeing as how this film is such a trifle, I doubt it will be remembered next week, let alone next February. "},{"Title":"Best Picture of 1999 so far!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a film critic and I have seen this movie twice. This is by far the best story and all around movie I have seen this year so far. I have viewed some 30 films too! Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn have great chemistry and make the movie all too believable. This story takes you on such an emotional roller-coaster. You laugh, cry, and become angered. I highly recommend this film! Go experience it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Well Acted, Amazingly Photographed","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't avoid cliche, but each one of the predictable scenes is done better than typically. This is largely due to the more than adequate performances, usually (though not uniformly) good screenplay, and absolutely PERFECT cinematography from the master, Caleb Deschanel (The Right Stuff, The Natural, Being There). He makes everyone seem smarter, every scene seem new. I doubt there will be a better photographed film this year, and for those who still go to the movies for visual pleasure, this will more than suffice. Also, one note on acting Robin Wright Penn has come along gradually. With this and her performance in Hurlyburly, she is nonpareil in her age- and beauty-class; I'd prefer to see her than Julia Roberts, Monica Potter (the winner of the New Julia Roberts Star Search contest, as The Undercover Critic put it, and all the rest in adult romance--and she's always been more gifted at comedy than the rest.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing Return to a 60's Style of Unhappy Endings","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had all the romance that trailers suggested it would have - and that is why I was attracted to it.  Some suggest that it is a movie of healing.  Well - wonderful, but not why I went to see it.As soon as I knew he was a boat builder, I knew he would sail to Chicago and they would live happily for a while - life T.B.D. (to be determined). Nothing certain beyond death and taxes.My criticism - that the romance could not blossom;    I detest that movie style that says reality to be inserted here.   Life has tragedy but it is not ALL TRAGIC.  And this film script design somehow returns me to a 60's twisted logic when everything good and gracious either died, burned, crashed or fell off the end of the world.  Enough please.  If I wanted real tragedy, I go see Shakespeare's works....that is enough for anyone.My criticism - If Hollywood is going to wring the trough of our emotions, they owe it to the viewing public to finish the film with uplifting joy; not crashing the viewer into a greater pathos to satisfy some twisted writer/director/actor ego. "},{"Title":"Most Romantic Film Ever","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film, not having heard anything about it, and I can say without reservation that it is the most romantic and literally breathtaking movie I've ever seen, and I've seen plenty.  Robin Wright-Penn, Kevin Costner, and Paul Newman all give Oscar-worthy performances.  Minor flaws include too much bathos in spots, and a smidgen of bad acting in one of the minor roles (Catherine's mother).  And if it's slightly formulaic, who cares!?  The acting is so strong and the story is so touching that it doesn't matter.  Kevin Costner blows Harrison Ford out of the water in the middle-aged romantic lead role Where Ford is stoic, Costner is quite believably sweet and endearing.  I don't know that Robin Wright-Penn has ever had a better role.  Very strong recommend! "},{"Title":"Incredibly moving","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film touched me in a place where no other movie has. And it makes your heart ache just thinking about it for days afterwards. The story is amazing and I strongly suggest that everyone who loves a good love story go see it. "},{"Title":"Needed love story in this world...","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had read the book after seeing the movie and was much more impressed with the Characters on-screen.  I am not all that impressed with Mr. Sparks writing -- he is not a writer that I would consider to be very sophisticated.  But, he does know how to tell a story that pulls on the heart strings. I think they captured the mood very well on-screen and the chemistry between the characters made it believable. Being a hopeless romantic -- I loved the premise of the story and the meaning behind it.I would definitely recommend this movie.  But bring the kleenex - it's a tear-jerker. "},{"Title":"Intensely real. Goes straight to the heart.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After finding a romantic message in a bottle from a man who lost his wife, Theresa (Robin Wright) tries to find that person. Though she is a journalist and the initial idea to locate this man was sparked by her boss at the newspaper, she pursues this project for more personal reasons. As a single she feels herself attracted to those letters and finally also to the man writing them (Garret, Kevin Costner). Though she falls in love with him and he is also attracted to her, he cannot cope that easily with the love he lost. The plot of that film was quite forseeable after the first few minutes and a part of it could have been omitted (relationship of Garret to the family of his dead wife). Nevertheless I did love the film for the way the relationship between Garret and Theresa was characterized. I seldom saw something as realistic and natural. If you do not watch the film for the emotions and not the story you are probably going to like it. And at least the ending is very surprising. "},{"Title":"I read the book and was NOT disappointed in the movie. Loved it.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cinematography was excellent.  A number of changes have been made from the book but the love story is still intact.  I was enthralled by Paul Newman's performance as Dodge Blake.  Kevin Costner and Robin Penn-Wright had the chemistry to make their love for one another believable..what more can you ask.  All in all, this is one movie I will see again. "},{"Title":"Two things that should be in a Kevin Costner movie","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the first time since Superman that I've had to actually STAND in line in order to see a movie.  It's unheard of in this day and age.  And from the buzz that I could hear in the line, I've decided that there are two things that all women want to see in a Kevin Costner movie - 1)Kevin Costner and 2)Kevin Costner.  It doesn't matter what the script is like, women (and men) stood in line for an hour just to see this movie!Paul Newman is really good in it also, offering the funnier moments.  But the main attraction, the main draw, the main pull 'em in is good ol' Kevin.  Gets them every time! "}{"Title":"Take Your Kleenex","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie and wonderful love story.  Those of you that have read the book may be disappointed in some of the (in my opinion unnecessary) changes.  If you have not read the book yet, don't, read it after the movie. In any case make sure you take a BOX of Kleenex.  "},{"Title":"Weepy Romance - Hanky Required","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Flannel Kevin Costner and visiting Chicago researcher Robin Wright Penn (HURLYBURLY) can't let go of the floatsam and jetsam of past relationships in this weepy story of sailboats, a dead wife, and new love in coastal North Carolina.  Paul Newman provides comic relief as Kev's concerned, Bud-sippin' dad.  Tidal waves of tenderness move the soundtrack by Gabriel Yared.  The final letter-reading is a two-hanky.  Sheryl Crow's lovely `Carolina' is the closer.  This is one of those adult romances like TO GILLIAN ON HER 37TH BIRTHDAY (1996), so don't bring your kids.  "},{"Title":"A truly fine,well acted,well directed love story.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     My wife and I were fortunate to see a preview showing of Message In A Bottle last evening. Kevin costner-Robin Wright and Paul Newman were in the lead roles and they were supported by as fine a group of actors and actresses as can be found.    Costner, Wright and Newman convinced this person, that they were the people they were playing.Costner is still growing as a fine actor, Newman is Newman,no more need be said. This is the first time I remember seeing Robin Wright in a lead role and I certainly look forward to seeing her again.     A love story with heartbreak, more happiness followed by yet more heartbreak. Yet leaves a person with empathy of all those emotions and feeling good about the outcome. Four Stars for me.   "},{"Title":"Bring a Hanky","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message In A Bottle is a touching film that contains all the qualities that make it a wonderful, classic love story.  Paul Newman's character (Dutch) was great.  He should get Best Supporting Actor for this.The movie was much funnier than the book.  The book did help me understand a bit of the motivation of the characters which gave me a deeper understanding of the whys of their actions, but even if you haven't read the book, the film stands on its own.Definitely, when you go to see the film, bring a hanky.  Just remember, it's the journey we go through, not the destination. "},{"Title":"Not just another sappy romantic movie!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message in a bottle is the type of movie that you expect will take an easy turn and become just like any other Hollywood romance. But instead, MIAB turn out to be a movie with real characters and real emotions. It is well reflected by the acting and directing.  "},{"Title":"Excellent and believable love story","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on its opening sneak preview night. As such, I had no prior knowledge or information about the story beforehand.It was fantastic from the standpoint of casting. Even the supporting characters added to the story. The chemistry between the characters is marvelous. The screenplay was well-done. I cannot recall a single dopey or extraneous line. Costner, Wright-Penn, and Newman are marvelous -- especially Newman. He literally leaps off the screen at you and nearly steals some of the scenes. He is also responsible for most of the movie's more humorous moments. Costner redeems himself as a first-rate actor. Wright-Penn has a tremendous screen presence and is very believable.It is long and I did catch myself looking at my watch a couple of times, but only because I knew when it was supposed to end and wondered how the close was going to be handled.I was disappointed in the ending. Otherwise an excellent film.  "},{"Title":"your mom will love it!","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good execution of tried and true Hollywood - couple falls in love under precarious circumstances, a secret is revealed, they part, work out their past problems, and then come together on true terms.  An adult story because (ew!) there's death and divorce they have to get over.  Some comedic moments from Paul Newman who seems to be doing a funny On Golden Pond rip-off.  Kevin Costner sucks, but at least he erred on the side of least annoyance.  More evidence that he can't act, but at least he doesn't try.  Again, he plays off nothing as something.  But, the girl is good.  She shows a nice range which makes her real.  I like how she was repulsed by the cliche fight in the beginning between Kevin and the country rival.  And while the water scenes get old and the movie doesn't coalesce into something deeper, who cares.  Your mom will like it and that's all that counts.  The movie doesn't pretend to be anything but formula and gives everything it says it would (which isn't much, but enough).  And who wants a lot anyway?  All in all, I predict 80m domestic, 60m foreign (going over big in Australia and Greece), and very strong video rentals with 2-3 yrs Blockbuster New Release shelf life.  cha-ching!!! "},{"Title":"A story that could only be written by a woman, even though it wasn't.","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILER AHEAD.Imagine this scenario You are a guy who just had great sex with a hot woman you met a little while back and that you really like, the beginning of a steamy relationship. While she gets cleaned up, you rifle through her stuff to find that you apparently did not meet her by chance as you had thought before, but that she had found some old love letters you wrote to a previous love of yours, and apparently was so taken by them that she tracked you down, romanced you, and, just a few minutes ago, screwed the living daylights out of you. Okay, imagine that? So here's the question What would a guy in this situation do? If your answer is something like get all emotional, pack his bags and run away in a huff, then you (a) are most likely a woman and (b) might like this movie.For everybody else who has just the faintest inkling of how men actually work (which somewhat surprisingly does not seem to include the apparently heterosexual male who authored this story, although there is always the possibility that he's just playing to his audience), this is just one cliché too far in a chic flick riddled with bad, bad romanticky stereotypes, super-corny acting, and dull by-the-numbers predictable storytelling.The one faint ray of light in this stinker is Paul Newman --- his role isn't a very big one, it isn't very well written, but he does with it what he can. It's not enough to make this worthwhile, though. Avoid. "},{"Title":"OMG... Nice start and middle... quite possibly worst ending ever","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Whilst the main part of the movie is good, apart from some seriously dodgey editing when he takes the son out on a boat and the next shot is the son going away for the night good. The ending however is quite possibly the worst piece of script writing seen in many a year. 1. What the hell is he doing diving into the water in the first place when he demonstates he has a lifebelt. 2. Why does he try to swim under water or do the thing where he dives under anyway? 3. General upbeat movie about reconciliation and moving onwards ends on a lost love and death. Talk about crap depressing endings.All in all no wonder this movie got no awards of any kind despite good acting.Crap ending of the year. "},{"Title":"Poor Paul Newman.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Theresa (Robin Wright Penn) is a single city mother slash reporter.Garret Blake (Kevin Costner) is a hick in a small seaside town who fixes boats and takes care of his pappy, Dodge (Paul Newman).Garret wrote a letter to his ex-wife two years ago (P.S. She's dead now, this makes us feel sorry for him because now he's been through misery and grief; therefore, he's a great guy who deserves to have sex) and Theresa finds the letter in a bottle along a beach.Okay, let's look at this film from a different perspective... on the surface it's a mildly entertaining romantic drama with sappy-eyed stars and a veteran powerhouse actor, right? Wrong.It's a mediocre, regurgitated romance film that comes across more like the pilot for some crappy TV show that would get canceled after the first episode.Penn is okay but Costner is awful as usual (delete his vocal performance and replace it with blah blah blah blah blah...trust me, you won't notice any difference), and Newman just looks plain embarrassed. "}{"Title":"One of the Ultimate Love Stories - needs repeated viewings !","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the year 2005, this film is about 6 years old. I have had the DVD for a while and watched the film several times before now deciding to write and appreciation of it on IMDb. My conclusion after repeated viewings is that this film is one of THE most romantic films made in the present day. Not crude, vulgar and boring sex scenes, but real love, real passion, complicity, awkwardness of people to show their love but LOVE without the shadow of a doubt !I used to think the film was too slow, with time I now find that this is not the case, of course the haunting theme music and thoughtful filming of coastal scenes made an impression on me from the outset but on my first viewing it did seem to drag a bit and appear overlong. I now change my appreciation of that point. Paul Newman's role is funny and touching and he really is an integral part of the film, Robin Wright was absolutely perfect ( I'm not usually in to tall lanky blondes but make an exception in this case !! ) - her composition was absolutely perfect and Iloved her accent which, for me at least, seem to have just the right tone for a lady in love. As to Kevin Costner, I do wish he could have been a little more aggressively passionate at times to respond to Robin Wright, but this criticism seems to diminish the more I watch it.Nowadays snobbish cinema critics consider a film is not good if it has a happy ending and therefore by definition a good film would need to have a bad ending. Too many people criticise the candy coated ending to films. Well, why shouldn't they have a happy ending, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that and I consider that kind of film critic to be an inverted snob ! Whatever the ending of Message in a Bottle ( I will not speak of it here ), this is truly a very good film. If the evolution of my own appreciation is anything to go by I think that with time the film will GROW in importance and stature, just like certain films considered uninteresting at the time of their issue are now considered as veritable masterpieces. This is one of those. Take your time to watch it, stock up with Kleenex (no, it's not a joke) feel the emotion exuded by the players, watch it again and again, you will not come out unscathed emotionally ! "},{"Title":"Total chick flick, but not a bad one","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is totally, utterly, a chick flick. Not that there's anything wrong with that. I ended up liking it fairly well. The main reason was Robin Wright. I haven't seen that much of her stuff. I may have to remedy that, as I found her to be tremendously charming, what I would call charismatic in a man. She is beautiful, too, and a very accomplished actress. It seems to me that acting extreme emotional distress would be the hardest thing of all, (but then again, I'm a guy) and she pulls this off flawlessly. Costner did what Costner does, certainly more than adequately. And Paul Newman stole most of his scenes in his now-patented curmudgeon role. (For more of Newman in this mode, see Nobody's Fool) I did not at all expect what happened in the end, which I like in a movie. (But maybe if I saw more films in this genre, it might have been different) The only quibble I have with it is that the setting doesn't look much like the Outer Banks. It's hard to imagine it being cheaper to film in Maine than North Carolina. Perhaps the cinematographer simply wanted more picturesque shots. Anyway, check it out if you like girl movies, or for Robin Wright. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie left out the main features of the book.. the main feelings and changed around the story line.. I WAS TOTALLY upset wit this movie.  I am sure the movie would have been a lot better had I not read the book first but I don't like things being totally different and leaving out key factors. In my mind you destroyed Nicholas Sparks' novel wit this trash. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I thought it was good, but not great.  There wasn't any chemistry between the main characters.  I read the book, too.  I thought the book was better.  The plot in the book seemed more exciting than the one in the movie.  I still liked the movie, but I wasn't crazy about it.  I would recommend you to read the book. "},{"Title":"Sad movie","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, the girl in this movie is basically a stalker and has no life at all since she goes after some guy that writes love letters to another woman.  My biggest problem with this movie is that the two are attempting a long distance relationship and obviously those don't ever work out, especially when one person is cheating on the other person and lies to them the whole time.  Furthermore, it is unrealistic that she would even find this man and (watch out) I'm glad that it ended the way it did because at least she can go to bed at night and know that he did actually love her and that he wasn't using her like so many people that I know. "},{"Title":"Overlong and predictable","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I knew this film was in trouble early on. Female reporter is intrigued by letters that have been found in bottles and goes to meet the man who wrote them. When she finds him, does she explain why she's there? Of course not. Then you wouldn't have a movie.It's all too predictable as she pretends to have different intentions and fishes for information on the guy's life. I won't spoil anything but I'll just say nothing came as a surprise and I just kept waiting for some resolve which took forever to come. Good movie to fall asleep to I suppose.A good cast, forgiving the fact that Robin Wright Penn just seems to be doing her best Julia Roberts impression. "},{"Title":"Pick one yesterday or tomorrow.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an emotional portrait of love lost and found. A recently divorced reporter/writer(Robin Wright Penn)finds a tragic love letter in a bottle. The letter is written by a ship building sailor(Kevin Costner)who is still grieving the death of his wife. Another letter is found and forwarded to the Chicago Tribune and the fascinated reporter tracks down the love shy sailor.The dialogue is no great shakes. But the body language and character interaction spoke brilliantly. Even the dialogue between the sailor and his father(Paul Newman)showed love and concern. Fantastic camera work. The rhythm of the sea and the lonely beach were poetic. Chick flick, so what? It puts you in the mood for romance on a lazy afternoon.Very enjoyable soundtrack featuring Sheryl Crowe, Faith Hill, Marc Cohn and Hootie & The Blowfish.Along with Costner,Penn and Newman are John Savage, Robbie Coltrane and Susan Brightbill. Take two hours and six minutes to feel the romance. "},{"Title":"soporific tearjerker","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most pressing question this soporific tearjerker raises is how on Earth did the film's makers think they could stretch this thin material to an endless 131 minutes.  This contrived love story is obviously designed to make women swoon and men snore.  Starting from a barely credible premise, the film travels well-worn territory without ever attempting to add anything faintly original or incisive to justify its existence.  Robin Wright Penn portrays an unhappily divorced single mother who works as a researcher at the Chicago Tribune, a newspaper that, at least as portrayed here, hardly seems dedicated to the cause of hard journalism.  While strolling along a Northeastern beach, Penn discovers a drippy love letter inside a bottle, and becomes so taken by the romantic sentiments contained therein that she is soon sharing it with her amazingly interested co-workers and boss, who takes it upon himself to publish it.  This, of course, causes a major  sensation among local Chicagoans, who obviously have very empty lives or simply too much free time on their hands, as they begin to live vicariously through the sentimental hogwash of the letter's contents.  Soon, Penn is tracing the origin of the letter with an avidity and ease that would put Woodward and Bernstein to shame and, almost instantly, discovers its true origin - a grieving widower, played by a moody Kevin Costner, who repairs boats on the coast of North Carolina.  Penn moves in for the kill, but predictably finds herself falling in love with the most handsome, sensitive man this side of a Harlequin Romance novel.  From here on, this tediously paced film plods through the usual romantic cliches endless sailing shots, slow-motion gambols along the shore, sappy songs to accompany the romantic interludes, the inevitable conflict that comes with the final (an hour and a half into the film, no less!) discovery of her true original motives and the inevitable resolving of that conflict.  Still, nothing can quite prepare the viewer for the hackneyed, utterly contrived ending that exists simply to wring tears from an easily manipulated audience.  Perhaps the major problem with this film is that, when a story provides as laconic and reticent a main character as Costner's is, it results in less than scintillating dialogue and an awfully large number of pregnant pauses between what sentences there are. Paul Newman is wasted in the stereotypical role of alcoholic father to mourning widower who has to set his son straight as to the need to cut loose from the past and sieze the bright future that has arrived in the form of this beautiful city woman.  Message in a Bottle should be clearly marked Return to Sender.     "},{"Title":"Combine these movies","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Combine Sleepless in Seattle with The Horse Whisperer and set the movie in North Carolina.  Voila!  Message in a Bottle  It was also better than expected. "},{"Title":"Way too long and a little bittersweet.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message In A Bottle starts with some promise, but can't hold up under the stress of being a romantic film or a romantic comedy. Kevin Costner is pretty good in this and Robin Wright-Penn is very good. Some of the supporting players just seem to be standing around though and never become much more than background characters that turn into cardboard cut-outs. I didn't like the director's film When A Man Loves A Woman because it was way too long and this film seems to have the same problems. Somebody give the director an editor that knows that you don't need every foot of film to make a good movie. The film's one saving grace is Paul Newman. Newman doesn't do a lot of movies anymore, so every role Newman decides to do from here on out should be paid attention to and cherished. This is one of our great actors and Newman makes the rest of the cast look like they don't know what they're doing. If you must see this film, do yourself a favor and read the book first. Although you might just want to check it out for Newman, other than that be ready for a long and ultimately pointless love story. "}{"Title":"silly and predictable","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  well ...a very stereotypical movie . the lost love , the new one ...and , and , and ...etc everything in this movie was expected and predictable ,because it looks like parts from many films the same sort . cast was good , and scenes were very good and romantic but after all ,still predictable plot ,and very boring and long . the only new thing was it's end which was the worst thing of it . sad and boring movie . "},{"Title":"Awful...don't bother","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the dumbest movie I have seen in a while. It was predictable and cliche--a real STINKER!  And to make things worse, there wasn't a humorous, spontaneous part throughout the entire movie.  Blah Blah Blah...it was awful.  Also, if you are like me you won't even find the ending sad; I despised the characters from beginning to end so it was hard for me to feel sympathy for them. "},{"Title":"A target movie for the deluded and emotionally insecure","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Picking up this movie to rent, I expected to see a chicks film.  Why this movie failed, however, is both unsettling and unforgiving.  Albeit, Hollywood tends to make the assumption that most people are not cerebral or mature enough to understand the complexities of real life and love; and perhaps most movie-goers by definition are looking for a dream world which does not support a more healthy attitude towards happiness and love.  If this be the case, then Hollywood has done an excellent job finding that target market and transporting it to another planet.What I found unsettling was the misuse of talent, and the flagrant amount of sap which was poured for an hour and a half.  Again we heard violin after violin and saw superfluous pictures of lovers silhouetted against beautiful backgrounds.  The characters were unconvincing and the story a little too contrived.What I found unforgiving was the vulgarity of the story itself, and the persistence that many moviegoers see this as an idealistic love story.  Love may take many shapes, but it rarely overcomes dishonesty from the beginning, and I found the woman's character to be grossly out of line.  I've seen this type of character represented too frequently in today's film and I abhor the idea that we live in a society which condones this dramatization of a relationship.  The most exciting love story is one that develops by way of friendship, honesty, mutual-attraction and a zeal for life.  Moviemakers, however,  have forgotten this simple truth.  "},{"Title":"This Film Should Be Cast at Sea.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Message in the Bottle (1999) Dir Luis Mandoki / Cast Kevin Costner, Robin Wright, Paul Newman, Illeana Douglas, John Savage One of the worst excuses for a romance ever concocted. The title would be most fitting for a beer commercial and indeed viewers may need to resort to a drink after sitting through this sappy pathetic trash. Kevin Costner sends letters addressed to his late wife sailing in bottles. Robin Wright discovers one washed ashore and attempts contact. Useless subplot involves a rivalry with his in-laws because he refuses to give over his late wife's paintings. It is predictable and dull with a cheap tearjerker ending. Dreadful directing by Luis Mandoki who previously made When a Man Loves a Woman. If a man truly did love a woman then he would avoid subjecting her to this shipwreck piece of crap. Horrid performance by Costner as a guy who lives next door to his father and builds boats. Wright fares even worse but what is most puzzling is her inability to explain her business to him. Would he really be that upset to hear how his messages inspired her? Paul Newman plays Costner's bickering father in a role way too conventional. Illeana Douglas is also featured hopefully to her regret. The family of Costner's late wife are too over the top and only exist to bicker and yell over trivial tripe. Grief ridden crap that should be flushed down the toilet. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Unabashed melodrama weights down great actors","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Theresa Osborne (Robin Wright) is a newspaper researcher and single mom. While on vacation, she finds a bottle with a poetic note about a lost love. Every women is fascinated, and she goes in search of the origins of the message in a bottle. She finds Garret Blake (Kevin Costner) still haunted by his dead love Catherine. He's living with his father Dodge (Paul Newman). She doesn't tell him about the messages and they fall in love.This is the first movie based on a Nicholas Sparks novel. There are some amazing actors at work here. However, it really struggles to find some real emotions and real chemistry. Theresa is basically a heat seeking missile. She just can't stop smiling at him. This is clunky melodrama of the highest order. His fight with Catherine's in-laws held potential, but it's not enough. These people are just not real. The whole movie including the music, the directing, the conflict, the dialog, and the performances are all driving relentlessly to unabashed unsurprising sentimentality. "},{"Title":"Half heart felt","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are planning on watching this movie. Do not read the book or you will be disappointed. Because I read the book first, I can't get past giving this movie a 5. It fallowed the book about 10% of the time. The book, in my opinion was way better.The book states that Garrett is younger then Theresa. However in the movie it is visibly noticeable that Garrett is older then Theresa. Which bothers me greatly.The movie, by itself, was a good movie. It is not top on my Nickolas Sparks movie list though. "},{"Title":"Let it float by","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is l o n g, too long, and insulting. Robin Wright is wonderful; Kevin Costner is Kevin Costner; Paul Newman is to be complimented for evolving into a character actor.Any resemblance to a worthwhile experience ends there. In its defense, this movie must have had to end the way it did; it's the adaptation of a book. Thank God it is not another, The Scarlett Letter adaptation that makes its own ending! The ending is laughable. I could not believe that the guy would not come wandering out of the waves. Plus...this flick had so many endings, it reminded me of Lord of the Rings, the Return of the King. It just kept going on and on with various endings. It was like a high Roman Catholic wedding mass to a Baptist; you think it's over, gather up your things, and it keeps going! The difference is that such a mass is beautiful; this movie is unbelievably boring.MIAB is actually a character study; best suited to no more than one hour. I think it is just poorly written; there are too many loose ends. Plus, it is HOKEY beyond belief! Anyone, including myself, who would sit through this turkey deserves better! I believe the production company went over its deadline and someone pulled the plug.Well, that's one more good thing...it could still be running. "},{"Title":"Good Actors, Bad Script","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie follows an all-too-predictable romance plot. In fact, the movie is all about its plot and not enough about what could have been fascinating characters and how they work with each other. But, no, it is a tired re-rendering of a tragic love story. Not worth the time it takes to watch.To save you time She finds a message in a bottle, with some investigation finds the author of the note, meets him and his curmudgeonly father, falls in love, but fails to tell him about the note. He beds her, finds the note, gets annoyed, and leaves. She goes to find him, tries to reconcile, but it's too soon. He goes to get her but dies by accident. She is sad. The end.On the plus side, the performances from the cast was quite good, given the serious limitations of the script. "},{"Title":"Excruciating","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a GREAT movie to watch, if you're drinking with friends and want to make jokes all the way through it. I rented it w/my girlfriend, thinking it would be a chick flick I could tolerate, as Nicholas Sparks' other novel/movies, A Walk to Remember and The Notebook were excellent. But with Message, we were laughing halfway through it.There is so much wrong with this movie, it's hard to figure out where to begin. But let's start with Kevin Costner. He is horribly miscast here, playing the role of a grieving widower haunted by the death of his wife two years earlier. Costner is at his best when is playing some sort of crusader or high-level government spook, as in JFK or 13 Days. But here, he walks around like a wounded old Golden Retriever who needs to be put down.Then there's Robin Wright. Another miscasting. While she is a talented and capable actress, an intense romantic drama is not the best role for her. She has virtually no latitude here and her emotional range is limited to comical shots of her looking concerned or serious. And, what's up with that mop on her head? She's usually a very attractive woman, but that haircut has got to go.Then there's the cinematography. I haven't been to film school, but I know what looks normal and what doesn't. While many of the scenic shots are stunning, the indoor shots are stilted and off.And then there's the sex scene. This is one of the best unintentionally hilarious scenes in a long time. The best part is the shot of her arm on the pillow, which Kevin Costner then attacks like a wild dog.All in all, this is a terrible movie, which is too bad because Sparks' stories are very well-written and intriguing. My advice? Bag this one and watch A Walk to Remember again. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and emotionally moving film","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This a beautiful and emotionally moving film. Those who have lost loved ones may find the messages in this film very touching. It's essentially a film about eventually letting go of past pains and heartache; never giving up, being hopeful that new love will find you; holding onto courage to move on, to live for now, yet never forgetting past important people and respecting them, giving them honour and behaving how they would want you to behave. The message that really spoke to my soul whilst viewing this film was that there is a time for sorrow, and a time to be sad, but that at the end of all that, there is a time to be joyful.There is hope, and that is what we crucially need to live our lives progressively.Interesting plot which is very different and far superior to the usually comedy romance story, as it is based on a well written novel. All performances were well acted, especially wise old Paul Newman's father figure character to Kevin Costner, who makes him see sense when Costenr is quite stubborn in his way about not wanting to move on, and date Robin Wright Penn's character. The beautiful score and songs of the film really do it justice and set the mood perfectly! Hence why i have the soundtrack on CD as well as the DVD of this film.Perhaps the most touching scene in the film is where Kevin Costner's character finally moves on. He writes a message to his deceased wife to finally attain closure. The words of that letter are most touching and so sincerely meant.Finally, this film has helped me to progressively move on in life after break ups with ex's and it gives me hope and renews my faith in new love. A received feeling like that is what makes me really recommend why you should see this film. Give it a watch. It is worth it.My score = 8/10 "}{"Title":"Utterly boring, foolish and aimless movie.","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Utterly boring, foolish and aimless movie. Silly dialogues made it even worse, like, an adult female saying I said thanks a thousand times because I don't know what to say, or I make very good steak, that is one thing I am good at, or These things happen in St Claire?-Everything happens in St Claire&#133;.eventually etc. I had to decide whether I am supposed to laugh or burp.Robin Wright Penn plays the role of a divorced lady who seemed to have nothing better to do and she seemed to me quite desperate to fall in love with anything she sees first thing in the morning (Jeez, could be a toilet seat!!). She looked almost male to me with a very manly hairline and she annoyingly scratches her hair every now and then. She had absolutely no chemistry with the male-lead Garret Blake played by Kevin Costner.Garret is a boring country-bum grieving on his past. Both of them looked very helpless with these two no-idea-what-this-is-about characters. They have practically no topic to talk about and no interests to share. How would they even spend time together and think that they had good time? Such empty-headed stupidity is infuriating.The movie-makers vainly tried to make it look romantic using landscapes with soundtracks that took quite a long footage to fill up. The so-called intellectual narration was meaningless and diluted. Otherwise there is no story. They probably started this project to give jobs to some people who rarely get any assignment at all. It started at 2150 local time and finished at 17 minutes past midnight. If it went on a few more minutes I had to scream and smash my TV out of frustration. "},{"Title":"Do Not See This Movie","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Originally written 15 February 1999; account moved.OK, the biz touted this as an ideal movie to take a date for Valentine's Day. This is true if suicide is on the agenda. This was a hugely disappointing, depressing movie. The woman I saw the film with was so ticked off at the ending she is still ranting as I type, hours later. It could have been a warm, wonderful love story. They canned that for drama or tragedy or some other attempt at art. In these days, many people already lead lives filled with stress, disappointment, tragedy, loss and a whole host of other things listed under the heading Life Sucks. Sometimes people just want to see a movie that is comforting or uplifting in some way without being saccharine. There has been a real glut of films with horrible endings of late. I am sick of it. I want some escapism. I'd like to feel good for a change when I leave a theater without having to see a kiddie movie.  "},{"Title":"Time Filler!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are having a very boring summer...here...perfect film Message In A Bottle. This movie nearly bored me but it filled my Memorial Weekend. I loved Robin Wright Penn in Forrest Gump which was a way better movie but this movie sort of disturbed me because it was sort of a drag. It was way too long. I think too many people take this as a romance/comedy. I thought it wasn't perfect. That's all. The only funny character was Paul Newman's character which was a lot brighter and funnier.  "},{"Title":"Not the best remake from a book","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message In a Bottle by Nicholas Sparks is one of the best books that I have read.  It was one of the only ones that have ever made me cry.  But, the movie wasn't the best.  Although, that's not to say that I didn't enjoy it or get emotional over it.  Kevin Costner plays a good role, something different from other movies that he's starred in.  Robin Wright Penn isn't the best, but it works.  The chemistry, however, between these two makes my toes curl.  Watching this movie every now again, gets my heart pounding and feel relaxed at the same time.  The scenes that include Paul Newman are good scenes, and he definitely deserves more scenes in this movie.  If you are looking for a good romance to watch while relaxing on the weekend, this a good one to rent.  Try it out and see if you like it!! "},{"Title":"I had hoped so much more for this movie","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I purchased the Nicholas Sparks novel in 98. Last week I finally sat down to read it. I was so moved by this book. So I couldn't wait to see the movie expect for the part where Garret dies. It took me over an hour to read that part. As I sat down to watch the movie it was nothing like the book expect for having the names right of the main characters. It didn't even feel like Nicholas work. From the way she found Garret to the way he wrote the letter even the stationery to the name of the cities was wrong . They added parts that was not even in the book. I would not call this a movie based on his book. I can't understand how the screenwriter came up with this plot being a writer myself. I don't think he ever read the book. Because I know this movie could have been so much more. I wish there was a screenwriter who would take the challenge to write the way it was really meant to be. They should have stuck with the book. It's ture the book is so much better & I can still enjoy the movie when I don't refer it to the book & Kevin played a great Garret. He was how I would picture Garret if he was real. So if you read the book first which I'll really glad I did. Because I got so much more out of it and I will be read the book again. As I was saying if you read the book first then watch the movie second. Don't read to much into it just go and enjoy because that all you can get. I'm still hoping that one day someone will take this great novel and make it into the great movie that it was meant to be and I would still cast Kevin as Garret and Paul as Jeb the characters name in the book. I also believe that the screenwriter did a very poor job of representing Nicholas book in it'd truest form. I wonder what Nicholas Sparks thought about the movie and if he felt the screenwriter should have done a better job. "},{"Title":"For One viewing only","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was actually expecting a movie the likes of Costner' s The Postman, only without the 5 minutes of action.  I was actually quite wrong. Message in a bottle is far from Costner' s usual work (JFK, Robin hood and The untouchables excluded)and is actually watchable. It is extremely slow paced, but once I fell into the atmosphere it was fairly enjoyable.  The way it cunningly and successfully manipulates with the viewer' s emotions is worth a praise as well as a criticism. I couldn't help but feel that everything I felt was just cleverly put into my head because the movie was made in that way. You're probably thinking ????, and I completely understand, but I like to feel a movie on my own, without the help of others, and the moment this movie ended I completely lost all I felt during those cleverly concocted dialogues. On a regular basis(e.g. City of angels), considering this is a very sad movie, I'd probably be bummed out for the rest of the day. But I felt nothing.  To see this movie again would be a waste of time, but it is very well made and the scene between father and son right before Costner writes the final letter is quite touching.            8/10 "},{"Title":"WarningB-movie!","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Low budget love story with great actors who do their best but the poor script and screenplay really drags the movie down.The result is a good TV movie!Only to be enjoyed by big romance movie fans.Newman's scenes are also good so if you really love Newman,you may tolerate this movie to see him do his thing......  "},{"Title":"An excellent love story for those who love love stories.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Message in a Bottle is a beautiful and well told, highly romanticized story about a man letting go and a woman competing with a ghost. The film is obviously designed to tug at the heart strings and bobbles in the end but still offers some good old fashioned romantic melodrama under a slick contemporary veneer. Technically and artistically well crafted, MIB is well cast, has solid performances and an excellent screen play along with the usual accouterments of Hollywood filmdom. A wonderful film for those with an appetite for romantic melodrama and tear jerkers. "},{"Title":"Should Have Used a Chat Room","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Again, I must take exception with my favorite for-pay movie critics who liked Message in a Bottle. Or if they didn't praise it, at least deemed it passable romantic fare. I disagree. It is barely watchable. The plot is so predictable you can forecast future scenes an hour in advance. I give the screenplay credit for not going for the emotional jugular when it has the chance, although much of the dialogue will make you wince. But what most drags this movie down is the acting. Costner just mailed it in; he's terrible, as is Robin Wright. Sadly, Paul Newman doesn't have enough screen time, his scenes are the only decent ones in the film. If you like sappy Harlequin romance films, or really dig one of the actors, go ahead and rent it. Otherwise, stay away. "},{"Title":"I was recommended this movie by a friend","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was recommended this movie by a friend of mine, and as we have quite similar tastes, I had rather high expectations of it. In actual fact, I was very disappointed. The choice of actors I thought was very poor (Paul Newman was the only highlight), and the script was terrible. There was a very lame attempt to link the two lead characters, who just looked awkward together in every shot. The music, however, was a joy to listen to. I believe it was composed by the same guy that composed the 'City of Angels' soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Awkward, hesitant...tedious","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A newspaper reporter awkwardly, hesitantly lifts a bottle from the sandy beach and reads the mournful message within.  Awkwardly, hesitantly, she locates the author and meets him.  They have several awkward, hesitant scenes together.  Awkwardly, hesitantly, Cupid fires his arrows of Love.Love isn't easy between an awkward, hesitant divorced mother and an even more awkward and hesitant widower entering middle age.  With an orchestra playing wussy music in an awkward, hesitant manner all the way, the couple have their ups and downs.  Paul Newman thankfully cuts through the crap with no sign of awkwardness or hesitation.  Magically, the power of Love restores and heals the wounds of Fate.With lackluster dialogue and hard to believe behavior, this awkward, hesitant film fails to gel.  But it's pretty cool if you like knowing what it's like to have the spectre of Death hovering about for 2 hours.  No banjo music. "},{"Title":"Beautiful collection of postcards","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good collection of postcards. My grandmother had a big collection of those and she enjoyed every bit of this collection. We can see the sea, boats, the sun, etc. Between the postcards, there are people talking. I don't really know why and I think what they are saying is not very strong. I don't know who they are, but sometimes they look like those horrible tuesday afternoon soap opera that we see at American television. They also look like boring 1990's right wing white American who don't smoke, do jogging and anything's that's PC. But if you can forget them and wait to see the postcards, you will probably won't wasting your time. Grandmother was very happy to see it, even if she's always asking me who are these people and what they are doing. "},{"Title":"Another Sunlight Caressing Kevin Costner's Hair Movie","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  as opposed to Sunlight Caressing Robert Redford's Hair Movie. That much vanity in a male actor is downright ridiculous. And how did I notice all this? No story, just Costner puffing his ego in every frame. A boring actor in a boring film. As John Huston put it, when auditioning a young Costner Get that noodle out of here! "},{"Title":"Great scenery...lousy movie","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this movie on pay-per-view recently. The only reason I cried was because I wished I hadn't spent the money to see it. Sappy, too long, dragged out, lousy movie. Scenery was excellent and Paul Newmans' acting superb as always but overall just another dud for Kevin Costner. What is this guy thinking?  "},{"Title":"Snooze Time","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie that will let you catch a few zzzzz's, then this is the one for you. It started off with a good premise, messages found in bottles, but then unfortunately 10 minutes later they had done the research and found out where this guy lived. And then the movie got real s l o w. But they threw in a few sailing trips and some good scenery but it was sure s l o w. It had the makings of a good love story but it just happened to be s l o w. And then comes the ending, which is such a turnaround from the rest of the movie.  Well, it was just a fitting ending to a s l o w, boring, s l o w movie. Lets hope Costner does a better job with Love of the Game or he had better start looking for another job. "},{"Title":"Washing of the water(2/10)","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a romantic at heart but this kind of thing is really pushing it. First off, the good things about the movie are the cinematography and the locations. Wright plays her part well as well. But all in all, the characters are very annoying. Maybe its partly due to the far-fetched plot which you'll appreciate only if you're one of those silly romantics who has tried the psychic network 'just to decide whether it was for real or not'. I thought the film was laden with metaphors but after a while, I just gave up trying to interpret them and concentrated more on my whiskey. I was caught off guard by the ending though - that was hard to anticipate. I kept picturing John Goodeman as Garret, wondering if any of it would've happened if it weren't for the fact that it was this good looking guy like kevin costner. (if you're wondering, the answer is  of course NO) Rent tinCup instead. "},{"Title":"Has a great message","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Costner has his first decent role in a long time as a lonely widower who has trouble opening up his heart and loving again. Robin Wright Penn is a great (and underrated) actress who has a genuine chemistry with Mr. Costner in MIAB. I have to say that at first I didn't care for the way the movie ended, but I realized that it serves to show to love while you can and cherish the person you love...and that someone you've loved so deeply will never be forgotten.  "},{"Title":"A great romance","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  The story was touching and the two actors played their roles with obvious chemistry.  It was great to see how they fell in love and how both were afraid to get hurt by the other.  But I have to say that what makes this film such a pleasure is the presence of Paul Newman.  He steals every scene he's in and you can't wait for him to come back on screen and throw out some witty line.This is a great date movie and the end really will have an affect on you.  "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer minus the horses","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have been a fan of Robin Wright-Penn since she appeared in The Princess Bride. And to be honest, I always watch with bated breath to see if Kevin Costner's latest will be a turkey or not. Well hold the cranberry sauce, this one's OK. In fact it's very good, if you like seriously slushy and obvious plot lines. It was a little hard to believe that Kevin is sexy enough to inspire women to fall at his feet. He's losing his hair, he's a little rotund to say the least, in fact, Paul Newman was the real source of screen fire.Kevin's megalomania extended itself to (plot detail giveaway !!!! turn away now) casting himself as the perfect hero at the end of the film and actually, once he was gone I found that the closing sequences were deeply satisfying. Was that because of the story or because I knew I wouldn't have to see Kev again, who knows. Rating On the serious chick flick scale 4 out of 5. On anybody else's scale 2. "},{"Title":"Give Costner the Academy Award!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film yesterday.I think that this is one of the best movies I´ve ever seen.I mean the story is almost perfect. Costner deserves the oscar after his perfect role as Garret.He really makes the audience  believe that Garret is the perfect man good looking,nice and generous. Great acting by Costner,Robin Wright-Penn and Paul Newman who is perfect as Garrets cranky father. This one is one of my all time favourites and I give it 9 of 10. "}{"Title":"Was I supposed to cry at the end?","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Or else, at any other point in this supposed tearjerker? Because I felt decidedly unmoved and borderline uninterested when I watched this film. It is mostly uninvolving, long and humourless and Robin Wright Penn didn't do such a good job with her character because I found her desperate and unlikeable. Here is a woman who, one day whilst jogging on the beach, finds a love letter in a bottle--adressed to a Catherine. She is completely taken away by the cheesy content of this letter and decides to track down its author. So from the very first scene of the film, she is on a mission. This here is exactly why Message in a Bottle fails in creating a romance. It is not romantic if someone sets out on a mission for love. Love is only ever romantic in films when it is unexpected or in some way unpredictable.However, the way Kevin Costner handled his character deserves a great deal of credit. Costner is very fitting as the mysterious, brooding widow Garret Blake--the author of the love letter--and he just exudes loneliness throughout the film. He is a difficult character but the epitome of a man that women and girls alike feel that they can change and this is what makes Garret so appealing. He is a walking invitation for change, in fact. Without this little emotional device, he would simply be regarded as a moody, antisocial guy who does not care about anyone but himself. But now every woman can relate to this film and secretly swoon for its romantic lead in hopes of changing him.Characters and romance aside, Message in a Bottle is a very contrived film and fails, with the exception of Costner's character, in capturing the audience on an emotional level. Even my mother decided this was too predictable to watch, and she enjoys Hallmark movies. 5/10 "},{"Title":"MEN, Run Away!!!!(I'll do anything I CAN to discourage you!)","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good acting, good actors, good writing... AWFUL story, AWFUL pace.I dont usually waste my time in dissing movies but this dreck deserves any and all slings and arrows.. if you ever encounter Newman or Costner in person, and you want to see them blush.. just say Message..Bottle..When referring to the lifetime contributions of Paul Newman and Kevin Costner, THIS piece of crap should count 10% AGAINST them! Makes Waterworld look like Oscar material!When anyone refers to a boilerplate romance they MEAN this movie formula.SHAME!!!  "},{"Title":"Over two hours for this dross? No thanks!","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (Credit to CJ)A woman finds a romantic letter in a bottle washed ashore and tracks down the author, a widowed shipbuilder whose wife died tragically early. As a deep and mutual attraction blossoms, the man struggles to make peace with his past so that he can move on and find happiness. I'll watch anything with Kevin Costner. He gets a lot of criticism, but I think he's very talented. I've put this movie off for years because it didn't seem like my type of movie. I have a confession to make. I'm a guy, but actually a big romantic person. I like mushy stuff, if it's done correctly. This movie is the furthest thing from being done correctly. It was so boring that I couldn't finish it. The cinematography is gorgeous. The shots of the water in the opening on the beach are breathtaking. Everybody looks uncomfortable in this movie, except for Penn. She gives the best performance. Paul Newman deserved better. Costner tries hard, but is defeated by the crappy material. Even women may be bored by this movie! "},{"Title":"beautiful scenery, overly dramatic story line  (","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" HORRIBLE movie.........many moments of romance but obsession ruins it.Man wrapped up in the memory of his deceased wife (Kevin Costner), to the point his home has become a shrine, her art studio which is the morning room, has to be left perfectly as she left it and he's in a feud with her family over her art. That part of the story line ended well, with his healing of hurt and reconciliation with his in laws.I love the budding of the new romance, but hate many things the Kevin Costner character fumbles with, such as naming his completed sailboat after the deceased wife.Loved The Notebook, HATE this movie! "},{"Title":"If you love the book, this isn't the movie for you","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I saw Message in a Bottle, I had high hopes for this movie. Nicholas Sparks novels were usually made into very good movies, and this was one of his better books. However, my face fell as the movie drug on. There was very little chemistry between Robin Wright Penn and Kevin Costner. Plus, Costner's character, Garrett, was made to seem too dark because this movie didn't fully explain why he was so sad and why he grieved so much over the loss of his wife. This element didn't balance very well with Theresa's (Robin Wright Penn) cheerful reporter-life. Theresa also seemed to have to work to hard to have Garrett fall in love with her. This is still a good story, but I have to admit this was one of the more disappointing moments to the fans of the book. Unfortunately this didn't fit with the book at all. It took on an almost completely different direction from the book, and only stuck with the basics. "},{"Title":"Too predictable to be good","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is supposed to be a romantic story and it is so in a certain way. It's however told without genius or talent or sufficient strength to catch our minds and hearts except for a few scenes. A man tries to overcome his regret of having let his wife die without telling her all he would like to have told, by throwing at sea bottles with moving letters of love and regret. Those bottles fall into the hands of a woman journalist as well as a third letter written by the wife to her husband which we'll see later he didn't know. The journalist starts a research aiming at finding the man who wrote the first two letters what she quickly does falling in love with him at once. However the man appears as very undecided between this new love and the remembrance of his late and beloved wife. Parenthetically we can say that the personality of this man doesn't agree with the deep romantic, dramatic and poetic tone of the bottled letters since he looks like a man not too gifted intellectually and rather simple. Besides this the story develops itself from the beginning till the end almost always in very predictable episodes and outcomes. The only character which has enough psychological and human strength to draw our attention is the one played by Paul Newman as the man's father. This movie is of some value only for some beautiful sea images and a few moments of true romanticism as lived by the two main characters as well as for the dramatic end. "},{"Title":"For those suffering from insomnia...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... this movie will put you straight to sleep. Except the cinematography, this movie has nothing to go for it! I am offended when a movie like that is called a chick-flick, I am a female and I couldn't find this poor excuse for a movie even semi-interesting. It is cheesy, boring, predictable & uses every possible cliche there is. Don't get me wrong, I like romantic films, but I like them to be interesting and maybe a little bit original. I can see how the book could perhaps be better, especially concerning those unbelievably corny letter-reading scenes that just don't make it in a movie.I will put this one together with 'Autumn In New York'. What the hell where the producers thinking??? "},{"Title":"Almost made me cry - out of sheer boredom!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I didn't expect much from this movie. I was prepared for the worst, so to speak. But even those low expectations were not met.The only feeling that movie provoked in me was anger. Anger about a predictable, inconvincible, shallow story. And anger about the fact that they had to stretch out that terrible story well over two hours.This must be the most boring movie I have seen in the last few years. Seriously. "},{"Title":"Do Not See This Movie","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, the biz touted this as an ideal movie to take a date for Valentine's Day. This is true if suicide is on the agenda. This was a hugely disappointing, depressing movie. The woman I saw the film with was so ticked off at the ending she is still ranting as I type, hours later. It could have been a warm, wonderful love story. They canned that for drama or tragedy or some other attempt at art. In these days, many people already lead lives filled with stress, disappointment, tragedy, loss and a whole host of other things listed under the heading Life Sucks. Sometimes people just want to see a movie that is comforting or uplifting in some way without being saccharine. There has been a real glut of films with horrible endings of late. I am sick of it. I want some escapism. I'd like to feel good for a change when I leave a theater without having to see a kiddie movie.  "},{"Title":"Not a happy camper, spoilers ahead","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My oh my.I was so looking forward to his apparently sweet romantic comedy. Costner is one of my favorite leading men and I respect Robin Wright Penn's work tremendously. But this! Kevin Costner plays a captain who will not let go of his wife's memory while at the same time is falling for Penn, a writer/researcher's who finds the message in a bottle he wrote to his wife. Mhh, she seems nice, and she is alive, while the other one is dead. What should I do ?And it goes on like this for 131 minutes! The beginning shows this big feud between the captain and his dead wife's family. They want her paintings and he won't part with them. I wanted to say to him keep one and give the others away! When he finally does part with all of them (big sigh of relief there), I thought this drawn out plot was over, closure was made and we would see Penn's character with a new man and a smile on her face, but no!!! He builds a new boat, names it after his late WIFE, invites Penn to the christening, and babbles in public about how much he misses his first love. AHHHH!!The best part for me was definitely the first 9 minutes, which I happened to have missed.And the end is not brave in my opinion, it is contrived and perfectly ludicrous. You don't have to be a psychologist to know Costner's character hasn't moved an inch from the beginning, he says he is saved when he first met his wife, feels guilty because he can't save her back, and then, he has to go and try to save a drowning woman, to make up for the one he couldn't save.It makes me want to scream! So men, women, and children alike do not see this movie, no matter how free it is or how bored you are. Or even how handsome Costner is. I learned my lesson.Better see Dragonfly. There's a missing wife there too but that film will take your breath away. "}{"Title":"All at sea &#150; an uninspired, uninvolving tale that never rises above the genre and trades on 'loving looks', 'intense moments' and overly sentimental music and writing","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After dropping her son off with her ex-husband, Theresa Osborne stays in town for a few days. Out for a jog on the beach, she finds a touching love letter in a bottle to a lost love from a love struck man. When her editor prints it on the front page of the local paper it gets lots of responses including a second letter from the same man found by another reader. Partly out of professional curiosity and partly out of longing to be loved like the subject of the letters, Theresa tries to track the man down only to find him in a small fishing town on the coast &#150; widower Garret Blake. She gets to know him and the two begin to fall for one another despite his ongoing love for his dead wife, but she is aware that at some point she will have to tell him her true motives.Despite the deep feeling in my waters that this film would be a rather obvious and plodding romantic drama that is steeped in sentimentality I decided to try and give this a go and take it as I found it rather than making assumptions. Sadly, after two hours that felt like four I couldn't help feel that sometimes assumptions and prejudging a film can have some value in protecting me from stuff that just drifts along without doing anything of any great merit. Anyway &#150; by that point I had already started watching it and, wanting to give it a fair crack of the whip, stuck with it until the admittedly quite brave ending. The film is deliberately slow and lingers with an attempted depth and degree of feeling that nothing in the film actually gives it &#150; it only wants to be as touching and sensitive as the lingering shots and sappy score suggest. So we have lots of 'gentle' moments with Garret looking lovingly at Theresa or looking 'deep' or 'in pain' when talking about his dead wife or scenes of him sensitively sanding down wood in semi slow-mo while the music tinkles in the background &#150; so far so genre. My problem with it is that it totally fails to be any of these things outside of the clichés. It isn't touching, moving or even really involving.The writing is not strong enough to deal with the strong emotions that it implies it should have; certainly it asks a lot of us in accepting that these characters are who they say they are without ever letting us see them as people. The 'love' between the two lead characters happens without any real effort &#150; and Garret's occasional strops over paintings does not qualify as emotion; it just never seemed real enough &#150; like it was content to just do what the genre usually did without trying to rise above it or make a more mature, serious film. Without this core, the ending loses what should have been a terribly impacting twist &#150; instead it is merely a surprisingly brave conclusion but lacks real punch because I was never involved in the story anyway.The cast don't really manage to do anything special either, many just play along with the film's superficial sheen by looking into the distance or exchanging 'meaningful looks&#153;'. I like Costner as an actor and don't think that he deserves the sort of critical drubbing that many of his films seem to get, but here he is totally lacking in presence and charisma. He didn't strike me as a man suffering with loss that he wished wasn't loss while at the same time feeling love (and guilt?) over a new woman; he didn't have the range here to do what was required of him. Likewise, Wright Penn just seemed lost in the film &#150; just playing it all love-struck, sensitive and worthy without ever getting close to a real person. Savage is a good actor given nothing to do whatsoever and Paul Newman has so little flesh on his character's bones that it's a wonder that he doesn't just go *poof* in a cloud of dust. Coltrane's presence appears to be as much a mystery to him as it was to me. It's a real shame, because occasionally weak genre films can be lifted to be something better by a good cast who make the material better &#150; but not in this case.Overall this is a romantic, sentimental drama that will maybe satisfy those die-hard romantics who this is aimed at. For me it was far too lacking in genuine emotion and it just seemed happen to do genre clichés of loving looks, sensitive music and montages of the couple 'frolicking'. The cast has a few good names in it but they can do nothing with this material and end up just delivering rather flat performances with only the very occasional good touch. Watch it if you really like this sort of thing but I reckon that most viewers will think that this film is all at sea in the love stakes.  "},{"Title":"Watch Grass Growing - It's More Entertaining!","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know how many months it took to make this dud but I certainly aged at least two while watching it, as the 'plot' &#150; for the want of a worse word - unfolded at a snail's pace. It was so appallingly boring I was actually looking forward to the add breaks. Do actors and directors really think that the public want to sit and watch this type of slow moving, grindingly obvious piece of nothingness? I mean it was so bad that I was even embarrassed &#150; heaven knows what a veteran-giant-among-thespians Paul Newman thinks about it, and as for Mr. Costner he was so wooden, that with a tactical spray of varnish he could've been used in building the boat. I was really glad that his character didn't survive the storm thus saving us more banality. Even the sporadic appearances of the aforementioned Mr. Newman couldn't save this from being filed under Rubbish. "}]