[{"Title":"A film about high art that is high art itself!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Syd, the female Assistant Editor of an Art Photography magazine called Frame, meets Lucy Berliner, a great photographer who dropped out of the public eye ten years ago, and is now living in a drug-addicted world of low-life friends who walk around half-conscious in a zombie-like drug-induced stupor, and occasionally stop breathing altogether.The atmosphere of this depressive world is conveyed so perfectly it's almost palpable. The acting and directing are perfection. Syd begins to lead Lucy into a world of drug-free sobriety, and Lucy leads Syd into her world of beautiful, tender lesbian love, a world of mutual respect and sensitivity, and again, this world is so perfectly conveyed you can feel it surrounding you as you are drawn into this hauntingly realistic film.You can tell they're just right for each other. They both outgrow their previous rather dysfunctional relationships and find themselves falling in love. But will Lucy slide back into her no-hope world of wheedling, pathetic friends? Or will she overcome the pull of their need for her, and find the courage and strength to walk away?Either way, you're going to want to buy a copy of this video, and treasure it among your collection of great works of art. I can't think of a single reason why this film should be given less than ten out of ten. By anybody. "},{"Title":"Sweet Women And An Impressive Lesbian Theme Movie.","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" High Art is a 1998 Canadian-American independent film directed by Lisa Cholodenko and starring Ally Sheedy and Radha Mitchell.Plot of the movie Sydney (or simply Syd), age 24, is a woman who has her whole life mapped out in front of her. Living with longtime boyfriend James, and working her way up at the respected high-art photography magazine Frame, Syd has desires and frustrations that seem typical and manageable. But when a crack in her ceiling springs a leak and Syd finds herself knocking on the door of her upstairs neighbor, a chance meeting suddenly takes her on a new path.Opening the door to an uncharted world for Syd is Lucy Berliner, a renowned photographer, enchanting, elusive, and curiously retired. Now 40, Lucy lives with her once glamorous, heroin-addicted German girlfriend Greta, and plays host to a collection of hard-living party kids. Syd is fascinated by Lucy and becomes drawn into the center of Lucy's strangely alluring life upstairs.Syd mentions Lucy to her bosses (without realising that she is famous) but they remain uninterested until they realise exactly who Lucy is. At a lunch, Lucy agrees to work for the magazine as long as Syd is her editor. Soon a working relationship develops between the two and a project is underway which promises a second chance for Lucy's career. But as Syd and Lucy's collaboration draws them closer together, their working relationship turns sexual and the lines between love and professionalism suddenly blur. As Syd slowly discovers the darker truths of Lucy's life on the edge, she is forced to confront her own hunger for recognition and the uncertain rewards of public esteem.Sweet women and an impressive lesbian theme movie. "},{"Title":"A Tormented Extreme Close-Up","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"33 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  HIGH ART is remarkable not only for two of its lead performances, Ally Sheedy and Patricia Clarkson, but for the way it so closely observes its characters' lives. Director Cholodenko has found a way to tell her story that has a strong feel of authenticity. One important component of the film's realism is the set design. These are offices and, particularly, apartments that feel like people actually work or live there. Such authenticity may be nothing new, but the way Cholodenko moves people around in these spaces and they way the actors perform combine to ground in what seems a 'real world'. For those who have known, or been part of, the 'artistic scene' and its reliance on drug use, the numerous sequences set in Lucy's dimly-lit, cluttered living room will ring quite true.Ally Sheedy, attractive, but now slightly hardened in appearance, has gotten deep inside the tormented world of Lucy Berliner. It's a character that will be hard to forget, and the kind of performance that does not seem at all like acting.As Berliner's dissolute former lover, Greta, Patricia Clarkson gives the film its most colorful performance. This does seem like acting, but that is not at all a criticism Greta is in fact a failed actress and a person whose descent into addiction and self-destruction must be theatrical at any cost.Pretty, round-faced Radha Mitchell is not at the level of these two powerhouses, but her Syd is nicely understated and appropriately wistful.Also very fine in the cast are impossibly handsome Bill Sage as a hanger-on and Tammy Grimes as Lucy's stern, distant mother.HIGH ART depicts a world where some discuss the minute details of a photograph in the most abstruse terms of deconstruction or ambiguous 'art babble', while others grapple with the basic questions that haunt us all. It's an extreme close-up on the human condition. "},{"Title":"good movie period, not good lesbian movie","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been reading a lot of the comments about this movie, and i've seen it probably 3 or more times. Yet most of the comments seem to establish it as just a lesbian movie. I don't believe that. I am a lesbian yet that has nothing to do with what i think about the movie, and the same goes for the characters. Syd falls in love with Lucy but i don't see is as her coming out as a lesbian. She's opening up to new feelings, and it just happens to be with a woman who is in a disastrous relationship already. Yet the movie itself grasps the inner depths of the characters. All the scenes seem to fold perfectly amongst each other, the subject of photography probably had something to do with it giving it a more symbiotic meaning to the story. This movie was great and every time i watch it i am left with a serene complacent feeling, even though the ending wasn't as expected. "},{"Title":"Outstanding yet incredibly tragic","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I truly regret never having seen this movie before......This film (for me) is one of the best films I have even seen. It left me with a true feeling of being on an emotional roller coaster the obvious high of love, ambition, hope; the low of manipulation, betrayal, conceit, desperation, unfulfilled expectations.  From movie start to end, the emotions portrayed by Lucy, Syd, Greta, Arnie, et al., felt incredibly real.I felt swept into the middle of the experiences those characters felt. The movie proves that love (as well as life in general) has beautifully positive and chillingly negative connotations it can be a supremely powerful drug, beautiful, giving, but yet be used as tool of manipulation and power. The ending, although obvious (not in an unfortunate way - there really could only be one realistic ending), was tragic.  When you see Arnie in Lucy's mom's car, you knew what was coming out of his mouth before he said it. Hearing him say it made my heart sink.  The dread, despondency, and hopelessness I felt at that moment still lingers today; four days after seeing this movie on HBO.  The only piece of art work that left me with an equal feeling of dread was Aquilles' lamentation at the end of the Illiad. That book is one of my favorites, as this movie is now.  The last point I wanted to make is that the subtly of the soundtrack (particularly during the scenes of incredible human interaction such as the last car scene) made this movie work; She Might Be Waking Up is a hauntingly superb song.I thank all of the persons on the screen (Ally Sheedy, Radha Mitchell, Patricia Clarkson, etc.) (and off - Lisa Cholodenko, Shudder to Think, etc.) for breathing life into this drama and for presenting to all of us those facets of human life that makes us the frailest creatures on this Earth. Thank you HBO for showing this truly outstanding piece of work on the small screen. "},{"Title":"Taken In Context Flawless","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just my opinion  Most of the Actors in High Art have narrow ranges, but that doesn't make them bad actors, just limited to a range of motion (like a great distance runner who is a lousy sprinter).  It takes a patient and focused Director to recognize what that kind of actor can do in the right setting.  Most Directors seem to steam roller through their vision of the script and force actors to conform to an abstract idea (they make the poor sprinter sprint anyway instead of giving them a long quiet run to excel at).  High Art isn't about Ally Sheedy showing she's an unappreciated powerhouse, it's about Director Lisa Cholodenko giving Ally the room and role to do the kind of acting she's never been allowed to do.  Fellow distance runner/lousy sprinter Radha Mitchell is also perfectly placed in every scene.  These two are the narrower players, they're like bold colors you can't use to excess and can't water down without ruining the whole painting.  Then like a good painter Cholodenko does bring in a powerhouse in someone like Patricia Clarkson.  Unlike Sheedy and Mitchell, Clarkson is spread thin and applied liberally.  And I don't mean screen time.  Clarkson's pull on the plot between Sheedy and Mitchell makes their specialized boldness stand out.  It gives them weight and dissolves into itself.  The painting analogies are cheesy, but that's what the grace of this film is to me.  Clarkson is definitely a deeper actor than Sheedy or Mitchell, but instead of upstaging them her role in this film elevates them.  If you were to paint two small but boldly colored flowers on a canvas you would need a more universal, softer backdrop to make the two flowers take form (in a realistic painting at least).  This movie is not about a plotline, not really.  Like a painting it suggests something with a seemingly straight ahead depiction of, well drugs and sexual awakenings, career ambition, disillusionment that follows great success.  It's flawless to me because it only suggests these things and does not offer any conclusions.  It just is.  High Art.   "},{"Title":"High art indeed","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title sounds awfully pretentious doesn't it?  But yet it's one of the most apt titles ever because this film is truly beautiful and extraordinary. I swear I loved every minute!  Where to begin?  I could relate so much to all these characters, who are all compelling and real.  The themes are totally universal conflicted love, career, ambition.  Absolutely brilliant!That's Ally Sheedy (who won Best Actress at Independent Spirit Awards) as Lucy, a once-famous and still respected photographer, who now lives in obscurity with her girlfriend (a dazzling tragi-comic Patricia Clarkson) and an assorted bunch of friends, laying about a loft and snorting lines of heroin.  Downstairs lives Sid and her boyfriend James, a pair of ambitious yuppies.  Sid lays in the bathtub after her hard day at work (she's an assistant editor at a glossy photography magazine) and the ceiling leaks. She goes upstairs to investigate, where some brilliant dialogue is exchanged SID Hi, are you running a bath? LUCY No, are you? SID Well, our ceiling is leaking and... you live right on top of us. LUCY Sorry, I don't know what to tell you.  No one here has taken a bath recently.Through this meeting Sid becomes obsessed with Lucy's lifestyle and fame, and wants to revive Lucy's career and jump-start her own.  Sid brings Lucy to her magazine and soon Lucy is working again.  But things get complicated as it blossoms into romance.  The rest is too good to give away but you have to go rent this!  It's passionate and romantic, compelling and haunting.  "},{"Title":"Superbly subtle.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In 'the age of indies', where we currently find ourselves, a common technique is to heavy hand the viewer, scaring him with the harsh realities of some off-beat lifestyle.And all those possibilities exist in High Art, where the real grunge of lower Manhattan is briefly exposed, yet here, the filmmaker chooses to seduce us with it, rather than hit us over the head.Ally Sheedy does a good job as druggie social misfit, Lucy Berliner. Lucy's been able to lead a life devoid of any traditional responsibility, choosing instead to hang out with a sub-culture of drug motivated homosexual and asexual miscreants, where days and years pass by faster than a paper calendar unfurling in a Frank Capra movie.That she might jump start a promising career as a photographer under the bright-eyed prodding of young Syd (Radha Mitchell) is not surprising, it's a familiar refrain. And that Lucy seduces Syd is also predictable.Where the movie does surprise is the relaxed way in which it delivers it's message, and, although Sheedy and Mitchell are both very good, for my money the movie is damn near stolen by Patricia Clarkson, who is brilliant in every scene she plays. If you remember her as Ted Hoffman's caring, intelligent wife in year one of 'Murder One' you'll really appreciate what a marvelous actress she is.I came in expecting to dislike the movie, and left quite pleased. I definitely recommend.  "},{"Title":"These performances deserve recognition","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  None of the characters in this film are the stereotypes you might expect, and a few of the performances are simply magnificent.  Patricia Clarkson in particular probably won't be an Oscar contender, but certainly should be. The two leads are also played to perfection, and I enjoyed the film far more than I had anticipated.  Definitely should not have been relegated to the art-house circuit.  "},{"Title":"Romance between two woman who struggle what they want from their lifes and they are faced with big decisions, but they find happiness and their answers in each others arms...","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is probably one of the nicest romance between two woman I have ever seen and how it evolved gradually, and its very sweet.it touched my heart, and I already watched it 3 times and it did not bore me. The Director gave us so many details about the two and that makes you get into more in the story ,altough at the end it kinda destructed everything as if I was not watching the same movie...like someone changed the DVD or something...It could have had a better ending. ... In general I also liked how the characters addressed each other (Lucy's Mum to Greta The German, Greta to Syd The Chick with the leak etc). It is real life when you do not like someone you call them by a degradable name sort of. I also liked the problem/issue Lucy was referring to with her mum... I have a Drug problem, and a love issue, or maybe I have a love problem and a drug issue.... While watching this film I found a lot of situations in which I was common with the characters.. Maybe that is also why I loved this film.. "}{"Title":"emotionally gripping and heartbreaking","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film is tragically beautiful. full of adventure and lust, high art transcends the boundaries of most modern movies in the best ways. every emotion is delivered with impressive honesty and edge. instantly gripping and heartbreaking, you will find yourself feeling as though every moment of this film is happening to you. a wonderful piece of art. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I skipped this in the theatres and shouldn't have.  I am completely haunted by Ally Sheedy's performance since seeing this fine film on video. Riveting.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a decent lesbian-themed movie!","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After the trash of the past twenty or so years -- titles withheld to protect the incompetent -- someone finally makes a movie with a lesbian love angle that not only works, but shines. An exquisite performance by Ally Sheedy highlights this haunting study of a woman and the culture which ensnares her. A solid plot, likable -- if not perfect -- characters give flesh and blood to this dark character study. Added kudos to Patricia Clarkson; she took a character who tread the fine line between sympathetic and just plain pathetic and made Greta a complex, but not confusing nor inconsistent, woman. Well done, all around!  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 90's","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The world of avant-garde photography is captured very well by Lisa Cholodenko in High Art. We understand Lucy Berliner's desperation with the world of success, money and publicity--how she fled New York ten years before the story begins, angry with how her name and talents were being used by the business people around her, and how she is very wary of starting afresh with this risky assignment for Syd. To add to the burden, she has a drug problem and a relationship with an unemployed (and unemployable) German actress and heroin addict named Greta.Lucy's mother is not much help either, reminiscing about the old days in Europe(pre-war) when a Jewish woman faced rejection by her family for lesbianism, and with a German to boot! The few laughs in the movie come mainly from Tammy Grimes grilling Ally Sheedy about her relationship with the German. (Greta, mother. Her name is Greta!).If there is a flaw in the casting, it is the choice of Radha Mitchell as Syd. She isn't tough enough to be climbing the slippery ladder of the visual arts in New York; you'd expect to find this wispy-voiced girl selling perfume at Bloomingdale's. The other actors are just about perfect. Gabriel Mann as the boyfriend who's increasingly disturbed about Syd's spending time with Lucy; David Thornton as the slippery Harry, always on his toes, currying favor with the boss; the boss herself, Anh Duong, who started as the receptionist at FRAME years ago and knows all the secrets of the art world. "},{"Title":"Lesbo druggies exposed!","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ally Sheedy plays Lucy, a lesbian photographer with a serious drug problem, but an even more serious inability to cope with the rapacious New York City commercial art scene. Lucy struts and poses her trim limbs while her mind stoops to degeneracy. She is controlled by the deep-throated German has-been actress, Greta (Patricia Clarkson) her long-time lover, and by her own falling- down habits. The mercantile world is too much for her pure artist's nature, and so she forsakes it for the haze...Radha Mitchell plays Syd, an assistant editor at Frame, a glitzy photo art mag, who is seduced by Lucy and by her own need to succeed. Gabriel Mann plays James, her boyfriend, who can see the handwriting on the wall, and splits.Sheedy is outstanding and Mitchell is very good, but what makes this an intriguing and worth- while film is the uncompromising eye of Director Lisa Cholodenko, who depicts the sad, dreary NYC high art drug scene without a trace of sentimentality or any hidden sexist agenda. True, the women in the film are vastly more interesting than the men, who are merely passive appendages, of little notice. But that is because those in focus-Lucy, Syd and Greta-are strong people who shape their own lives, for better or for worse. Notice that the hangers-on, on the couch, male or female, are shallow and empty regardless of sex.The lesbian sexuality displayed seemed authentic (but how would I know?) but somehow limited. Maybe it's the code. The dependency passing for love between Lucy and Greta also struck me as real. Syd's loss of innocence was the main point, however, and it was not her sexual seduction that did it, but her discovery of her own very complex nature. The look on the face of the receptionist reading Dostoyevski after Syd appeared on the cover of the magazine, her hungry interest and then Syd's realization of being looked at in a different way, was just a marvelous piece of cinema incisively rendered.(So I had a laugh with the tag line. The movie's only fault was it was a little too serious.)(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Not About Art but Dependency","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  High Art is an absorbing study of dependency, both chemical and emotional.  Sheedy plays Lucy Berliner, a famed photographer who hasn't published in ten years.  She's whiled away the years living in New York with her German girlfriend, both heroin addicts.  Not the strung-out mainlining Panic in Needle Park types, but more refined; they toot more than they shoot.Along comes a young assistant editor of an art magazine who first wants to advance her career by cajoling Lucy to begin working again, and later falls in love with her.The movie shines in its matter-of-fact treatment of living and loving among New York's new Bohemians.  Well worth the rental, and I hope this signals Sheedy's return to film...she's great.     "},{"Title":"Beautifully sad","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ally Sheedy hasn't been this good since THE BREAKFAST CLUB, and newcommer Radha Mitchell is also excellent. The photography is so.....raw yet at the same time elegant. The Academy was too chicken to give this any awards, luckily it did well at the Independent Film Festival. "},{"Title":"Skillful Direction & Great Performance Exclusively by Women's efforts","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We are on 21st century. For past 5000 Years Women's place in societal concept badly needed to improve. It was so obvious that men who had always wanted control it for the interest of themselves. We need to let the entire society including children to understand this important issue as well.I definitely have enjoyed and praise director's character focused cinematography enabled by excellent acting skills of the two captivating casts portraying honest sense of humanity. I am strongly hoping that blessing days to come really soon for women lovers where they do not have to use drug or alcohol to cope with the still occasionally cruel world. It made me so sad that Lucy died before the two women to have chance to enjoy the rewards of their work. However at least I felt better that there were no scene of violence nor intimidation against women loversThe time has come for women to re-evaluate the societal concept of women's place for their own good, success and happiness. There are many areas women can perform significantly better than men including Art and Science. It is unfortunate that men has denied women to explore their potentials and opportunities all the way along until just recently. It is not nothing wrong for some women to totally ignore men and find their potential of their own amongst the exclusively own sex considering never-ending societal prejudice against them It is not accurate to say that homosexuality has been forbidden in most of cultures amongst Eurasian continent. In the beginning of Etruscan and Chinese civilisation, women were often valued less than a household animal. Hence women never had their right of their own to love who they desired It was particularly true in ancient Chinese Empire. When a woman was found next to any man of high birth, She was immediately beheaded accused of being a parasite or vermin and replaced by a catamite. That inhuman mentality still seems to be intact with some Asian men's mind. Fortunately the replacing women with catamites did not occur in Japan, but all Japanese have committed similar crimes down the history during the mediaeval age discarding new born female infants in favour of male infants. Truth is that privileged men exercised homosexuality rather openly but women never had enough rights of exercising no matter what they preferred to do. Israel and China both have a long history of Phallocentric homosexuality goes back about to 2000BC and 1600BC respectively In fact they do have a long history of homosexuality following NearEast, Greece, Middle East, and India. I believe that the tradition spreadded via Silk Road from Etruria (ancient Tuscany) branched off to Israel and Egypt. then to Sparta, then Turk, then India and to China. However, those were Phallocentric homosexuality including most distasteful and bizarre catamites. In contrast to contiguous Eurasian continent, Japan has had long history of Parthenocentric homosexuality amongst noble born court attendants and they developed highly intellectual feminist scholar of their own. Contrarily to common beliefs, before the paternalistic authoritarianism ever had any chance to come in effect in Japan, there were four contiguous centuries, a long historic period called the Heï An Era (794 - 1185 A.D. meaning the time for peace and tranquility) where contemporary feminist scholars including art, poetry, and literature flourished in Japanese Imperial Court. It is often considered the peak of the Japanese civilization. I personally view societal harm from Phallocentric homosexuality is so disastrous beyond comparison with Parthenocentric homosexuality. Unfortunately Chinese men usually do not wish to give a same degree of freedom nor intellectual opportunities to women. In fact Parthenocentric homosexuality controls unnecessary growth of population hence it is beneficial in term of ecology. Pinecloud, Palo Alto, California "},{"Title":"A hothouse flower of a movie; it finally gives Ally Sheedy a three-dimensional role...","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hard, tough, occasionally dream-like drama involving a drug-abusing lesbian photographer who's currently on hiatus; lured back into the professional world by a pretty art-magazine gopher, she finds herself in the middle of an affair. Emotionally intense movie is sharp and focused, though hurt by a puzzling finish. Ally Sheedy's award-winning performance as the shutterbug is one of her finest. It took a long time for Sheedy to reach the point where she could appear in a film like this and not seem out of place; her acting is getting more refined with age, and her brave turn here appears to put her juvenile romps (like, say, Short Circuit) to bed. Radha Mitchell is also very good as the post-teen who falls for her. Gripping, moving film. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Probably the best movie of the 90's","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely beautiful.To begin with, the cinematography was a wonderful experiment. A variety of contemporary photographers were hired to shoot individual scenes or stills used in the movie. While this device could have left us with a fragmented feeling, it worked quite well to put us in the mind of characters who work in art photography. The plot was poignant and difficult. While it could have left me unsatisfied with a Hollywood ending, it took a bolder route, which in the end was much more satisfying.I felt that the acting was quite well done. This script could have led to a lot of really dreadful mugging for the camera, but the director got very specific performances from a talented cast. Though not as widely acclaimed as Laurel Canyon I thought this movie was more satisfying. If you liked Canyon, this one definitely deserves to be seen.  "}{"Title":"Brilliantly acted, hauntingly beautiful film","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't take a genius to figure out where this movie is going to end up. I saw it coming about an hour in, but that did nothing to diminish my enjoyment of and respect for the film.  High Art gives its audience two characters who stand for so much youth and ambition vs. maturity and disillusionment, action vs. passivity, and perhaps most intriguingly art vs. the culture/criticism of it.  The struggles between these oppositions play out in the difficult romance between Lucy and Syd, their need, their repulsion, and the final non-issue of their compatibility.Lucy is the stereotypical artist with a dangerously hedonistic lifestyle, but her self-destruction does not prevent her from producing art, only from participating in the secondary commercial/professional world.  She is burned out of shows and magazines, but her apartment walls are blazing with her continued photography.  She is the artist removed from the critical world, now safe, now sane, but the mild stagnation of her newer work reveals a need for prodding towards brilliance.  The question, of course, is whether she can withstand the production of her most honest art.Syd is a young woman who lives below Lucy, and works as an assistant editor at Frame magazine.  Syd is all ambition, but it is ambition tempered by a love of her field, a true adoration for the aesthetics of photography.  Not surprisingly, her professional drive leads her to Lucy, and she gently draws the artist out of her 10 year cocoon to shoot a cover for Frame.  The assignment takes Lucy back to her previous work, demanding that she examine her life.  In that process, Lucy's art transforms Syd, literally making art out of the critic.The sexual tension between Lucy and Syd is gorgeous, just so well acted and with such restraint.  There are no sweeping declarations, no apparent road to happiness.  Just two people, circling each other, getting close whenever possible.  They are constantly pulled apart by their work, their desires, and their previous relationships, and it is sometimes hard to tell their flirtations from their arguments.  The analogy to the love/hate relationship between art and criticism would be hackneyed to discuss, but is subtly and beautifully portrayed.Rahde, whose last name I forget, is perfect as the enigmatical Syd, and Sheedy is astonishing.  As for the direction, I was wholly impressed.  The atmosphere is fully realized, and the brief scenes in upstate New York are a perfect foil for the dreariness and frenzied, if doomed, vitality of the city.  There appeared to be a few careless moments in the editing room, but the worst that happens is a momentary break in the suspension of disbelief. All is forgiven when you look at the photography.  Just as Lucy shifts quietly while taking snapshots, the camera slides in shots, mimicking the photographers hunt for the perfect moment. "},{"Title":"One more time, please =)","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hehe, it's me again.  I guess it's not often that people review a movie twice -- but for someone of inferior intelligence like me, well, you'll just have to excuse me, especially when I missed so much the first time I saw it. Now after two more careful viewing with the help of VHS technology, here's something more (not necessarily better though)Metaphors a great deal of them -- wonderful small gems that are sprinkled throughout the motion picture.  Subtle, non-intrusive, yet very powerful once the viewer discovers them.  Even if they go unnoticed, they still make a great atmosphere.Dialogue even better than I originally thought after two more viewings. Some of the best I've ever heard they always ride on a fine line between truth and falsehood, hope and despair.  Simply fantastic.Use of Arnie, and other supporting cast on one level, they are presented to show the complete life of Lucy (and later Syd).  On other level, especially in the last scene of Arnie, they present certain psychological aspects of Syd and Lucy.  It's like watching oneself from a distance, with shock and understanding. Very powerful.Finally, the Ending  ooooooo...  An entire book can be written on that wonderful ending.  A final irony so the CYCLE of the aspiration to ELEVATE starts again.Simply a beauty.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and Uncomfortable","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just re-watched High Art on the IFC the other night. The last time I saw it I was not as seasoned as I am now. I was just blown completely away by the complexities of all the characters. I mean there are so many subtexts within this movie that it made it more than your typical wanna be artsy lesbian movie. Even without the lesbian factor, I still love this movie. Patricia Clarkson's Greta is such a great character. It still blows my mind. I mean this story is not just about love but the idea of being surrounded by the worst parts of you and having such an ambivalent reaction to it.(STOP, SPOILER, INFERRING CLIMAX) Amazing. Re-watching this movie made me ask myself, Does changing yourself for the better really mean you have to die? One way or the other? Wow, I'm sorry if you're reading this and wondering what the hell I am talking about. I just really love this movie. It is such an enjoyable, uncomfortable movie to watch. "},{"Title":"A gorgeous sensory of sound and vision.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film High Art debut's Ally Sheedy (The Breakfast Club, etc.) comeback into the late 90's. The story is not necessarily focused on traditional lesbian and drug stereotypes, but rather focuses on character development. 'Syd' is an assistant at an artsy type photo magazine. New York's underworld of artist come and go but 'Lucy Berliner' (Sheedy) left a very bad taste in the mouth of the same art scene that embraced her, by rejecting it for solitude. As fate would have it, 'Syd's' leaky ceiling, leads her to meet her neighbor 'Lucy Berliner', in an attempt to resolve the situation have you called uhm....Boris?. As 'Syd' continues to run into 'Lucy' trying to fix the leaky ceiling situation, she is introduced to New York's underworld of would have beens and privileged adults with love issues and drug problems, or drug issues and love problems. All the while trying to maintain a relationship with her distant boyfriend and rise above the nonsense of job politics. There is also much lateral thinking on the part of the 2 principle characters 'Syd' and 'Lucy'. There are so many brilliant and solid characters in the movie, and the lighting and soundtrack (Shudder To Think-Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) add a euphemistic effect. Truly a romantic film, and quite a performance for first timer Rhada Mitchell 'Syd'. This is a must see film especially for fans of 'Drugstore Cowboy' 'Sid and Nancy' etc. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This may be the one movie I've seen with Ally Sheedy that I actually liked. Her character is neither a caricature nor self serving, but complicated, co-dependant, and pained. I hoped for her rescue and cried at her weaknesses. Patricia Clarkson's Greta was excellently played. Her self-absorption, tentacle like hold on Lucy (Ally Sheedy) and dependency were maddening! Syd's honesty and refusal to apologize for an almost compelling and inevitable course of action was a pleasure to watch. Also a reminder to examine the level of honesty in my own life. Interactions between Lucy and her mother were difficult and so real that I silently begged for them to be over! All in all, I love movies that evoke feelings and this film did just that. Fear, anger, curiosity, disgust, anxiety, hope, and sadness. I saw it several years ago and still am so moved by the depth of emotion it was able to stir for me.  "},{"Title":"Superb.","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Caught off-guard by this film.  The subject matter ordinarily wouldn't interest me but I was transfixed from the beginning by the intensity of the acting.  I honestly didn't think I'd be able to connect with or care about the characters, but I did.This is simply a solidly acted, solidy directed, solidly written film.  Subdued yet unpretentious or excessively melodramatic, the effort put into this by all involved is commendable. 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Sad but cool story","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recommend this flick to any bisexual woman.  I liked the characters and nobody gets what they want.  Real life is much like this. Ally Sheedy is a great person for the role she played. It is a shame this is not available on DVD yet. "},{"Title":"The one moment in my movie history","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is one moment, one scene where Syd and Lucy are in bed..and Syd tells that she is in love with Lucy. That moment is one of the most tender, most emotionally charged love scene I have ever experienced. It is THE best scene in of an realistic expression of love and must be seen to be appreciated. This scene, in a nutshell, captures what movies are made for and why they exist. It brought me to tears, possibly for never experiencing that moment in my own life or because I have experienced it but have now forgotten, over time, its importance. This move is excellent and is beyond words. One must see it to enjoy its ample qualities of what great acting by both Sheedy and Mitchell and both worthy of an Oscar for their performances. "},{"Title":"This film will make your heart ache","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is good no doubt about it.  I could understand how some people wouldnt like it but if you are a fan of cult/indie films you should love it. The three main people are very well constructed.  Lucy is just the pinnacle of grungy/cained/disfunctional arty type you can get. Syd is just cute. Lucy's girl friend is just laugh out loud great.  The story leaves so many doors unopened that even after three weeks i still spend a couple of seconds going through it in my head.  Some people say that the males are weak in this flim, their not weak just not important (sorry guys).If your a guy, gal. gay or straight this film is great see for your self. "},{"Title":"A terrific film.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one to watch. Well made, beautifully acted, and it really hassome depth to it. What a relief! Ally Sheedy (my reason for watching it,I'm 'growing up' with the brat pack) does the best work of her career. Astunning leap forward for her, as well as for Rhada Mitchell andPatricia Clarkson. Everyone in it is great, and it's so very well madethat I was stunned at first. This is a real treat. Difficult subjectmatter, definitely not for the kids, but rent it. You won't be sorry.      "}{"Title":"Great story, but poor direction","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching this film, I am struck by the grace and beauty of the story and the terrific acting.  However, as I watch the film, certain directorial problems become painfully prevalent.  For instance, there are many unnecessary camera movements and the camera always seems to be at the same eye-level angle.  Maybe this is to add a sense of a documentary to the movie, but even if it is, it gets old fast.  All of the acting in the film is top notch!  The script is very interesting and gives a unique angle and edge on an old topic.  There were also several places that I thought needed more depth, but those are post-decisions that I don't have all the facts on.  If you like independent film, then check this movie out.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful and haunting - like high art","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most beautiful films I have seen in a long time.  The mechanics are flawless.  I would not have commented on this film had I not read all the negative comments previously posted.  I find it difficult to believe that people can be so ignorant to beauty.  I guess a Hallmark card is sufficient for those who didn't see the beauty here.  It's cheap, and they can understand it. "},{"Title":"Very intense character-driven work","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  High Art is one of the most intensely provocative movies that I have seen in a long time.  The acting by the three female leads, especially by Ally Sheedy (breakthrough role) and by P. Clarkson (scene stealer), is powerful. And the screenplay is frighteningly and realistically written, as well as the direction being right on target.  Also, the soundtrack (done mostly by the group Shudder to Think) is haunting and blends with the film to perfection.  Be warned this is not an uplift movie; it is thought provoking and somewhat disturbing.  But I highly recommend this treasure if you are looking for a great piece of art and a voyeuristic peak into the drug subculture.  "},{"Title":"One of the best film of this year","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found its representation of dependency in relationships and the description of a world of drugs, photography, ambition, lesbian issues and finally love extremely exciting and well expressed. Ally Sheedy has given a great acting far away from her Breakfast Club days. The music is also brilliant sexy, and stimulating. Shudder to Think is a really underrated band that promises better stuff to come.  "},{"Title":"A movie that lives up to its potential and then some.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite my high hopes, I was totally unprepared for the force of this film. It has the soul of Drugstore Cowboy a touch of the glamour of Gia, the artistry of When Night is Falling and then more.Acting-characterization. Greta the German actress is a bit obtuse, one would like to know more of her, but she is so totally lost in a drug induced haze that we could never find her anyway. The rest of the cast is simply brilliant. James, the boy friend who is right when he surmises that Syd is being used by her magazine staff, but oh so wrong in how to give support offers just the right amount of attitude then does what we knew he would do.Ultimately it is the love story of Lucy and Syd.and both actresses deliver believable and fearless portrayals. One could not help wondering from where does all of the raw talent in this movie come. I asked myself time and again who is this director/writer? and where has she been hiding.If there is one disappointing, jarring note about this film it is that it will never get the attention that it deserves. I loved Gwyneth Paltrow in Shakespeare in Love, but comparing that role to Ally Sheedy's performance here is like comparing eighth grade poetry to Adrian Rich.There is hope for American film. ironically it lies in this depressing tale of love, affliction and addiction. "},{"Title":"Ally Sheedy gives a haunting and mesmerizing performance","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ally Sheedy's haunting portrayal of Lucy, in High Art, was absolutely amazing; as was the movie.  Before I get into my review, I should say that usually I don't like this type of movie.  I normally wouldn't even choose to rent it, but I had heard such great things about it and decided to take a chance on it...and oh boy...did it ever exceed my expectations!Seldom have I ever watched a movie over again after just finishing.  But High Art had me rewinding the tape and pressing play.  For some reason, the plot and characters got under my skin.  I was absolutely intrigued by the Heroin addicted world of Lucy and Greta, the breath of fresh air Syd brought into Lucy's life, the way Lucy's face and eyes seemed to change when she was with Syd, and then the ultimate demise of their relationship and Lucy's life.Ally Sheedy's performance was mesmerizing.  She was so intense and believable.  I don't know what she did to prepare for this role, but whatever it was, it worked.  Not only did she look like a heroin addict (boy was she skinny!!) but she acted so well...in fact, she became Lucy. I forgot I was watching a movie. In a sense, it became a documentary to me.In the beginning, I kept thinking `this is the girl from Short Circuit and the Breakfast Club?' (both of which I loved, but that is for another time). Her gauntness, the way the skin was taught around her chin, the bags under her eyes, and her hair and clothing were all breathtakingly beautiful.  She looked like a heroine addict.  Her character was complex and intense, then at times light and youthful.  Ally Sheedy made this movie!I carried away the image of Ally's eyes.  Deep and dark, they seemed to follow everything.  Her character penetrated everyone.  She was Lucy.  Her eyes told the story.  They were the window to her thoughts, passions, and addictions.I feel like I'm slighting the other actors.  They were also equally as great.  Patricia Clarkson, Greta, had me leaning towards the screen, trying to grasp every word she incoherently mumbled.  Radha Mitchell, Syd, was the perfect balance to Ally's tautness.  Youthful and full of life, yet blindly and painfully innocent.  At times, Rahda really showed true acting genius. Her two scenes with Arnie in the car at the end of the movie and with the editor at Frame when asked if Lucy was her lover were truly memorable.I got so involved with this movie, that at the end I was literally screaming at the TV...Lucy, don't do it.  Don't do it!  That is a testament to how believable the characters were.  They made me care about their lives.  The movie also ended in a great way.  As much as it bothered me, it was a testament to showing a real life ending to a surreal lifestyle.All in all, I would highly recommend this film.  It is slow at times, but absolutely intriguing.  I would recommend this movie to people just to see Ally Sheedy's performance.  She was incredible!  If I made movies, Ally would be at the top of my actor list. "},{"Title":"High Praise","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having very little information Writer/director Lica Cholodenko' previous work, I must give high praise to this work which I assume is from of a strong, new immergent film maker. I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of High Art.The subject matter of the film seems to have become mainstream fodder now a days, gay relationships and drugs (which I will not divulge in any significant detail for the consideration of anyone who may read this). Sitcom TV has seemingly embraced the concept of gay themes into a trite token ratings necessity  whereas the heroin chic advertising controversy in fashion magazines that has also become a tiresome media issue. The credit in this film goes to Cholodenko's ability to create and weave poignant and authentic characters rather than portraying mere hollow caricatures of stereotypical social figures.  In short, I cared about the characters and believed the world in which they lived.I was refreshed to believe in a drama where the relationships seemd real because of its characters rather than contrived conventions.  Rent this movie for the direction, story and performances. "},{"Title":"Rather nicely sadS","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gluttoned on movies, seeing four videos in one night. This was the best. Ally Sheedy left me gobsmacked, I never knew she was good. Radha Mitchell was lovely and new, but Patricia Clarkson was perfect as Lucy's bane and addiction.Drugged pacing and photos that look like Nan Goldins work just set the movie in place and in motion. I was so pleasantly surprised by this movie, so nice, so messed up so lovely, so deadened in its vicious end.     "},{"Title":"Intelligent, Insightful, and Convincing","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent movie about career ambition, love, trust, and many other very challenging themes.  It introduces many more than merely interesting characters the barely conscious but manipulative Gretta, the cynical yet still hopeful Lucy, the innocent (almost too much, visually) and optimistic Syd, and a lot more.  Francis Scott Fitzgerald fans, pay attention there is one scene in the movie that reminds me of the situation that involves Tom Buchanan, Daisy, and THE GREAT GATSBY after the car accident -- that was the moment I finally realize that High Art is truly a great movie.  It should also be noted that this movie has probably one of the best endings I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"I Love Lucy...","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seldom have I left a cinema feeling so content and fulfilled in my expectations as I did after having seen Lisa Cholodenko's High Art. After so many disappointing lesbian features it's a real thrill to see a film that's intelligent, funny, sexy, compassionate... and truly an original work of art! Although the very word may sound like a tiresome cliché, I do say 'art' because despite the ironic title itself, Cholodenko's work represents modern cinematic art at its best. From the very first frame to the last what we get is a remarkably well-thought of layout of images. The composition, colors, lighting - there's nothing trivial about any of it for it all just works beautifully.'High Art' is not just a pure visual joy. One cannot but mention its splendid cast as well. Ally Sheedy has gone a long way since her 'St. Elmo's Fire' -days; her charismatic performance as Lucy Berliner is truly captivating in its touching simplicity and quiet intuition. Radha Mitchell has a wonderful way of expressing a flood of emotion in only one word, gesture, or expression. And who could forget Patricia Clarkson's wisecracking junkie girlfriend?Although the images speak for themselves, the dialogue has an exceptionally sincere (not to mention hot and seductive...)quality to it as well. Words seem to flow freely, spontaneously out of the characters' mouths; it's almost as if we were eavesdropping on the most intimate moments of two real people.Simply loved it.  "}{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best, touching, real, and true to life movies I have ever experienced. The characters are all so well done. Syd goes through a transition that is beautifully felt while watching the movie. Not to mention, the humor is brilliantly injected. Don't watch for the sex, but for the humanness. Glad to see Sheedy as Lucy (lesbian photographer long since in the spotlight) and Clarkson is spectacular as German actress, and Lucy's lover, Gretta. You LIVE the characters in this one! The emotional journey is less-expected from Syd than it is the audience. Nevertheless, Radha Mitchell is divine as looking-for-something-to-care-about Syd. The drug culture is well-represented here, as is the reality that sometimes happens in long term relationships, even lesbian ones. A+ "},{"Title":"This isn't a typical 'art-movie', just because it talks about an artist.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie with a title like this one is bound to stay unknown and unpopular. Most people don't understand anything about modern art (I'm one of them) and certainly don't want to see a movie about its creation. But somehow I was curious about it, hoping that this movie would explain something about how it all works and that it would give me an insight in this unknown and isolated world.Syd is the newly appointed assistant editor of Frame magazine, a magazine about art photography, who lives together with her boyfriend in an apartment. When there is a leak in their ceiling, she goes to the neighbors upstairs to complain. But what she didn't know is that this neighbor is no-one else than the talented and once famous photographer Lucy Berliner. Immediately she sees a nice opportunity to boost her career and starts hanging out more with Lucy and her junkie friends, who almost permanently seem to live in Lucy's apartment. She encourages Lucy to shoot new pictures for her magazine, but as they grow closer to each other, Syd's boyfriend becomes more and more jealous and Syd starts to fall in love with Lucy.What I liked about this movie was that it was about a photographer, but that it never felt pretentious. Lucy felt like a normal woman and not like someone who thinks she is better, just because she is an artist. Also the contrast between Syd's relationship with the down-to-earth Lucy on one side and the pretentiousness of Lucy's drug using friends and the editors from Frame on the other, was refreshing. This isn't a movie that beautified the art world, this showed the hard reality. Take for instance the scene in which the head editors - who pretend to know all about photography - never have heard of Lucy Berliner, but don't want to admit that to their pears and therefor start lying or how they aren't interested in the art itself, but only in the money that it will earn for them as they publish it...After I had seen this movie and already had decided what rating I would give it, I went to see on IMDb which rating this movie actually received from others. It struck me that most men seem to hate this movie, while almost all women seem to like it. Perhaps it is because those men hoped to see more of the lesbian relationship between the women (including a steaming sex scene), perhaps it was because they believed this was an 'art movie' (which in reality it isn't). Anyway, I'm a man too, but I liked what I saw. I found the contrasts in the story, the delicate love story,... and especially the ending all very interesting and moving. That's why I give this movie at least a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Love this film...","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I give this movie a 9 because it's not my all time favorite film but it's among my favorites. You get my meaning. First of all when I saw that this film was initially a lesbian film I was a little judgemental, since all of the lesbian films I've seen have sucked majorly. This one was really intense. There was no going around issues here, things were thrown at you from a morbid love triangle standpoint involving women. I love the characters. Ally Sheedy did an excellent job returning with this Indie Film. I missed her since The Breakfast Club, St Elmos Fire and a few others. Ally is a cool chicka. I fell in love with Ally's character in High Art, she played a lesbian well. The director did a great job in depicting the gritty drug scenes in a not so good light, which I thought was wonderful, because I really wouldn't be able to handle it if they were to glamorize the issue. And the music! My goodness the music rocks the bells. Go see this movie, it rocks. It's so BOHO! "},{"Title":"good movie, but  a downer","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am always on the lookout for good lesbian movies with good acting and they are very hard to find. High Art fills both criteria, but every time I watch this movie I feel depressed. I don't know why, especially since I don't mind dark movies in the least. The relationships between the characters just feel empty to me. And, I never quite know what to make of the heretofore straight girl who falls for the gay girl. It must be said that the acting is quite good, especially Patricia Clarkson as the drugged out girlfriend of Ally Sheedy. Sheedy is also fantastic as the burned out photographer Lucy Berliner. I just didn't relate to any of these characters or to their relationships with each other, and in the end did not really care who lived or died. "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film.  Syd is a really compelling character, and well acted.But I felt that Lucy's fate at the end of the movie was flawed -- it seemed to me that it came out of nowhere, and therefore it wasn't as moving as it could have been.  Am I the only one who felt this way? "},{"Title":"Intimate and intense","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great little movie, well acted and made, with nice visual that aren't overdone and an excellent soundtrack. I ran across it by accident on late-night tv and have been looking for a copy to buy ever since. Ally Sheedy and Radha Mitchell are both excellent. "},{"Title":"Impressive Independent Film","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of Ally Sheedy's best movies.  She really brings something to this role, and I was very impressed by it.  Ally really has a range.  The movie has a good solid story line, and the characters are portrayed rather well.An aspiring assistant editor (Syd) works for a photographic art magazine and stumbles acrossed a long lost photographer (Lucy). Syd strives to bring Lucy back into the art world which she so abruptly left due to the evils that the business aspect of the art world always present.  Lucy agrees to do a spread for the magazine only if Syd is her editor.  This was actually done as a ploy to get involved with Syd.Syd, then goes on to have an affair with Lucy putting her relationship with her boyfriend James into jepordy, her career, and her life as she knows it. Syd's desire to keep her relationship with Lucy a secret only further intensifies the storyline.Lucy struggles with her girlfriend Greta, a drug problem, and the coldness that the business side of the art world brings.  A true artist, her work reflects her life and the world around her.A very good movie.  Although not a high grossing blockbuster I think it is a very good story, and one that every person should at least see once.  The cinematography is excellent.  The characters are dark and isolated, yet human; One can identify with them.  Once again, I was very impressed by it. "},{"Title":"HIGH art","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film encircles the tangled fragment of two struggling individualists at the arrival of their metamorphosing career lives provocatively. The allegorical and sensual scenery are subtly mastered. Provides for a tantalizingly subversive taste. "},{"Title":"Very impressed!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very beautifully shot film, and it is about great art and a great artist.  The real art, however, are the skillful ways in which the characters manipulate each other, how through their artifice, they are able to put a layer between themselves and painful reality--the reality that both Lucy and Syd are empty creatures.  In the end, we only see them more clearly for what they are empty.  A similar theme runs through the drug use and photography ideas--they both filter reality, but in the end you only see its emptiness more clearly.Great movie and definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"passionate and touching","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was completely moved after witnessing this film.  It had a dark complex to it with the desperation and drug use but at the same time it had an undertone of entertwining love.  It moved slow but I couldn't keep my eyes off the screen.  After watching this film I was jealous to the relationship of Syd and Lucy.  This was as close to true love on film as i could imagine. "}{"Title":"Breaking on Through","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What a rare film - to follow one woman's journey in breaking through to another side without soliciting audience approval or coating the screen in sap. Radha Mitchell shows Syd's transformation wonderfully, and Ally Sheedy shows how High Art often has its beginnings at the lowest of levels. The film's success is ultimately owed to the deft touch of its director; this is one tough balancing act that's pulled off beautifully.  "},{"Title":"a refreshing point of view","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I watched this film, I wondered to myself, and then to my wife, why it seemed to be coming from such a refreshing and unusual point of view.  It was a similar feeling to that of watching some of my favorite foreign movies.  And then I realized this movie is foreign, in a way.  It's made by women and actually feels like it's coming from women's perspective.  I hope to see more films that hit me this way.    "},{"Title":"Sheedy proves again her talent","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ally Sheedy has one of the attributes of a great actor; the eyes.  They're always watching carefully, probing into you, looking for something.  She also lets them be windows into her soul.  After all the promise she showed in movies like WAR GAMES and THE BREAKFAST CLUB, finally she has an adult role to let those qualities come full force in this movie.  It's only natural that she play a photographer, since they also need probing eyes. It's easy to believe she'd create beautiful images with her camera, and also easy to believe that what she reveals behind those eyes would attract two different people.The film itself is a bit slow at times, and Patricia Clarkson's character is perhaps glamorized a bit, since no one calls her on the carpet for what she does, but it is compelling.  Rahda Mitchell is good as the editor, but the film belongs to Sheedy.  "},{"Title":"The is a great Film!  Search it out!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before The Kids are Alright writer/ director Lisa Cholodenko made a name for herself with the highly acclaimed and award winning 1998 film High Art starring Radha Mitchell and Ally Sheedy.Radha's character of Syd is an assistant photo editor at a New York City photography magazine called Frame. She lives in a small apartment with her plain and boring boyfriend James. Something is missing in her life and she soon finds it by accident. When the bathroom ceiling starts leaking she visits the neighbors upstairs and finds Lucy (Sheedy) and company. Lucy's apartment is filled with framed photos that catch Syd's eye. Unknown to her at the time but Lucy was famous photographer who left the scene about 10 years ago. Syd wants to help bring Lucy back and Frame is willing to give her the cover of their next issue if she does.Lucy has been involved in a long relationship with Greta, played by indie favorite Patricia Clarkson, a washed up drug addicted German actress who moved to the States to be with Lucy. Greta is like a lead balloon and is bringing Lucy down with her. Lucy also has self confessed drug problem and a love issue, or is it the other way around? Its only when she meets Syd does her artistic fire and passion return. Greta is crazy jealous of Syd as she starts consuming more and more of Lucy's time. Lucy has also requested that Syd be her editor for the magazine piece, giving her a big promotion.This film relies heavily on art world stereotypes and clichés and is the only thing that holds it down. Frame Magazines chief editor is a guy with a pony tail and dark rimmed glasses, with his assistant being a cold dark haired French woman. Of course both of them are egocentric douches. The glamorization of drug use is also played up but it in one scene Lucy mocks this after Greta shoots up. This film is really about the love triangle that forms between Syd, Lucy, and Greta and how they use each other to get what they want. Love, trust, loyalty and devotion are the main themes of High Art The film has a typical downer ending but is also hopeful. Like most movies High Art isn't perfect but the brilliant performances really make it one to see. This was a break out role for Radha Mitchell as she has since starred in Finding Neverland, Silent Hill, Pitch Black and Woody Allen's Melinda and Melinda. Ally Sheedy also won numerous Best Actress awards for her role. This movie is currently available through Netflix watch instantly, so check it out! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was simply fabulous! One of the best movies I had seen in quite a long time! The power between Syd and Lucy was more than chemistry. This is one of the best movies i have seen in a very long time. It describes the relationship between two women. it also shows the effects of drugs in a relationship and how to interact. The beginning of a relationship and the end due to drug abuse. The tenderness and sharing that goes on between the two is breathless! I think this movie should be added to a best of list. The photography and cinematography is wonderful. The story line has a so much meaning and the playing out of characters and their lives is just great! "},{"Title":"Three great performances","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Syd (Radha Mitchell) is an assistant editor at Frame magazine. She lives with her boyfriend James (Gabriel Mann). There's a leak from their ceiling. She goes upstairs to her neighbor Lucy Berliner (Ally Sheedy) who is doing drugs with her girlfriend Greta (Patricia Clarkson) and others. Lucy is a photographer and Syd proposes to use her work. Ten years ago, Lucy had a mental breakdown. As soon as the magazine realizes who Lucy is, they become eager to use her but she insists on Syd as her editor. Greta falls deeper into drugs and Syd falls for Lucy.Ally Sheedy makes a great reintroduction. For many who hasn't seen her since her Brat Pack days, her gaunt look and her depths are both shocking. Along with Radha and Patricia Clarkson, the three ladies give outstanding performances of mature and complex characters. The connection between Radha and Ally Sheedy is both delicate and powerful. "},{"Title":"Cheap Cheese","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Really boring story about a group a druggies who sit around all day wasting time as their lives pass them by at high speed.Radhaha Mitchell does a lez thing with Ally Sheedy (who looks anemic and anorexic here). The film may have had some bite if the pretentious director/writer, Lisa Chokolendo, would have had more guts in showing a lesbian relationship, but this movie seems to have been filmed while the performers were half asleep. Advice to all involved there was a new invention unveiled just yesterday.... it's called COFFEE!!! Ally and Radhaha flash a quick boob, though Ally is not as convincing as a lesbian. She appears to be self-conscious about the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Sheedy was so devastatingly real, I was mesmerized with her character...","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so devastatingly real that I found myself mesmerized with the character Lucy, I felt the attraction between her and Syd, I felt the desperation between Lucy and Greta.  Not many movies have had such a impact on me. I experienced feelings of empathy throughout the movie, Sheedy played this role with an uncanny familiarity. This is a ***** flick and I've already started recommending it to my friends.  "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Regarding a previous comment, i was shocked to see this crap film being called art.  Admittedly Ally Sheedy's character was excellent and a few of the heroin addict chararacters were ok, but the main character, the blond girl who i don't remember her name, was god-awful.  Unrealistic, cliche, and simply embarrassing.  The rest of the cast were just as bad including the boyfriend and everybody who worked at the magazine office called FRAME. How could they possibly be believed using such a contrived name for a magazine. When you see that, you immediately think B-movie and that is exactly what it is. "},{"Title":"Cholodenko's great and disturbing theme can be stated very simply the price of (high) art is life.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The tragic arc of the life of Lucy Berliner bears an instructive similarity to the actual history of John Lennon.  In both instances, a very young, rather unhappy, genius-level creative artist takes the world by storm. After enduring years of the headlong dash to produce creatively amidst the hurly-burly of the international set, the artist, in defiance of the deafening demands of celebrity, and because of their chronic fatigue and emotional dullness, drops out.  In closing this chapter of his/her life, which was defined by the goal of living to work, and which was marred by the blurring of the line between life and work (art), the artist enters into a new chapter, which is defined by the goal of living for life itself.  This new chapter necessarily functions as an appraisal and commentary upon the preceding chapter.Although virtually everyone seeks love as an affirmation of his/her being, the decision to base one's life upon love repeatedly reveals itself to be a tragic mistake.  Both Berliner and Lennon, in the second chapter, want simply to live.  However, because they center the engine of this simple life upon the shrine of their love for another, the intrigue and ultimate tragedy of the lover-as-savior drama intrudes.  Berliner goes down to self-destruction as the manipulative love of Syd slips her grasp, leaving Berliner alone within the burned-out hull of her solitude.  Although Lennon was not ultimately self-destructive, he didn't get weaned from the co-dependence of love-for-its-own-sake until after Yoko Ono had cut him loose for a year.Artistic genius tends to be protected by egocentrism.  Because the process of artistic production feeds upon life, great art necessarily involves the blurring of the line separating the two.  The artistic genius is therefore positioned to be an inveterate user of people.  When a great artist is also a sensitive soul who attempts to backpedal away from the usury of art, the treacherous passage most often produces tragic results.Cholodenko's great and disturbing theme can be stated very simply the price of (high) art is life. "}{"Title":"stunning indictment of art and love","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Syd has just been promoted to assistant editor at the photography magazine Frame. But the promotion from intern has not changed her life. She got a small raise and an office, but she still has to run critical errands for the editor, such as getting him tea and scones.At home one night, she lies in the bathtub reading, when a leak through the ceiling leads to a meeting with her upstairs neighbor, photographer Lucy Berliner (played by a very butch Ally Sheedy).At the center of the film is the gradual drawing together of these two women, Syd being sucked into Lucy's world, like a piece of driftwood into a maelstrom. Lucy's passion is deeply passionate, arising from deep subconscious psychic wounds.High Art is a grim look at the pretentious art world, and at the emotional barrenness of its critics and supporters. Written and directed by Lisa Cholodenko, this is a powerful and sophisticated debut. The obvious double meaning of the title--high art as elitism and high art as drug-induced--is echoed by the continual doubling.  "},{"Title":"Fine, absorbing romance/drama.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must agree with the other comments about High Art.  It's now on video and I would like to see it again on the big screen. My wife and I really enjoyed this film.  It had so many good things about it; not only the fine performances, but the social implications, the artistic content, and the love projected by the two leading performers; Ally Sheedy & Radha Mitchell. Excellent direction by Lisa Cholodenko. "},{"Title":"Lisa Cholodenko's confident debut","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There have been almost 4 years since lesbian director/writer Lisa Cholodenko's mainstream breakthrough dramedy THE KIDS ARE ALL RIGHT (2010, 9/10), and we still have no clue of her follow-up, she might be in a writer's block, so I root out her 1998 director debut HIGH ART, a post-modern romance between Syd (Mitchell), a greenhorn assistant editor of Frame magazine and a hedonistic former photographer Lucy (Sheedy) in Manhattan. Cholodenko adopts a Lo-Fi buzzing and eerie sound effect in the beginning to not the least understate the unfulfilled surroundings of Syd, whose boyfriend James (Mann) is a good-for- nothing, who leaves his girlfriend to check the leaking in the ceiling, but thanks to him, meets Lucy, her neighbor upstairs, and her free spirit friends, including Lucy's German girlfriend Greta (Clarkson), a constantly-stoned former actress. Instigated by Lucy's unorthodox work (provided by photographer Nan Goldin in real life), Sid manages to recommend Lucy to Frame and they make a deal for the new issue's cover, however, Lucy has been disappeared from the art scene for 10 years, initially she balks at the offer, Sid encourages and appease her, it is more than a new start for Lucy, it's also an important career stepping stone for Syd, and the mutual attraction is intriguingly simmering.The most imposing obstruction between them is the heroin-addicted Greta, Syd has no problem to ditch James, but Greta means more than a lover for Lucy, drug-abuse is the normalcy in Lucy's coterie where Syd is the newcomer, she enjoys the occasional recreation with drugs, but for chronic abusers, it is the oxygen in their life. There is a discomfited cacophony when the film leans on glamorizing heroin-use in the lesbian subculture, and accelerates the ominous fallout. But the Sheedy, Mitchell and Clarkson trio launches a dazzling interactions with their potently astonishing performances, Sheedy manifests an incredible charge with her butch manner and beguiling aggression, shamefully it is her first film I have watched, so cannot estimate what a thorough conversion for her, but at any rate, she is the magnetic backbone in the movie. Mitchell, her part is less engrossing (as in THE KIDS ARE ALL RIGHT, the butch always appears more daring than the femme), but she holds up a more intact narrative with decent faculty in her Hollywood debut. Clarkson is on the other hand, a dab hand can acutely inject her omnipotence whenever she is within frame, she offers far more than a jealousy-driven escapist and compelling justifies the imprudent finale, Lucy cannot get rid of her because she is her fatal addiction. After brainwashed by BLUE IS THE WARMEST COLOR (2013, 8/10), the sex scenes here are girls playing house, never dare to explore too much, kissing and caressing are the maximum for them to showoff, and after the ending, the self-righteous title HIGH ART is more like a derision to the supercilious hollowness in the so-called art guardians and sleight of hand of destiny, Cholodenko's potential is glimmering in her first foray and hope she will soon return with a more orchestrated comeback. "},{"Title":"A Photograph Of Intimacy","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lisa Cholodenko once again takes an up close and personal look at an intimate relationship in 'High Art'. What is very notable from the very beginning is how authentic the film looks. In retrospect, the props are quite minimal but the film never felt like it was visually lacking. Cholodenko's attention to detail is also remarkable. Tami Reiker's cinematography deserves special mention. The long shots, closeups and jumpcuts in Lucy's house are particularly impressive.The intimacy and buildup between Syd and Lucy demonstrated beautifully and subtly. Ally Sheedy delivers one of her finest performances. She is wonderfully restrained. Radha Mitchel's understated performance as Syd is good. Patricia Clarkson is superb as Lucy's former lover, a decadent former actress who now lives through drugs while clutching on to her lover.My only quibble is its ending. While the film moves at a very smooth pace, the end felt drastic and abrupt. I wonder why Cholodenko chose to have it that way. Fortunately, it doesn't ruin the entire film. 'High Art' is a close-up of intimacy...and the lack of it. "},{"Title":"Powerful Story of Art, Sex, Drugs","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film takes a hard look at the NYC world of art (photography here) including the way people use each other. Focusing on a gay love triangle between the artist, her older lover, and her new lover in a world where drugs (cocaine and heroin) blind each, we witness an explicit treatment of the struggles to survive. Most of the characters become so lethargic that we care about each spark of reality that moves them off the couch and into the world. Ambition is needed, though it can ultimately corrupt a relationship and an art. It's hard to watch and hard to turn away from, and for any artist-poet-editor, the mirror it holds up is painful and clear. I strongly recommend it to anyone up for a close witness of human frailties. Excellent writing and directing. "},{"Title":"Art for arts sake","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My early memories are of the Ally Sheedy who I fell in love with after first watching the Breakfast Club.  This is not the same Sheedy.  Rather this is a gritty performance from an actress who has survived where others from the Brat Pack have fallen by the wayside.  This is not an easy film to watch for many reasons.  It's edgy, it's stark and there are very few characters that you really want to love.  The film does have a beginning, a middle and an end, which is generally unusual for indie titles.  Overall, the performances are solid, although Patricia Clarkson's Dietrichesque take is almost comical. "},{"Title":"Strong performances; fascinating movie.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the best movies of 1998.  Ally Sheedy is brilliant.  The world of a photographic magazine provides a great backdrop for the story of a young woman discovering her lesbianism.  Honest look at drugs and sex; the camera doesn't hold back.  But the movie is also extremely funny.  "},{"Title":"keen eye for detail and realism","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having very much enjoyed the same director's, Laurel Canyon, I thought I would have a look at this earlier film. As a senior male heterosexual then was rather put off by the lesbian/heavy drug use elements and delayed my viewing. Now having watched the movie, I do feel that for me there were perhaps too many, older lady kissing younger lady scenes and far too much casual drug taking but still very much enjoyed the movie. As with the earlier film this took me somewhere I had never been and most convincingly introduced me to both the scenes of photo magazine production and into the lives of a faded photographer and her hangers on. Involving, as I say, and intense and as before, characters you think you will hate are really never quite that clear cut (well excepting the excruciating magazine a*** lickers displaying equal measure of pretentiousness and ignorance). Good solid direction with keen eye for detail and realism. "},{"Title":"My tape missed the ending...help","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My tape ran out and missed the end of the movie.I saw up until Syd goes outside and sees that guy in Lucy's car and he wouldn't at first open the door.What happens after that? thanks!beyond that i liked the movie. it had a mild eroticism that wasn't trashy. it was pretentious and i've read quite a bit--while looking for an explanation of the ending--about how it's pretentious and i'm thinking yes. it is pretentious because it's about high art. pretentious people judging other pretentious people and in the midst of it people trying to have real fulfilling lives. the reality is that pretense can screw up a chance at real connections.truth! "},{"Title":"a picture is worth 1,000 words","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seemed like Ally Sheedy hadn't done much since The Breakfast Club when she starred in High Art, and she does a pretty good job here as photographer Lucy Berliner, who becomes involved with neighbor Syd (Radha Mitchell), and they both start reevaluating their lives.I'll admit that this isn't the ultimate masterpiece or anything, but it is worth seeing as a look into the art world. These sorts of movies just go to show why indie flicks are more interesting than anything that Hollywood can conceive. Lisa Cholodenko followed it up with the perplexing, but also worth seeing, Laurel Canyon. Also starring Patricia Clarkson and Tammy Grimes. "}{"Title":"When the curtain came down, and the lights went up, I sat there ... disappointed.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very excited about seeing this movie.  I had heard many good things about it.  The movie itself is a fantastic work of art ... quite literally. Ally Sheedy gives us her best performance to date.  What was so weird about Ally in this movie is how much she reminded me of a young Sigourney Weaver.However, after seeing Gia, I was more than ready for a lesbian movie that didn't end in tragedy.   Anyway, this movie was moving up that hill towards a fantastic ending, and then 15 minutes before the end, took a major nose dive into one of the most depressing endings I've seen in a long time. Why is this always the ending of lesbian themed movies?  Lesbians' lives or relationships do not always end in tragedy. Anyhow, this is the reason I would probably never own this movie ... it's too depressing.Like I said, the movie is otherwise fantastic.  If you don't get your hopes up about a fairy tale ending, then you will love it. "},{"Title":"Tough going, but well made, insightful and deserving of appreciation","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ally Sheedy is in the cast list of High Art. Like me, a lot of couch potatoes would probably think  Oh, that's the girl who was in that movie about the cute robot. True, Short Circuit (1986) was fun to watch, but this is a very different story. It is also a far cry from Buried Alive 2 (1997), which I remember cured my insomnia one night. I suppose HA is what is called an art house movie. It strikes me that one look at a synopsis of the script would have most distributors feeling in need of a drink. (I could be wrong of course!). This is a rather bleak tale of friendship and lesbian love, arising out of a chance encounter between an assistant photo editor and a long lost art photographer in the building where they live.Initially, I started watching this one one morning for the sake of something to do while a work crew was relaying the floors in my kitchen and bathroom, so the soundtrack was punctuated by a certain amount of unscripted percussion. I quickly realized I was getting interested. There is stuff in HA for people to dislike if they are so minded. Hard nosed types could say there are too many losers in it to be worth bothering with. Someone with strong religious convictions could feel distaste at its perceived decadence. Drug takers, failed talents, useless men and the spiritually lost can all be found in this movie. I reckon Lisa Cholodenko's film is an audio - visual think piece rather than an entertainment. This whole thing smacks of deep personal commitment from its director. I notice she also has the writing credit.The mature and rather gaunt Ally Sheedy in this movie is excellent as Lucy Berliner, the once famous photographer who vanished to Germany years ago and has since returned to self - imposed obscurity. She is truly believable as the character on screen.  Radha Mitchell is Syd, the assistant editor at Frame Magazine. Actually, she is a little wooden at times. I think she puts in a much more assured performance in the recent, exciting sci- fi outing Pitch Black (2000). I recognized the names of Patricia Clarkson and Tammy Grimes among the supporting players in HA. Nice to see people getting work. HA also offers the pleasure of watching the seldom seen actress, Anh Duong. As Dominique Podhue, her striking looks steal the attention in some scenes. I agree with her character's assessment of the photos too.I think High Art on release must have been tough going for the audiences who got the chance to see it. I got my copy in the small hours via a VCR and a cable channel. It certainly hasn't been seen much in the UK. This aside, it is well made, insightful and deserving of appreciation  "},{"Title":"High marks","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  High Art peers into the lives of two NYC apartment dwelling women, the love which blossoms between them, and the effect of it on each of their lives. Sheedy plays a photographic artist of some renown living a Bohemian lifestyle while Mitchell plays the love interest as a heterosexual asst editor of an artsy magazine. A plaintive, somber film of considerable sensitivity, High Art is somewhat ill focused with a poor soundtrack but showcases excellent performances by the principals. A worthwhile watch for those into relationship films about lesbian love and off-beat characters. "},{"Title":"Film about life on the edge; Sheedy is super.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title 'High Art' is ironic in a couple of ways. The artist's life might seem like an exalted calling but it's usually not a very lucrative way to make a living. Lucy, the photographer played by Ally Sheedy, once was famous for her work but now she lives in something just above squalor. Syd and James, the young couple who live below her, aren't exactly yuppies either. Syd (Radha Mitchell) has a job as assistant editor at a photography magazine. That might be a great thing to tell people about at parties but it apparently doesn't bring in much money. Of course, the more obvious connotation of 'High Art' has to do with drug use, a big factor in the life of Lucy and the hangers-on around her. It especially ties Lucy to her live-in lover Greta, a wonderful character played by Patricia Clarkson.When Syd meets Lucy she gushes about her art, but Lucy tells her she's left that kind of work behind. Syd's bosses are eager to feature Lucy in their magazine, however, and Syd's enthusiasm convinces a wary Lucy to work with her on a new piece for them. An affection grows between them and gets physical, much to the surprise of Syd. This naturally puts a great strain on the two women's relationships with their lovers.Obviously this is not Ozzie and Harriet and is not for everyone. But if you are a little adventurous you may find this a rewarding film. Sheedy gives a very strong performance in this role, one that should get rid of that opprobrious brat pack label forever. Mitchell is also very effective as a pretty young woman still somewhat naive and idealistic, the kind of girl it would be easy to fall for. The movie has a surprising (to me, anyway) conclusion and a brilliant final scene. 'High Art' is out of the ordinary and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film starts out with a fairly promising idea, the young editor of a photography magazine tries to give a psychologically troubled photographer an interest in the career she had abandoned.  In doing so, she finds herself involved in a subculture of drug addicts, lesbians, and (mainly) lesbian drug addicts who seem to spend their time doing nothing but lounging around, acting and sounding as if their brains had turned to mashed potatoes.The film might have been better if the makers had not decided, every so often, to pull the action, never very swift to begin with, to a halt for yet another scene of drug-taking, or soft-core porn (Doesn't it ever occur to any of these characters to take their clothes off for sex?  Too much work, I guess.).  While all of this may have been shocking thirty years ago, the end result here is just something of a snore.  "},{"Title":"Dreams for the Means","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The thing I love the most about film is how there are so few absolutes, perhaps even fewer than any other art form.  Everything is open to interpretation, so let's not get bogged down in nitpicks regarding acting.  That's not important.Spoiler minefield ahead...This film had some meaning to me because it is about photography and images.  I've been doing photography as a hobby since fifth grade (way back when) and I can say it's very hit-and-miss, mostly interesting failures.  Half the art is in the meditation and examination.  Too bad today's journalism philosophies don't allow that.It's amusing here.  Our narrator is Syd.  All our perspectives come from Syd except those seen through the lens.  Those come from Lucy.  And what are those images of?  Syd.  When I first saw this, I thought the editing needed more individual cuts to emphasize the quickness of photographs.  Then I reexamined it and found the examination to be almost complete.  It's not very accomplished cinematically, but the photos themselves are interesting.Let's expand on what this is about.  Superficially, it's 'Ed Wood' meets 'Salvador', but that's not the case.  I think it's about Cyd imagining Lucy ala 'Fight Club'.  Hence the only thing Cyd would think about is herself, so all the images point back to her.Meditative narcissism, this is almost Kubrick-level material.  I wonder what he would've said about it.  Self-destructive maybe.I have only two complaints.  Did we need the silly rant about industry work?  Also, the music is awful.  Forget bad acting, bad music is even more destructive to our minds. "},{"Title":"Review of the movie/review of the reviewers","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was virtually a documentary of the High Art scene.  While Pecker was a parody of same, it was also highly accurate.  What surprises me are some of the comments I have seen written about this movie with concentrations on the drugs or the lesbianism.  No one commented on the role of Harry as the true sycophant.  Put a suit on him, and he'd be your archetypal MBA management consultant where to him, his coffee muffin is more important than the art.For instance, consider the roles of Syd and Greta in terms of the muse. How does a muse think? Is the muse an inspiration or enveloped by will of the artist and only destined to become a thing such as an image on a piece of paper and the artist only a 3 line dedication to acknowledge her death and forgotten by everyone after the publication of the next issue?  "},{"Title":"Memorable, Seductive","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw it last night... a powerful movie I happened upon.  Sexy, alluring, attractive.  I can't get you out of my head.  Oh Radha... beautiful.  The plot and story line - so real, so authentic.  Poor G.  I need to see it again (and again) now.  Along with other Radha productions. "},{"Title":"amazing tale of two lives coming together","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film was very well directed. it has a dark story and setting, yet when the characters come together, light shines, as does the actresses' talent. it is about syd, an innocent, yet intelligent looking girl, who lives downstairs from lucy, a retired photographer. syd eventually meets her in lucy's apartment while trying to fix a leak. while in lucy's apartment, she notices her old photography work and notes how well done it is. that starts the story-that introduction at lucy's house. this movie takes the viewers through the ups and downs of the relationship-which eventually grows into a love interest. syd shows lucy her world of the photography business, and lucy shows syd the world of drug addiction and lesbianism. when the two come together, sparks fly and issues blossom. find out for yourself what else happens in this highly rated film. you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, hypnotic film with a great soundtrack","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to see this film based on the fact that it was well-reviewed and I thought it would be interesting to see Ally Sheedy in a role that stretched beyond her Weird Loner role in The Breakfast Club. This is one of the more moving love stories I've seen. The trippy, druggy music and slowly moving, intense, and starkly beautiful plot gradually made me feel like the movie junkie that I am! It kept me engaged from beginning to end. If you're in love with New York City, the idea of art, the art world and its pretensions, and you enjoy trancey music, you're in for a real treat. This makes my list of top 10 movies of the 90s. "}{"Title":"Not The Traditional Love Story","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the torrid tale of a young innocent, relentless ambition, homosexuality, drugs, seduction and the abstruse, dreamy world of art. It combines the complex struggle for critical achievement and the allurement of a naive stairclimber in the ladder of success, the relationship between the reclusive artisan and the emulous ingenue developing into something more than the beauty of their love and the complications it instigates in those around them. Syd, a young assistant editor for a photography magazine, discovers one night that an artistic genius lives upstairs from her after fixing a leak in her bathroom. She examines her work exhibited all over the walls of her apartment and persuades her fellow co-workers to display her neighbor's creations in Frame (the magazine). She soon finds out that her newly acquainted tenant is a renowned photographer named Lucy Berliner, a lesbian freelancer who has done nothing but avoid the limelight for the past few years. Syd doggedly entreats Lucy to consider a return to the business and soon finds herself in the tornado of Lucy's wild and self-destructive lifestyle. Her drug-addicted friends and melodramatic lover Greta are the poison of Lucy's private society, a group of people who freely associate with each other sexually and socially. Lucy is their sovereign and they are conveniently her muses for her craft. Syd wets her feet in Lucy's strange circle of companions and in turn develops an intimate knowledge of Lucy's quirks and methods for inspiration, becoming her confidant and ultimately her lover. Radha Mitchell (Syd) and the intriguing, poignant comeback performance of the one-and-only Breakfast Club alumni Ally Sheedy, portray both leads with indefectible representation. Radha is hypnotizing but endearing and Sheedy is raw and sincere. Both tend to compliment the other whenever they are together, their portrayal of the other's affections plausible and tender.Who really turns up the action in this film is Patricia Clarkson, the eccentric and egotistical Greta Krauss, an actress and former lover who thrives off the attentions of Lucy's affections and who ultimately becomes the thorn in her side. This was very well directed, and independent films are usually the gems of the movie industry because they are not under the thumb of critical and financial stress while being produced. This story is heart-breaking but nonetheless mesmerizing, and I have to say that although most people might find this film a little somnolent, I think it displays a lot of unmarked talent and discerning screen-writing for avoiding the overly-romantic passions that most movies like to dish out. This movie is not about romance. It is about the unfettered and unrefined courses that real relationships have, and a respectful depiction of lesbianic relations.If you're looking to add an unusual and memorable piece to your movie athenaeum, then I beg you to consider High Art. It will be a well-thought purchase with nary a regret.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but nothing special","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie isn't what I thought it would be. I was expecting a trippy film about a drugaddict artist. Instead, drugs play little to no part in the film and it is really about a lesbian relationship. The idea is that there are three main characters. The first is an innocent magazine editor. She is involved in a serious relationship with a guy. Then she meets Lucy, played by Ally Sheedy. Lucy is the second of these three main characters. She is a well known photographer with the ability to help the editor with her career. Lucy is involved in a relationship with a third girl and third main character named Gretta. She is a drug addict with a terrible addiction. So what we have is a love triangle between three girls with Sheedy's character in the middle. It's interesting, but that's about it. The characters are good, but the story is a little too quiet. I don't recall one really good scene and yet the movie kept my attention. I think it's because it felt so real. These actors really got into their parts making me feel almost as if I was watching a play. Like Suburbia, only not nearly as good. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing, tantalizing, but ultimately disappointing","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't say that I was bored too often watching this.  The dialogue and the cinematography combine to make an experience which felt like one of the depressed highs the characters are constantly in.  Even when relatively nothing is happening onscreen, it's still fascinating. The problem is the characters.  I didn't care for them in the least. Several of us watched this together, and roughly 3/4 of the way through, I asked if anyone actually CARED what happened to them.  Nope.  By this point, in fact, we were only even vaguely interested if\when someone else would get naked.  Did they all starve making this film? Anyway, it's basically yet another sad movie about sad people leading sad lives doing sad things to make themselves sadder.  When Syd tells Lucy I think I love you. we're forced to wonder how exactly she can tell.  The only character with much emotive capacity at all was the German actress who was stoned out of her head throughout the movie.  (she emoted, that is, when we wasn't passed out, which constituted half her scenes) In the end, it was fascinating to view, but leaves one feeling almost as emotionally empty as its characters. "},{"Title":"A successful transformation from film school to film","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though not a great film, this is a good film with an amazing performance. Ally Sheedy gets so far inside the character of Lucy Berliner that you sometimes feel you're watching a documentary. And though this film veers close to the this really happened so I don't have to make a movie category, except for the finale it generally avoids this trap. Fortunately there's so much good stuff that comes before the ending that I'm willing to suspend my disappointment. (Please, directors It doesn't matter if something has actually happened in real life. This isn't real life; it's reel life. What you do has to work as a fiction.)And generally High Art does. It's worth seeing just for Sheedy's acting, but there's a bonus You'll have the rare pleasure of hearing characters in a film use the words critical theory and deconstruced appropriately.  "},{"Title":"Ally, Good God Almighty!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I realize this is no longer 1983. I realize that you and Matthew Broderick are no longer in high school. I realize that we're approaching the vanguard of the 21st century. But, GOOD LORD! "},{"Title":"White Cloud","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One's on her way up, the other is long since over it and dripping on the underling's nose as she reads while bathing in an apartment she shares with her soon-to-be ex-boyfriend below. Another plumbing brings women together flick? (Remember BOUND?)Forget it.This is a woman's picture by a woman for anyone ambitious enough to slip into something lofty & stuporous. Ally Sheedy smolders a few frames slinking around in cotton tank tops & cords, a marvel as smack-hip-lesbian photographer, Lucy Berliner.Watch it closely. Imagine yourself as her next subject. Shudder to think, listen. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but a bit slow.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was not a terrible film, but I'm not sure it deserves all the raves it received. The acting is fine, and the story not bad, but it is very slow and languorous. I never wanted to turn it off, but it did not grip me. My favourite line I'm hot, isn't that serious?  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully acted!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting performances in this film are fantastic!  The economy  of words is brilliant, and the emotions conveyed through expressions and subtle movements are brilliant.Of course, hot girl-on-girl action never hurts either.Ally Sheedy should have been nominated for her work.  She should find herself in more powerful dramatic roles in the future. "},{"Title":"A big dark yawn","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truly awful and pointless film full of skinny, languid people who could barely be bothered opening their mouths to speak.  I couldn't hear most of the dialogue and couldn't see most of the action as the whole thing seemed to have been shot on a dismal November day.Horribly-self indulgent, tedious and dissatisfying.  And tell Ally Sheedy to eat something! "},{"Title":"Not much to complain about","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  `High Art' is a small, intense movie about three women and their business relationships on the one hand, their love relationships on the other. The film hasn't much to say, there's just the question of how far can work influence love and the other way round, especially when art is involved?The pictures are cold and unfriendly, as are the photographs by the main character, Lucy Berliner. The three ladies act convincingly, it is not an easy job for them. On the whole, this is not something one might remember for quite some time but there is also not much to complain about.  "}{"Title":"tiresome","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take the TV series Friends, turn them all into junkies, take out all the funny lines and make them mumble senseless stuff while snorting and shooting, put them in a dump that should be bulldozed, turn the women into lesbos, and that is this flick.  It's a lesbo love triangle, with the young pushing aside the older.The love affairs are well portrayed, but it all plods along with too much senseless conversation.  There are no uppers here, the plot is a downer (which isn't a bad thing, just letting ya know).  I couldn't believe the IMDB rating was 8, I'd generously give it a 4.  It may appeal to viewers who are interested in lesbo relationships, and aren't bored with endless grundge.  It also helps to fast-forward through the snorting/shooting scenes.  There's no nudity, and it even breaks away from most of the intimate scenes leaving you wondering if anything happened. -Bob "},{"Title":"Something's missing...what's that?","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm trying to be objective but I think that's impossible when somebody wants to evaluate a movie, oh...Well,High Art overcame my standards but almost in every scene I missed something. Maybe it was a weird camera, maybe it was a doubt if all those photos - evaluated as an art? - were someway precious indeed. I could see some spark in them, as much as a common void you can see in photos taken from an amusement park. Anyway,it finished very fast and the death of that lesbian photographer didn't raise any deeper emotions in me. I could say it was nice or likable and thats all. Was the screenplay compact? Except for this I can understand lower budget for production but I am sure that better screenplay and - probably- better actresses would kick a soul out of this movie idea, sorry for bad word. I am not any lesbian and I think High Art is not strictly for the lesbian. Leading a drama Art, it stroke me as being a bit amateur piece. For me, disappointment. Awaited more. There is just a silence in my head after this movie. My apologies, rest in peace. "},{"Title":"Ugly film","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what this dimly lit, dour-looking, drug-obsessed film says about the lesbian scene, but it sure can't be a positive statement.The two leads are photographers - you know, seeing life through a lens and all that - which is not a terrifically original metaphor to use in a film or anywhere else for that matter. It's pretty elementary stuff really that, let's just say, has been somewhat over-used over the years. All told, it's a pretty lifeless film, in which everybody is either high or dead.If you're interested in drugs, feminism, drugs, photography, overdoses, and then even more drugs, then this will be right up your street.  "},{"Title":"curious, yet at times sickening","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Am I the only one to think that Syd never fell in love with the photographer? She thought she was genius and because she was a climber, her interest in the artist was based on her wanting to use her to climb at her job.. To my mind, she didn't care about either lesbian or heterosexual love much.I liked how the apartments were set up, but the drug degradation scenes I found somewhat sickening. I found the artist's attitude to the whole drug thing going on around her quite interesting - she isn't a full participant yet quite tolerant, and her death had that same nonchalant and random touch to it. "},{"Title":"Slow burning","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Radah Mitchell is excellent as the lead character, Syd, in this slow-burning and at times pretentious art-house drama set in the trendy Manhattan arts scene in the late 1990s. The film's personality is introverted; each character is self-obsessed and hard to care for; although Syd is the only one we feel has developed as a person. Sheedy's character is tortured and vague and it's hard to sympathize as a result. The film is a bit too long for its own good but it has many rewards in terms of the performances of Sheedy and Mitchell. Unfortunately, the tone is depressing and stagnant for most of the time and it's hard to keep involved. This is the kind of film cultural studies students would study and pretend to enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of 1998","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was never so bored in my life.  Hours of pretentious, self-obsessed heroin-addicted basket cases lounging around whining about their problems. It's like watching lizards molt.  Even the sex scenes will induce a serious case of narcolepsy.  If you have insomnia, rent this. "},{"Title":"a negative review","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One previous reviewer called this film pure visual joy I am wondering if s/he saw the same film that I did. High Art had to have the most relentlessly depressing interiors since Seven. One can almost forgive Sheedy and Mitchell for the cliché of going to a B&B for their First Time. Of course, before they do that, one has to watch opium-den parties inhabited by people who are not apparently gainfully employed but can somehow support a flourishing drug habit. Not to mention the icy stares from those familiar movie types, the Girlfriend/Boyfriend At Start, who are well aware they're going to be thrown over sometime in the next 100 minutes or so. The movie also states that the Sheedy character has retired from professional photography for ten years now. What did she do, retire at age twenty? "},{"Title":"Depressing movie ever!","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seriously this is the sadist lesbian movie ever! Syd really doesn't seem to have any luck in finding a better partner for herself! It wasn't the best ending that it turned out Lucy died from a drug overdose but for god sake, the girl cheated on her with that poor drugged-up sad sack Greta. I would've loved if Lucy and Syd were together and I really wish we saw the funeral, then I also would love to see that Greta one would change her bad habits after Lucys death!She was very rude and horrible to Syd.The movie would really give us audience a chance what it's like to be in a drug addicts shoes. "},{"Title":"High farts.","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This woman who works as an intern for a photographer goes home and takes a bath where she discovers this hole in the ceiling. So she goes to find out that her neighbor above her is a photographer. This movie could have had a great plot but then the plot drains of any hope. The problem I had with this movie is that every ten seconds, someone is snorting heroin. If they took out the scenes where someone snorts heroin, then this would be a pretty good movie. Every time I thought that a scene was going somewhere, someone inhaled the white powder. It was really lame to have that much drug use in one movie. It pulled attention from the main plot and a great story about a photographer. The lesbian stuff didn't bother me. I was looking for a movie about art. I found a movie about drug use. "},{"Title":"High, but not so mighty","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" High Art is a film that suffers too much from clichés. The cliché of drug addicts being losers, the cliché of young go-getters stepping on people to get where they want to go, the cliché of lesbians being promiscuous. This film suffered from a woeful lack of character development, as well. Other than taking drugs, the characters didn't really share anything in common or have much of a life outside their apartments. I didn't believe for a minute that Syd and Lucy could seriously have feelings for each other. That said, I think the acting was quite good by everyone in the cast. Of course, not good enough to rescue this film. A good idea gone bad, and good talent wasted. "}{"Title":"Some random thought","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Strange enough, all good movie of the type always had the sad feel.Seldom saw a joyful Homo movie. Besides, their life always seems so problematic. Drug in this movie, Sexual betrayal in My own private Idaho, Pitchy boyfriend in Happy Together, Political struggle in the Crying game... Maybe inside the heart of this relationship, it is so much repressed. The forbidden love is always a war between the human nature and the external world. Maybe as  the title of a German movie described, love is colder than death.As to the movie, previous comment have summated pretty well. I like the scenes about the Frame company, the silly corporate feel. Especially the ending, the three co-worker congrad her. Single sentence. Indifferent faces. Astray eyesight. Hidden distaste. Actually most interesting part of the movie is the characters.  Sure besides the boyfriend, he is too boring (did it on purpose, I guess). You wouldn't mind to live with/work with/observe them for a while, even though they are not much too be liked.  Could get to know so many live persons within 2 hour,  I would say it is an achievement. Most of the time you can't describe your office-mate within a few glimpse.There are many complains about the movie. One thing I am not too satisfied is that how could the girl accept the Homo relationship. Does they assume everyone has this hidden tendency? Or it could be affected by the environment you are in. It is not the easy thing. Another thing I am curious, as an dummy photographer, how could she take those great photos with such a casual camera?  "},{"Title":"Vapid Predictability & Beautiful light","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great lighting, good editing and lovely stills not supported by a cast of boring, ultra-shallow (Sheedy alone excepted), ever-predictable people. I longed to see all of them drop dead- sadly, only two do. If you LOVE Fassbinder, you'll love this film.  "},{"Title":"Don't judge the book by its cover!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the film late last night. Among all the themes which possibly is launched onto this film, the most prominent one from viewers' point is that of lesbian triangle relationship (whether this was intended or not is another matter).  You do not need me to tell this.  As far as this love triangle theme is concerned, there's little we don't know about.  You even wonder, Did it really have to be lesbians?The acting, as I am not a professional critic, I hesitate to comment.  But I must say, Ally Sheedy and Patricia Clarkson were quite convincing, while  Radha Mitchell was not. As for the rest (Lucy's friends and Syd's colleague at FRAME), no harm done (far from impressive but not much to complain).  They probably were loyal to the script.  This leads to my next point.The script could have been a bit more interesting.  The tension, struggle, strong feelings, all of these were no more than a normal soap opera dialog.  I won't complain about the predictability of the whole story, as I don't think the it was supposed to be unpredictable. Everyone knows right from the beginning that Batman will sort out the trouble at the end, and we won't complain, do we?  But the dialog! Please be more artistic!As for the adult content aspect well probably it deserves a R for drug scenes, but for sexuality, it's no more than PG (but would not help your kid by any means).  So if you ever think you're in for a soft porn type of treatment, you can forget it.Whether this is art, whether this film is beautiful in any ways, well this is an extremely subjective matter.  I would not call this art in a conventional way (i.e. no creativity), neither would I call this beautiful.  The setting it depicts is ugly, and yet the film does not want to make it look ugly.  Put it another way, the feminine touch enabled dirty scenes to be tolerable.  Put it yet another way, it's quite boring.Over an hour and a half was too long to go through.  I would not encourage you to see this if you had other options.  Neither would I recommend this to you if you were expecting something sexually intriguing.  Don't be tricked by the cover of the video and the rating!  If you were looking for something intellectually challenging, this not for you.  However, if you could empathize with other reviewers who were very positive about this film, you would probably enjoy it...but 1.5 hours!  What was I thinking?  "}]