[{"Title":"A wonderful wild ride; sometimes too clever, sometimes not enough","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"58 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go reads like a very very good sophomore offering by a very very good up-and-coming director. You can almost see a bright future for everyone involved in the film, from the director (Doug Liman) to the screenwriter (John August) to all of the young actors. The script is clearly the winner, with witty dialogue and a convoluted plotline (or plotlines, depending on how you view it) centered around a dozen or so GenX-er Los Angelenos on Christmas Eve. The film slickly moves you from one plotline to the next, as you follow one minor disaster leading to other minor disasters.The film being a sophomore offering, of course, has some drawbacks. Yes, it is tangentially derivative of Pulp Fiction.  And yes, it does scrounge a bit from this teen flick and that.  In some cases, certain plotlines wrap up too neatly, and in other cases the plotlines don't converge nearly as neatly enough. But what the film may lack in originality it certainly makes up for with style and quirks.The real discovery in all this is the cast. Sarah Polly stands out (listen to her mild Canadian accent slip through once in a while) as the world-weary checkout gal who's first and only foray into drug-dealing unleashes a legion of trouble for her. Desmond Askew (wonderfully punny name) is this Pulp Fiction's Tim Roth, glib and cocky as his well-ordered world whirls and crumbles around him in a neatly choreographed disaster.  As the sinister drug supplier, Timothy Olyphant is particularly menacing, exuding equal amounts of danger and innocence, sexiness and insecurity. The characters in Go never become cardboard parodies of themselves, and they never dissolve into charicatures of themselves for the sake of plot or atmosphere.So watch the film, soak in the plot, atmosphere, and the characters.  At the risk of sounding glib myself, by all means Go.  "},{"Title":"Sit down & strap yourself in for this wild ride","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the best this year! A wild ride that is hard to not compare to Pulp Fiction, but if you didn't like Pulp, you won't like Go. I loved both, so this is a treat! Doug Liman had directed a worthy follow-up to Swingers, in the eyes of 7 kids and a drug deal gone way bad. The funniest moments come from Desmond Askew and Taye Diggs in Las Vegas. Never once is this movie dull. Watch with an open mind and a wild imagination! "},{"Title":"Unpredictably entertaining","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know what really makes this movie so great. It could be the outstanding cast, the pitch perfect editing, the quick and funny dialog or maybe some other feature of a movie one could possibly like.The truth is this movie couldn't been done any better. When I watch a movie I usually come up with lots of things, which could have been done better or at least differently. This time I ended up with nothing.What amazes me the most is how they manage to define all the 10+ major characters so well, and they do it in what, less than 100 minutes. Most movies featuring many characters, fall apart cause there isn't enough screen time to present the differences among them, which just leads to a smear of unrecognizable faces. This doesn't happen with this movie for two reasons A) All characters have at least one scene to really define themselves. B) By dividing the the film into three sub-plots you can easily relate each character to a specific sub-plot.The tempo is very fast for 90% of the movie. There are two scenes, which have a significantly slower tempo. Those are the two scenes featuring Katie Holmes and Timothy Olyphant. First in the apartment and later in the coffee-shop. In my opinion those scenes are the best, but there is a lot to choose from so I'm not offended if yours isn't.This movie really shows that even simple and straight forward stories, can be both unpredictable and entertaining, if they are told the right way. Add to this a pumping soundtrack, solid editing and an overall great production in an unpredictably entertaining movie, you will agree with me that Go is one of the best films ever made.  "},{"Title":"enough of the Pulp Fiction comparrisons!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film has traces of Pulp Fiction embedded in it, but it's got a little Swingers and other films to it as well. All in all it's an entertaining movie which ends without epiphany for these characters (like .....). This film has multiple stories but does not try to be alternative and cool. It just wants to work! Sarah Polley (whom I never heard of at the time but follow her work now) was great; Katie Holmes wasn't quite Katie Holmes - and that was good; Fichtner's good; but my favorite was Timothy Olyphant who did a kick-ass job of a charasmatic bad-guy (it was hard not to hate him by the end). I've read the other comments and these people just take this thing TOO seriously! It's not the movie of 1999, it's not Pulp Fiction, it's just Go. I have this movie on DVD and heard Doug Linman's commentary he sounds like he had a lot of fun making this. I had a killer time watching this. I guess if I came in with different expectations I would've hated it like everyone else on this site!  "},{"Title":"Fantastic, hip and fun","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of my favorite films of all time. Hip, like Pulp Fiction, it's just crazy-insane fun. Not for everyone, due to language and drugs, but I really LOVED it! There are also so MANY cameos of great actors we know and love today. Director Doug Liman has gone on to do HUGE, great movies, such as The Bourne Identity and Mr and Mrs Smith. Here we see some of his early talent. Writer John August writes the Ask the Filmmaker/Ask a Screenwriter column here on IMDb.comJust a great, fun movie, that hasn't seen been seen by as many people as it should.3-14-06 Walt D in LV "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie well enough to watch it twice.  I waited 'til it came out on video, but made sure to see it, because it stars Sarah Polley, who I've been a fan of since her Road to Avonlea days. This is not a serious movie.  It's fun, upbeat, quick, and for those with short attention spans.  I liked it.  I didn't think it was as incredible as some say, but enjoyable enough to watch it twice. So many people have compared it to Pulp Fiction.  Frankly, the only similarity I see between the two, is the jumping around timelines. Which I like. Good movie to watch, just don't bother trying to analyze it - you won't come up with much. "},{"Title":"Unbearable Lightness of Going","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm coming to this film late in the comment stream, which means that critics and commentors have beaten to death the `Pulp Fiction' comparisons. Yes, this has parallel stories, time folding (but not the time shuffling of `Pulp'), black and white shuffling, guns drugs and ironic violence, diner scenes and a hip perspective. But to me that is less central than the relationship of the shape to the style.Tarantino's method is from comic books, his manipulation of the narrative deliberately has nothing at all to with the narrative itself. That's the point, that emptiness. `Go' is the opposite. It takes much of the same stylistic manipulation of narrative and turns it all to the service of the movie the film capriciously meanders like the small lives of these kids. Now, that's not a very heavy notion to settle on, but it is cinematically profound in linking the point of the movie to the unrolling of the images.In other words, if you love the visual grammar of film, you'll love this. If instead you prefer using the art of filmmaking to display the emptiness of film, you'll like `Pulp.' They are as different as can be. `Go' follows the tradition of Hitchcock and Welles where the `story' is centered in the images. `Pulp' follows a wholly contradictory world defined by the `new wave' where every image is ironic and deliberately doesn't rest in the story but runs contrary to it.At some point, every serious film viewer will confront this choice. It is a matter of whether you will let yourself `go' with the flow or always maintain a smug distance.The writer understands this, and makes it explicit with `story C' which features two actors. They are enlisted in an enterprise of `moviedom' in real life where they are wired for sound and videoed. More, their master engages them in forced commerce. This is mirrored in story B with the lap dance `show' and more faintly in A with the selling in the store and the rave. All these kids are engaged in indentured but shameless sales of the movie to us.I have a very short list of actors who are worth watching regardless of the context. Cate Blancett, Kate Winslet, and Julianne Moore are the actresses I follow because of their ability to present more than one personae at a time. Sarah Polley is close to being on that list, but not for the same reason. She -- or her advisors -- has made some very intelligent choices, placing her in central roles in some very alternative projects. These are films that require -- even in the watching -- a deliberate shift in thinking about what film is. In each, she has appeared with radically different acting styles, always entirely apt. It shows that she understands what these rather subversive projects are all about. Privately, her politics seems amazingly unsophisticated, but her deliberate plasticity on screen shows a remarkable ability.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"It didn't make too much sense at first, but I loved it  when it was finished.","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are several kinds of movies that I like, but they almost all have one thing in common they have something special to offer. In this case it is the way the story was brought to the audience. The story is told over and over again, each time from the perspective of a different character. The fact that the story is told over and over again in isn't new. If you know the German movie 'Lola Rennt', than you've seen it before. The main difference between these two movies is that this time the story remains the same and the characters change, while in the German movie it was exactly the opposite of that.It starts with Simon Baines who wants to go to Las Vegas with his friends, but who normally has to work in a 24-hour grocery store. His colleague Ronna takes over his shift, when two guys, named Adam and Zack, walk in asking to score some dope from Simon. Because Simon isn't around anymore Ronna decides to sell them some drugs herself and asks her friends Claire and Mannie to help her buying some stuff from the local drug dealer Todd Gains. But the drug deal was set up by a narcotics agent called Burke who forced Adam and Zack to cooperate. Ronna soon finds out something is wrong and flushes the drugs trough the toilet. Normally she would return it to the drug dealer, but because she hasn't got it anymore she has to try to fool him with phony drugs. In the mean time Simon's adventures with his best friend Marcus hit an unfortunate turn during a trip to a strip club in Las Vegas and Adam and Zack end up spending Christmas Eve with Burke and his wife Irene before being able to drive to a rave, where Ronna is dealing some more drugs. When they arrive at the rave, the guys accidentally hit Ronna with their car and leave her for dead. Nearby, Mannie nearly gets an overdose and Claire gets more friendly with a vengeful Todd who is now looking for Ronna.At first I didn't like this movie all too much, mainly because I didn't see the reason why so many information was left out. It didn't make too much sense really. But I gave it a chance and watched it completely and only then I fully understood the story. Even though it has some flaws, I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I loved the way the story was told and the good combination of humor and crime. All in all this is a movie that is worth more than just a watch. I loved it and give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the most under appreciated films in history.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go has not gotten even half of the praise it deserves.  The script is genius and the fast paced directing and cinematography are totally the reason to see something in the theatre rather than video.  And this is not just another oh this is my favorite movie, so it has to be great reviews, there are facts.  The epic Godfather, ranked as the best movie ever created by a human being, is lucky if it goes for 20 minutes without having the sound lose sync with the mouth movement.  Not that I'm totally knocking it.  And also, everyone says, oh Go is the son of Pulp Fiction, a lesser Pulp Fiction, but the fact is the it's structure has much more in common with the other Tarantino great Jackie Brown.  Rent this to see what great cinema is.   "},{"Title":"Liman provides his hyperactive style on a crime film centring around youngsters and lowlifes rather than adult gangsters, in what is a carefully observed character piece.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is a surprisingly engrossing, surprisingly nifty little multi-stranded crime film running on inspiration from other crime films of the era; a director's own, kinetic style and a central, focused look at a whole range of troubled, often sleazy, young adults in a modern world full of drugs; debt; dangers and the forced taking on of responsibility. When I first saw Go, I liked it a lot; revisiting it a few years later, I found it just as entertaining; just as interesting and just as engaging as I did before. Everything about the premise for Go screams that it doesn't have a cat's chance in Hell of working, but the stylised energy combined with the tasteful handling of a lot of different scenes and situations work surprisingly well, and blend to create an experience which most certainly wears you out, but in an oddly refreshing sort of way.The film, in covering an array of different characters but never bombarding nor overwhelming us, manages to deliver on a basis of both narrative and character. It is seamless in its blending of elements of the realistic with the surrealistic, all under a banner of raw energy spanning several hundred miles of which the characters travel within the picture. More recently, we've seen films which take a quick, kinetic and relatively easy-going aesthetic and apply criminal activity to it as a group of youths venture in and around contemporary America in some form. An example might be 2007 film Superbad, which did nothing but crack adolescent jokes, hate women and trivialise delicate and often illegal situations for a crowd. Go knows its place and it knows its genre as study, observations, the progression of character and some pretty frightening scenarios all play out under this same umbrella. Those that laugh at certain parts of Go have completely missed the point.The first of three stories, this and another two of which revolve around those whom aren't usually explored in films of this ilk, sees Sarah Polley's shop worker named Ronna heavily in debt; facing eviction and desperate for money. Her story sees her involved in a drug deal with two other young men and a much elder male, which grows increasingly suspicious as she interacts with them, and eventually sees her have to ditch the drugs she was meant to deal resulting in the angering of dealer Todd (Olyphant), whom gave them to her. Ronna's fearless and independent attitude towards the men in her story, in particular Todd whom is financially better off and comes with a real air of menace, presents positive characteristics for the female in this role, as she descends deeper into a situation she brought upon herself through desperation. Ronna's ability to defy her male counterparts in doing what's best for her in avoiding the drug deal sting and being able to fool the dealer as she pulls along a casual and inept male companion, in Mannie (Bexton), who'd be lost without her, adds meat and awareness to an unfortunate but otherwise familiar short story.Continuing with the film's theme of debt, and relatively hapless young adults getting themselves into hotter water than they'd like through which they'll come to learn the harsh realities of life that comes with getting involved in the sorts of activity they do, Simon (Askew), who's one of Ronna's co-workers, and a group of friends spend some time in Las Vegas. Again, the premise for the short with the accompanying aesthetic suggest it ought not work. Indeed, the trip is given the sort of leery and unnerving build when the group of four interact. In a much lesser work, it would've fallen apart at the seams, but the facing of facts that Las Vegas is a large; intimidating; confusing and dangerous place is gradually filtered through the system of the four. While not necessarily a demonisation of the place itself, it is certainly a reality check for the attitudes the characters share.The study begins with the character of Tiny (Meyer) telling a story of himself to the others which transpires to have been untrue. He is caught out, made to look a fool and the entire sequence sets the tone for the narrow-minded, adolescent beliefs the characters have and how they'll be caught out. From here, the videos telling the occupants of a hotel room how to gamble downstairs comes across as arduous and confusing, further suggesting that these guy's are out of their depth, while the causality driven mishaps ranging from food-poisoning to casual drug use that leads to hotel fires is apt. Later, theft; misogyny and raging testosterone will put them in further jeopardy with some local strip-club owners which is the climax of all this dangerous, ominous build up.The third story maintains the same consistencies the other two had in terms of study and it's to the the film's credit that the film's concept has not yet worn us out we're ready for one more. The strand centres on, like the first, usually somewhat marginalised characters for the genre; in this case two homosexual male actors, named Adam (Wolf) and Zack (Mohr), who go on a kind of odyssey which seems to be about the revealing of true feelings and unexplored sexual appetites; highlighted by the actions of a police officer and his wife when around at their house as well as the revelations that arise when they have a conversation with each other, which in turn pushes the film out into a revenge piece of sorts. Go was made at a time when Doug Liman could compliment his all-over-the-place approach to film-making with character and substance; much unlike his 2005, fetishistic firearm flick Mr. and Mrs. Smith; while his most recent work, 2008's Jumper, did not garner much of a positive critical consensus. But Go holds up, knowing what it is but additionally knowing how to explore the lives and characters within without marginalising them nor rendering them too weak, clichéd or unlikeable. "}{"Title":"GO C IT!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A little gem of a movie, an excellent follow-up (but not sequel) to the fantastic Swingers.Sarah Polley is worth the price of admission alone, for her excellent performance. She is supported by an equally excellent cast including Taye Diggs, Scott Wolf, Katie Holmes, Jay Mohr, and Timothy Olyphant - among others.Many viewed this movie as being an MTV version of Tarantino's Pulp Fiction and, while this may to an extent me true, it is obviously much more than that; and an excellent stand-alone movie of it's own.Split into 3 separate storylines which clash and collide along the way, finally merging as the movie comes to a close, this movie constantly keeps the viewer on edge; and provides an excellent example of the drug/club etc. scene of the 90's and 00's.Favourite scene has to be where the teens in the car (in the first storyline) are convinced they're 'going up', as they believe they're on Es - but are really on aspirin and allergy medicine! Fantastic!!!!Funny, edgy, fast-paced with a sharp script, strong cast, and excellent soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Rather Shallow","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this last night and I was going to praise it to the sky straight after seeing it , but it was 2.30 am in the morning , I was tired so I decided to review GO the next day . Now that I`ve had some sleep I`m starting to ask myself why I liked it so much because I can hardly remember a thing about it!!!! SPOILERS !!!!GO is PULP FICTION  for the MTV generation . It`s the same story told from three different viewpoints , the viewpoints from Ronna , Simon and a couple of gay actors called Adam & Zack but the more I think about the story from memory less than 24 hours after seeing it the more it falls apart , I didn`t have this problem with PULP FICTION . Correct me if I`m wrong but isn`t there something wrong with the time frame here ? After Ronna leaves Adam & Zack`s house , sells the drugs while Adam & Zack are having Christmas dinner and having Adam & Zack turn up at the club only to have them run her over there seems to be a time descrepincy , not to mention the ridiculous coincidence of being run over by two characters she met earlier the same . There`s another scene of ridiculous coincidence of having Simon turn up at drug dealer`s Todd`s house where some mafia types from Las Vegas Simon has upset are waiting for him . Couldn`t Simon have phoned Todd instead of turning up at the house ? This also leads to a scene I disliked of the Vegas mafia giving Simon a sore arm . Come on you p*ss off the mafia and they just give you a flesh wound ? Has no one seen GOODFELLAS then ?There are a few amusing moments in John August`s script but much of the credit for making GO an entertaining film belongs to director Doug Liman . However it should be pointed out that much of this success is down to a great soundtrack and it`s the easiest thing in film making to use a soundtrack to give a scene impact . Todd tells Ronna to lift up her blouse to make sure she`s not wired by cops , Todd turns up the sound of his CD player and Angel by Massive Attack explodes onto the sound system as the camera spins 360 degrees around Ronna a few times . Great scene , but one that is very easy to achieve . Liman also makes good use of tracks by Leftfield and Fatboy SlimI do remember enjoying GO at the time but I`m convinced that it`s a shallow film , and it wasn`t untill I looked up their profiles on this site that I found out Liman directed THE BOURNE IDENTITY while August wrote the screenplay to the CHARLIE`S ANGELS movies . This lends even more weight to my conviction       "},{"Title":"Fun, fast - paced and funny in a way","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie genre is not very uncommon, but it is still fun to watch. The twists and turns in the plot may not blow your mind away but are interesting and entertaining in their own way. The screenplay is awesome. The story is told from different perspectives and maintains a very fast pace all through out. You will be glued to your seat and wondering what is going to happen next. No part of the movie seemed boring or dragging as such to me. The actors would have had a tough time as the story gives no character hardly any time to establish their place in the plot. Nevertheless, everything simplifies as the story moves on. And it is funny. Not the clichéd slapstick,SITCOM comedy sort of funny, but the psychedelic,satirical,ironical sort of funny. Definitely fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Great Film, even When You Watch More than Once","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" On the Christmas Eve, the cashier of supermarket Ronna Martin (Sarah Polley) is completely broken and will be evicted from her apartment on the next morning. She accepts the offer to cover the shift of her British co-worker Simon Baines (Desmond Askew) that wants to travel to Las Vegas to have more money. While working, the clients Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zach (Jay Mohr) seek out Simon to buy ecstasy and ask Ronna if she can get the drug for them. Ronna goes to the apartment of Simon's drug dealer Todd Gaines (Timothy Olyphant) to buy the ecstasy but she does not have enough money for twenty pills; so her friend and colleague Claire Montgomery (Katie Holmes) stays with Todd to guarantee the payment. When she goes to the address of Adam and Zach, she meets Burke (William Fichtner) and suspects that he might be an FBI agent. She drops the ecstasy in the toilet and flushes it. Now she has neither the drugs nor the money to give to Todd. Meanwhile Simon travels to Las Vegas and gets into trouble in a night-club with very dangerous people and he needs to flee from the town with his friends. Meanwhile, Burke drops the charges against the informers Adam and Scott and invites them to spend Christmas night having dinner with his wife and him, but Burke has a secret agenda. Go entwines three segments with the stories of three employees of a supermarket on the Christmas Eve. The screenplay is very well written with three simultaneous stories disclosed independently with points of contact. The cast is fantastic highlighting the extraordinary Sarah Polley. The confusions are hilarious and the weakest segment is the one relative to the gay actors Adam and Zach. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Vamos Nessa (Let's Go) "},{"Title":"A story told in many parts...","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is very fresh and fun film. The cast is great and the direction fom Doug Liman is very solid. I liked the way the story was told in this film and I really enjoyed Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf's story as a small dark comedy. Katie Holmes is very good and Sarah Polley excels in her role. I couldn't help but think of Pulp Fiction while watching this film. Liman has directed a very tight film. The young people in this film have some serious problems, but all in all, a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent black comedy told via three interlocking stories.","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" After the success of Swingers, director Doug Liman follows it up with an absolutely superb interlocking character study set among the youth culture of Los Angeles. Go is a splendid film on various levels - terrific acting, ingenious overlapping of its three segments, fabulous writing, and Liman's assured direction. Some parts are hysterically funny, others are disturbing, and the film is an exciting cinematic experience throughout. That it was completely ignored at Oscar time is a real shame, for here is a film that deserves acclaim. It just gets better the more times you watch it.Part One - Ronna. Checkout girl Ronna (Sarah Polley) faces eviction at Christmas. She risks everything by attempting to pull off a drug deal in order to raise her rent money. After getting a bunch of Ecstasy tablets from intimidating drug dealer Todd Gaines (Timothy Olyphant), and leaving her innocent friend Claire (Katie Holmes) with Todd as collateral, she tries to finish the sale. But everything that could go wrong does go wrong....Part Two - Simon. Meanwhile, Ronna's workmate Simon (Desmond Askew) goes on a short break to Las Vegas with his pals. Their good-natured hijinks turn nasty when Simon and his friend Marcus (Taye Diggs) cause a ruckus in a strip-joint and have to shoot their way out of the place. It's a race against time as the strip club's gangster owner tries to catch them before they skip town.Part Three - Adam & Zack. Two gay TV stars (Scott Wolf, Jay Mohr) try to help a weird cop, Burke (William Fichtner), pull off a drug sting in order to clear themselves of drug possession charges. The sting goes wrong but their night goes from bad to worse. Firstly they have to endure a bizarre Christmas dinner at Burke's house; later in their car they accidentally run over Ronna (from Part One) and must decide how to conceal their crime.All the sections are very good but the best, marginally, is Part Two. The entire cast are in terrific form, with outstanding performances all-round. To single out one performer above the others is difficult with Polley, Askew, Mohr, Wolf, Olyphant, Diggs and Holmes matching each other all the way in their delineation of believable and quirky characters. The film's soundtrack is quite remarkable and captures the hedonism and recklessness that defines the character's actions. If there is a flaw at all (and it is a minor one), it is that occasionally the film is a little too calculated for its own good. Liman knows that he's making something clever and original here, and sometimes has a tendency to be a bit self-indulgently flashy. John August's screenplay is excellent, creating fascinating characters and situations and providing much wit and quotable dialogue. So many of these interlocking capers end up imitating Pulp Fiction but this one remains thrillingly fresh and true to its own internal logic. Go is a great overlooked film - definitely one to catch! "},{"Title":"A Really Underrated Movie","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time a couple of months ago and I absolutely loved it. There are three different stories that come together during the movie. The first one is about Two supermarket clerks who agree to sell ecstasy with a drug dealer for some money. The second story is my favorite one and its with a British guy who gos to Las Vegas with three of his friends. They get there and get into a lot of trouble when the Brit guy shoots a guy in the arm and have to get away before they get caught. The third and last story is with two actors who agree to help a cop get ecstasy from the two clerks. The movie is directed wonderfully by Doug Liman who also directed The Bourne Identity. I give this movie a well deserved 9 out of ten. "},{"Title":"No substance fun","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go doesn't really have any meaning at the end. So if you're looking for something with substance, this is not your film. It also reminded me a little to much of Pulp Fiction. I was just waiting for Chris Walken to walk in with a piece of jewelry shoved up his butt. Go follows a few people as they do junk and get caught in bad situations, most of them from their own doing. I enjoyed the first part of the film. I was caught up in what was going on. I liked the character Simon and his little part in the story. I felt the most bored when Katie Holmes took her little journey in this movie. Not because she can't act. She is a fine actress and very nice on eyes. But I was just bored by her character. And I had a few laughs when Scott Wolf & Jay Mohr took over. Mainly when they tried to figure out what to do with the girl they hit with their car. It really didn't go as bad as it could have. A girl is dead, Zack. I didn't say it went perfectly. Overall a fun movie, but with no meaning, not much originality and no big laugh out loud joke. 6 out of 10. In other words, an avg flick. Not bad, but not great. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The thing I liked most about this movie is that nearly every time I thought the movie was slipping into a cliche, it managed to hurl itself the opposite direction and make fun of the cliche that I thought it was falling into.Because I'd heard this movie compared to Pulp Fiction so much, I was comparing it to Pulp Fiction a little when I saw it... I definitely liked the humor in this movie more than Pulp Fiction's; not only was the script excellent, but the lines were delivered in such a way that even if I knew what a character was going to say, I laughed out loud because of how well they put it.  The way the director used cutting to reveal new information made the jokes even funnier.  But what makes this humor more entertaining (for me) than Pulp Fiction's is its taste...  Both movies seem to make fun of cliches and genre & cultural conventions, but Go's is a bit more tame.  For instance, in Pulp Fiction, I thought it was funny to see the big bad crime boss get his butt kicked, but not to see his butt get raped.  In Go, just when I think that the humor's on the edge of going too far, it stops and turns to something else.Anyways, I found this movie to be very enjoyable, and the pop soundtrack was great.  It's definitely a refreshing change from most of today's formulaic comedies where I constantly find myself waiting for the movie to end. "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction meets Saved by the Bell","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  TV's Katie Holmes is the most famous person in Go, a movie directed by the same guy who did Swingers. It's sort of a teen version of Pulp Fiction. The story of one weekend in LA is told from three different perspectives, each completing and complementing the other. One part is the story of a drug deal gone bad... another is the tale of a road trip to Vegas... the third is a very funny gay love story. Hard to describe, but a very rewarding movie, one of the best I've seen this year. Just out on video, Go is a must-see.  "}{"Title":"Go is a great movie","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I borrowed Go from a friend of mine along with other films last night. Truly I had no clue what this movie was about and I've never heard of it but my buddy said it was a good movie so I wanted to see it. After seeing it, I really liked it. I was surprised how good it was because I thought this movie was going to be a dump but oh it wasn't. The movie takes on three stories (Ronna, Simon, and Adam and Zack) after a drug dealing act. Personally, my favorite story in the movie was the Simon story. How the film acts is like a mix between Reservoir Dogs, or Pulp Fiction. The cast is really good, the direction by Doug Liman was great, the dialouge was superb, and the intertwining of the characters was marvelous. Although the movie gets a little bizarre and sidetracked, I would advise you to pay full attention to it. Overall, Go is a smart and funny film that I recommend to you. So GO see it.Hedeen's Outlook 8.5/10 ***+ B+ "},{"Title":"Relentless fun!  Always on the Go!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go has its flaws.  The plot is pretty contrived, and at times cartoonish.  However, it's hard to dislike a film like this, because there's just never a dull moment!  Nonstop entertainment from start to finish.  The cast is impressive and energetic.  Breckin Meyer (Clueless) steals the show as a ghetto white boy who swears he has African-American blood in him.  And the other actors are equally good.  You can say this movie fulfills its R-rating almost completely.  It seems to be excessive in every immoral aspect  gratuitous drug use, gratuitous nudity, gratuitous profanity.  So make sure you leave your inhibitions at the door before entering.  The twists are amusing, though sometimes preposterous, and unexpected.  The way the scenes are designed out of sequence gives it a bit of an uneven feel, but is also amazingly unique and sometimes works smoothly.  I definitely can't blame this film for being cliched, because this is chock full of originality.  Of course, there are people everywhere saying this has echoes of Pulp Fiction.  But if that movie didn't come out first, I wouldn't think that would have any impact on how this film is made.  I, in no way, think it's a rip-off.  Go is a fun, outrageous ride that cannot be explained in a conventional manner.  This is one of those just-see-it-for-yourself flicks.  Despite its flaws, the energy is kept high--whether it's through the hot soundtrack, the talented young cast, the lightning-fast editing--and I think many will have a real good time!P.S.  There's a great strip club scene with Surrender Cinema star Nikki Fritz that is DEFINITELY worth checking out.    "},{"Title":"Whoever thought up the Magic Carpet Ride car chase was inspired......","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Go' is one of a small handful of movies that I turn to repeatedly when I can't think of anything else I want to watch. The funny tale(s) of what happens to a web of loosely related young people on Christmas Eve, it bears a strong structural similarity to 'Pulp Fiction' and also owes no small amount of gratitude to that film's wit and sharp dialogue. It's nearly impossible to hold that against it, though, as this movie actually succeeds in capturing some of Tarantino's magic where so many other PF-knockoffs fell flat on their faces. There are 3 stories here. One is about Ronna, a world-weary supermarket cashier short on rent who comes up with a fairly brilliant sceme to raise money, if not for that gorgeous but nasty drug dealer. One is about Simon, a lovably sleazy Brit spending a day or two in Vegas with his 'mates', who can't seem to make the connection between his wild enthusiasm for everything and the crazy messes he keeps getting into. The third is about Adam and Zack, a pair of soap-opera actors who happen to be lovers and in trouble with the law for drug possession. There are plenty of memorable supporting characters- the previously mentioned drug dealer, Ronna's friends Mannie and Claire, Simon's friends Marcus, Singh and Tiny, the really strange cop assigned to Adam and Zack, the father-son team of thugs on Simon's tail, and other, random weirdos floating along the river of life in a city that never seems to sleep. All these wild characters get themselves into wild situations, and we get to sit back and watch the energy crackle. Tons of fun, really, and a sure bet for still-enjoyable subsequent viewings.     "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Ride!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After I watched Go I was totally overwhelmed. I don't want to write too much about my favorite parts, etc., because I think everyone who watches it should start out with a fresh idea and be able to take it all in without any previous knowledge. What I will say is this movie is funny, full of action, and even at times suspenseful. Also, the character Ronna reminds me of myself....mainly because I work in a grocery  store and have blond hair....Anyways, please see this movie...everything about it will surprise you.  "},{"Title":"pulp fiction on ecstacy","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first time i saw this flick, i was blown away...i thought it was a teenage version of pulp fiction(but pulp fiction is way superior).  A brilliant movie that moves around and shows us the effects strangers may have on each other without knowing it...Because one person does this, another person will be forced to do something else and so on.  In the end, the actions of all the characters fit together nicely and smoothly.This film also allows us to see Katie Holmes in a good role, shame on her for Disturbing Behavior. Full of comedy, Drama, Sex and Rock and Roll, GO! has it all mixed together to spin an urban tale where anyone could find something to relate to. "},{"Title":"An absorbing dark comedy.","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go worked well enough for this viewer due to a quick pace, an engaging cast, a fair amount of chuckles, and a decent amount of entertainment value overall. It might not work for others due to the fact that there's nobody here to really root for. Too many of the characters are senseless or sordid. It also might have worked better if it weren't so obviously influenced by the Quentin Tarantino filmography. But it does an okay job of telling three connected stories, and tying them all together at the end. Director Doug Liman creates flashy visuals in the attempt to make this a hip and stylish affair.Four people get their stories told. Ronna (Sarah Polley) is a supermarket cashier in desperate need of cash to prevent her own eviction. So she gets in over her head trying to make a drug deal. Simon (Desmond Askew) is one of her co-workers who wants to have a wild weekend with his buddies in Las Vegas, and is willing to pay Ronna to work his shift. Finally, we see what happens to gay couple Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zack (Jay Mohr) - both of them actors - when they get in trouble with the law and agree to help quirky cop Burke (William Fichtner) with a sting operation.Some of these actors make this more watchable than it may have been otherwise. Fichtner is particularly funny (and for those interested, he bares his backside), Askew is amusing although his character is a dolt, and Timothy Olyphant does well as a drug dealer. Katie Holmes, Nathan Bexton, Taye Diggs, Breckin Meyer, James Duval, Tane McClure, Jimmy Shubert, J.E. Freeman, Jay Paulson, and Jane Krakowski round out this cast. Future star Melissa McCarthy can be seen in a bit.There is some fun to be had as the screenwriter, John August, and Liman, go about their business of assembling all of these separate episodes into a whole. The movie as a whole is nothing special, but it does provide a reasonable diversion for 102 minutes.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wildly Entertaining Snapshot of Youth in the late 90s","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" With a dozen crazy characters, Doug Liman paints a vivid and bizarre picture of life in the late 90s for a group of LA teens and twenty-somethings. The humor and wildly hip and entertaining characters paint a very memorable portrait and take you a on a magical ride of emotions, wild situations and great music. While Doug Liman's Swingers will remain his masterpiece, this film still feels fresh, funny and new nearly 15 years later.Sarah Polley, Katie Holmes, Scott Wolf, Jay Mohr and Timothly Olyphant do some of their best acting and draw you in to a story that feels like a roller coaster ride that you want to take again. Thanks Doug Liman for a memorable 90s film. "},{"Title":"Oddly compelling","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is multi intertwining story lines split into 3 sections. Directed by Doug Liman, this is oddly compelling like an insane night that goes into the vault and never to be spoken about again.The first section, Ronna (Sarah Polley) Claire (Katie Holmes) and Mannie have a night to remember. Ronna is trying to make a couple of bucks by selling E. When she doesn't have the real thing, she start selling fake E. Katie Holmes is actually a good fit for this character. Sarah Polley is her usual sardonic self.The second section, Simon (Desmond Askew) is going to Vegas with 3 guys. I call it the three idiots and Taye Diggs. Desmond is certainly energetic. The problem is that these guys are so idiotic that I couldn't root for them.The third section, Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zack (Jay Mohr) are being forced to co-operate by cop Burke (William Fichtner). They set up Ronna for a sting but she gets away. After being creep out by Burke, they set off for a night out.I like the interlocking storyline. I like the first section best. "},{"Title":"Now dated but sill a nostalgic ride back to the 90's","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Three years after directing the cult hit Swingers Doug Liman struck gold again with the hip young ensemble comedy Go. Uniquely structured over the course of one crazy night in the lives of a bunch of young people in the city of angels.The story follows four main characters Ronna (Sarah Polley), a supermarket cashier, who needs $300 to avoid being evicted from her apartment. Simon (Desmond Askew), Ronna's British co-worker who's is going to Las Vegas for the weekend with a few friends. Then there are Adam and Zack (Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr) a couple of gay soap opera actors who are cutting a deal with the police to help then arrest Simon who is friends with Tod (Timothy Olyphant) a local drug dealer.The movie has a very 90s feel to it when watched today. Pagers were still big with teenagers. Raves were still cool and mysterious. This movies is like a time capsule of a time that really doesn't seem too long ago. Remember the good ole days of 1999, at the height of Y2K paranoia, and people still doing the Macarena what a time to be alive. (Yes, I'm being sarcastic if it isn't obvious). Okay so needing money in a hurry Ronna takes Simon's shift so he can go to Vegas. When Adam and Zack look to score some ecstasy from her in a sting operation she agrees. She goes to Tod to buy the stuff hoping to turn a profit when she resells it, not knowing that Adam and Zack are narcs. Although Tod needs some assurance that Ronna will pay him back, so she leaves her friend Claire (Katie Holmes) as collateral. Needless to say the deal goes bad and Ronna is now totally screwed.Then the movie sort of starts over again but this time from Simon's point of view and his wild adventures in Vegas. Simon and friends get into some pretty crazy sh** and end up on the run from some low level strip club mobsters when Simon shots one of them in the arm. This story will cross path with Tod and Claire near the end.Lastly we've go to the point of view of Adam and Zack and their relationship with officer Burke (William Fichtner) who is overseeing their plea bargain to get and arrest that will lead him to Tod. They will also run into Ronna again at a very inopportune time. Everything in each story in connected in one way or another and makes it joy to watch. The characters are interesting, quirky, and funny, and the story is tightly packed with out a second to spare. It's a pretty fun experience even if it is a little dated. So if your feeling a little nostalgic for the 90s I suggest you Go. "},{"Title":"The pluses outweigh the minuses to give an overall thumbs up","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I recently watched Go! for the first time in almost a decade having seen it a few times in the initial years after its release. Some aspects of it were as solid and entertaining as I remembered, some others seemed weaker.This is a film very much of the Tarantino era. It's clearly inspired by his early works (with a hint of Coen-esque black comedy) so if you're not a QT fan, then it's probably one to avoid (although it is certainly less violent than his work, so if you like his style but not the occasional brutality then this may be for you).The film is made up of three interlocking stories focusing on employees of a food market. It was originally written as a single short story, but when friends of the writer showed interest in what happened with the other characters, he extended it to its current form. Taking inspiration from QTs films, the director decides to mess with the chronology and show each story from beginning to almost end, one after another. Unlike in Pulp Fiction where this is entirely necessary, here it comes off as more of a gimmick. It works on the couple of occasions where the third story intersects the first . However it leaves the second story set in Vegas to fend for itself. This is undoubtedly the weakest of the three arcs, in terms of characters, acting and believability and therefore makes the film drag a little in the middle.However, the first and in particular the third story, together with the final ten minutes which ties the ends do, more than make up for it and leave the film with a definite thumbs up. Sarah Polley carries her segment well and it's a surprise that we haven't heard more from her over the last decade. Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr are particularly entertaining and have the best scene as they are propositioned by a cop and his wife over an early Christmas dinner. Towards the end, one of the characters seem to completely betray the development from earlier in the film, which feels a little forced. However this can be excused by the questionable morality shown by all of the characters which is something of a theme.The score is excellent and the cinematography is inventive and works 75% of the time. Only in Vegas does it seem cool for cool's sake. "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is unlike any film you have ever seen and I loved every second of it! This unique comedy, from Swingers director, Doug Liman, follows a bunch of people who connect in a supermarket and follow them on their craziest weekend ever. The story is told in four parts, and follow these inevitably connected people from four different angles. As each of their stories are told, the story gets clearer and even more hilarious. This movie was a first for many TV stars on the big screen like Katie Holmes, Scott Wolf, and Jay Mohr, but it's the newcomers like Sarah Polley and Desmond Askew that make this film work. Honestly, this film has everything. It's a great story, action-packed, and hilarious, I can't recommend it enough! "},{"Title":"A fun ride","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's really too easy to compare Go to Pulp Fiction; it just goes without saying. Tons of movies were released in the 90's that followed Tarantino's flair of crime movies with quirky characters, dark comedic moments and non-linear timelines. Go sits squarely with films like Snatch and Get Shorty as one of the better ones, the ones that have their own style and don't feel like a Tarantino knock-off.Go is a clever film, with a tight and solid script. The characters aren't quite interesting enough and the atmosphere isn't quite stylish enough to make it as memorable as Guy Ritchie's early work, but it's a fun ride which supplies thrills and laughs all the way through, though it lacks in character depth and development, partly because it stuffs too many characters into just under 100 minutes. Stylistically, Go feels a bit too much like a TV production; the fact that most of the cast are by now familiar TV mainstays doesn't help - Katie Holmes (Dawson's Creek), Scott Wolf (Table for Five, Everwood), Timothy Olyphant (Deadwood), William Fichtner (Prison Break), Jane Krakowski (30 Rock) and Jay Mohr (Action, Garry Unmarried) are all quite good but many of them feel amateurish at times, and don't help much in defining the already shallow characters.All of which makes Go feel a little like a writing student's exercise, with too little for the viewer to relate or connect to; but it's clever, fast-paced and entertaining enough to be very rewarding, especially at its modest runtime. It's a lightweight movie that won't stay with you too long, but it's tons of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"An interesting Christmas journey....","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What can I say, of all the movies set during Christmas this has to be the most bizarre, yet also one of the most satisfying. That said, the fact that it is set during Christmas is not as important as what actually happens. This movie is a very humorous account of a night from three perspectives. There are moments that you just cannot see coming, and the characters feel surprisingly real. The acting is in some cases (William Fichtner), great, while in others (Sarah Polley), simply okay. However, there is nothing in this movie that I would consider unsatisfactory. It is simply one of the most enjoyable movies I have watched in a long time and I highly recommend it to those who are fans of movies such as Pulp fiction or those of the British TV series The Inbetweeners "},{"Title":"Emblematic MTV Sarcasm from Tarantinoville","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sci-fi novelist Stephen Leigh told me that the way to create rich characters is that they each must all believe they're the main character. Basically, if a fully developed peripheral character appears and disappears in someone else's story, we must feel that there's a whole story they're playing the lead in at the same time. Go just peels back all those layers. Does it do this for the most interesting characters in the world? No. But it's an approach that makes for a very fun and engaging ultra-modern ride through Gen X overindulgence.Post-baby boomers can, it would seem, easily relate to the youngsters of, say, Saturday Night Fever, the worrying over where to go with one's life, of making those sorts of choices when you're not even close to prepared to surrender being a kid yet, is reasonably common, if just, perchance, from a well-to-do suburban viewpoint. I'm unsure, though, whether that appreciation would be shared by the Saturday Night Fever or Easy Riders age group when it comes to films about those of us growing up in a span of relative peace for the US and the inception of the home computer, and the rise of video games, cable TV and the internet. Would they see anything of themselves in a movie like this Gen-X black comedy from Tarantinoville? Never mind that '60s impasse of deciding between college and marriage Go's characters are more preoccupied with looking out for themselves, having a place to stay, and staying clear of police. You don't have to live in the margins that these people do to share their feeling of angst and hurry. The idea of taking it easy with your darling, a controllable mortgage, and the initial stages of a pension at age 18 is an indulgence beyond belief for this MTV generation. Forget setting up for the future, will I be able to pay the bills this month? So, Go's three interrelated anecdotes tag along with a varied collection of L.A. twentysomethings as their lives bump against each other in a state of affairs that's the 1990s in summary, from the War on Drugs-age attitude sex and danger that's both thrilling and frightening. And is if to lay bare emblematic MTV sarcasm, it all transpires while holly jolly Christmas passes by virtually overlooked in the background.Writer John August and director Doug Liman get enjoyably cunning. They don't stage any of their characters in an particularly pleasing light. An older guy scolds Taye Diggs for his whole screwed-up generation, and nobody here would oppose that appraisal. These self-reproachful Nirvana/Pearl Jam folks know just the sort of adrift offspring they are, and just how to elude a world that not only doesn't address them but has already regarded them as unpromising When Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr escape an emphatically strange encounter with the Cult of Free Enterprise, Mohr quivers, I need to bathe in sin. So while Sarah Polley's Ronna and Timothy Olyphant's Zack and Desmond Askew's Simon and who's left may not be the most virtuous of the general public, their untimely melancholy and pessimistic pragmatism do, I'm afraid, make them all too familiar. At least to others coming up surrounded by Motley Crue, new wave, techno, gangsta rap, heavy metal, hip hop, etc. "},{"Title":"Really fun","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before he went Iron, he did pop comedy and did it right! Go is so much fun, a really fast and silly pic. Love Jay Moore and Sarah Polley. The scene where he tips her off is so intense. I hadnt seen this film in a really long time but it totally holds up.And yuou can see that this director is on his way to big pop action. Doug L has now become one of the greatest directors of all time. Love Love Love Iron Maan and cant wait for Iron Man 2. But back to Go. It captures a period of time in American Youth Culture, the era of the ravers and E heads and does it quite well. A fun, fantastic and silly picture with lots of great visuals. So if you haven't seen it yet or are wondering if it still holds up, it does... "},{"Title":"Zesty and fun","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO (1999) Rating 9/10This is one of those interconnected stories about California youths in one 24-hour period of time. Sound familiar? Yep. You know what I'm thinking of! Yes, Go is similar to Pulp Fiction. Yes, it has some old material mixed in there. But what the heck, this movie was fun, fun, fun and took a new &#150; if not brilliantly original &#150; twist on the Pulp Fiction scenario and did it in a really enjoyable, smart manner. This movie had everything I wanted out of my evening's entertainment; a hot cast - including Timothy Olyphant, Katie Holmes, Jay Mohr, Scott Wolf, Desmond Askew and heaps of other young, sexy and talented actors &#150; some really focused direction from Swingers man Doug Liman, and a really clever, clever, clever script that indulged me in its many different stories that connect in a way. The movie just has many great things about it and I found myself really getting into the spirit of it. The movie is incredibly fast-paced and is never boring. That is the kind of thing I wanted to see. The movie has been a real hit with critics and audiences and I can see why. Everyone wants a good bit of entertainment and this is one of the most engrossing crime comedies I've seen from 1999. This movie gets me really enthusiastic and demands repeated viewings, so get ready for those overdue rental fees! All in all, Go is a strong and intriguing film that continues to reign the new Pulp Fiction angle with a cool style and some very memorable scenes and sequences. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"fun party movie","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Similar in many ways to Gregg Araki's movies, this one follows a weekend in the lives of a couple of friends, told several times from each person's point of view.  The movie is funny, dark, and ultimately highly entertaining as it follows each character's exploits, and how they relate to each other.  Anyone who dug the Araki movies, or rave flicks will probably like this one as well.  Just remember...don't do drugs.-) "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the smartest, most energetic, entertaining films made in a long time. Doug Liman's Swingers was a brilliant, brilliant debut, and Go builds on his reputation as one of the best talents of recent years. I personally find this to better than Pulp Fiction, which this has some similarities with. the performances here are all excellent, and I really do mean all of them. Sarah Polley, Katie Holmes, Desmond Askew, Taye Diggs, especially Breckin Meyer and William Fichtner, everyone else who I haven't mentioned...everyone is perfect, helped by a great script and some inspired plot events. Go is also full of great little ideas, such as the the opening sequence interrupting the Columbia logo (good idea)and the drug-induced hallucinations involving the cat and the hilarious Macarena dance in the supermarket. It also has a great soundtrack. This is a fantastic film that ranks along with the majesty of Swingers. I await Liman's next film very much, though its got to do a supremely amazing job equal his first two films.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed Swingers and I was not at all disappointed with this movie.  First off, if it was aimed at teenagers, ahem, I do not fit that category.  However, I still found the movie enjoyable, and liked the way the stories intertwined together.  I really enjoyed the comedy, especially the story of Adam and Zack (in particular the Christmas dinner).  The character of Simon was also a laugh and yes I do personally know of some Brits that hit the USA and went a bit out of control.  I think it is also good to see a movie that can show humour in the dark side of teen life.  I thought the dialogue was witty, the music was well matched and the cast were terrific.  As always Jay Mohr did an excellent job but the biggest surprise to me was Scott Wolfe, who played a convincing role.  Why this movie was never released in the cinema in New Zealand is beyond me, I would have liked to have soaked up the atmosphere and the music in the theatre.  Go for it.. "},{"Title":"At last - a decent Generation X film.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Films this clever are few and far between. Most scriptwriters find it hard enough to come up with one intelligent storyline to keep the audience entertained, but Go manages to intertwine multiple stories running parallel. In true, unashamed Pulp Fiction style these cross over at several points, with the main characters bumping into one another (at times in a literal sense). All of these stories, set in the festive season, seem to revolve around a drug-deal-gone-wrong, and the action flits backwards and forwards to those involved in each story. If this sounds like incoherent babble, watch the film, it makes more sense than I do.In a possible masterstroke, the cast is made up mostly of comparative-unknowns (even boasting an old cast member of English school drama Grange Hill). This immediately dispels any delusions of Hollywood grandeur and clichés &#150; this stuff is fresh. A superb young cast shows the characters making molehills into mountains, and mountains into &#133; bigger mountains. At no point do these actors slip into the laziness we see so often in teenage films and TV programmes and we feel empathy for all of the main characters at one point or another.From a fantastic soundtrack to astounding camerawork, distinctly above average originality to one of the wittiest scripts of any recent film, Go is always throwing something unexpected into the faces of the audience. Admittedly, Go treads little brand new ground, and borders on the cliché happy endings that America demands,  but it is not afraid to try old ideas in new ways and combinations. Pulp Fiction has been succeeded and improved upon by its own offspring.  "}{"Title":"So FUN! But not in a typical teen movie kind of way.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After having seen Swingers and being suitably impressed by it, I was anxious to see something else by Doug Liman. When I heard about Go, and read about the cast I couldn't wait to see it. Even with all my high expectations, however, I was not disappointed.I felt that this film was perfectly in synch with everything it was trying to do. All the complicated story lines and the beautiful dialogue could easily have been destroyed by some lack of vision, or bad acting. Neither of these things happened. Liman managed to create a perfect atmosphere for the whole movie, without slipping into Trainspotting mode, which would've been an easy thing to happen. Also, the young actors and actresses were excellent.Sarah Polley is a revelation. This was the first thing I've seen her in and she absolutely blew me away. She has not only a talent, but also a charisma that most actors only dream about. However, charisma was certainly not lacking in this movie. Katie Holmes leaves her shy, sensitive Joey Potter from the Creek far behind her and goes for fun, moody, sexy Claire. Also the male leads Desmond Askew and Timothy Olyphant just oozed with charm and both were perfectly chosen for the part they played. Desmond Askew had the cute little boy, but cocky Brit routine down 100%. While Timothy Olyphant did what he had to do. Be angry, fantastically sexy, dangerous, but vulnerable! And he did it with style. Even Scott Wolf was great.This film was thoroughly enjoyable and darkly, darkly funny. I see the parallels to Pulp Fiction but do not necessarily see it as a copy of it. It lacked the focus on violence that Pulp Fiction had.One last thing I would like to comment on is the score. I personally HATE dance music, but I feel BQ (or something along those lines) did a fantastic job and the score suited the movie down to the ground.  "},{"Title":"One of my Faves","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film has got it all - Comedy, Action, Suspense, Sex, Drugs, Violence, Cool music, Hip dialogue...I could go on. Everyone says it's so much like Pulp Fiction & it is but it is JUST AS GOOD AS PULP FICTION if not better!Just crack open a beer with some mates and enjoy 'cause this is entertainment at it's best. "},{"Title":"the best movie!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i saw Go in the theaters and loved it and when it came on video me sam and i would rent it and watch it over and over again. i have seen it 54 times and its my second favorite movie ever, but this is the kind of movie you either worship or despise with a passion. i would recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"At last, someone who knows how to write!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I too saw this thing on the shelves for weeks and avoided having to watch anything with Ms. Holmes for fear it was another She's All That or another mindless teen flick where the geek beats the jocks or whatever.  Then all you folks started comparing it to Pulp Fiction which, to me was as overrated as Mike Ditka.  Other than portraying an occasionally dark side of life, GO was nowhere as stupid as Pulp Fiction.  As a matter of fact, the screenplay was so well written that virtually all the loose ends were resolved by the end, and it had no quirky things like glowing briefcases that made everybody wonder what was that all about? in Pulp Fiction.  I thought the smarmy policeman and wife scene with the two actors was hilariously original--not what I expected at all!!  The only thing I wondered was just exactly how long it takes to drive between LA and Vegas?  Otherwise, I recommend this to audiences who are not offended by big busted lap dancers or wacked out drug users. "},{"Title":"Liman doesn't dodge sophomore slump...he flies over it!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I read an article in the LA Weekly talking about the new wave of filmmakers who are re-invigorating film. They listed Liman and 'GO' right next to other such films as the Wachowski Brother's 'THE MATRIX' and Todd Solondz 'HAPPINESS'. I agree. A lot of people criticized the film as  'Pulp' this or Tarantino that. I think it's more. Liman has taken the style and structure of such filmmakers like Altman and given them a few hits of X. He and August wrap the three stories of the teens and twenty-somethings together in a surprising and original way. The structure may be borrowed from previous experiments (pre-dating Tarantino) but the pace and voice are unmistakably NOW. I think Liman has not only dodged the sophomore curse but gone one further, like GO's nerdy cousin's RUSHMORE and ELECTION, and exceeded his previous craftsmanship. He should be lauded alone for being one of a few directors who's capable of telling a story about teens and twentysomethings that actually looks and sounds like teens and twentysomethings.(Thanks to a dream cast from casting director Middleton that dodged obvious and inane choices). It gave me faith that with the onslaught of 'youth' films, some can actually be watchable.  "},{"Title":"Go has the energy of its title, but ultimately doesn't really go anywhere.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is definitely one of the more entertaining films in the Tarantino-rip off genre. There's some surprises and some laughs, but ultimately doesn't amount to very much. One of those movies you forget an hour after you leave the theater, which is unfortunate since Doug Limon's direction adds all the inventive sparks that the script strives for. But all in all, it was an entertaining couple of hours.   "},{"Title":"How can a movie with a telepathic cat be bad?","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have to criticize the critics.  The movie was full of bad descisions and consequences.  No character was killed as an object lesson (not to ruin it, but it was already mentioned), which would have been pointless in comparison to the body count of the average movie.  Several bad descisions were made by various characters, but that's the point....when drugs are involved, people tend to do stupid things.That is the catch though; you'll miss a lot of the humor if you're unfamiliar with the drug culture, or if you think that drug users are the worst sort of criminals.  If you've never found yourself talking to the cat, you probably won't understand what the hell that scene was about. "},{"Title":"a Wild Things-esque type movie","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My first reaction after seeing this movie was interesting.  The plot twists (slightly predictable at times) reminded me of Wild Things.  Not to mention the kinky sex and unnecessary nudity.  But the plot was creative, the three different takes on the situation was a different way of presenting a storyline.  Worth seeing... and then waiting for it to come out to rent to see it again and catch everything you missed.  "},{"Title":"Go for it","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a pulp-fictionesque, trainspottin-ish comedy about a group of people looking for trouble. And finding it.The premise is a collection of stories, each representing a character (connected to each other, one way or another), and all happening during the same night.Illegal drugs are as important as any other character in this movie, so be warned.Although the resemblance to the films mentioned above is inevitable, it doesn't make this movie a clone. It can stand on its own and it's indeed an excellent film. It may be the closest thing the 90's will ever have from a Saturday Night  "},{"Title":"Same story, different perspectives","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go pretty much tells the same story from three different people's perspectives.  The first two are pretty good, the third perspective is pretty boring and drawn out, but it's necessary because it pretty much fills you in on some stuff you didn't know.  All around good movie with a cheezy ending and some crazy scenes showing you what it's like to be on drugs, this film is not recommended for people with epilepsy or heart problems (seriously).  I gave it a 7/10  "}{"Title":"pretty good but nothing special","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is an entertaining piece of work from director Doug Liman (Swingers, which by the way is on my most boring movies of all time list) but though it has some interesting and original plot elements, as a whole it is nothing new. It follows the same kind of time sequence as Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown (I know everyone says that but they say it because it's that it is true) by showing one person's story and then looping back and showing that same period of time from another point of view. Then, as in almost every temporally unhinged movie, it ends up right back at the first scene and proceeds a little bit farther to bring all of the stories together. The best way the abnormal sequence of time was put to use was in one scene when you see one end of a phone conversation and then a half hour later you hear the other end of it (even though it is obvious that it is going to happen.) It had some exceptional performances as well, including Sarah Polley as a supermarket clerk trying to scrounge up enough money to pay her rent, William Fichtner as a very creepy narc, Desmond Askew as a mischievous young British dealer (whose section of the film was definitely the best and most exciting), and Taye Diggs as his best friend. A good film overall with some great performances and some interesting plot points that make up for the unoriginality of the movie as a whole. 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Unreal but entertaining","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film may have disappointed me as I did have fairly high expectations but I felt it was frustrating and entirely unrealistic. I respect that the story is meant to be told from three different perspectives however each of the stories felt irrelevant and almost unnecessary and I seemed to find myself watching simply in the hope of a satisfying conclusion which I feel wasn't really delivered. Although 'Go' did have its moments of entertainment and I can't say that I didn't enjoy some of its story line despite often being slightly ridiculous at points. I suppose its worth a watch but most definitely not a must see film. "},{"Title":"Not too much heart... but so ultra-energetic, sassy and vital it doesn't matter!","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ultra-energetic, hip-to-the-bone movie of a night in the fast lane of drug- & fun-chasing California teens, with a load of up-and-coming young stars at the time. Not too much heart, and we've seen many tries in this genre... but few with such sass, speed, visual flair and vitality to simply entertain. Cheeky dialog adds its bit to this sort of more adult, dark take on American Graffitti. Hopefully its well-deserved cult status will last! Many have had a go at the Pulp Fiction-ish storytelling style, but who cares if it's not original when it works as splendidly as here? It also has one of the most memorably freaked-out drug trip scenes you'll ever see... Macarena, anyone?! 7 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"An energetic flick that sets out to be Pulp Fiction, Jr.","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go tells three separate stories linked together by a drug deal gone wrong. One concerns a first-time dealer hoping to secure rent money, another concerns a group of pals on a road trip to Vegas and the last concerns a gay couple coerced into co-operating with a sting operation.The narrative approach is similar to films like Pulp Fiction, wherein multiple story lines contain some common element(s) and intersect at times throughout the film. John August's script uses this approach well and manages to tell a story that is clever and unpredictable.The film-makers assembled a pretty good mix of young talent to bring this story to life. There are no award caliber performances but the acting is decidedly above par for a teen-oriented film like this.The direction by Doug Liman is also well-handled and shows some inventiveness without being overindulgent. Additionally, the soundtrack is skillfully assembled and fits the film's atmosphere perfectly.In the end, though, I have to knock my rating down a notch because the story seems fairly slight now that I'm edging further away from the film's target demographic. That being said, I'd still recommend it as long as you're not looking for much substance to go along with the film's ample supply of style. "},{"Title":"Spoken of a rough weekend","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Excellent movie from The Bourne Identity-director Doug Liman starring a great young cast among who Katie Holmes, Sarah Polley, Jay Mohr, Taye Diggs, Breckin Meyer... The story is amazingly crazy and the way it is told as well. The film focuses on four or five characters and their adventures during this certain weekend. So what we get is a summary of the events of these kids' weekend, but each time shown from a different perspective.Go is an enjoyable movie, mainly made for young people I suppose. It combines different genres, because it isn't all comedy or drama or crime. This movie has it all. It doesn't go very deep. It's meant to be entertaining and this is exactly what it does. You will have a fine time watching it, at least I did.I'll give it something between a 7,5 and an 8 "},{"Title":"Has everything you would want from a movie","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is one of the best movies I have ever seen. One of the reasons was because I am a big Simpsons fan, and they had an episode based on this movie that I had seen three years prior to seeing this film.The movie starts with a rave, then a random conversation (not understood until end). After that, we see Ronna and her life for about half an hour. Later on, we see Simon, the British guy who gives Ronna his shift. He goes to Vegas and has a different adventure with his friends. By this time the movie is linking together, and the viewer is understanding better. After Simon makes his way home, we see Adam & Zack's situation. As this goes on, more and more linking comes together. By the end, all four people (three different perspectives) come together for one last twist.This movie must have taken months to arrange the plot so perfectly. The idea of having three points-of-view to be linked together this well is mind blowing. 9 out of 10 stars. This movie has everything you need sex, nudity, drug use, drug selling, vulgarity, comedy, fire, strip clubs, threesomes... it just adds up to perfection. Excellent, excellent movie. "},{"Title":"All kinds of f***ed up characters come toghether in a brilliant way!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a very special movie for me. I once saw a piece of it on tv. I cound't watch the whole movie at the time, because I had other plans. Afterwards, I looked up the title, and watched the whole movie. It was absolutely amazing. It's funny, it's got action, excitement, good actors... everything! This is not just another teen movie, and an absolute MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"The events of one chaotic night told from three viewpoints.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was an interesting film that showcases the talent of several young talents.  The events of the film unfold from the perspective of three different groups of people.  At first this seems confusing because I was not expecting the events to be told from someone else's perspective.  However this makes the events of one evening that starts with Ronna trying to score a drugs deal in order to raise the money for her rent, to stop her being evicted at Christmas.  As the film unvails we see all the principle players coming to the same places from different angles.  The film ends where it all began at the supermarket with all the principles still alive, at various points this did seem as though it may not happen.An good showcase for the talents of Holmes and Polly.  An interesting view of the youth scene/culture of modern day America. "},{"Title":"better than average Pulp Fiction knockoff","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go emerges as one of the better Pulp Fiction knockoffs of the past several years, less strained and cutesy than most, and with a refreshing lighthandedness that manages to obscure the strain that often shows in multi-level screenplays such as these.Go actually tells three different tales, interlocked by the occasional overlapping of characters and situations into an ultimately tightly wound narrative web.  Each of the stories features a common theme of basically decent youth who take a risk at the high stake gambles of life (i.e. drug dealing, promiscuous sex, car theft), but who ultimately lack the requisite nerves of steel and moral indifference to successfully enter the world of amorality they so naively feel they can conquer.Most of the fun in the film rests in following the characters through the labyrinth of a plot writer John August and director Doug Liman have concocted.  The first episode, in fact, in which the attractive but desperate Ronna attempts to enter the high stakes world of drug dealing and fails miserably, appears, on the surface, to be dull and shallow until its purpose in the overall puzzle is revealed.  In fact, each episode increases in interest and complexity helping to draw the audience deeper into the offbeat world of the film.  By the end, one has grown to actually care about these characters, since their basic sense of youthful innocence is allowed to shine through. Unlike many writers before him aspiring to Tarantinoesque stature, August doesn't overdo the quirkiness that is always lying just below the surface of these films, nor does he pile on the selfconsiously flippant attitude towards violence that has ruined too many independent productions in recent years.Go features a first rate cast of actors who ease nicely into their roles and slide into that fine balance between seriousness and humor that the screenplay establishes. In a similar way, the film itself glides fluidly between past and present, drawing, again like Pulp Fiction a  giant narrative circumference around the action.It may take awhile for a viewer to capture the rhythms of the film, but, by sticking with it and following it along on its unorthodox course, that viewer will be handsomely rewarded. "},{"Title":"Okay...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was good (except for the weak acting) but I must say - aren't people getting a bit tired of these sorts of drug deal gun-en-up movies with the typical cut 'n' paste style (ie telling the story from different perspectives) it is starting to become very formulaic and unoriginal.And what's with all these TV stars doing films... it rarely seems to work.I gave it a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The ball is round, the game takes 90 minutes","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  During the time a small drugdealer is having his vacation one of his clients/girlfriends is in dire need of money.. So she has a bright idea. She decides to make to a deal with some new customers herself. So she goes to the masterdealer, asks him for the 20 tablets of XTC she is supposed to sell and finally gets them.. Prized a bit too high so her girl friend is to stay there as the bond.It is ofcourse only fairly logical that this deal is not going to succeed and not too surprisingly she ends up nearly dead in a ditch. End of story? Not quite. It all starts over again, this time as seen through the eyes of the local drugdealer as he is having his vacaction. And again, the deal doesn't work out too good. A bit closer to the ending of the circle, the third story begins, Again, the same story, different teller. And again the deal doesn't quite work out.This would be a nice and pretty strange movie if it weren't for the fact i've seen one too many of this kind of movie.. A couple of criminals, a bit of bad behaving, a bit of laughter. A threesome of pairs of eyes to see what is happening. I couldn't keep myself from comparing this movie to the much and much better Lola Rennt, hence the one line summary... "},{"Title":"Funny in parts, but not great","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go tells the story of one night and what goes on when a soon to be evicted grocery store clerk decides to do a drug deal to make the money she needs. Also involved are two gay soap opera stars, a cop who moonlights as a faux Amway salesman, the clerk's two friends, a drug dealer, and a group of male friends on a trip to Las Vegas. There were some very funny bits, but the whole drug culture thing turns me off so I can't say I got too into the film. I do have to wonder why such talented actresses like Katie Holmes and especially Sarah Polley would slum in such a blatantly mediocre film. Especially in Polley's case, when she has demonstrated time and again that she can do such amazing work. "},{"Title":"Well done, but boring","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film was well made and all the actors are good. But something didn't grab me -- I felt like I could leave, come back a few minutes later and not have missed anything.A polished film without grit. A step down from Swingers. "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Watching this I couldn't help but think of some recent grim but hip British movies. This isn't your usual Hollywood teen flick, but it's still not quite grim enough to be depressing. A sort of cross between Pulp Fiction & Trainspotting, set in a harsh but slightly surreal world where people do silly things, but no-one really ever suffers too much.Holmes' was relatively unknown compared to Polley, who already had an impressive CV when she starred here. She steals the show, and the movie suffers during those times when she's not part of the story. Holmes has a lesser role, but plays it perfectly. Olyphant & Diggs are the pick of the rest. I was surprised to learn that Askew is genuinely English considering his appalling accent in this.Not one to be taken too seriously, this works as a piece of entertainment, and there are some very accomplished performances to enjoy. Won't appeal to everyone, but if you like Pulp Fiction & Trainspotting then you'll like this. "},{"Title":"Nonstop is what it is!","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" An interesting title, an interesting movie. This movie is kinda Pulp Fiction only tamer. Lots of different stories that kind of intersects with one another. I liked the cast, the plot, and the storyline. Everyone has their own story on what went down, but the results are the same as usual. My guess is what is go on? When somebody explains their view on how the story went, another person has their share of the situation. There's fun all around, and the partying is totally non-stop, and the characters keep building and building up. At the end to me is anybody's guess, the girl should've avoided the man in the first place, the mess would never have happened. With cast like this who would have know this movie would be such a hit. And the plot is outrageous from the start. What a way to end 1999 with a movie like this, you can have the drinks, party like is no tomorrow, and this movie would make a great keeper in the video library. Rating 4 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"The alternative cast of Dawson's Creek proudly present Pulp Fiction on ice.","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Over a long weekend three sets of teens/early twenties are either directly involved in a drug deal or caught up in the knock-on effects.The spectre of Pulp Fiction hangs over this production so heavily that it is impossible not to mention it early and probably several times later. The fact that it is mentioned in every other review means zilch to me! If I went to Arctic how could I not mention that it is cold?Having a role model allows me to say that Go (a reference to a repeat phrase) is not as dark as PF, but it shares the sense that things can be deadly (or potentially deadly) and funny at the same time. I have noticed this in life myself, but given I was involved it is hard to laugh. There is also a hint of cruelty to in it.There is something very sad about supermarkets even when they are new and well lit. They are like public toilets, things that we very much need but we are happier coming out than going in. The yellow fluorescent glare and the look of boredom on the faces of those working there. Life -- in its fullest sense -- being lived elsewhere.What happens you ask? Well when there is a drug deal there is usually a drug deal to go wrong and if kids end up in Vegas you can be sure that they are going to end up with less money than they started with. Stands to reason -- this is a movie after all.There is some skill in the way the plot lines intertwine and how things work out -- but it also leads to some open questions about what would have happened if X and Y had not come along at the right moment.I did laugh a couple of times --- especially in one scene where Brit actor Desmond Askew got hold of a gun for the first time and the conversation between Katie Holmes and a drug dealer that she is being held hostage by. It is all a bit cruel and nasty, but is clever in that while things get to the edge they never take the final step.Special credit for Sarah Polly for playing a straight laconic role without adding any toe-bouncing charm (other actresses take note). She is a mean girl prepared to do mean things to get what she wants -- but life gets even with her in the end. There are other ways to get the money you need to pay the rent other than drug dealing. Not that they would make a good movie.I liked Go, not because it was very good or because I hadn't seen it before (and better), but because it had ideas. Some of them good ones, some of them bad ones, and some of them crass. However it does weave a lot of mild drama about something that is -- in outline form -- humdrum and normal. The best movies aren't about people saving the world -- they are about people saving themselves from being embarrassed or having to deal with being ball-and-chained to idiots. "},{"Title":"Doug Does It Again","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Liman puts together an energizing tale of music, drugs, and teens in LA in this entanglement of people in a day-in-the-life style reminiscent of Pulp Fiction's time warping yarn Simon (Askew) and his troubles in Las Vegas, Ronna (Polley) and her troubles scoring E with Adam and Zack. Simon and Marcus find themselves on a road trip to Vegas (including funny but tired joke involving a sexual act and a contact lens) where they find trouble in the form of a strip club gone bad. The lesson don't touch the strippers doesn't seem to be well received by this group of kids.On the other side, Ronna finds herself the center of trouble as she tries to score E from Adam and Zack and get caught up in a narcotics sting, headed by Burke (played by a brilliant Fichtner, only eclipsed by his Black Hawk Down performance).The pace and music are energizing. Liman does a fantastic job of exposing the characters and bringing the story lines together in a fashion that is still refreshing.The soundtrack is killer. "},{"Title":"Engaging and energetic comedy","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All Costs Ronna (Sarah Polley) lives a mundane existence as a check-out girl in her local-super-market.Facing a most unwanted Christmas present in the shape of an eviction on Christmas Eve,so,with the assistance of her unwitting partner in crime Claire (Katie Holmes) she buys some Ecstasy off a creepy,condescending dealer to sell at an underground rave.Meanwhile,over in Vegas,Simon (Desmond Askew) and his friend Marcus (Taye Diggs) are driving around in a stolen car after a night of wild partying.Meanwhile,TV stars Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zack (Jay Mohr) find themselves in a creepy drugs sting of their own.Towards the end of the 90s,the 'reverse-plotting' drama began to take off.This is obviously one of the earlier,and certainly more successful attempts.Mainly because it's so well-written and well-acted and because the soundtrack is so alive and buzzing.If you can seek it out somewhere,give it a go before it gets deleted or something.**** "},{"Title":"A younger, hipper Pulp Fiction style film.","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Of the countless movies patterned after Pulp Fiction, Go is the best one yet, as the story opens, we meet a very bored and broke grocery store clerk, Ronna, played by Sarah Polley. At the end of Ronna's extra long shift, another clerk, Simon (Desmond Askew), pays her to take his just starting shift. Simon, who earns money on the side dealing drugs, is off to Vegas with some buddies he met in traffic school. Just as she looks like she is about to fall asleep on her grocery scanner, two guys named Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zack (Jay Mohr) arrive wanting to buy drugs from Simon. With Simon gone, she decides to make money by buying drugs from Simon's distributor and selling them to Adam and Zack. Nothing will go as planned.First, we follow Ronna and her clerk buddies as they try to be drug entrepreneurs without much luck. They do hit upon a scam whereby they pass off allergy medicine and aspirin as drugs at a rave. Next, we backtrack to when Simon cons Ronna into filling in for him. When he and his smart-mouthed buddies arrive in Vegas, they start having the time of their lives, complete with private lap dancing sessions, small orgies and big guns. The final story backs up to the drug purchase by Adam and Zack, who are two television actors in trouble with the law. They have been forced by the police to go undercover and wear wires in order to entrap Simon. They have their own set of problems with the worst being a Christmas dinner with their police boss (William Fichtner) and his wife (Jane Krakowski), a couple who are weirder than most.This movie is fast moving, energetic, funny and done well. If you like Pulp Fiction think of this as its son. A thoroughly good movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Wicked Awesome!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go was a great little film!  I say little because it probably had a decent budget, but not enough so they could get carried away.  That biscuit-boy, palooka cop played by William Fictner was funny, and the use of bizarre, hyper-kinetic camera angles was very clever.  Sure, the scenes were padded out somewhat, but the movie had to be a certain length, so what's it to you, Einstein?  Anyway, the women in this movie were portrayed very honestly, and were clever and witty, and were actually shown in a respectable light,(Scratch that!)  The only likable characters were Jay Mohr and Scott Mackenzie, who both suffer from slight cases of overacting. Rating8/10( Cheating and moral depravity is hip, right?) "}{"Title":"Mesmerising","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie all I new of it was that most of the reviews were favourable and that it was supposed to have a good soundtrack.Sometimes no hype can be a good thing.  This film is one of those sleeper movies that will just slowly grow into a cult classic.Despite a raw feel to some of the cinematography, fine acting performances from the entire cast bring together several angles of one story.  This is one of those movies that can only be defined as 'cool'.  Funny, dramatic, energetic.  Flawed characters throughout the movie only serve to wet your appetite for me.  Add this movie to your collection as soon as you can! "},{"Title":"US Human Traffic meets Pulp Fiction, the results not quite as good as either.","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is definitely creative and ambitious, think of it as a US version of Human Traffic with Pulp Fiction (for the young and pretty) aspirations.Following on with the Pulp Fiction lite analogy it has a large cast of actors, none of whom really grab star billing, and the seemingly unrelated events all manage to intertwine by the final scenes. There are unexpected (and random) events and happenings, quirky characters and a surprisingly good soundtrack.But in true lite fashion no-one is killed, swearing is kept to a minimum, and the accidental shooting is not in the face but the leg. There is even an accidental overdose through incorrect identification of illicit substances.The more I think about it, the more I think QT should sue, though he lifts more stuff than anyone, he just calls it homages.Go tells the same story from three perspectives 1 / Follows a minor drug deal gone bad when the intended amateur-pusher Rhonna (Sarah Polley) works out that she is heading into a trap laid by a cop and two gay soap stars trying to themselves avoid jail and public shame.This situation leads to Rhonna being unable to repay the true dealer Todd (Timothy Olyphant who is actually PG13 menacing) and trying to pull a swifty. Fortunately Todd only realizes once Rhonna has already collected her collateral, namely her best friend Claire (Kate Holmes), and because no-one can get away with doing over a drug dealer he decides he must have his revenge.The segment ends with a hit and run, dozens of teeny-bopper rave attendees experiencing the high only mild headache tablets can provide apparently, some screaming and an OD'd teen lying under a bunch of rubbish bins. (Told you it was quirky!) 2 / Meanwhile in another part of the film, Rhonna and Claire's workmate Simon and his friends are on a trip to Vegas (Baby!) for some gambling and all the extras that go along with such an excursion.This segment is the most action packed and rewarding for the gents, it has some sex-talk, a car chase, a shooting, a ménage a trios and one of the better strip club scenes in cinematic history - with nary a home grown boobie to be seen.Without too much explanation Simon's maiden trip to Vegas and his somewhat naïve misadventures culminates in Simon and his three buds departing in exceptionally hasty circumstances, with actual hardened tough guys on their trail.3 / As it apparently must the finale wraps up proceedings. It deals with the botched drug sting from the first segment, only from the perspective of Adam (Scott West) and Zack (Jay Mohr) the couple of actors and the creepy cop Burt and later his wife. Thankfully Adam and Zack are refreshingly non-stereotypical (aside from one 10 second scene), and there is some genuine curiosity as to the intentions of Burt and his wife during post-sting din-dins which the boys only even attend to ensure that their respective records are wiped clean.And in true cinematic fashion a delightful misunderstanding wraps everything back up.Go is actually pretty clever and while it is no Memento or Pulp Fiction it will keep you interested for the duration &#x96; if not rewind back to the massive fakies' scene! It shows how quick decisions can often have bigger implications to the decision-maker than perhaps first envisaged, and it is refreshing to find a film with a bunch of believable (enough) people going about their lives and dealing in semi-ordinary events. There are no cliffhanger scenes, no brutal deaths or everyone will die if you touch the blue wire scenes. I like those films same as everyone else, but all day every day?? Not so much.Go was made by Doug Liman, the man behind the immortal Swingers, and although it was a bit of a step down it still showed promise. Then he went and made Mr and Mrs Smith... (Interpret that as you will.) Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. Inventive, interesting and creative if not mind blowing stuff. A pretty-good flick with a good-pretty cast. "},{"Title":"Don't Stay","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is an unknown movie in my country for unknown reasons. Maybe because it shows the youth of a specific region, but maybe not since teenagers from all around the world are pretty similar. This film is basically what IMDb's synopsis says the story of the events after a drug deal, told from three different points of view. Of course, these events are portrayed with some decent acting and some good/funny conversations, but there is nothing more than that. Thought it's very entertaining for the most part, the film seems to reach nowhere, just ordinary happenings in other people's lives. See it to notice how different these actors were back in 99 or don't even bother, cause it probably won't change your life. "},{"Title":"A teen Pulp Fiction","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go struck me as being like a teen-movie Pulp Fiction. Far from being a criticism, this is glowing praise for this excellent movie. Go weaves together three separate tales, providing effective drama and comedy along the way.Skilfully directed by Doug Liman, Go features an ensemble cast including Mrs. Tom Cruise, Katie Holmes. I've never been a fan of Ms Holmes but I have to admit, she does a great job in this movie. Sarah Polley is outstanding, as is British actor Desmond Askew. In fact, all the cast are excellent and provide a dynamic buzz to each scene.There are many great things about this film - just watch it and see for yourself why it hits the mark! "},{"Title":"Light and reasonably entertaining but not worth going out of your way for.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I enjoyed this on the hotel video (after keying it in accidentally and realising I'd probably get charged for it anyway so might as well stay awake for it). Not up to the standard of Human Traffic but quite funny in parts. One of those endlessly digressing movies that has just enough bite to keep your attention when you've not much else to do (except perhaps sleep, which is what I had intended to do). Drug deal gone wrong. Follows the adventures of the various young kids involved in a reasonably entertaining way. Nothing heavy. "},{"Title":"A barely passable Pulp Fiction for the club goers","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Three interweaving stories occur one Christmas Eve in Los Angeles.  Ronna is working at a supermarket when she gets involved in a small drug buy which goes sour and leaves her in debt to a dealer.  Simon is with his buddies in Las Vegas, experiencing all matter of good stuff but things begin to spin out of control.  Meanwhile Adam and Zack, two actors forced by cop Burke to set-up the sting operation on Ronna, try to get out of the charge of possession he has over them.Tarantino has a lot to answer for.  His Pulp Fiction spawned a good handful of `intertwined stories' type films, some of which were OK but some of which were poor.  Go is one which manages to be OK without ever getting better than that.  The plot links the stories very tenuously at times (the link to Simon's Vegas trip is very, very unlikely) and it doesn't quite hang together as cleverly as PF managed to.  The lack of strong characters makes the film a little hard to really get into &#150; some chapters are good (Ronna's opening segment) while others rely on energy and speed (Vegas), others are just a little strange and don't totally fit in.The film has a bemused air to it and is passable enough to justify watching.  However it never feels that the stories add up or make the film stronger by being greater than the sum of it's parts.  The cast try hard but they have very little to work with in terms of characterisation.  One exception is Polley who is good &#150; her performance lifts quite a hollow character.  The rest act as the script requires &#150; each seems to be under the impression that any one line of their dialogue will become quoted around the world and at times their performances are just too superficial to talk about.Overall this is an energetic film if that's what you're after.  However it all seems a bit empty and, after a too tidy ending, will leave very little impression.  The ties between the stories are of little value in most cases and the film manages to be less than the sum of it's parts &#150; not even equal!  It tries hard but essentially the same idea can be seen done much better in Pulp Fiction. "},{"Title":"Finding Manny","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Might appear dated now, but Doug 'Bourne identity' 'Edge of tomorrow' 'Mr./Mrs. Smith' 'Swingers' Liman has such a firm grip on the narrative, all the way through, that this one almost acts as the template-setter for everything that came after, in spite of its superlow budget, that is evident. And no, this is not a 'Clerks' or a 'Mallrats' wannabe, though the supermarket kinda connects our main characters. The trope, as tropes go, follows different paths taken by various lead characters from 2 points in the plot, 1, that sets things off, and the other, that acts as kind of a pre-climax of sorts, if that makes sense (it will, when you watch it). However, this is not just a post Pulp Fiction piecing together gimmick. It helps that said gimmick is help by solid narrative set- pieces, like the one where Katie Holmes' and Timothy Olyphant's characters get together accidentally (for the 2nd time) when Holmes lets loose, for the first time in the flick, followed by the recurring, consistent way Taye Diggs' character's jacket becomes a plot-twist, and the dinner scene at William Fichtner's place (fanta- hilarious), the scene with X marking the spot for some delayed revenge etc. Anyways, was a nice blast-from-the-past kinda experience, which has more in common with Liman's own 'Swingers' and Favreau's 'Made' (both of them with Vaughn and Favreau). Sarah Polley, Gordon-Levitt wannabe Desmond Askew, Timothy Olyphant, Taye Diggs, Jay Mohr, Scott Wolff, William Fichtner, Melissa McCarthy, Breckin Meyer, Jane Krakowski, the vastly underrated JE Freeman etc. have all had their own paths (with Polley even helming great movies), but this is a good one to watch to remember what they were once a part of (in a good way). Worth multiple viewings....even the deleted scenes actually should have been part of the flick....maybe a future complete-cut?? "},{"Title":"Go See It.","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go (1999) Dir Doug Liman / Cast Sarah Polley, Katie Holmes, Jay Mohr, Desmond Askew, Taye Diggs An obvious knock off of Pulp Fiction with three story lines weaved into one screenplay. Title doesn't exactly reflect on anything. Sarah Polley just completed a fourteen hour shift but accepts more work when a co-worker leaves for Vegas. She encounters two suspicious individuals who request drugs and since she is in need of cash she goes on a dangerous odyssey to obtain them. The Vegas boys end up burning a hotel room and fleeing from the law. Some subplots do not suit the narrative but director Doug Liman is creative and certainly makes an attempt to present viewers with an outcome that might not be quite so obvious. Polley is superb as drug addict grocer bent on deception to survive. Katie Holmes plays her best friend who ends up separated from Polley but ultimately makes a romantic connection when she turns up at the right place. Jay Mohr plays an undercover cop caught up in an operation where he ends up the one in handcuffs. Desmond Askew and Taye Diggs are on the run from Vegas after accidentally burning a hotel room and causing a fatality with a stripper dancer that results in a gun shot. Although it is not quite Pulp Fiction this is a very clever film about bad decisions that grow into fatal consequences. If not this then go watch Pulp Fiction again. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Premillennial action comedy still has legs&#x85;","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This fast-paced, inventive ensemble comedy from '99 has held up very well. In light of later developments, especially on cable, the timeshifting, Pulp Fiction-like structure seems less obtrusive and gimmicky than it did back in the day. Each of the interlocking episodes takes off from the same event, which we see several times over&#x97;a cash-strapped supermarket clerk takes a shift for a co-worker, who happens to be a retail drug dealer. Consequences, for three different sets of characters, include a shambolic roadtrip to Vegas, a shooting in a strip club with threatened retaliation, an ironic car chase, a BF left with a higher-level dealer as collateral for a drug buy, and a queasy-making dinner party hosted by a pair of narco cops. There's lots of chaos and violence, but it's cartoon violence, basically, and nobody's much the worse for it (triple-shifting Ronna gets hit by a car and left for dead, but she's back at her register on Monday). Every episode includes at least one really good time-release sightgag; to spoil just two&#x97;when Taye Diggs, as one of the roadtrippers, puts on a spiffy blazer in a casino, a guy gives him a tip in the men's room; at the casino enrance another guy tosses him the keys to his car&#x85; Smart, casual dialogue, not as self-conscious as in Pulp Fiction; my favorite line is a throwaway diss of the comic strip Family Circus. Commendable cast includes Sarah Polley, playing it tough, as Ronna, Katie Holmes (she's good!) as the BF, a baby-faced Timothy Olyphant as the dealer, plus Jay Mohr as a TV actor in jeopardy; great to see a dewy young Jane Krakowski and Melissa McCarthy in lesser roles. Turns up on a cable a lot; available on disk from Netflix. "},{"Title":"Go (Classic) Movie Review By Andrew Brauer","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" BY THE WAYTHIS IS A NEW FORMAT, IT WON'T BE LIKE MY LAST REVIEW, JUST FOR YOUR CONCERN. HERE'S THE LINK FOR MAGIC MAGIC REVIEW http//www.imdb.com/user/ur42840778/?ref_=nv_usr_prof_2The '90s seemed to be all about Pulp Fiction, but I'm not talking about that big film today, as for this review it's about the 1999 Cult Classic Go. Many critics claimed it to be the best ripoff of Pulp Fiction, not granted I've never seen Pulp Fiction (I will one day), but after watching Go I can kinda get an idea on what it's about. Go takes place over the course of a Christmas Night, in both Los Angeles and Las Vegas, and follows several young adults doing some stupid stuff. First we meet Ronna (Sarah Polley), a 24 Hour Store clerk who's in desperate need of some cash for rent, or else she'll be evicted. She decides to take her co-worker Simon's (Desmond Askew) shift while he goes to Las Vegas with some friends of his. But she soon gets the opportunity to make some more money when a pair of Soap Opera actors (Jay Mohr and Scott Wolfe) walk in hoping to score some drugs, since they usually go to Simon for drugs. Ronna gets her co- worker friend Manny (Nathan Bexton) and her more levelheaded friend Claire (Katie Holmes) to help out when she gets the supply from a drug dealer named Todd (Timothy Olyphant), but soon things get hectic. What I told you was just one part of the story, there is much more craziness to be had in this film, and I mean crazy in a great way. Go is one of the most entertaining movies about nothing. Director Doug Liman (Swingers) does a great job directing this fast paced adventure. There's plenty of cool camera tricks and great editing, that shows us Liman's cinematography skills. The script by John August is also darkly hysterical with many quotable lines. And the acting all around is great, with the standouts being Polley, Mohr, Wolfe, Holmes, Olyphant, and Askew. Problems include a slightly anti-climatic ending, and some illogical scenes, but in the end, a few words to say about this film are GO see it. "}{"Title":"Go! Review","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is John August's first feature film. Since then August has been writing for some of Tim Burton's film including Big Fish, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and the upcoming Frankenweenie film. In 2007 August wrote and directed a film called The Nines(review will come this month), which as become one of my favorites. Directed by Doug Liman(Swingers, The Bourne Identity) , Go tells three intertwining stories on Christmas Eve night. The first one is Ronna's(Sarah Polley) story, a struggling grocery store clerk who needs to make her rent on time. Her co-worker Simon, his heading to Vegas with his pals, and needs Ronna to take his shift. Ronna needs the money the money she takes it. While working she is approached by two men buying gallons of orange juice. The two men say that Simon always gets them ecstasy, and they were wondering since he was gone if she could score some for them. Ronna agrees. Her night to come would involve a drug dealer, played viciously by Timothy Olyphant, drug bust, a Christmas rave, and getting hit by a miata.Then there is Simon's who gets Ronna to take his shift so he can go to Vegas. When he arrives they dine at a buffet. Some of the friends eat the shellfish, and fall ill, and unable to partake in their night in Vegas. This leaves Simon and his friend Marcus(Taye Diggs). Their night starts off very nicely at a strip club, but all hell breaks loose when Simon touches one of the dancers, causing the owner and his son to hunt down Simon, even if it means following them back to Los Angeles. The third and best story involves Adam and Zach who are day time T.V. stars and closet homosexuals and having relationship problems, played by Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf. They are the two men that ask Ronna to get them ecstasy. But it turns out they were caught a while back buying some pot, and they are trying to get their record clean, so they are helping out in a police investigation. The detective in charge of the case is Burke(William Fichtner), and he ask the boys to stay for Christmas Eve dinner with him and his wife. They agree. Burke has a secret agenda though. He wants to use their celebrity to help gain them more sells for his confederated product business on the side. This film is very Pulp Ficiton esque, in the way of the intertwining timelines, and all of the cool, hip talk about sex, and drugs. So many films try and pull this off, but none have really come close to being a good film. Go is definitely a great film. I have owned it for years and decided to pull it off the shelf and give it a new and updated review. Go has tons of charisma, and wit and most of the performances are outstanding. William Fichtner's being my favorite. If you have not seen Go, then go and rent it. I give Go a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Go For It!","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I see that this movie came out in 1999, but I don't remember it coming out on the big screens? I bought the DVD on Amazon and loved the movie, I guess because I am a huge William Fichtner fan. The movie is different in a way because it has three separate stories, involving four different character's from the movie. Even though there are three separate stories of the individual's it all connect's in the end. In the first story we have a Ronnin who is short on rent money and if she doesn't come up with something to make a quick money will be thrown out of her apartment. She hooks up with a drug dealer, she scores the cash, but D***S him over. When he finds out he shows up at a rave where she's at, he finds he and confronts her. Her story ends when she accidentally gets hit by a car.The next story is about Simion the British guy, who gets to go with his friends to Las Vegas. All is going well with his buds, until, he and Taye Diggs character decide to go to a strip club called The Crazy Horse.. Taye Digg's character warned him order anything U want except Champaign-means private dance.When the ladies come over to greet them Simon gets stupid and asks for the most expensive bottle of Champaign. Simon gets his private dance and more than he bargained for. The rules the girls can touch U but U can't touch the girls. The rule gets broken, things get out of hand and Simon pulls out a gun and shoots a bouncer. When this happens the whole gang gets involved and are trying to get the hell out of Vegas, because they are wanted. This was an OK story, but in reality very unrealistic.The third about Adam and Zack is the best, it's about to actor's who are used as pawns to catch a drug dealer in the act of selling. Adam and Zack go along with it because an offense will be expunged from their record if all goes as planned. They met up with Burke, a cop or ex-cop who still has connections to the department. We then realize the 1st and 3rd stories come together, in the end. Then the 2nd story ties in with some of the characters in the 1st story.I hope this review is helpful, it is hard to explain a movie like this. To me it is a good movie, to rent, or one to buy if the price is right. The only drawback it might have is yes it is unrealistic, but most movies are. This movie is one to watch when U had a hard day/busy one and just want to chill 4 about 2 hours.It does have it's comedic side to it, but for those that do not like several stories told in one movie, even though they all connect in the end; this would not be for you. THX, -Kris L. CocKayne- "},{"Title":"Adventures on Christmas Eve","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I seem to have been watching a number of good movies lately, but then again I generally do not like to watch movies unless they are good. As you have probably guessed, I though that Go was a pretty good movie, and it had more to do with it than myself thinking that two of the main female characters (or actually the blonde) were attractive.What is the plot you may ask? Well it is difficult to work out, with the exception of stating that it is about what a group of people do on Christmas eve. As to a singular plot, there isn't one, rather it is divided into three, and even then they do not have a singular goal. Simply put, it is the experiences of what people go through on this one night, the problems that they create and how they solve them.As my friend stated, Go is what Pulp Fiction should have been. It is made in a similar style to Pulp Fiction. The movie is divided into three sections, each of them stemming from one scene that occurs at the beginning of the movie, and these three sections deal with a different group of people. The first is about two girls who have been requested to get some ecstasy for a couple of guys, and then have to get rid of them because it is that or get caught by the cops, and then must try and get their collateral, which is actually one of them, back from the dealer.The second is about their friend, the guy who normally gets the drugs, and his trip to Las Vegas. There he runs out of money gambling, sleeps with two women at once, has to run from a burning building naked, shoots a bouncer at a sleazy club, and then escapes from Las Vegas after being chased by some nasty nightclub owners.The final one is about the two guys who wanted the drugs, and their adventures that night where they have to help the police catch a drug dealer, then go back to the guy's house for dinner, and then chase down the person who they had been sleeping with. Finally they all seem to tie together nicely, leaving the movie with the question of what they will do New Year's Eve.When trying to decide what this movie is, I concluded that it is a mix between a Quentin Tarrentino, Kevin Smith, and Australian made movie. It had a distinctly Australian feel about it, even though it was filmed in Los Angeles. The structure of the movie was distinctly Tarrentino, with dialogue that seemed to come straight from a Kevin Smith movie. The sound track was quite good as well.One thing this movie does is that it explores the more left wing American culture, as we travel with a number of people during that one night. We are left at times wondering what happened to people, and see how unexpected twists surprise us as to the nature of most of the characters. In the end though, we are left exhausted in the aftermath of what truly was an exciting night. "},{"Title":"where' the song go in the movie","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" this is a very fast paced movie told from 3 different points of view, the scenes keep getting replayed back and forth and are jumbled to some extent, so viewer beware, if you don't like being confused, this is not for you, but on the other hand if you actually like to think than this is a good movie to watch. it's all about a drug deal gone bad, surprisingly though there isn't much sex or violence in this considering all of the young people that are in this film. our checkout girl at the local supermarket is about to get evicted by her landlord, so she takes on an extra shift at the store, covering for her co-worker, who happens to make money on the side dealing drugs,, he leaves town to go to Las Vegas, in the meantime she proceeds to short change the drug dealers.. the film is very good,, and worth taking a look at. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was truly a nice movie. It is told from the different perspectives of six youngsters, and that makes this movie quite fun. It's like Pulp Fiction,well, concerning the story-line. The story is about a drugdeal, where the six people all have something to do with. The climax was a little predictable, but still very nice! But if you want to see an even better movie like this, you should definitively see Lola Rennt, 'cause I think this film is even better! Rating 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Aside from the fact that this film included a riff on The Family Circle that I've been using in my stand-up act for years, I really enjoyed it.This movie is fast-paced to the point of frenetic. You are never bored, and you are always interested to see what happens next.Tantra, baby. "},{"Title":"Not a teen flick, but a teen classic.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I heard a lot of this movie and all of it was good. So when I finally found a copy of it I had high expectations. I really liked it because it showed real people in strange situations it shows how I think I would react. Although the characters weren't people you would hope to meet in real life. Sarah Polley and Katie Holmes were the best in this movie. I liked Timothy Olyphants character very much. He wasn't a normal villain. The idea of three segments was a good idea. You get a better view of the story. My favorite segment was Ronna. The Simon segment was not as good, because that was more a single story. The Zack and Adam segment was good, but it couldn't match up to the Ronna part. I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ronna Part was the best!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After looking up this movie alot, I really wanted to see it. So I bought it. My opinion of this movie is so different from anyone I ever heard or talked to about it, whuch really p***ed me off. I loved the Ronna segment so much, that I actually wished the whole movie could have been just that segment. And then the Simon segment came on, and I guess it was kind of disappointing. The Adam and Zack segment was a little better, but I was just mad that the first 30 minutes were so great and the rest of the movie was just okay. And you know what sucks about that. I'm the only person who thinks that way!! "},{"Title":"Simply Cool","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is one of the best films showing our current society in a very detailed way. All the three points of views show characters as they really exist. Also the actors playing these characters are excellent acting. My favorite is the character Simon played by Desmond Askew. Not only him almost everybody has his own sympathies. The relationships between those figures sometimes really surprise. Go is simply cool. "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Most people like to compare a lessor known film to another, wider seen movie. Such is the case of Go, constantly compared to Pulp Fiction. Please do not believe the hype! Go is a great film that stands on its own merits, with bright visuals, crisp dialog, fast pacing, and foremost;a killer cast. I do like Pulp Fiction alot, but it is a grittier, darker movie. The multiple story arcs and presence of drugs are about the only similarities between these two flicks. If you haven't seen Go yet, I implore you to get up and Go see it! "}{"Title":"Whoa....... all I have to say is.....","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Holy Sh*t! This movie rocked so hard. When I first saw the previews I thought it was going to suck. Boy...was I wrong. This movie was a total rush, and I recommend it to anyone that wants to feel this rush. 10/10 stars "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction meets the WB","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Interesting enough to keep you watching, but not anything you will want to rush out an purchase on DVD.  William Fichtner was quite good, I'd recommend the movie based on his all-to-brief performance, but there's not much else in here that is particularly memorable. "},{"Title":"The Best of 1999","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ...and one of the best in general. Go takes place one Christmas Eve. Though for most characters it isn't going to be a merry Christmas. It tells the story of four characters. It starts with Ronna, a supermarket worker who gets involved in a very messy drug deal. Simon, one of her friend's goes to Vegas with three buddies. And Adam and Zack are working for the police trying to bust Simon. But Simon is in Vegas, as said, and Ronna, as said- gets involved, together with her two friends Claire and Mannie. Lots more hubbub goes on but I won't spoil it for you. This movie is very much like Magnolia, different characters, different stories yet all some how connected to each other. The acting is great, the story is wonderful. There are lots of witty lines. Not everybody will like this movie as it's story is probably most appealing to teenagers but it is a very clever movie. All the actors play their parts wonderfully. I especially enjoyed Ronna's gang- Sarah Polley (Ronna), Katie Holmes (Claire) and Nathan Bexton (Mannie). And Simon (played by Desmond Askew). You're bound to recognize some faces here- Katie Holmes (Dawson's Creek), Scott Wolf (Part of Five), Jay Mohr (Action), Jane Krakowski (Ally McBeal). Deserved way more credit then it got from a lot of critics who are waaaaay too serious.  "},{"Title":"Pleased in Las Vegas","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised at this flick. It is not the type of movie I would usually watch but it was showing at a local coffee house where I happened to be holed up for the evening so I gave it a view and was most delighted. I liked how the story would take on the characteristics of a drama-action movie and then turn comedic. The plot was compelling and my interest was held the entire time. I live in Vegas so those sequences were very enjoyable. That strip bar is no longer there and was razed last year to become a hotel. This film has been compared to Pulp Fiction, but not having seen that movie I can't really comment on that comparison. Guess which movie I am going to rent this weekend? "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fantastic. In a way it's similar to the *Guy Richie* school of film making...a large number of seemingly unconnected plot lines that link together later on. And the way that they link together is brilliant.Yes it's got Drug use and violence, but so do many films now. Critically not incredibly well received, it's one of my favorite films.And to top it off...it's got Katie Holmes in it too )  "},{"Title":"Not Just For the Kiddies","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this one so much, I told my son to rent it. He liked it too! I mean, what's not to like? It is too funny. Jay Mohr is so witty, I just love that guy. His scenes were the best, but the whole movie was just a fun ride. Don't be distracted by the uptight nay-sayers that don't condone drug use. Does watching Mrs. Doubtfire make you want to dress up like an old lady and answer classified ads??? Oh puhleeze. It's a movie! It's a very funny MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Nephew of Pulp Fiction","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Many different plot lines leading us to where they all meet at the end. Each plot is a good story in itself, the actors are fresh, the direction and locations are great. This was a really good movie. Token Brit that I thought, initially had too much of a Gord Blimey Guv voice, turned out to be a strong character, and a good actor. The check out girls were terrific, as was everybody else, however the sceen stealers for me were the cop and his wife attempting to recruit the two actors into selling Confederate Products inc!!! Go see it..... "},{"Title":"Drugs are bad, but GO is good.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wasn't sure if I liked this film because I have a grudge against Rave culture, but it was recommended to me by a friend who likes pretty much the same things as myself.GO is a multi-timeframe black comedy like PULP FICTION about the events that take place before, during, and after a drug deal.  It was surprisingly clever, especially in the way it adds logic and sense to the previous stories as the movie progresses.  The acting and direction were both great, although I felt it glorified drugs and lameass Ravers a little too much.All in all, though, a really good flick, and if you are a fan of Tarantino's work, you should definately see GO. "},{"Title":"A Highly Impressive Picture from the Director of Swingers","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed Go, it was a funny and cool crime-comedy with an excellent screenplay and great acting. The cast is great, Sarah Polley,Katie Holmes, Taye Diggs, Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf were all perfectly chosen, and their performances shine. Sometimes Go is not as cool, hip or happening as it thinks it is, but it is still very enjoyable and makes for an engaging evening's entertainment.So, as I've told you, the direction is great, the acting is awesome, the script is cool and Go is highly entertaining, so,  what more reason to you need to see it? Go!  "},{"Title":"A thrilling ride","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The story of thrill-seeking teens out for some thrills and they get exactly that and more.  It's life in the fast lane for one night and doesn't screech to a halt.The scene at the supermarket between the guy high on E and the female cashier is a classic.Comparisons of Go have been made with Pulp Fiction, which I still haven't seen (call me a geek for that, if you want), but Go was a thrill-a-minute and I enjoyed every second of it.  Pulp Fiction must be a masterpiece.Go gets a 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Refreshing!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was a positive surprise to me. The young cast did excellent acting here!The plot is original, fun and the jokes are cool. To teens seeing this movie is extra fun, because, after all, it is a movie about teens. So many cool scenes, so many cool jokes.The only negative aspect I could find is that, because the director wants to view so many people, who all play a leading role, the characters remain a little flat. When you're a Katie Holmes fan, (like me) or just enjoy cool and refreshing plots, this movie is a must see! "},{"Title":"Interesting, Pulp Fiction like, edge of you're seat cinamatic treat.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Extensive sex, drug use, profanity, and some violence, but still a very good mivie. Suspencefull, witty, and convoluted. The charicter, Simon, is hilarious, and so are Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf are very funny. If the things in the first sentence offend you, watch it just for the scene with the cop and his wife, it is great. Highly recomended. "},{"Title":"Fantastic.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented Go aggeeeez ago from the video store and here are my comments.This film is about a bunch of supermarket workers and the trouble they get into when it is they're free time. Simon Baines (Desmond Askew) gets into trouble when he touches prostitues in Los Angeles, while Claire (the sexy-terrific Katie Holmes) and Ronna (Sarah Polley) get into a drug mix-up in the city.Sarah Polley makes an impressive debut, Katie Holmes at her best and Taye Diggs in this smart role make it a perfect casting. While the direction is excellent, the cinematography great and the screenplay - awesome, the film is smart, sexy, intelligent, thrilling, full of action and brashly funny - what other reasons do you need to see it? GO! "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is one of the best movies that I saw in 1999 and is one of my all-time favorites.  The plot is like Pulp Fiction in that all three of the stories told intertwine to form a hell of a movie.  One of the stories revolves around an ecstasy deal one around a trip to Las Vegas and the last revolves around two gay soap opera stars.  Full of action and laughs, Go keeps you interested for the entire length of the movie(only 103 minutes).  There is some nudity and drug abuse so I wouldn't recommend this movie for those who are easily offended.  But for people who like dark comedies and action and for those who love to laugh I would definitely recommend Go, which I recommended to all of my friends and would not quit talking about it until they saw it.  "},{"Title":"A fun movie, unexpectedly good","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was hesitant to rent this movie, afterall, Katie Holmes and Scott Wolf were in it, and that is way too much Prime Time for me.....but I actually really liked this movie. Its a fun movie which keeps you guessing. I highly recommend it if you got nothing else to do, or you are in the mood for a crazy movie. "},{"Title":"Go for the gold","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has to be one of the most clever films made for the generation x'ers.  This incorporates many things that tens can relate to drugs, sex, money, parties and the consequences of them all.  Many have called this film a Pulp Fiction rip off, but I would like to look at it as a modified Pulp Fiction one made for teens who may not understand or enjoy the adult oriented jokes in Pulp Fiction.  Go is set up in a series of three short segments, each focusing on a different person's perspective on the same series of events.  The first story is about Ronna (Sarah Polley), a check out clerk at a supermarket who is about to get evicted before Christmas.  So she and her friends Manny and Claire (Nathan Bexton and Katie Holmes) try to sell drugs which they stole from a drug dealer (Timothy Olyphant).  The second story is about Simon(Desmond Askew), who also works with Ronna.  He offers to give her his shift so that he can go to Vegas with his friends Marcus, Sing, and Tiny (Ty Diggs, James Duval and Breckin Meyer).  And finally is the story about Zach and Adam (Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf) two actors who are trying to help bring down the drug dealer (Olyphant).  All of this may sound confusing but it all ties in wonderfully.  This is a bright and clever film that is amusing and somewhat serious at the same time.  The acting is brilliant.  Sarah Polley is a stand-out, best known as Sarah Stanley on the Canadian produced series Road to Avonlea.  And Wolf and Mohr are absolutely hilarious.    If you liked Pulp Fiction but thought it was far too violent then pick up this flick.  It still retains that element of the movie ending where it began that made Pulp Fiction famous and the same principle elements without all the blood and killings.  The language is still there but not in great quantity.  All in all, a wonderful film and a definite suprise hit.  I give this flick an 9 out of 10.  Go and see it!! "},{"Title":"Fast Paced Movie, Lots of Action, Great Acting","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What can I say, I watched this movie and within the first five minutes I had fallen in love with it. The role of Ronna had to be my favorite. She's hip she's trendy and she can flush pills down the toilet with the best of them! I was gripped by the whole movie. I rented it about 6 times in 2 weeks and then bought it once the price came down. I can still watch it and I'll never get tired, I repeat, NEVER get tired of this movie and it's memorable characters and a plot line that may be splotchy but is ran with the best of enthusiasm. I personally gave this movie a 10 because of the fact I can watch this over and over.  "},{"Title":"Hip, cool, stylish, sexy - need I say more?","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is achingly hip - Sarah, Katie, Jay, Desmond, Scott all turn in excellent performances with real attitude and style - they know that style in movies is often as important as substance yet they skimp on neither the plotlines are intriguing and inventive (obviously borrowing from Pulp Fiction, but there are worse things from which you can plagiarise), and the cast give depth to the Gen-Xers (or as much depth as they can have).The soundtrack is perfectly chosen and so are the actors - innocent, bewildering, bewitching, they know their characters and support a strong script.  If Doug Liman can produce more movies like this, he's going to be BIG. "},{"Title":"I loved it...","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved Go.  It kept me interested and always wondering what was going to happen.  The music was great.  I can't say that my mother would love it as much as I did, but only because it had to do with young people and drugs. I would recommend this movie to anyone who isn't old or stuffy. "},{"Title":"One of the most creative movies from one of the most creative directors!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved Go.  If you were a fan of Swingers, you too will love it. Directed by Doug Lyman, Go is a foray into the night life of a handful of 20 something's.  The pace is constantly moving and the dialogue is fresh and witty.  This was one of my favorite movies of the year and the performances are outstanding.  I highly recommend it!!! "}{"Title":"just good entertainment","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Let's get it over with, the comparisons between this and 'Pulp Fiction' will be made for many years to come.  And yes, this film is very much like the very famous oscar winning 'Pulp Fiction', but it also a very good movie in it's own right.  A further comparison with 'Pulp Fiction' is that it relies on a strong, diverse cast to pull off the complex(ish) story.  Taye Diggs, Scott Wolf and Sarah Polley are the best of a vey strong cast.  Indeed, each cast member has to perform well or key elements of the film will fail to reach the audience.  I can say they all pull it off and the end result is a very fast paced, very funny and moving film. "},{"Title":"Go and see it!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a cool movie. One of the best I've seen in awhile. One of those kick back and enjoy the ride films with non stop action and fun. Yes, the people in the film have little or no morals, but thats why we go to movies right? If we can't live the life ourselves, we can always escape to a movie and watch others doing it. Very enjoyable. 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Three stories, one night, many crazy lives.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a ride!  Go is easily the most original and spellbinding motion picture of 1999.  The performances all around are good but what really stands out is the direction and storyline and how it all interweaves.  The best way to describe Go to you is just tell you to watch it and then watch it again to see a bunch of things you missed the first time.  Go with Go is you need a sure fire fun comedy-adventure. "},{"Title":"What about Run Lola Run meets Trainspotting?","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have nothing to add other than Pulp Fiction wasn't the firstfilm I thought of when watching this. Run Lola Run was the firstthing that sprang to mind, then Trainspotting (the drug thing, Iguess). I'm not overly impressed with American Gen-X films, butthis was mildly entertaining and helped speed up a boringafternoon. If it had've been made ten years ago I'd have beenimpressed. 6/10.        "},{"Title":"very entertaining - destined to be a cult classic","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I first heard of Go when some music club sent me the soundtrack. After reading about it on the internet, I decided it was something I wanted to see. This film provides a great mix of action, drama, and comedy. The three different perspectives are masterfully intertwined, and for the most part, the acting is top-notch. The only thing that bothered me about this movie was Katie Holmes' character, who seemed like an afterthought and did not add much to the story.I rented Go on DVD, and was quite impressed with the extra content the DVD offers, including the trailer, three music videos, deleted scenes, and a short making of documentary. "},{"Title":"A movie about E!","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is three separate plots, all closely linked to each other by a series of unfortunate events.  Perceptions play a heavy role in the telling of this story, and things aren't quite what they seem as we move from one story to the next.  I have heard comparisons to Pulp Fiction for this film, and in terms of the narration, that is certainly the case.  Here is plot that jumps from the beginning to the end, and back to the beginning again. Go is actually a tame version of Pulp Fiction, at least in terms of the violence.  There is a drug deal that goes bad.  Meanwhile, a weekend in Las Vegas becomes a nightmare.  And a routine drug bust turns bizarre.  And while it is promised in many scenes, very little blood gets spilled. Sara Polley is a stand out here.  Moving away from playing children in Canada, she blossoms into a young adult, selling aspirin as ecstacy to unsuspecting teen agers.  Actually everyone in the film is great.  Go ranks up there as one of the better (maybe one of the best) youth oriented black comedies.  The lines in the film are often uproarious.  The storylines, like the title, continues to go and go. Anyone who has ever tried ecstacy might get an extra kick out of watching as the drug trade as it is portrayed against the backdrop of a rave party.   "},{"Title":"More than a Pulp Fiction wannabe","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go owes an obvious debt to Pulp Fiction, with its unusual continuity and interconnecting storylines.  The film cannot be dismissed as a mere rip-off, however, thanks to a terrific cast, a wildly funny script, and the manic, fast-paced direction of Doug Liman, who delivers a worthy follow-up to his magnificent Swingers.  The characters are all people we can like and relate to - an amazing feat, considering that they include drug dealers and takers, thieves, gamblers, and a few with decidedly unexpected sexual proclivities.  It's not predictable for a second, and - unlike far too many films in 1999 - isn't padded. A future cult movie.  (8/10) "},{"Title":"A frustrating waste of talent","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If I have to watch another movie of dead-end and deadened SoCal 20-somethings as they do stupid things for a night without ever thinking of the a) logical or b) responsible action they should be taking, I'm gonna scream.  And such plot contrivances!  The Brit getting it on with two bridesmaids after crashing a wedding reception -- right.  The drug dealer and the innocent waif screwing around on the stairs outside his apartment (just so the cat can come down, prompting us to realize 'oh, his door is open') -- right.  (If I'm THAT close to my front door, I think I'll go inside where it's more comfortable.)  And the two actors, wondering what to do with the unconscious body they know they hit ... call 911?  Drop her off at the emergency room?  I know they're supposed to be dumb and amoral, but sheesh.  (However, I now know that Scott Wolf will star in The Jon Cryer Story.)I loved Liman's Swingers, and it's obvious most of the people involved in this movie -- including, maybe, the scriptwriter -- have talent.  But this ain't the way to use it.  Give me After Hours.  Give me Pulp Fiction, Just Go somewhere else, and don't Come back. 4 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Trippy and energized, but could of been more potent","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO is like one long, hazy descent into the night world of drugs, violence, strip joints and pure delirium. It's structure is different for sure, but it also mirror's the one of Pulp Fiction. In fact, this movie owes a lot of credit towards Quentin Tarantino's masterpiece, both have that same energy and verve, and both seem to have that joltingly unconventional take on peoples lives and how they can intertwine. There is a lot of surreal moments in this movie, including a look into a guy's bizarre head trip when he's standing in a supermarket. It's biggest strength comes from it's momentum, it never seems to snap out of it's speedy state, almost like a music video. Ok, so it's events are a bit implausible, but no matter how pessmistic you are, the film just pulls you in and makes you feel every ounce of fun (or fear) the characters are experiencing. The performances are pretty strong, I never though Katie Holmes could actually be edgy, even with a role like this one, but Sarah Polley was definitely the stand out. So, what's exactly wrong with GO? The answer it pretty simple, it's just not powerful enough. Although it's fun, it's also pretty mild, there could of been oomph, and the results would of been truly impressive. It's still worth watching though, if you're looking for a wild ride, this is it. "},{"Title":"Go for broke","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As young actresses go, Sarah Polley's among the most  promising.  Her eyes never leave the object of their  inspection; they are the tools of a probing  intelligence.  They serve her very well in movies  like Exotica and especially The Sweet Hereafter.  But it's in Go that she uses her entire body to  convey something.  In this case, it's a kind of  world-weary exhaustion, and it's just that  exhaustion that motivates her to do something rash.  It's what sets everything in motion, and the movie  goes for broke from that moment on.Go is built on a narrative structure of multiple  perspectives.  A classic like Akira Kurosawa's  Rashomon comes to mind.  But here the audience is  not made fully aware; it takes a while to make sense  out of the story; and when you're just about to give  up on it--the second sequence needs to be  smarter--the movie grips you with its logic in a  very surprising, satisfying way.I never thought I'd be singing the praises of actors  like Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf, but that they are  not thoroughly annoying makes up a good deal of the  surprise in this movie.  They play actors who agree  to help catch drug dealers after getting caught with  illegal drugs themselves.  Although it isn't clear  until well into the third act of Go, they turn out  to be lovers, and the way they fit into the scheme  of things turns out to be the most inventive part of  the movie.  I have always had high regard for the  talents of William Fichtner after seeing him as  Brett Butler's quirky boyfriend in the TV sitcom  Grace Under Fire, and here he confirms the  admiration I have for him.  As the narc who has  everyone around him constantly doing double-takes, I  venture to say Fichtner is the funniest thing in  Go.Doug Liman has assembled a supporting cast of fresh,  lively, young actors.  The standout is Timothy  Olyphant whom we see from every possible facet I  think a shallow character has to display--from  brooding to menacing to sexy to sweet to vulnerable  to scared to juvenile.  Desmond Askew has a wickedly  skewed smile (He looks like he's ready to take on anything.), and the kindest thing I can say about Katie Holmes (who I probably would know if I could bring myself to watch Dawson's Creek) is that she knows how to deliver a good line when she's given one.Based on the virtues of Go, I might rent Doug  Limon's Swingers.  I look forward to his next  movie. "}{"Title":"TANTRA, BABY!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The glitz of a rave is what influences this movie, it is also the sort of definition of this time-twisting, oddly beautiful, bright and dimensional sophomore film of Doug Liman, who, as he did with SWINGERS, uses a brilliant script to smother his exhilirating vision with.This is an ensemble piece which may be compared with the likes of PULP FICTION, but it has a whole rave-generation feel of its own, not to mention this is anything BUT a teen film. It's almost like setting the kids of AMERICAN GRAFFITI out in stylish and fun misadventures involving crime, drugs, strippers, and money. All in the rhythm of the moment, a practice of indulgence. That's how I see John August titling his after-dark masterpiece, GO.Sarah Polley is always, always wonderful and she blends in well with the neon, candy-colored intimacy of GO. Doing a much better job than the boring, out-of-place Katie Holmes. Polley is smart and deceiving and (my God!!) beautiful under whichever mask she wears in a film.Also outstanding is the hilariously cocky Brit William Fichtner and the suave, level-headed Taye Diggs, along with the perfect-as-a-nice drug dealer Timothy Olyphant and his menacing eyebrows.How this never became a hit in theaters, I'll never know. But it is a sure cult fave, no matter if you're a rave fanatic or not. Also, Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf give their most convincing performances in the most fitting roles yet!Bravo for Liman who uses his film to remix the plot structure and sync the edit effects with the pulsing music. "},{"Title":"Quit Comparing This To PULP FICTION It's A Ripoff Of see below","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go isn't a Pulp Fiction clone, except for those who never saw Tarantino's far better Reservoir Dogs.PF played havoc with the time/space continuum, while Reservoir Dogs gives us the same scenario from several characters' angles.Go, however, steals from both, in a Gen~X setting.And almost pulls it off.Here's the deal, timewiseIn the beginning there was the word ~ and the word was multiple~angle~film.Then came the begats.Kubrick's excellent 1956 film The Killing, despite its somewhat awful cast Vince Edwards?? was the first to view a botched robbery from three perspectives.Which begat Jim Jarmusch's superior Mystery Train 1989, another let's look at this evening from three different angles.Which begat Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs and decidedly NOT Pulp Fiction.And which, after all is plaid and fun, begat Liman's Go.This isn't a great film, as the above proves that it's an utter rip-off... but the performances are superior, which added to my rating.Billed as a comedy, it isn't all that funny apart from the unexpected AMWAY~clone sceneAs an action film which clearly wasn't Liman's intent it actually works, to a degree.And as a thriller, it nearly succeeds.But not quite.  Although there are some cool ideas, most are expected.Rent this, then rent Reservoir Dogs to see the point.~Niro "},{"Title":"What Pulp Fiction would have been if it was any good...","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie makes you wonder why people were so in love with Pulp Fiction. Go has many of the elements that worked in Fiction, but added several more, including a plot, scenes that made sense and a resolution.The concept of several characters' stories launching from a single point in the plot was ingenious.  The varied camera angle lets you know you're not just seeing the same scene again.  It is, of course, reminiscent of Fiction's round-about timing (the only enjoyable part of that overrated abomination).Another similarity is the tone of the humor -- dark, very dark. Fortunately, though, I didn't feel dirty after watching and laughing at Go.  The characters in this film also spent a lot less time pontificating and more time actually doing things on screen. "},{"Title":"Enough hip already...","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was at its best when it wasn't trying to be so hip. All that hip-talk just distracted from the story. Otherwise, it was rather fun...except the whole middle part that was just made up to make it Feature-length car chase (yaaawn); mob-type with braindead sidekick (yaaaaawn); guns (yaaaawn). So, watch the beginning, skip all that crap in the middle and watch the end. Then, you've got a good 45-minutes  "},{"Title":"A teen flick that really isn't","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some may blow this off as a teen flick, especially after seeing recently released crap like She's All That and Varsity Blues. Go offers wit and wildness to an other wise dull line of recent teen flicks ( Besides Cruel Intentions, great movie ). It offers a talented script, director, and cast, and a fresh way of storytelling. It intertwines three stories of one day, intelligently and enjoyably. You can have your stupidity ( the high guy in the produce section ) and you can have your thrills ( a vegas chase and more ). Go has a lot to offer, so don't blow it off as a teen flick. Hopefully you'll find it thoroughly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"PULP FICTION GO Lightly","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO bears some structural resemblance to PULP FICTION.  It's non-linear structure and it's drugs and violence subject matter make comparison inevitable, though there's considerably less violence and (spoiler) a Hollywood ending.  There's even a gun in a car scene that one fears will end in the same way it does in FICTION.  GO is enlivened by sharp editing and good performances by the ensemble cast.  Cameo by Jane Krakowski (of TV's ALLY McBEAL) is all too short.  Director thankfully leaves audience to fill in some of the blanks, which makes this a film to ponder, even for the MTV set. Screenwriter neatly works the title word into the plot to surprising effect.  Go rent GO.  See GO rent.  Go GO go! "},{"Title":"Finally, a great movie about today's youth!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Being one of the few people who actually saw this movie in the theater, I was pleasently surprised to find that someone finally made an intelligent, humorous, fun movie about youth. The entire film kept me on the edge of my seat, wondering what the hell was going to happen next. Though sometimes far-fetched, I found that most of the movie was quite believeable. Katie Holmes' acting is superb. "},{"Title":"Rip off, perhaps, but a good one","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just saw Go and think I had more fun watching it than I've had watching any movie in a long time.  The story smacks of Pulp Fiction, but I didn't mind that much.  This movie has its boring moments, but I thought the laughs that were there more than made up for them.  Go does perhaps glorify drug use, but this movie is meant to be more playful than preachy... and no, the writing isn't as clever as Pulp Fiction, but it has its moments.  And the acting isn't fantastic, but look at the budget  1/5 that of Pulp Fiction, and Hollywood is fresh out of actors willing to do an indy film to boost their career.  I suspect this movie wouldn't be able to support a second viewing, but if you're willing to turn off your v-chip and have fun with a movie, Go is a good bet. "},{"Title":"Failed attempt at cutting edge filmmaking","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After viewing Go last night, I was very surprised to find the usually on target viewer voting to be a shockingly high 8. Yes this film was more clever than all the rest of the mainstream bull s**t Hollywood puts out there, but Go's masogonsitic, flashy, youth sterotypes flattens it down to the likings of Instinct, Tarzan, The General's Daughter or whatever medicore, but entertaining films Hollywood always puts out. I would expect more from the director of Swingers, who showed such individuality in the direction and storytelling in Swingers (the answering machine scene was just classic avant guarde cinema). But to rely so much on a weak Pulp Fiction/ Jackie Brown type storyline was just sickening. I wouldn't mind if he pulled it off successfully, but Go just didn't cut it. Simon, Todd and all the rest of these flat characters are the embodiment of Gen X, hedonistic we're only here for ourselves type characters. That would fine, it flew over well in Pulp Fiction and Kids, but Go was such a cheap attempt to pull in horny frat boys and stupid druggies with its silly sex and drug scenarios. The female characters were just complete embodiments of every guy-guys perceptions of how women should act -- like hedonistic,horny men. (examples Hotel Girls, Strippers,police officer's wife, Sara Polley's character, and unfortunately, by the end, Katie Holmes' character too). What was up with Katie's suddenly going from virgin to sexpot? Drugs don't last that long, especially in regards to a guy (Todd) who wants to kill your friend! The gay actors/police men story was just stupid, low and a major insult to the audience's intelligence. Though the actors did the best they could, Taye Diggs gave the only memorable performance. And of all Go's low attempts at humor, only the check out girl dancing to the Macronai had any bite. Go just didn't have the humanity, wit, and uniqueness of Swingers, or the type of Tarantino film it tried to be. "},{"Title":"preview in the UK","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this will do well when it opens here.  Perhaps this is recycling Tarantino, but it is Tarantino teen movie and so the Army of young Quentin fans at least get to roll with their peers for once and a life which they may find familiar.  Some scenes were redundant and there for laughs alone but on the whole the sum of the parts was a satisfying ride through a crazy weekend.  I would however recommend that if you like this film you see a little British offering called 'Human Traffic' which is very similar to the first part but much, much funnier without moral judgement on the ecstacy scene and overall has less of the MTV generation slick and more authenticity "}{"Title":"See this!!!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An awesome version of teen's Pulp Fiction of sort...see this!!  Slow start, but makes up for it (to say the least!!) "},{"Title":"Go is not a rip-off of Pulp Fiction, dear friends, but it does come quite close to...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all, if you're reading these comments before seeing this film--you're probably not the kind of person who needs to see it.  So stop now and trust the message--it's quite a great little work of art.For all those lovely QT fans amongst us please let's clear the air about to what film Go plays homage.  (That's right, no rip-off.  That's been done.  This is a good movie, no doubt about it, so it's paying homage.) That film is not Pulp Fiction though.  It's Jackie Brown.  If ya want to talk about   the concept of crucial plot point revelation through 3 concurrent character viewpoints, JB is the film.  In Pulp, although crucial plot points were developed through separate overviews, their effectiveness and beauty are based on the fact that they are NOT concurrent.  They only fit together in the viewer's perception after the movie is completed, not during it, filling in the gaps.  It's in Jackie Brown that the Go plot device was invented.  (By the way, see that movie too.)This is not to say that the spirit of Pulp Fiction is not here. For example, compare the Amway scene here to Pulp's Bonnie Situation.  I don't know about you, but I sense a similarity of affect, even though in Pulp it's deeper and richer.  Not to mention good drug acting.Anyway, this movie deserves a few viewings, just like QT's.  And if you have not seen Go yet, maybe you should try writing a review.  "},{"Title":"Bye-bye, Tarantino!","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Someone has written, that Go resembles Tarantino... Frankly, this it MUCH more lively and ALIVE, than any of the Tarantino wrap-arounds. He might be the one to have brought the mechanics of the style, but nothing more. Bye-bye, Tarantino, there ARE people, who can take care of the cinema.... "},{"Title":"Great Performances","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go was well acted by every member of the cast, but a couple of performances were particularly stellar.Burke played by William Fichtner was masterfully done. The character was the embodiment of a domineering, authority-drunk police officer tempered by the necessary self-restraint required to get along in the world. I could almost feel the internal conflict inside the character from my theatre chair.Another sublime performance was done by Jimmy the Makeup Guy's female roommate (I couldn't figure out her character name in the cast list). She answers the door, sees the gay couple in the doorway, and we see the ramifications seep in. Great stuff!! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An awesome, exhilarating story of a drug deal gone bad.  A great soundtrack, fantastic characters and great cinematography makes this film a keeper! "},{"Title":"one of the best movies so far in 1999","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  best movie i've seen in 99 (i've yet to see star wars). it's a shame to hear how little this made at the boxoffice  the 2nd part of the movie is awesome "},{"Title":"One of the better Pulp-Fiction clones out there","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although the format of the edgy storyline mixed with clever dialogue has already been established and ripped off many times, Go is the best i've seen yet.  Doug Liman has a knack for  tipping his hat to Mr. Tarantino, and Go works more as a sequel to Pulp Fiction than a standalone film.  It has the same outline of Pulp (3 stories all related to one story) and has the same Tarantino-esque quirks.  But despite this, the plot and dialogue more than make up for it (i've found myself saying Professional Curiosity, what are you on? a lot  "},{"Title":"Situations seen from 3 different and interesting perspectives...","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you have seen Quentin Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction, you may recognize the same pattern in this movie. Go is about situations seen from 3 different and interesting perspectives and somehow the 3 perspectives are brilliantly linked together at the ending of the movie. That makes the movie very entertaining. But This is not why I like the movie. It's the conversations. Truly interesting and funny!  "},{"Title":"Ready or not get ready to Go","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A neat late 90's version format of Pulp  Fiction.  I mention format because both  movies are totally different except for  format.  Which is one story line looked  through the views of different people.  I  have heard of Swingers but never seen  it.  I might have to since I like Go.   Funny and entertaining.  I always liked  Sarah Polley who always seemed to get  better and better with each movie she  does.  Then you add adorable Katie Holmes,  a wild ride on the X drug, a cat who  speaks to you in Subtitles, a burning Las  Vagas bed and two gay soap opera guy stars  who believes the other has a girlfriend.   Funnier still is the cop wanting to sell  those gay guys Amway.  Other notes   Desmond Askew as the British Simon and  Timothy Olyphant as the drug dealer Todd.   I love art movies and Doug Liman get this  one ready to Go. "},{"Title":"A movie all parents should see.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The young lady at the ticket window was probably surprised when my wife and I bought tickets for GO.  We're hardly the target audience we have children who are older than most of the cast members, and we are fairly typical small town central Texas Baptists.But every once in a while we deliberately seek out a movie that's not the kind of thing we usually see.  As they say on Monty Python, And now for something completely different.........And that's what GO was.  The world the film depicts, centered around raves and aimlessness, is as foreign to us as reading Margaret Mead.But there was a tremendous intelligence in the writing and directing, and the plot continued to surprise us with one twist and turn after another. Events are shown from three points of view, and each shift of perspective adds a new dimension.  This is as fine a young cast as any director in the world could have hoped for.  It's a shame they don't give Oscars for ensemble work.More importantly, GO is a movie that all parents should see.  See it not to judge the world of industrial music and instant gratification, but rather to get some understanding of this world.  I'm a teacher of at-risk kids who have had serious run-ins with the law.  Many, many of their parents would have seen a movie like GO and said that it was interesting but My kid wouldn't.......But their kid did.And parents should know that just because GO is set in Los Angeles and Las Vegas, that doesn't mean that there are no drugs and crime in other places. The events in Colorado a couple of weeks ago made a lie out of the 'It can't happen here' delusion.  "}{"Title":"Just like pulp fiction. That means it's good","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is the best film of 1999 thus far. i love this film because it reminded me of Pulp Fiction. The scene changes and plot lines were very similar but the best thing about it was it showed great young talent. I thought the writer of this film had a great idea. He put teens in serious roles. I have not seen Swingers yet so i can't compare it, but Doug Liman knows how to work a camera. This film has bombed at the box-office but it is one of the best reviewed films of the year. It's not a surprise that it has. It had great acting, great script, and great direction.The acting shocked me a bit because a lot of the people in it broke away from their previous work.  Katie Holmes of Dawson's Creek gives a funny performance as Claire. She was able to break away from her role on Dawson's Creek and give a good performance. Scott Wolf of Party of Five made an excellent transition from T.V. to film. He supplies the film with most of its comic relief. Jay Mohr is also funny as Scott's partner in crime. Don't waste any time go see Go. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Teenage Pulp Fiction? Maybe not.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What many are doing, is comparing this film to Pulp Fiction, but what many don't understand is the meaning of this landmark film. Pulp Fiction based itself around a postmodernistic theme, concentrating on pop culture icons as the heroes of the characters generation. Although there are some aspects of GO which do follow a postmodern view, such as the, what seems to be casual conversation, the many voices held by different sexes and races, and the consumerism theme (grocery store). But there is not as much depth to the film, Pulp Fiction is not all about Drugs and Sex, it is about the effects of these aspects and the influences it has on our lives in the pop culture postmodern world. The point Go seems to get across is though perhaps at times creative, and sparks some themes for the teeny bopper generation, but takes its ideas completely from Pulp Fiction, and does not portray them as effectively or creatively. This is not for the older, intellectual viewer, but could be praised by the teenagers as a cool film. "},{"Title":"Funny, quirky and a nice surprise.","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I guess the easiest way to describe Go is a GenX version of Pulp Fiction. It doesn't quite live up to Tarantino's lurid black comedy but it also doesn't fall into the Tarantino-hack trap like Albino Alligator and Truth or Consequences, NM. The characters are likable, the performances are engaging and there are enough twists and turns in the non-linear narrative to keep you on your toes. Sarah Polley has a weird Uma Thurman thing going on (which is a good thing) -- her character Ronna is tough, smart and likable. A solid effort all around and a pleasant surprise on a Saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Not a bad Tarantino-esque picture!","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Pulp Fiction was obviously a groundbreaking film, and with groundbreaking films comes less groundbreaking ripoffs.  We've had a long list of Pulp Fiction 2's that don't measure up to the original.  It seems that the only type of movies that can rip off Pulp Fiction and still capture the essence of what made the first so good are movies directed by Quentin Tarantino and/or based on an Elmore Leonard novel (2 Days in the Valley was amusing, but lacked depth and thought).  That's why Go is such a pleasure.  Sure, it's predictable at times (the no hands rule with the champagne was broken?  I saw that coming from a mile away) and at times a little hokey (Did Simon really need to discover Tantra in the hotel room?), but it still has what makes Pulp Fiction so great  Witty dialogue (the discussion about the Family Circus comic strip is hilarious) and a complex plot that interwieves its characters perfectly.  I hope that director Doug Liman and screenwriter John August do more projects in the future, hopefully together. "},{"Title":"GO!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Assured, surprising, humorous, serious -- the real goods.  Best of the year so far. "},{"Title":"Steals from good sources","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very enjoyable though not very original.  Film is influenced, as many have noted, by Pulp Fiction (both in story-telling structure, as well as subject matter - drugs, petty crime, generic mobsters who are more thoughtful, talkative and forgiving than the real thing).  Other likely influences, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, the Hunter Thompson novel, maybe the title was lifted from Go, the fairly famous beat novel by John Clellon Holmes (has roughly the same plot - crazy gang of alienated people on the move, hungry for trouble and experience).What I liked was the pace, look, sound and beat of this movie.  Director keeps everything moving with dark, neon-LA night look, reminded me of being young and on drugs again.  Movie is not much deeper than a teenager on drugs, but that is its whole appeal, the feel of being young, irresponsible and hungry for trouble, stays light, doesn't take self too seriously. Scene with high school kid on ecstasy having conversation with cat was especially funny.  Cast is young and gorgeous, performances generally excellent, sign of good directing and writing.  Very well written and directed.  Seamless.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was very enjoyable.  I was not bored at all.  It was an interesting format, to flash from one character to the next.  And the film fit together nicely.  Definitely worth paying full price for at the theatre.  "},{"Title":"A welcome change from the ordinary. Tons of fun.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  From the director of Swingers comes a unique little film about the life-altering adventures of three main groups of people over the period of one night.At the center of the movie is Sarah Polley, a very talented and beautiful young actress who doesn't get top billing, but is definitely what makes this movie worth watching. Go is written and directed in a very Tarantino fashion, cutting back and forth between the separate stories of the characters, but at one point, they all come together. While it is done in that fashion, it is thankfully spared the over-baked dialogue and over-the-top profanity that plagues Tarantino's scripts, and it prevents this movie from getting tiresome.Entertaining, energetic, and different, I think that sums up Go. It is well acted by all involved (except in some parts where Katie Holmes arrogantly over-acts) and some of the dialogue is classic. The script suffers a bit because of all the plot-shifting and the number of characters introduced in such a small amount of time. But overall, it's just a lot of fun.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a wonderful movie about the life of a bunch of kids. It tells the dangers of drugs in a funny fresh way. Katie Holmes does the Good girl who'll never do anything wrong job as she does on 'Dawson's Creek' Sarah Polley is great also. It's hard to believe she's the same girl as on 'Road to Avonlea' What a Wonderful movie! A must see!  "},{"Title":"A three part movie worthy of viewing","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie was entertaining with movie actors that are not name stars. The three different parts of the movie reminded me of Rashoman but each episode was unique instead of the same story with a different ending. "}{"Title":"Clever and Wicked","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is simply a fantastic movie, that subtly draws the audience into the complexities of the plot and, once it has our attention, never lets loose until the final frame.  Also, it is a very good-natured film, with a genial attitude toward all its characters, a forgiving, tongue-in-cheek tolerance of the most outrageous and dangerous behavior that finally is extremely winning.  It is this season's Wild Things, a naughty pleasure not to be missed.    "},{"Title":"GO-Trench coat Mafia connection!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have heard people saying that the reason those kids at Columbine HS did what they did was because of the movie GO.  I don't think that it is true. The movie is very funny and is a comedy, and there is stuff with guns, but it is done in a humorous manner.  I think kids' parents should not be afraid to let their children see this movie. "},{"Title":"Overhyped Pulp spawn, has its moments","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Doug Liman, the director of SWINGERS, (the only male-centered feel-good comedy that actually works), has considerable skill, but alas, he doesn't quite know how to utilize it properly. Aping a certain 1994 masterpiece just won't do it. GO is the kind of film audiences would expect Quentin to make on a yearly basis, but he doesn't need to. Fawning imitators will take on the job. A free-form adaptation of PULP for Generation Y, complete with three intersecting storylines named after their characters make Liman look like an amateur in comparison with the original. While the first two segments, detailing the exploits of youthful drug dealers and joyriders in Vegas, baby, Vegas, contain the bulk of originality and talent, in the third one, GO runs out of steam completely, and does what Tarantino would never allow himself a half-baked resolution which loses all of the precious momentum and the pulsating, trippy exhilaration of the first half. The unfunny misadventures of two gay undercover cops have absolutely nothing to do with the teen trio we see in the opening (repeated a la JACKIE BROWN, but much sloppier) supermarket scene. The last episode, as the trailers widely misled us to believe, should have centered around Kathie Holmes, who is alloted about 10 minutes of screen time. What happened to her we just kissed a little line, clearly featured in the previews (looks like her part was hacked). If not for the nonsense Liman offers us instead, the movie could have been what everyone anticipated a supremely enjoyable exercise in someone else's style.  "},{"Title":"Go, Flawed but Enjoyable","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Overall, Go is a good but not a great film. The camera work was superb. The dialogue is realistic. The story however, had some serious structural problems. The biggest flaw with this film is the narrative introduces us to some fascinating characters then abandons them to follow others just as we get interested in finding out what is going to happen. Then when it is time to bring everyone back for the finish the writer seemed to get lazy and settled for what my friends and I like to call a, neat and tidy ending. Liman spends far too much time concentrating on the Zack and Adam (Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf) subplot, when the real gold was in the Vegas story with excellent performances from Taye Diggs and Desmond Askew as two guys out on the town in Las Vegas who run into far more excitement then they expected. Another small problem is that the script expends far too much energy on characters that, while entertaining, have no real purpose. Liman and August could have easily removed 4 characters and not affected the feel of the film one bit, nor would it have affected the plot. Then time and energy could have been spent fleshing out the weak third act, and the abrupt feel-good ending that is totally inconsistent with the tone of the film.The hardest part of non-linear storytelling is bringing all the threads back together in a way that not only resolves all the plot points, but also rewards the audience for paying attention putting up with the momentary confusion that occurs when the story jumps around in the arc. Unfortunately the threads in Go never get brought back together in a satisfactory way.I know this sounds like I hated the film but I didn't, there was much to like about Go. The performances of all the actors were well done. The music was excellent; I particularly loved the remix of Steppenwolf's Magic Carpet Ride during a well-filmed Chase sequence. Liman seems to have a classic case of sophomore slump here the film has a lot of potential but misses the mark mainly because it tried to accomplish too much.Go fails at trying to bring a too many stories together on screen. Part of the reason Swingers was such a success was that the director did an effective job of making the audience feel like they were voyeurs in real people's lives. That effect is in Go as well, but the pacing, the sheer number of supporting characters and the non-linear style of the film leaves the audience expecting more at the end then the film delivers.Fans of Liman should see this film, and Generation X and Y should enjoy the dialogue and the flashy story telling style, but non-film buffs will be underwelmed. I give it a C+  "},{"Title":"a great movie with a lot of young stars and more people should see it","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best movie for a long while. Sarah Polley is so good in that movie and co-starring the beautiful Katie Holmes who is also very good in it. She shares most of her scenes with Scream 2 killer Timothy Olyphant who plays a drug dealer. Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr play two gay actors who are so funny. This movie is a must see! "},{"Title":"Not-so pulp of a fiction","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sure, OK, the direction and the writing is a rip on Pulp Fiction.  But it's not like Tarantino has a patent on his movie style.  The story in Go is good enough to stand on its own, without being dismissed as a cheap paraphrase.Nevertheless, I will compare it to Pulp Fiction.  It virtually copies Tarantino with its three-story structure, its amusing dialogue-commentary on pop culture in the backseats of cars and its underground, drug-using setting.  All that is fine.  But the ending is absurd.  Everything is summarized like a thirty-minute sitcom, everyone is happy and there is no sense of a profound change in any of the characters' lives.  See this movie, but forget the last five minutes.  "},{"Title":"I was on the edge of my seat","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Whew, it's over. If you have a heart condition don't go see Go. Great plot and fabulous tongue-in-cheek acting make this a joy to watch. Stand-out role is, of course, (Sarah Polley). Watch out for her. With a lot of youngsters out there making medium to poor movies it's refreshing to see something this good. The inside jokes in this movie are great. The Pulp Fiction comparisons you see in popular print are warranted. This one is bound to be a cult classic of the nth degree.    "},{"Title":"Not as Pulp Fiction as you might think.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It seems now that Pulp Fiction was made, any type of movie that has a fast paced L.A. based plot is Pulp Fictionish.  That isn't  the case with GO.  Although the movie is replayed over again with different point of views, it seems to have a uniqueness to it that makes it quite enjoyable.  The scene to watch for in  this flick is the Las Vegas tale.It is high energy and you won't  believe how simple Doug Liman puts you in suspense.  Only  disappointment of the movie was not enough Katie  "},{"Title":"The most fun I've had all year","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I know a movie is great by how often I feel like cheering as I watch it. (Not a very scientific approach, but oh well).  I felt that way a lot during Doug Liman's Go, a lot more than his first film, which was Swingers.If Pulp Fiction was a mix between James Brown and Jean-Luc Godard, Go would be a heady drink with R.E.M., Massive Attack and--um--Jean Renoir? Maybe I'm reaching, but La Règle du jeu came to mind more than once while I was watching this sophisticated, precision comedy.A car chase set to a remix of Magic Carpet Ride seems a little coy, but you probably won't mind it.  Same with the overly clever starts-where-it-finishes approach to storytelling, and the obvious cutting which spells out in neon signs, Hey!  This is a different story, but it begins with the same set-up!Aside from that, what won me over were Liman and screenwriter John August's embellishment's.  My favorite (and probably a lot of other people's) was the telepathic cat; I also liked the Macarena sequence, the cop with a hidden, hidden agenda, the four Vegas-goers who scare off and (traces of Kevin Smith) later must win back the aid of a five-year old boy, and the British guy's discovery of Tantric sex.  There are many, many risky plot elements and sequences, a few just a little contrived, but most manage to work.  In the end, the plot clears up and blooms rather nicely, and I felt it was time well spent.  "},{"Title":"No, it's not like Pulp Fiction. It's like Swingers. And it's a go.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a go. It's about several teens and twenty-somethings, with several plot lines starting at a supermarket and interchanging throughout the movie. We have here drugs, sex, violence--well, these are the Nineties. But the good news is that this is not a contender in Tarantino's blood fest--hello, nobody dies. It is--however--deranged, suspenseful, smart, funny, believable, and easy on the brain. It's like Swingers, only rougher.  "}{"Title":"Like Pulp Fiction but funnier!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The style of the film reminded me of Pulp Fiction, but I found this script to be funnier and less graphic.  The cast is very attractive, especially Taye Diggs, who I think is one of the best looking guys on the screen today. I hope we see more of him!  A lot more!  "},{"Title":"An excellent follow-up to 'Swingers'","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's nice to see teen stars star in a movie that doesn't fall into this genre of terrible teeny-bopper films that are plaguing Hollywood.So far, Doug Liman is batting 1.000 with his two latest movies; 1996's 'Swingers' (one of my favorites) and 'Go' (now one of my favorites).  Liman really knows how to direct young'uns and their different problems in L.A...and Vegas baby.  I was very pleased with this movie, it was definitely worth the outrageous ticket prices these days.  'Go' was well written, acted, and told...a much needed original breath of fresh air in the Hollywood crap-fest that is 'teen movies.'  Sadly, though, this movie is way too different and original to make it big...a salute to Doug Liman to restoring my faith in movies made for my generation...for now.Funny, surprising, different.  In a word great. "},{"Title":"The second best film in the Pulp Fiction Era","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Lots of films try to make a film with many different characters and different interlocking stories, many of failed, but then there's Go. I thought Go was a great film, and was enjoyable to watch. Every character worked well, especially with many of the actors being unknowns, but there are the few big names (i.e Jay Mohr, Katie Holmes, Scott Wolf) then there are the breakthrough performances of Sarah Polley (not exactly) but very much Taye Diggs, be sure to see him in more films.GO will not be seen be many because of the drug use, and sexual content, but it's not the case, the film has few scene of drug use, and the sex scenes are short and show little to offend many.  "},{"Title":"Immortal Druggies?","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An excellent movie, despite the lack of a reality check.  Ronna (Sarah Polley) could have easily died from getting hit by a car, thrown into a ditch, abandoned, and later dropped a few times (when rescue was attempted). Mannie (Nathan Bexton) very possibly may have overdosed on two doses of Ecstasy.In my opinion, the life/death aspect of the drug/crime world was portrayed quite mercifully...  "},{"Title":"Good flick, Go see this movie!!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I caught a glimpse of the trailer for this one, and put it on my list of movies that might be interesting to see.I am so glad that I did.  The movie is fast-paced, invigorating and original.  Forget Pulp Fiction.. who really wants to see an overweight John Travolta dancing in the middle of a restaurant anyway.  This movie features lots of young talent that you have seen in different things, but you've never seen them like this. The movie takes a bit of getting used to, but once you can catch your breath, it goes on a roller coaster ride that comes to such a satisfying end, you are ready to get in line to experience it all over again.  It is a bit violent, but it is never over the top as it is in some of Tarantino's films.  It seems to fit into the action well.Yes, Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr play gay characters.  A friend who saw it with me was unaware that they were gay until halfway through the movie!!four and a half stars out of five "},{"Title":"Why I liked Go...","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like dark humor, ie Pulp Fiction, then this movie is for you.  The script was great and I loved the camera shots.  You also get a sense of closure as everything comes together in the end.  I recommend you to go see Go.  "},{"Title":"Go see this movie.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one wild ride of a movie.  The plot is fast, funny, and dark.  The characters are all interesting even if you aren't a twenty-something (and I'm certainly not).  The ensemble acting clicks and there is not a bad performance in the lot.  Much has been made of the Tarantino influence but that's not a bad thing when it is done nearly as well as Tarantino.  Yeah, there's a lot of drugs and bad language and, yeah, we know that not all young people are like these characters, but who cares?  The movie is not about all young people--it's about how people can make unwise choices that spiral out of control so fast they can't even begin to see the consequences that are about to run over them.  And, if I didn't make it clear--this movie is one of the funniest movies I have seen in years for those who are willing to go with it.  "},{"Title":"A terrific movie!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an exciting, witty, surprising, energetic and totally amazing movie. Forget the comparisons to Tarantino. This a true original. What a refreshing change after all the WW2/Elizabethan bores of last year! "},{"Title":"The Best Film So Far in 1999!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go **** (out of ****)I was disappointed with a movie I was really looking forward to titled The Matrix, but then I got a treat later that weekend with this small yet huge film Go, an amazingly entertaining feast of a movie that's the best so far this year.What a movie for such a small title! I thought the title was stupid at first but I'm glad it has it because that's all this movie does...GO!There are three different plots surrounded in a movie with characters that have their own uniqueness. The first one concerns drug embezzling, the second involves a guy and his friends doing dirty business in Las Vegas, and the third one involves two gay men who get into a scary situation of supposedly hitting down a woman with their car.The second story is the best. It has the most laughs, most entertainment, and is overall the most enjoyable. I am a huge fan of Katie Holmes, so her performance in the beginning story (and then a little bit later in the movie)was a real treat for me. The best performance was from Sarah Polley, who should be getting lots more attention in Hollywood after her extraordinary performance in this.I advise everyone see Go. I embarrassed myself laughing so loudly in the theater and I'm glad I did because it was worth it. Wow what a movie! See it. "},{"Title":"'Go' An offbeat toss-up of Pulp Fiction and Rashomon","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is comically compared to two classics Quentin Tarantino's 1994 Pulp Fiction and Akira Kurosawa's 1954 Rashomon.  Compared to Pulp Fiction, the violence is supposed to be funny.  For example, two gay cops (Scott Wolf, Jay Mohr) run a store clerk/drug dealer (Sarah Polley) off the road and into a ditch.  The audience laughs.  Unlike Pulp Fiction, Go has plenty of scattered laughs.  Compared to Rashomon, Go is about a situation told from three different point of views.  In this case, it's about a drug dealing told from three different point of views.Polley is the store clerk who is in desperate need of cash and decides to deal drugs because she needs to pay her rent.  Two friends (Taye Diggs, Desmond Askew) get into big trouble in Las Vegas and must flee back to Los Angeles.Strong supporting performances by Katie Holmes (Disturbing Behavior), Breckin Meyer, William Fichtner, and Timothy Olyphant fuels Go.  My evaluation *** out of ****. "}{"Title":"Way to Go!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another one of those, look how many things can go wrong movies. Difference here is you actually get pulled into the story and characters, and hope that they just make it through the night.  Expertly written, acted, and directed! One more thing, I was told not to compare this movie to Pulp Fiction. But hey what the hell, it was a younger generations Pulp Fiction! Ha! "},{"Title":"Go is well written and directed, has a great cast of well acted interesting characters, is action filled, and laugh outloud funny.  What more could you ask for?","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I guess you can tell I enjoyed Go---so much that I saw it twice.  John August's has written a basic story presented three separate times from three protagonists in the film and yet melling them together precisely and without seeming repetitive is an interesting and somewhat unique technique.  Doug Liman's direction was also fantastic with the blend of action, hilarious scenes and dialogue, good cinema tography, good use of talent, and great musical score.  Go has an ensemble of GREAT young talent similar to the film 200 Cigarettes but MUCH better used.  It is really difficult to pick one actor/character that I thought was the best.  I don't want and have avoided so far giving away the plot.  I will say that Sarah Polley as Ronna, the hard boiled checkout girl and would be drug dealer was very good.  Jay Mohr as Zack and Scott Wolfe as Adam, soap stars and lovers were excellent as well. But even better were Desmond Askew as a zany Brit, store clerk, drug dealer, tourist, and more.  Timothy Olyphant as Todd, an offbeat, quirky character further up the drug ladder was fantastic. And lastly William Fichtner as undercover cop on a drug sting who is at the very least zany, hard to understand in a double-entendre sort of way in a small part may have been the best.  The basic plot is rather simple but the writing, direction, and great cast and acting made for completely enjoyable entertainment. Now I don't think this is Best Picture material but you'll be hard pressed to see a better one hour and forty five minutes. Four stars for enjoyment!!!!  GO!!!!     "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction meets Raving Youth","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As Roger Ebert pointed out, Pulp Fiction and Go are two very different films, but it's difficult to watch the latter without thinking of the former. That's not necessarily a bad thing.Although Pulp Fiction inspired countless inferior imitators, Go is a fresh and original film with a distinctly youthful vibe. Good acting, good writing and great direction by Doug Liman far surpassed any imitators I've seen since Pulp.Go isn't technically an imitator, either. It just has certain similarities. See this movie. It's very well done. I'm a self-proclaimed film snob and I liked it a lot. It's not for everyone, of course, but what is? Watch for Liman. After Swingers and Go, his future looks bright. "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie would have gotten a Perfect 10, if it weren't for the blatant rip-off of Pulp Fiction's story design.  Otherwise, the funniest movie YTD. "},{"Title":"Exuberantly directed, Go packs a wholloping good punch.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you enjoyed Doug Liman's previous film, `Swingers,' then I think his newest offering will provide you with some of the same perplexing nuance and style.  There is much to like about `Go!' and not much to dislike. I will let you know up front that I have been anticipating this film for about a year, and I was not at all disappointed.There are several really fine performances in `Go!' and really no bad ones. Among the top is the chatty due of Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr.  The pairing of the two is exquisite and full of lovely ironies and hidden meanings that do not blossom until the second half of the film.  Sarah Polley gives a worthy performance, calm assuredness and desperation rolled into two big eyes. Take a good look at Taye Diggs, possibly known more for his stage work as Benjamin Coffin in `Rent.' He is my candidate for inheriting the position of `young-articulate-handsome-black-actor' that Denzel Washington held for so long.Two other performances in particular caught me. Breckin Meyer sinks his teeth into a bizarre little character named Tiny. Couple this character with those he built for `Clueless' and `Dancer Texas, Population 81' and I think you will see a range that many of his contemporaries do not possess. Also, take a good look at Nathan Bexton, Manny in the film. He offered us the stunningly innocent Montgomery in Gregg Araki's 1997 release `Nowhere.'  If you have seen `Nowhere,' I think you will observe some of its influence on Liman's visualization of `Go!' Given the right vehicles, Bexton will continue to impress.Juxtaposed with Bexton is James Duval, who plays Singh. Duval played opposite Bexton in `Nowhere' and was used by Araki in his two prior films. Unfortunately, Duval seems to show little of the same promise I hold for Bexton. In fact, almost anyone could have played that role, and almost anyone could have been better. Much to my chagrin, I must say the same for Katie Holmes as Claire. Dawson's Creek is where she belongs for now, and that's just fine.`Go!' is easily the most innovative and fun film yet released this year. Many reviewers call it `Pulp Fiction, Jr.,' and I think that does the film and Liman a great injustice.  Personally, I hated `Pulp Fiction,' and the resemblance to `Go!' is fleeting and ephemeral. This is a film that stands on its own, exuberantly directed, with a solid script and good to excellent character work. Please support it by seeing it at the cinema.   "},{"Title":"quick and quirky action drama","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go Evictions, Christmas raves, a quest for drugs; Amway, setups, TV stars and Vegas strip clubs.  What do they have in common?  Everything.  This movie will inevitably be compared to the granddaddy of non-linear plots Pulp Fiction.  Unlike most previous attempts (e.g., Two Days in the Valley) it actually does a good job and keeps the blood, and gore to a minimum.Go follows a group of grocery store cashiers through an atypical Christmas Eve.   Ronna (Sarah Polley) is upset because she is about to be evicted.  As fortune would have it, she gets a chance to raise the rent money if she can arrange a drug deal.  Of course the drug deal doesn't go as planned and the ride begins.From the plot, to the dialogue, to the music, this movie is fast paced and frenetic.  If you aren't paying attention, you will be left behind.   The plot resections, and intersections are not overly contrived and work well. The music - from the deafening bass at the rave to the chase scenes - fit seamlessly with action and is instrumental in maintaining the flow of the film.Although there are some noticeable flat spots in the dialogue, the actors manage to salvage the moments.  Also, the climax is a little too quick and neat, but yet again the performances will help you through it.I definitely recommend this film.    "},{"Title":"This is 'Pulp Fiction 1999'","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you've seen PF, you've already seen the structure, dialogue, and set design, however these characters are even more wacky than Vincent Vega & Marsales Wallace. This film is very well acted by an ensemble of young stars (mostly actors you've seen before, but you don't quite know their names). It covers three stories in three different locations, and yet they each interlock and the fun part is to see how and when they do. This movie is an exercise in dark comedy and each character is interesting enough to make it all work. As in the Tarantino tradition, there is a drug deal gone awry, an overdose, different chase sequences, guns, strippers, and hysterical dialogue. Go is definitely a GO...!!  "},{"Title":"Another Tarantino wanna be...","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  but a good one.  I hated Pulp Fiction but I've pretty much liked all the films copying it.  This is one of the best.  It's fast-paced, extremely well-directed and has a large cast of talented actors (especially Taye Diggs).  The movie sometimes gets a little too brutal (one character gets hit by a car, then thrown into a ditch), and it's mixing of violence and humor doesn't always gel.  Still, it's a fun ride!  "},{"Title":"Go to see GO","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Do not pass GO, as one critic says and in my opinion, I completely agree. GO is a refreshing comedy that is very much an essemble piece.  While the movie's three main plots center around four specific characters, the other characters help the story move very well.  Doug Liman did a great job directing the movie and after seeing GO, I must now see SWINGERS, his other work that has garnered him rave reviews.When I first heard about this movie a few months ago, I thought it was a movie that I would want to see, but could definitely wait until it came out on video.  But as soon as the promotionals came out, it made it seem like it was a movie that one should definitely go to see while it's out in the theater and GO is definitely one film you don't want to miss. "},{"Title":"A truly thrilling and funny film","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have not seen a movie as fantastic as Go in a long time.  Fast, funny, with a great non-linear script, the film bursts with energy and great performances.  Go now. "}{"Title":"Go is something different from other teen movies.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is something about GO that is different from the other teen films that are being made.  In an off beat sort of way it seems more real, than say a high school that looks like a castle. It doesn't feed into stereotypes like the PG-13 movies do, instead it creates characters that are interesting and different.  Of course you tend to forget that many of these characters are teenagers, but oh well you have to give up something right.  It is interesting to note that two of the cast members are well known from television shows aimed at teen audiences.  What is even more interesting is that this film is rated R but aimed at kids who can't legally get in to see it.  Much like Varsity Blues (which rode of the coat tails of Dawson's Creek's James Van Der Beek) it is a movie targeted at teens that have to try hard to get in to see it.  I think that if they can get in, and are mature enough to deal with the strip scenes in both films, that teens should see these movies.  Fellow Creek star Katie Holms (Claire) turns in a good performance, but Sarah Polly (Ronna) steals the show with her dry un-fazed, always on top of every situation Ronna.  The rest of the ensemble cast sparkles as well.  This is a film well worth your money.  It will surely be a cult classic in years to come.  A tip to anyone who has seen it once, see it again.  It is much funnier on the second go round. "},{"Title":"Awesome...GO see it twice.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An amazing picture.  Finally a movie from a teens perspective.  The direction was amazing, as was the acting.  The story lines were awesome-it was a la Pulp Fiction or 2 Days in the Valley with the different stories all coming together.  The soundtrack is also excellent, a good mix of musical genres.  "},{"Title":"A non-stop adrenaline-fueled boredom-free thrill ride","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is living, breathing proof that you don't need A-list stars and a huge budget to tell a great, exciting story.  And this is without a doubt one of the most exciting stories told in film in recent memory.  The premise may sound a bit confusing at first, but on film, it all comes together flawlessly.  The action in Go never slows down, hence, it never gets boring. All 100 minutes are spent in sheer anticipation of what could happen next to the dynamic young cast, and the results are often both surprising and shocking (thanks to brilliant marketing that didn't blow the lid off the movie, like so many others.)  Though the Pulp Fiction comparisons are inevitable (due to the premise of 3 different takes on the same story told out of sequence, and connected by the same loose group of characters), Go is equally thrilling and engaging in its own right.  Its characters may be fueled on marijuana and Ecstasy, but Go runs on 100% pure adrenaline.  "},{"Title":"loved it or hated it?","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie I could not tell if I loved it or hated it. But I think I'm leaning more toward liking it. It was a tad long, but I liked the way it was set up, though different people's eyes who played a part in the movie. I would advise people to see it, but they could wait until it was on video. "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction lite","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, pretty much any teen movie of the 90s is something else lite, but this film is really well made. An array of interesting characters chat Tarantino-style about assorted trivia. Among the most interesting characters Timothy Olyphant plays a charmingly menacing drug dealer; Sarah Polley is a supermarket clerk trying to double cross said dealer; Desmond Askew charming as her nutty British co-worker; and Scott Wolf parodying himself well as a gay soap opera star. The three stories are wound up well Even the predictably disastrous trip to Las Vegas is a success. The three stories play over the same period of time and are all entertaining. Kudos to Katie Holmes for breaking out of her annoying stint on Dawson's Creek and displaying the talent everyone knew she had. GO to the theaters now. "},{"Title":"A movie with meaning","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO is actually a rare film, in that it extolls the virtues of communication and reason. The characters may behave inappropriately, but they are never unreasonable. It is quite akin to a Shakespearean play, as the ending of the plot may leave one thinking what was the point, but on examining the deeper interaction between characters, one can see that it is about human behavior in general, not necessarily these particular characters.The play's the thing.It is a single story centering around a drug dealer, and five people that interact with him. Plenty of drugs and sex (only one of which is truly glorified -- from a male p.o.v.), which may easily turn some viewers off, or obscure the more delicate human interactions that are displayed. But those of you that are willing to look beyond the gratuitous baseness (or if you're like me, and actually enjoy the seedy parts) will find a very good film within.Although it may be easily summed up as AFTER HOURS meets PULP FICTION meets FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH, don't go in expecting a story without a point. The dialogue transcends Tarantino-esque writing by actually having a point (no Le Big Mac stories, no AK-47 raves, no good coffee rants, no Like a Virgin musings) within the context of the storyline. It has more in common, thematically, with AFTER HOURS or SWINGERS than any Tarantino film.My only complaint although the soundtrack is worked in better than most current films, it is painfully obvious that this movie is trying to sell the music. (but what movie isn't, these days?)If you appreciate depth to a movie, this one has it. The characters are well-rounded...nobody is all-good or all-evil...and believable. There is not a single character that is what they at first seem to be.  "},{"Title":"Good but not the Breakfast Club","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are obvious comparisons being made of Go to the Breakfast Club or other movies of teen rebellion and ultimate ascension into adulthood. They even hint at this in the movie.  But Go isn't the Breakfast Club.GO is a good movie written and directed in an interesting, fast paced style. It's got everything from sex between 2 girls and a guy, to grand theft auto, from attempted murder to dealing drugs, from homosexual relationships to Amway-like sales people.  What it doesn't have however is a theme or much of a point.  I am not saying this movie isn't good.  It just isn't great. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie With A Fantastic Cast","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO is an fantastic movie from SWINGERS director Doug Liman.  GO tells the story of 3 different groups of friends adventures on Christmas Eve. The soundtrack (which includes the music of No Doubt) only adds to the fun. I recomend this movie to everyone. It definitely has some of everything Comedy, Drama, Action. Perhaps the most amazing thing abut this dark comedy is the performances of its young cast, especially Katie Holmes, Sarah Polley as well as Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr.It is indeed the perfect follow up to Liman's previous work SWINGERS.  "},{"Title":"An awesome, exciting adventure with a great cast!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was an awesome movie that kept you wanting to see what would happen next.  The idea of having three different perspectives from the characters was great! The cast was superb, especially Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf.  Not only was this movie funny and exciting, but it had a great soundtrack too. The movie had the whole audience laughing, and as we walked out, everyone was saying how great this movie was.  I will definitely be seeing it again.  "},{"Title":"Well written script, funny","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really liked Go, I thought it was written really well, and I loved how all the three characters' points of view tied together so well.  It is about one night Christmas eve, and everything that goes on during it.  This movie was also really funny and ironic.  I thought Breckin Meyer was very good in his role as a black-wannabe.  There are a lot of twists and turns and the end is surprising. I gave this movie a 7 and I would recommend you to see it.  The only problem is it is rated R for nudity, heavy drug use, and language.  "}{"Title":"Good clean wholesome entertainment","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see Go on the day it opened.  To put it kindly, it was no Pulp Fiction. Actually, I don't think it's very fair to compare the two films. They both have twisty plots, for sure, and Go tries to have some of the same quirky dialogue(the discussion about contacts comes to mind). The only difference is that in Go, nobody...well, I'm not going to spoil it for you. Completely contrived, yes, but it is a fun, fresh take on a tired genre.  "},{"Title":"surprisingly amazing","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You may have to be under the age of thirty five (which I am) to fully appreciate this incredible film.  Most of the characters are like a bunch of kids you'd find around the corner in any town.  Director Doug Liman has again hit the nail on the head with this flick, his first since the classic Swingers.  He totally takes you out of the Hollywood movie perception and throws you into a believable real life situation despite the fact that the story, told any other way, would seem ridiculous.  Writer John August comes out of nowhere to pen the most original script in town, and the cast is absolutely perfect, especially Taye Diggs.  This one is an instant cult classic that you should check sometime before you die.  If for no other reason, than just to witness the one and only Katie Holmes.  She and the movie are a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Kick A$$","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A cross between Swingers and Pulp Fiction. This was a lot of high flying fun.  I'm definitely seeing this movie again. My prediction is a strong GO cult following is not far behind.What are you waiting for, GO see it. "},{"Title":"A Wild, Uproarious Romp in the Tarantino Tradition of Plot Development","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have read and heard much about Doug Liman's Go just in the past couple of days in local newspapers and among friends who saw it with me.  Every review that I have read, and any person that I have talked to has made reference to Quentin Tarantino and Pulp Fiction in discussing Go. Even if I hadn't known a thing about the movie before I saw it, I would have thought it myself. This just makes me realize how much Quentin Tarantino has influenced the modern film industry. Every since Tarantino's debut Reservoir Dogs (a better comparison to Go) hit the screens in 1992, virtually hundreds of films have either tried to rip it off or have been highly influenced by it. Even the recent Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels can easily be compared to the work of Tarantino.I have heard many say that Go is a rip-off of Pulp Fiction. This is hardly the case. Doug Liman takes some of Tarantino's conventions and creates his own interesting and funny story. Go is a wild ride that satisfied me from beginning to end, despite my huge respect for the superior work of Quentin Tarantino. Tarantino began a good trend and its not necessarily a bad thing that others are toying with it, especially when they create a piece of work as entertaining as Go.I didn't expect much from this movie, as I was not a fan of Swingers, Liman's previous film, but I was so impressed that as I write this, I find myself wanting to go and watch it again.The film begins with Ronna (Sara Polley), a grocery store clerk, just about to finish her shift. After her shift, she reluctantly takes a shift for her drug-dealing co-worker so that he can go to Las Vegas with his buddies. From here, the fun begins!!Go unfolds its story through three separate, seemingly unrelated plots, which of course in the Tarantino tradition, all come together by the end. This is expected. What is interesting is the series of events that go on and how they are all connectedRonna's story is played out first when two mysterious gentlemen, Zack (Jay Mohr) and Adam (Scott Wolf) approach her and want her to get them some Ecstasy. Ronna would normally get it from her friend who has gone to Las Vegas, so she has to find an alternate plan, a plan which just goes all wrong. We then shift to the next act which is the trip to Las Vegas, which in many ways is the most entertaining part of the film. I don't want to ruin it, but just let me tell you, there are lap dancers, tantric sex (their discussion on tantric sex is priceless) and a wild car chase. These boys just don't know how to behave! And finally is the third story of how Zack and Adam fit into the picture. I don't want to mention any more of the plot than I have because the real enjoyment of the film is watching everything unfold, and seeing how it all relates. Just let me say, every second is worth it.Go is filled with many strong performances, especially from Sara Polley, who I have been a fan of for years. She has been in a great number of wonderful Canadian films such as The Sweet Hereafter, Last Night, Exotica, and she also starred in the TV series Road to Avonlea. She can also be seen in the upcoming David Cronenberg film eXistenZ. Katie Holmes of the wretched Disturbing Behavior also pulls off a strong performance.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A smart and entertaining movie that is not to be missed.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  AMAZING!!  In the spirit of Tarantino this movie shines as an entertaining experience well worth long theater lines, and high prices.  Don't miss this movie.  Despite its surface appearence of being a teeny-bopper flick (ex. Can't Hardly Wait), it really proves to be entertaining to nearly everyone. Full of laughs, and moments of sheer shock, this movie proves to be a great ride.  Full of great rave footage, and a rocking soundtrack, this is a movie that must be seen in a loud movie theater full of people you don't know. "},{"Title":"Pretty dman cool, but I liked it better the first time","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I felt that GO was a neat film that was filled top the top with cool-as-ass scenes, but I liked it better the first time I saw it...when it was called 'Pulp Fiction'.  Even though it wasn't the most original movie ever, I'd still recommend it.  "},{"Title":"GO Ain't Bad","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Those who liked PULP FICTION will probably like GO.  While GO lacks the stark violence of PULP, its plot will keep your attention; its young actors have fun with their respective roles.  One of the best dark comedies of the season.  "},{"Title":"Leaves you absolutely amazed.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To me, the movie started out rather numbing, with few tidbits of comedy and it seemed like just another teen/drug movie with a great soundtrack.  Five minutes later the movie showed me just how wrong I was.  This movie couldn't be more aptly named, because once this movie does start to go it takes off and holds your attention until the end.  While the writers probably weren't intending to make a comedy, some of the scenes in Go made me laugh more than any comedy has.  Its chase scenes are riveting, and its drama is believable.  Superbly directed and it really does have a great soundtrack. I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"GO, see it!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was great, it was different, funny, everyone should GO see it! It's about all different stories tied together by the same night, and they go on to show different people's point of view on the night. It was like Pulp Fiction a bit, but I think a little bit easier to understand, and attracts a younger audience. I rate this movie a (9) If you wanna see something different  GO see this movie! Sarah Polley is a younger looking version of Umma Thurman, who starred in (Adventures of Baron Munchausen) with her! It also shows a more risque Kattie Holmes. As well as a bit of comedy from Jay Mohr. But I would not recommend it for anyone under 17. GO see it! "},{"Title":"Wow!  What a surprise!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wasn't expecting to like this movie all that much, but boy did it take me by surprise!  A funny and fresh take on the lives of kids on the rave scene in LA, it follows a drug sting from three different perspectives.  Of course they all end up coming together, and this reveals some funny twists in the story.  Great performances form Brekin Meyer, Taye Diggs, Sarah Polley, and Jay Mohr in particular, though everyone was good.  What a fun ride!  "}{"Title":"Appealing on several levels","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expecting a comic thrill ride, a Pulp Fiction for the millennial generation and something clearly pitched to teenagers. And I got what I expected. What I didn't expect and was happy to see were some great plot twists and memorable characters. The situational high comedy was more evident than the grossouts or other belly laughs that satisfy most filmmakers.And Katie Holmes is a hottie.  "},{"Title":"Rad, just rad.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Putting three stories together seamlessly, this movie is destined to become a classic.  I loved the different plot lines, similarities to Swingers, and the ironies of each characters' resolution. Awesome movie. Awesome dialog. Good soundtrack.   "},{"Title":"A mixture between Trainspotting and Swingers and they are my favourite!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is so good, it is a mixture of my favourite films and it is very, very funny. Even Scott Wolf  is very good in it and Katie Holmes isn't too annoying. Askew is the best actor, though he has the hardest scenes (I would imagine) and he's British like me. It has been described to be about drugs but that is only a very small part of this hilarious and true to life story. "},{"Title":"a mixed bag","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie had four stories, so I really wanted to vote four times.  The segments with Claire and Ronna were excellent, with strong acting and delightful characters.  The Las Vegas story was lacking in character likeability (is that a word), but it had plenty of fun action and humor. The Scott Wolf / Jay Mohr segment had its ups (humor) and downs  (James Woods' creepiness) but was still decent.  If you're a fan of Polley, Holmes, Olyphant, Meyer, Diggs, Mohr, or Foley, you will enjoy this movie. Otherwise, it's kind of a toss-up. "},{"Title":"GO is a rubber band of a movie that gives you a literal peak into the rave subculture, but stops short of being the masterpiece it should have been.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO is an appropriate title for this film, because from start to finish, and back again, it is a roller-coaster ride of emotion, energy, and vision. It allows the viewer a brief glimpse into the rave scene that not too many have experienced.  However, it stops short of being the masterpiece it could have been, because it lingers too long on some characters that bring little to the table.  Many films have tried to incorporate the club kid mentality into their tedious story lines, but unlike GO, most have failed in their representations.  True to form, it shows the down and dirty side of a subculture that is both dangerous and exhilarating at the same time.  GO is a film that was a long-time-in-coming, and will surely wax sentimental for some and shock others.Timothy Olyphant, as the all-too-serious drug dealer, carries the film when he is on screen.  He looks, feels, and sounds authentic as the business end of the rave scene is captured with such clarity it makes one shutter.  Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr's scenes are almost unnecessary, but because the film is so strong it does little harm.  The rest of the cast holds their own, as Doug Liman masterfully directs another classic.GO will have many of you laughing at scenes that others will watch in horror, but that is why this film works...even when it's trying to push the envelope it rings true.  If you're looking for a film that can incorporate drugs, guns, music and sex into &#145;just another night out,' then GO get your ticket now!   "},{"Title":"Go see Go!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of 1999.  This is the druggie/rave movie that movies like Trainspotting cannot be.  Although I did like that movie a lot too.  This is a hilarious movie during which I could not stop laughing. There are no real slow parts to this movie, and, although it has its flaws, is better than everything else out there right now.Plot  This is the events surrounding one night told three different ways. The movie starts, you follow Ronna.  You go back to the relative beginning, and then you follow Scott's group.  The movie starts over again, and you follow Joy Mohr's group.  Seeing the beginning again gets a little tedious the third time, but you want to laugh because of it.  The events for the three character groups are totally different, and are extremely funny.  It has part of the movie in a rave, and at a drug dealer's house, and in Vegas, and in other places.  I won't tell you, it will ruin the surprise.Acting  They all played their parts to a tee.  I laughed until it hurt because I could recognize my friends' personality types in the movie. Pauley steals the movie as a drug dealer, and so does Scott.  They are the best characters of the movie, and you won't forget them easily.In general, I highly recommend this movie to all people 35 and under.  If you are over that, or have never experience any fun, you will think this movie is stupid, and write it off as trash. Others will laugh their butts off.  This movie is the best, and it far surpasses the humor of Swingers and uses drugs better than Cheech and Chong ever did, although they are hilarious also.  Even though it has one or two slow moments, it was better than any other movie.----------9  "},{"Title":"Another wannabe...","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Any popular movie will be followed by a wannabe movie or so...well, not every popular movie...but some.  Go is a wannabe movie, copied from Pulp Fiction.  No WHERE near as great as Pulp Fiction.   I give it 2 stars, at least it tried to be good.In my opinion, this movie will be loved by the generation group known as Generation X.  They'll love it!  Drugs, sex, violence...something most of the kids will understand!  "},{"Title":"Not as good, once you leave the theater.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While Go is an enjoyable thrill ride while watching it, a little distance shows the glaring weakness of the story.  That is, the characters must continually make the wrong decisions for the film to continue.  Without giving anything away it takes numerous examples of poor decision making for the film to reach its conclusion.  While these choices may seem logical at first, once they keep happening over and over again they become apparent for what they really are plot devices. "},{"Title":"Very Captivating Movie, A little pulp-fictiony, Really Fun!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had the opportunity to see this movie for free as a Sneak Preview.  I wasn't sure it was going to be worth it, (knowing there would be crowds and all that) but I was pleasantly surprised!  I really enjoyed this Film!  It was a very interesting plot, and the characters were well developed.  I never felt like there was too much going on, or that the plot was too convoluted;  it was a great romp!  The only 'drawback', and the reason I gave it a 9 instead of 10, was that at times it seem a bit too 'pulp-fiction-like'.  But it is also the best 'interpretation' of the pulp fiction formula that I have seen.  A really fun time, 'GO' see this movie! "},{"Title":"Fast, entertaining film.  Needs more depth.","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a very well-done film (on the outside).  The plot is cool, twisting this way and that.  The jokes are funny.  The settings, actions of the characters and characters themselves are interesting and entertaining.  The music fits the film.  However, etching around a little, there really isn't much beyond the cool stuff (ex. watching guy stoned with a cat, adventures in a strip club, etc.).  The characters are shallow.  The reason I'm watching the movie is unclear--the overall theme of the show lacks - although most of these points I pick out are picky compared to all the other films out there.  If you want a fun ride to take your mind off things - see Go.  "}{"Title":"Graduate with honors from the Tarantino School Of Film","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has two things in common with Pulp Fiction. A) It's a character anthology movie told in a non-linear fashion centered around a single event which ties a lot of shady people together. B) If you're not offended by sex, drugs and violence, it's one of the funniest movies you're likely to see.Unlike the scads of Tarantino wannabes which hit the screen following Pulp Fiction, this one gets it right. The pace of the movie never slacks off and the dialogue, while not the brainiest in the world is fresh and sharp. What's more, this movie does not have a single stupid character-- there are people who do stupid things to be sure, but they do so out of their character flaws and not because of a weak script. The humor is likewise unforced by bad writing; most of the time the characters aren't trying to be witty, winking at the camera as they drop one-liners. Instead of caricatures there are actual characters, and you can see and hear the difference.I hate to extend the Pulp Fiction comparison but I'm going to anyway because these movies are very similar. The suspense in the movie is very well handled. There's no incidental music ticking down deadlines for explosions or telegraphing of punches. The suspense in the movie comes from scenes like the adrenaline needle scene in PF. People make foolish mistakes that put them in jeopardy, and the consequences can be dire. Waiting for them to happen is the worst part, and some of the best parts of Go.One important area where this movie differs from PF is that it is far less violent. It's by no means a Sunday school lesson (there's still lots of sex and drugs) but if it was the blood of  PF that got to you, you won't have the same problem with Go.If PF as a whole made you squirm in your seat, you'll be better off checking out The Other Sister instead of Go. But you'd be robbing yourself of a wild, fun, hilarious movie experience.  "},{"Title":"confused yet sincere gen-x tale","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i watched go over my spring break last week and have been thinking about it a lot.  what drew me to it was liman, the only director in a while to have a cultural impact via film (Swingers and its effect on quasi-hipster cool is actually my senior thesis).  and what i got out of go was a movie, however sincere its performances might be, that couldn't find its voice.the four stories (as a whole), woven in and out of each other in post-modern dizziness, reflects the lack of direction i felt throughout.  it was kind of interesting how these lost souls kept running into each other, but it didn't really matter that they did.  by far the best story is the las vegas one, but i don't want to give too much away.the most prominent character in go is the music.  i can appreciate liman trying to do for the rave/electronica scene what he did for the lounge lizards.  but what go lacks that swingers doesn't is characters we care about and a story worthy of the acting talent.albeit the version of go i saw a kind of rough and post-production may have made some changes.  but the depth and direction that this movie lacks was and will be obvious.  so, despite its earnest performances, i think go is a story and a movie that takes us nowhere  "},{"Title":"GO is a terrific ride with a wonderful lead performance by Sarah Polley.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO is a great deal of fun -- inevitably running along the same lines as PULP FICTION, but with out all the gore.  A broken up police drug bust lies at the center of the film, and the events surrounding it are played out three times by three of the sets of characters involved in the deal.  The cast and references (Beverly Hills 90210, Hunter, and THE BREAKFAST CLUB to name just a few) are certainly geared towards the 20-something crowd.  Sarah Polley is the true star of the show, turning in the best performance as a check-out girl/drug dealer.  Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf are adequate as two gay tv stars who are directly involved in the police drug bust -- their best lines and most believable moments come when they are at their queeniest. (Unfortunately, there is no Scott Wolf shower scene -- despite what you may have read on the web.)  The pace is exhilarating all the way through and it should be a true crowd pleaser. "},{"Title":"A major theme here is different.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like anthology movies, this is a pretty good one.  The different stories seem to fall into different genres and are markedly, well, different, but the characters are also unique and interesting, which kind of draws you into liking all the stories.  One area in which anthology movies (esp. this one) fall short is getting the characters anywhere.  I tend to be turned off by movies that end where they started, and Go repeats the story (up to a point) several times instead of following the different characters at the same time, which, although it's different, is kind of jarring.  The script is a little on the weak side, relying on standard, stilted teenage cliches, but the actors play it well enough, and the characters (when they're not babbling back and forth in a Pulp Fiction/Swingers wannabe style) and action are interesting enough to forgive it. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time.","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I first found out about this film, I was intrigued by the concept and was interested to see how the plot would work. When the end credits started rolling, I felt immensely satisfied with the film.Go is reminiscent of Pulp Fiction with the plot being split into acts shown in the wrong order, but is still very unique and difficult to compare with many other films. The plot is simple and easy to follow, and the screenplay is very well-written with sharp, witty dialogue and a fitting soundtrack. Not a second is wasted with its fast-pace but it consistently remains well-paced at all times.At one point, Go was #229 on the IMDb Top 250. I very much believe it still deserves a place. It's not a masterpiece, however I didn't notice any flaws worth noting. Overall, Go is a very worthwhile film that is a lot better than it seems. "},{"Title":"Amusing flick, (but pretty flawed)","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is best approached as an offspring of Quentin Tarantino. Any other description would sound muddled a b-grade, ensemble, teen fiction, borderline comedy/drama. Go is generally feisty and playful, but it is not all that clever. With a running time of a hundred minutes (give or take) the movie is not given enough room to breathe it seems. It lives mostly on quirks rather than character or plot. The finished product doesn't turn out to be such a bad film, but it doesn't amount to enough of one to recommend, except as something to watch if there is nothing else on the box. "},{"Title":"Christmas Surprises","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" (Spoilers) When I first watched 'Go' many years ago, I thought it was just okay until one small scene set the intertwining story lines As there are three main Christmas Eve stories going on here, in story #2, a character in Las Vegas calls another one (Todd, aka the good drug dealer) in LA. We already saw Todd receive this call in #1. I was surprised for two reasons I knew nothing about this movie (including the 3 different chapters) prior to seeing and when that was easy to figure that out, I didn't know they would be so interwoven. I loved this movie. I loved the music (fast and slow), I loved the originality, the acting by all actors &#x96; especially and namely Polley (this is the movie that made me fall hard for her, as an actress that is), the sets, the pacing, comedy, dialogue and simple craziness of everything going on. It was like a young adult version of 'It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia' or 'Seinfeld.' As mentioned, one Christmas Eve, grocery-store clerk Ronna inadvertently sets off a chain reaction between multiple lives while attempting to get enough money to avoid eviction the following day. That night is seen by various eyes and almost all intersects/overlaps with pure escapism, comedy, fun and ends up as the less-dreary LA 'Crash' story. I could go on and on about all the actors, they were all pure fun to watch, but probably the top picks would be Polley, Olyphant, Askew and Diggs. Also, even after 10 years since its release, the dialogue and facial expressions (namely from the repeatedly stunned Todd) still had me rolling. It's not perfect, but for a far-above average rave movie with an actual plot, as well as far-above average killer soundtrack, it's worth a go. "},{"Title":"the whole point","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film Go is about on how the whole movie takes place in a 24 hour period, and it focuses on 3 different point of views after watching the movie, I like it so much that I decided to watch the commentary to it I already thought of what the point to this movie is, after watching the commentary, it turns out that I was right The whole point to this movie is about young people making very risky decisions and somehow getting away with it. Film shows that life can be exciting if you want it to be.the movie is funny and exciting at the same time their was one scene that I thought was kind of stupid, which is why I didn't give it a 10, but a 9 is also a good rating too "},{"Title":"Movie on the Run","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film has been brilliantly made and well written. The chronology of the film is perfect and story telling by each person is simple and to the point. The film consists of good quality action and comedy at the same time and puts Leathal Weapon to shame. Scripting and Directing in this film is of a very high quality. I am sure that the writer and the director met each other too many times during pre-production of this film, which goes to show the excellent team work and the final output is excellent.I have seen this film three times and have asked my friends to watch it, and even their comments about this film is excellent.The film takes you on an experience of each character and ends with no confusion in your mind. I suggest you should buy the DVD of this film as this film goes down as an excellent example of film-making in the history of cinema.ENJOY.Mr. NEIL BHATIA "},{"Title":"Druggy raver film is my favorite of all time.","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has got to be one of my all-time favorites. It's just a fun and carefree look at the world of raving, getting drugs for raving, Vegas, and policing undercover hijinks. It has a great cast, great switching story (which has been compared to Pulp Fiction way too much), great soundtrack by renowned techno-composer BT (Fast & The Furious, Monster), fresh production and camera-work...just everything. The only thing I got tired of was Katie Holmes' character being such a wet sponge in all of her scenes...completely weak character. But, I loved Sarah Polley's gritty and daring character, Desmond Askew as the fun-loving guy who takes no prisoners through his stay in Las Vegas (and he's been in way to few films to date), and Jay Mohr is in it! That's all you need to say!Go pick this one up immediately if you love fun movies with a loose plot and plenty of stars at your disposal. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Bit like a raver-teen Pulp Fiction!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go tells four interlocking stories (sort of in the tradition of Pulp Fiction) and is definitely more lighter entertainment than the aforementioned Pulp Fiction.  Sarah Polley's character Ronna is in desperate need for some cash and attempts to get this by selling drugs.  A couple of gay actors a caught up in a police drug sting.  A group of guys raise some strife in Las Vegas in their quest for girls and a good time.  The forth part of this movie - is basically the aftermath of these three stories. This movie is fun, funny and fast - aimed at a raver teen tweeny market with a bit of a cheesy techno soundtrack to boot (Moby, BT).  The majority of actors seems to be from cheesy teen soaps (Scott Wolf - Party of 5, Katie Holmes - The Creek) - so you know what market they are aiming at... There are sprinkles of drugs, crime, money and sex - so it is very in the Tarantino realm.  Not as tight as Tarantino - but still pretty good. "},{"Title":"This film gets better with each viewing","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a highly underappreciated film, made amazing by its cutting dialogue,  witty and sharp realism, and brilliant acting. It's not only an intelligent, humorous  film, but it's creative as well, and fast-moving. Overall, it's a wild ride and I would  highly recommend it. Its worth might not be determined after the first viewing,  because the more I see the film, the better it gets. When I first saw it, I really  enjoyed it but dismissed it overall as a film because it seemed teen ish,because of the teen actors (Katie Holmes, Sarah Polley, etc). But that is what is  so great about the movie. it's really real. Watch it.. you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To be honest this movie started out pretty weird. But by the time it got more complex and the absolutely crazy (as a positive thing) storyline started evolved. It's fascinating how many different aspects this movie provides. Some scenes were absolutely hilarious and I simply couldn't stop laughing my butt off. Katie was (somehow) annoying probably because I've seen her too many times before. Sarah was great except in some very few scenes where I wasn't sure if that either was perfect acting or lacking self-confidence, but I bet it was the former. Jay and Scott (my surnamesake) were absolutely great as well. Taye, Desmond and the rest too.Well what can I say more about this movie? It is simply hilarious, great fun, refreshingly entertaining and really surprising.My ratings are acting 8.5/10 (wow! kickass), story 8/10, directing 8/10 (someone really drilled the actors and actresses here to get the best out of them), comedy 7.5/10 (many very fun scenes!), ... aw I think I can save the rest.My overall rating 8/10 - ABSOLUTELY WORTH WATCHING!  "},{"Title":"Really wacked up movie. Dark Comedy/Suspense","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was blown away by this movie. It is really wacked. In the same lines of a movie like Snatch. The scenerios are amazing how the characters get themselves involved in situations that go from good to bad. It was an overall entertaining movie and I want to go out and buy it. "},{"Title":"Go review","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Over the past few years, the movie Go is being heralded everything from post-Pulp rip-off to teen classic. While agreeing with both former and latter, those labels shouldn't necessarily be a bad thing. Director Doug Liman (Swingers, The Bourne Identity) doesn't shy away from the non-linear interweaving approach to plotting, ala Tarantino's Pulp Fiction, with Go adding plenty of new flavor using elements of both realism and formalism to the classic narrative style.There are plenty of locations, acting and perspectives in Go with both filming styles spilled all over it. Many of the scenes take place in normal households, apartments, or parking lots, supermarket break-rooms even. The whole second third of the film is a road movie, venturing from Los Angeles to Las Vegas in a drop of a dime (this would parallel with Swingers as well as Pulp's Travolta/Thurman experience). Many of the characters, while all attractive to the screen, and well known on the scale of their late evening television spots, perform how teens would act (no pun intended) under uncomforting circumstances. There's plenty of modesty fished around every sequence, perhaps with the exception of Marcus' (Taye Diggs) `tantric' lovemaking.Go is shot into three different character perspectives Ronna, Simon, and Adam & Zack. Each plot sequence has its own camera biases, making multiple viewing not only a must but a warm welcome. Unfortunately, Go has a habit of branching out too far the two ex-convicted gay actors don't seem important enough for us to care about their `quality' time spent with the ubiquitous P.O. and his seductive wife. Go also stumbles onto other pitfalls. Some moments in the Las Vegas-edged second sequence should read Stop. Though primarily entertaining, the act runs through a line of plot holes and lack of strong characters. Breckin Meyer is unquestionably hilarious again (think Road Trip), yet his over-the-top `ghetto' whiteboy is as clichéd as the strip club baboons that go on to pursue him and his pals.Sarah Polley makes the best of her hollow character, Ronna, exacting herself with the brinks of desperation. The story sets Ronna into a drug-deal gone sour; a `wrong place, wrong time' situation that tags along Claire-maybe the depicted hero of this film for merely keeping composure. Claire, much like Katie Holmes' `Joey' on Dawson's Creek, looks for the best in others that even include p*ssed-off-turned-empathized-drug-dealer Todd Gaines (Timothy Olyphant). Is Claire truly the narrator of Go? Is this film subjected to her point of view? Although debatable, it is Claire, in spite of all this, that doesn't have her own `sequence' as hers picks up where Adam and Zack's ended.If not for the constant Pulp-comparisons, Go could definitely be defined as a cult-classic in that it stays within that `underground' feel, despite having a Hollywood director and `hot' young stars. Perhaps the problem with Go is that it's probably `too cool' for its own good (i.e. following Tarantino). Doug Liman does brilliantly construct the worst-case scenarios of the storyline for the beginning and end (you'll notice how odd the Las Vegas getaway ends up being the best-possible scenario for its characters). Liman placed more emphasis into the drug-dealing and drug-taking aspects of the story than a highly Hollywood-esque Vegas trip; after all, the four boys involved weren't the drug dealers and aside from a little post-wedding hemp, they weren't the ones doing the heavy stuff. Culture definitely influences what's important in Go.3.5/5 stars  "},{"Title":"A blast on every level","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Utterly fab movie that, like wine, improves with every swig. Much like Pulp Fiction, this movie draws you in and in... and then, just as you're at the money shot, you're torn from the moment and transported back through time to where you were 30 or so minutes ago... except this time you're viewing another character's life experiencing the same events. After several radically diverse trips down the now familiar lane it all blends together and then this movie delivers a perfect tie-twist punch. Worth a rental? Nahh - worth a purchase! "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excellent film. So what if it comes looking like a Tarantino film? Believe me, there have been others too, who have used the magical formula and failed miserably. Liman's movie is entertaining and well made. It has a nice feel of realism. All the actors are doing a great job. Katie Holmes has grown up respectfully since Dawson's Creek, to do movies like Go and the underrated Wonder Boys. I think that's good. From the three episodes that this film is divided into, I like the bit in Vegas the best. The four guys do amazing work with their characters. They manage to be really funny. I'm not saying that Go is the most genius movie ever made, but it's still very good and it remains that way after many viewings.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"Go, what are you waiting for?","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film hits every note spot on.  The acting is superb, Sarah Polley's performance stands out, showing a wide range that isn't seen in many young actors.  Jay Mohr is also fantastic, finally his agent manages to find him something decent instead of the unfunny tripe that one is used to seeing the very funny Jay in.Overall, this movie is funny, provocative, dramatic, and bold.  And yes I know, its like Pulp Fiction-esque, but only in structure, and is that such a bad thing anyways? "},{"Title":"What a movie!!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is fantastic. Go is cool, funny, hip, violent and unmissable. The intertwining stories of the aftermath of a drugs deal gone wrong is actually more clever than most people actually realise. Storylines that make you sit up and notice because they are a little bit different from the norm is always a good thing. Perhaps the best thing about this film though is the cast - they are top notch. The gorgeous Sarah Polley has to be the best, but there are plenty of others who vie for the top spot, including Katie Dawsons Creek Holmes, Taye Diggs, JE Freeman, Timothy Olyphant and Jay Mohr. If you like fresh smart movies that aren't afraid to try something different and do a damm fine job of doing it, then you just have to see this film. I guarantee you once you see it once you'll want to rewind and watch it again and again. Top marks. "},{"Title":"Sort of like The Big Lebowski meets Pulp Fiction","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A frenetic and often clever attempt to chronicle the (mis)adventures of some slightly addled 20-somethings in after-hoursLos Angeles and Las Vegas. Not great, but it has its moments.Worth watching if comedic violence and a lot of foul languagewon't upset you. "}{"Title":"awesome flick","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  wow, this movie is great.  if you think about it this movie entails all aspects of cinema.  action, adventure, drama, comedy, foul language, nudity, explosions, car chases, music, funny people, a cast the meshes well with each other and make the stories flow great.  for anyone who watches movies, watch this movie. anyone can find something in this movie they like.  as for me, i like everything about this movie.   "},{"Title":"Non-stop entertainment","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brilliant. This movie keeps the viewer intensely interested from beginning to end. This is entertainment at it's best. A little action, some danger, a hint of romance and a lot of cool. Just what is needed on a Friday night.  "},{"Title":"Magic Carpet Ride!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Doug Liman is probably one of the under dogs of the industry! He did Swingers which was a brilliant way to break into the world of film and Go was another great effort by this visual director! I'm not a big fan of Sarah Polley in Go I hated her actually! But Katie Holmes, Jay Mohr, Scott Wolf, William Fichtner J.E Freeman, Timothy Olyphant, Taye Diggs and so on were good. As a Brit it was really nice to see Grange Hill veteran Desmond Askew make such a good impact as english boy Simon.  "},{"Title":"The Lighter Alternative to Pulp Fiction","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great movie! I liked how it was completely unpredictable. I loved how it was very funny! There's no denying how much it's like Pulp Fiction but I didn't like Pulp Fiction. It had it's moments...but it wasn't something I wanna see again...(maybe once...and it might get me to see the rest of Fight Club too) Still I liked how this movie was a lighter version of PF. So email me with flames if you'll sleep better at night...then so be it...I just really liked this movie!UPDATE I gave Pulp Fiction a second chance and really love it now. I even bought the 2-disc edition and everything! "},{"Title":"Something's missing","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Watching Go was a strange experience. The plot progression and premise were fairly interesting and the cast were generally likeable, but overall the film just lacked that special something to really pull me into the film. The cast itself was pretty much solid especially with the 2 lead actresses. They were all nicely defined with their own unique quirks and all. The various interwoven story threads were not bad and the whole thing flowed nicely and was funny when it was supposed to be funny etc. All the mini-stories and how they all came together was pretty cool. What disappointed me was the fact that I expected more from this film. The potential was there for something special but in the end it just came as 'solid' and 'not bad'. The film just seemed to waltz me by and by the end of it I had forgotten most of it (except the talking cat).So all in all, the film is not bad. In fact it is rather good, just not great when it should have been.  "},{"Title":"Free your mind and...","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To appreciate Go you just have to free your mind of the litany of other films you have seen that John August and Doug Liman borrowed from.  In the case of August, Go may represent his best work, with Liman, unless the soon to be released The Bourne Identity finds a stride, then he'll still be chasing Swingers.  That being said, Go achieves what seems to have been its purpose, rapid vaguely written entertainment.  The film never slows down to get too deep, so you really don't take the time to consider whether any given segment is plausibly written. Some decent acting, the latest and greatest MTV editing styles keep you snacking on your popcorn. If however, Pulp Fiction or Mystery Train happen to be gems in your cinematic life, best leave Go alone. "},{"Title":"Life DEFINITELY begins at 3am","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Seriously, this is one of my all-time favorite comedies for its hipness, its soundtrack, and its overall finish.  Using many different filming techniques as the movie Pulp Fiction, the director mixes it well with the electronic and techno beat soundtrack.  I mean, what's funnier than a broke checkout-girl/prescription drug-dealer, a crazy Englishmen and his hilarious friends, and two gay soap-opera stars?  Great movie, from start to finish!Favorite Quote from the Movie  I have two; I feel they're both equally funny.Tiny Yo, I told you, my mother's mother's mother was black!Marcus Man, if you were any less black you'd be clear. ________________________________________________________________________Referring to the Family Circus comic strip Todd And it's always there, in the lower right hand corner, just waiting to suck.Great movie, pick it up if you're a fan of Pulp Fiction-esque movies. 9/10 "},{"Title":"An average weekend in LA","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Classic. OK, its a total take on Pulp Fiction, and in my opinion, way better (call me mad then). OK, so it probably is a lot less streetwise than it wants to be, but then so is Ronna. Hey, you can't expect her to know it all on her first deal, now can you! If you've read the other reviews you know the deal already. Take one skint shop assistant, two sexy gay soap studs trying to get out of a possession charge, and a dumb-ass English guy on a road trip to Las Vegas. Then throw in a stripjoint, a Las Vegas wedding chapel, an annoyed drug dealer, a worried best friend, a third gay guy screwing around the first two and running someone over. Add a pinches of a two very sexy cars, a bloody top soundtrack and a rave and you have Go. Its violent, its funny and that only works to its advantage. You'll laugh, you'll cry (with laughter) and then you'll laugh some more. While falling off your seat cos of the suspense. The best story is definitely Ronna's, its really obvious that this was originally a short and the others were added in as fillers, but they're almost as good. The car chase in Simons story is great (and so is Simon, hes so idiotic its funny), and Zack and Adams story isn't as action packed but makes up for it in humour. "},{"Title":"Three interlocked fables translate into mythic fun..","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a movie with, on the surface, three stories that are woven together. First there is Ronna, the L.A. supermarket clerk trying to do favors for everyone in the hopes that she can earn enough money not to get evicted tomorrow (the day after Christmas). Then there is Simon, the ultimate klutz who somehow manages to parlay a trip to Vegas into one stolen car, one wrecked car, group sex with two strange girls, a hotel fire, hot pursuit by a strip-club bouncer and his dad, and, last but not least, handgun education. Finally, the actors Adam and Zack, hoist on their own drug possession petard, forced not only to set up Ronna in a drug buy, but, even more humiliatingly, sign up for a multi-marketing dealership (not quite Amway, but ...).My hat goes off to anyone who could summarize the plot of this movie in fifty words or less. I won't even try; instead, I'll note that the three stories resonate so well because they are mythic and religious in origin. The centerpiece is Ronna, starting out as an ordinary clerk and becoming transfigured into a female Christ by the end. Consider after being crowned with a crown of thorns (okay, it kinda looks like it), she performs miracles of transubstantiation (cold remedies and allergy medicine into Ecstasy), raises the dead Mannie, and, of course, dies and is resurrected herself. This happens after her confrontation with Todd the dealer, who, if Ronna is Jesus, is a terrible Gnostic god, and her contact with the two actors, who are fallen angels coming to her for redemption (or at least a way out of their problem with the drug enforcement guys.). More on that later.The second plot is not quite the Jonah story; it's more like one of the Seven Voyages of Sindbad out of Arabian Nights. Simon is the student at the feet of Vegas and his friend with the strange coat. His adventures are wonderful and terrible, but only start to acquire real weight when, at the strip club, he wings the bouncer and they are chased through the city in one of the most fun chase scenes I've ever seen. This is really kind of filler material; the point is to set up the bouncer and his dad's confrontation at the end.Finally, the gay actors, as previously mentioned, are fallen angels searching for a way out of their predicament. (In L.A., being on TV is as close as anyone wants to be to Heaven). They are ruled by the film's Satan, Burke the drug cop. It's interesting that all of the scenes with Burke are made excruciating by the fact that he never, ever acts appropriately; he either is coming on way too strong or making passes at Jay Mohr's character. Even his few lines with Ronna are so off-kilter that she doesn't much need the hint to get out of there.What binds all three threads together is finding out what happens when you break the rules. Ronna breaks Todd's rules and suffers as close as anyone gets to death for it. We don't know if Todd would have shot her but it sure looks like he would have hurt her badly - all for a couple hundred dollars. But this is his idea of justice, and Ronna knew it going in. On the other hand, Adam and Zack have only committed a minor sin, possession, breaking Burke's rules; yet Burke (Satan)'s control of them and their penance - setting up and betrayal of strangers - is way out of line with their offence. Even at the end, he won't let them go; he wants, ultimately, to control them and continue to force them to recruit others.Finally, the Vegas bouncer, and his dad, initially the most villanous, end up with the most equitable plan for justice - an eye for an eye, and a shot in the arm for a shot in the arm. They come across as murderous to start with, but by the end, strike what seems to them, and to Simon, to be a fair deal.Obviously, I really like this movie. To me, the climax is the point where Burke asks the actors to take part in his Amway-like plan. It's so incredibly uncomfortable for them that you just have to laugh. But the whole movie is a wonderful ride. "},{"Title":"This movie scared me","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Let this movie be a warning to party people everywhere! After watching this movie we all said in unison, Damn, we gotta be more careful. Still with all its twists and turns and unexpected moments, it's an entertaining watch. I'm curious to know what events inspired the writer. "}{"Title":"Nice","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this film on Video, didn't need anything big and wide for this kind of movie; the cinematography was nothing amazing. The story was nice though, packaged to fit, not to long, not too short, some nice little surprises and that really kept the film rolling.Overall, see this movie, but don't kill anyone to get a hold of a copy. "},{"Title":"Good Follow-Up to Swingers","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  By now everyone knows that Go owes much to Pulp Fiction. But lots of movies do. Pulp Fiction set so many new standards; in timing, dialogue, plot twists, character development, and locale to name a few. Go is definitely a pulp-fiction-y movie. But unlike most of the wannabees and copycats of the last six years, Go works very well. It follows the events surrounding a small-scale drug deal gone bad from three different perspectives of the key activity. Each perspective is shown serially dividing the movie into three separate acts. The first act is the best; that of a young checkout clerk (Sarah Polley) standing in for a drug dealer while he's on a weekend trip to Vegas. The second act follows the adventures of the drug dealer in Vegas, and the final act is from the point of view of two unwilling participants in a drug sting operation. Good ensemble acting, hip dialogue, and inventive plotting make Go an enjoyable movie.  If you enjoyed Pulp Fiction, go rent Go.  "},{"Title":"Review #9","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a cool little indie flick. I don't think this is one of the top 250 movies of all time, but I guess a lot of people liked it a lot more than me. The good thing about Go is that it's just fun. You'll laugh and get a fair amount of action.  The bad part about Go is the lack of being original. This felt like a Pulp Fiction for teens. The acting is good. Everything is good. The story & direction is all good. Nothing great or groundbreaking. The biggest thing that hurt this film for me, is the lack of any substance. At the end I don't feel sorry for anyone, because, they got in trouble from their own doing. There is no meaning to the events that took place. Except showing that you can hit by a car & roll on top on the roof and then thrown into a ditch. And wake up with a small scratch on the head & a bad limp. Overall a fun movie, but lacking any substance or feeling. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A hollow Pulp Fiction/Trainspotting clone","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie tries desperately to be cool and clever, but end up just being stupid and insignificant. The story tells about a group of teenagers spending Christmas each in their own way. Each story is told by a separate episode and then patched together in the end. Everything cool just happens to each one of them, one ends up in the hospital after hit & run with a car and one passes out after taking too much drugs. One British guy even makes love to two women in Las Vegas, steals a Ferrari and shoots a striptease bar doorman in the arm with stolen gun. Ok, might sound really cool, but in fact it isn't. Characters are thin caricatures and at the end you just don't care where they will end up. This movie is just a cheap Pulp Fiction/Trainspotting copy and nothing more, a trash movie which the mid 90's - early 2000 will be famous. Personally, Im sick and tired of these movies.Rating 5/10       "},{"Title":"A rush of crime on Christmas Eve","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Drug users, drug dealers, a pair of soap opera actors, and more.  They all cross paths on one Christmas Eve in L.A. and Las Vegas in this film from Doug Liman, who directed Swingers.  This movie certainly has lots of energy, and tries to push its audience into its ongoing rush.  But unlike Pulp Fiction, the film to which it has often been compared, the screenplay is nowhere as original, funny, or good.  Liman did a much better job with Swingers, which was funnier and more clever.  Still, this is a talented young cast, and includes solid performances from Jay Mohr, William Fichtner, Katie Holmes, Taye Diggs and Desmond Askew.Vote 6  "},{"Title":"Totally Entertaining Film","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a great film. Although they should have shown more of Katie Holmes. I liked how the film was told in three different stories. I can't make up my mind which is my favourite because I love them all but I do like it when Simon and his friends go to Las Vegas. For anyone who likes movies with a sense of fun and happening stuff I would totally recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Imperfect, a little rough, but joyous","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The `Pulp Fiction' echoes, alas, are entirely to Go's disadvantage.  The Tarrantino mannerisms that beautifully suited HIS film have been grafted on to a different kind of story.  `Pulp Fiction' had an insolent sprawl about it.  Its point lay in its pointlessness.  I wonder how many people notice that the events of `Pulp Fiction' are separated by a complete gap of twenty-four hours - twenty-four hours we are told NOTHING about?  (Let me confess I didn't notice this myself, nor would I have.  A friend pointed it out to me.)  `Go', on the other hand, is very strict the story is confined to, and completely fills, a single day.  `Pulp Fiction' told us several stories that were complete enough in themselves, but had important points of intersection with one another.  The three allegedly separate stories in `Go' make no sense until we've seen all three of them.So the title-cards (`So-and-so's Story') that August and Liman have pinched from Tarrantino don't entirely fit - `Go' would be better off without them.  And the completely irrelevant discussions the characters find themselves caught in every now and again seem forced.  The characters in `Pulp Fiction' had plenty of room to breathe and plenty of time to natter about everything under the sun.  The characters in `Go' are, or ought to have been, too busy running from one place to the next.(Another thing `Pulp Fiction' had a song track, but no narrative underscore.  If you paid attention, the music was all source music.  `Go' has a narrative underscore consisting of songs coming from nowhere.  This is a bad thing, but films have been doing it since the 1970s.  It feels silly to complain about it now.)But while watching the film I scarcely noticed these minor stylistic mis-steps.  It's a joyous tale of young people being stupid in a refreshingly creative way.  If you're like me you'll start by thinking very little of the characters, and hoping they get some sense knocked into their stupid heads; in the end you'll feel a perverse admiration, and you'll be longing to see just how much they can get away with.  And I'll say this for August's script when he turns from one set of characters to the next, we don't feel cheated by the switch in perspective instead we feel that it came at just the right moment. "},{"Title":"GOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a great, easily watchable and re-watchable film that is far superior to Swingers, probably one of the most overrated films of 90s.Rent it for this one reason The scene where Ronna (Sarah Polley) is attempting to sell drugs to Zack and Adam (Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf) contains one of the funniest movie moments in recent memory.  Zack warns Ronna of danger with a slow-motion GOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!You'll find yourself peppering it into conversations.  GOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!  Hah. "},{"Title":"Retraction of Comment # 51 (under you index)","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Please note that I would like to retract (and retire) the comment I posted last August regarding a flawed Dolby 5.1 DVD transfer for Go. The problem as it turned out, was with my own installation and I have just corrected it. I did get a call from a Mr. Jeff Schwartz from Dolby and he indirectly help me fix my problem. Your forum is great! Thanks. "},{"Title":"Pretty well done a 7.  Effective and nice coupling of visuals, editing and direction for thematic impact.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An interesting film, especially visually.  Flashing lights, rapid editing and a carefully constructed confused style add to the atmosphere and the immersion of the viewer in the hectic world of the characters.  An amusing storyline keeps up the viewer's interest, and almost surprisingly, one begins to identify with the character's and their attempts to rectify their situations.  The repetition of the same story told in several different ways might be dull to some, but not to this viewer. I might be digging too deep paralleling one of the images of the film to that of the naked mother scene in The Graduate.  Only this time, it is with a different twist to modernize it.  Unfortunately, while in The Graduate one can feel the shock of the naked wife ... here it is just a surprise.  A closer camera and tighter frame might have been more effective, hopefully drawing the viewer deeper into that particular moment. That was my one major objection (actually there were a few others but they are pretty minor).  Graded holistically I would give this film a 7. (I'm a tough grader.)  It made it's points in amusing and effective ways, falling short in a couple places but overall pretty well done.  Visuals, editing and the thematic aspect of the film tied nicely together for a film that has meaning in addition to it's entertainment value. "}{"Title":"pulp fiction not!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i have seen people trying to compare the film with tarrantino's pulp fiction. well, i beg to differ.Firstly, the time sequential of GO is not as unique. It is simply branching out from three person's POVs and finally linking them back, i would say, rather crudely. Pulp Fiction, on the other hand, balances three different plots and scenarios and finally merging them together. The audience will have a sudden whelming of realizing the whole film after a certain time. However i do not sense the same euphoria when i was watching GO.Secondly, Go is definitely not as funny as Pulp Fiction. The latter shows the unknown side of the dark underworld, with bigtime gangsters discussing foot massages and fastfood. GO practically has no punchlines that made me guffawing when watching Pulp.Go is a totally different film, heavily influenced by the faster MTV mode of cinematography, using more handhelds and fast CUs. It is entertaining in its own right, when everything wrong happens overnight. Extremely fast paced and new audience should watch it with no expectations whatsoever.you might enjoy it more than i did. "},{"Title":"103 minutes of pure BOREDOM","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Predictably atrocious rip off of Pulp Fiction. I had very high hopes for this film due to its positive critical reviews. It seemed to have all the right ingredients for a fresh, ORIGINAL movie with only the PREMISE of Pulp Fiction. Instead it plagiarizes huge chunks of Tarantino's masterpiece, super imposes teenie bopper protagonists, and expects any intelligent viewer to interpret it as original, or worse yet inventive. Call this Pulp Fiction Jr. if you must but whatever you say, DO NOT call it original. The stories were mindlessly predictable and unentertaining. The characters were surprisingly two dimensional for a Tarantino rip off. Even the brilliant actress Jane Krakowski (Alley McBeal) is wasted as the wife of an entrepreneurial police officer. The only redeeming value of this movie were the last 17 minutes of the movie, but a surprisingly flat resolution only made me that much more disappointed. For DVD owners, watch Deleted Scene #12Gun Play for a glimpse of how great this mediocre rip off could have potentially been.  "},{"Title":"Fun but slight","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Go' has been described as 'Pulp Fiction' with kids; but the comparison only extends so far. Like that film, it tells a collection of loosely interlinked stories, and other similarities include the role of drugs in the plot, a scene with sinister sexual potential, and another one which appears as if it's going to feature a dead body in a car; but the movie lacks Tarantino's unique sense of style and outrageously constructed dialogue. Instead, the film is fairly naturalistic, and although the individual segments zip along nicely, there's a vague sense of pointlessness about the whole. The central characters, a collection of American teenagers, are essentially without charm (although Katie Holmes is certainly pretty); and the connections between the different parts are actually quite straightforward. Whereas 'Pulp Fiction' would not have worked as a linear story, in this case, the splitting of the tale into parts appears more of a gimmick; and the end is disappointingly understated, perhaps because there's not quite enough in the tale to build to a more powerful climax. It's still fun to watch; but there's not much to it once you leave aside its shape. "},{"Title":"Fictional Pulp","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go (dir. Doug Liman)Quite terrible, although its premise is interesting (to follow three or four different people as one common experience and its consequences is viewed through the prism of their separate lives)  and could work.  But the director cares far less about the unusual structure than he does for emulating a mixture of several shopworn movie types, in particular those about young people growing up in El Ay, and those about crime and punishment in that westernmost American city.  The movie fails because it is filled with people who only exist in movies about Los Angeles, and only Los Angelinos as they appear in movies (and the glueheads who emulate them) seem able to care remotely about them even as fictions.  As fictions, they render perfectly the common illusion afflicting so many young people living in urban settings the belief that one can acquire a life by adopting a posture.  Here youthful posturing serves no purpose but the promotion of an absurd plotline, which serves no purpose except to permit several otherwise impossible scenes to be shot and canned (usually involving fast cars, guns, hot women and drugs), later to be synchromeshed with rock music like so many pop cultural stray cats howling at the cinematic moon.  Is there anything here that was not already done better severally in To Live and Die in L.A or Pulp Fiction or Panic or Heathers or .......? "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No, I'm not here to review Not Another Teen Movie, I'm here to tell you that Go is just that --- not another teen movie.  In fact it is not a teen movie at all.  Many might think this movie has teenybopper appeal because it stars Katie Holmes who is known for her role as Joey in Dawson's Creek.  But she is the total opposite of Joey as Claire in this 1999 movie.  With the great acting skills of Katie Holmes, Taye Diggs, Desmond Askew, Breckin Meyer, Jay Mohr, Timothy Olyphant, Scott Wolf, and Sarah Polley, this movie gets a perfect 10 from me.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by Go -- a film which hasn't exactly received much attention here in Sweden (although it has gotten great reviews). It turned out to be one of the most entertaining films I've seen the last year or so (with the exception of the very funny and brilliant Fight Club). The three stories in the film are so neatly meshed together that it doesn't matter that it leaves the people you have gotten to know right at the most suspenseful scenes to search out another of the main characters. The cast is brilliant and the stand-outs are Katie Holmes, Timothy Olyphant, and the always great Sarah Polley. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Do not miss this completely unimpressive movie!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a slick film, and that's about it! The cinematograpy is mediocre at best! Awesome! The story completely lacks depth, and seems to have been written around the idea of having different viewpoints! Wow! It made me chuckle at least a HALF DOZEN TIMES!!!Okay enough of that. A couple good scenes and a few snippits of clever dialog do not make a movie great. The cat scene, and the scene where yellow porsch run over the girl were amusing, but the rest of the story seemed rather pointless. In the end I was left with a feeling of eh.... If you like movies that are neatly packaged, easily forgettable, and lack depth then maybe you should see this... maybe. "},{"Title":"Cheap Pulp Fiction Rip-off","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The writer/director had the right idea trying to plagiarize Pulp Fiction, but missed the mark.  While keeping the viewers interest by intertwining several semi-related stories, none of them actually go anywhere.  There is a lot of extraneous... stuff.... akin to a comic telling joke after joke but leaving out the punch line.  Do yourself a favor and rent Fargo instead. "},{"Title":"Go review - by Average Man Critic","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Story -1.  One night of drugs, sex, and violence on Christmas Eve told from multiple points of view.  Really cool.Characters -1.  It's hard for writers to create characters which are distinguisable from one another... John August is certainly NOT one of those writers.  Go is filled with flawless and cool characters across the board.Acting -1.  The cast of semi-popular GenXers played their parts without a hitch.  With acting like this, I think they all have very promising futures.Cinematography -1.  The shots of Las Vegas, as well as the rave scenes were beautifully done and made you feel as though you were part of the excitement.Beginning -1.  I like how as the opening credits are coming up, we are seeing LA's nightlife; the wild raves and people getting busted.  It sets the tone of the movie; fast, loud and fun.End -1.  I like the fact that Doug Liman did not make the movie go down the path of an action movie.  He knew that this was a film about young adults in a situation way over their heads and the only thing they want to do is have fun and thats how the movie ends, with them having fun.Attention Holding -1.  The movie is much too cool and way too fast for you to feel bored.  Guys will love the various scenes of sexuality and fast cars and women will enjoy it because it's a film about friendship and being young.Memorable -1.  Each generation has films that are popular amongst that age group, because it reminds them of how they were during that time period.  Go is a film for Gen X and Yers that will always be remembered because it is one of those films.  Raves, gorgeous women, strip clubs, fast sports cars, trip-hop music and pot... things which are popular amongst our generation.Could Watch Again -1.  I purchased Go yesterday and I have already watched it twice.  Full Package -1.  Go is flawless.  The music, acting, directing, script... perfect.Go = 10.  Go see Go.  "},{"Title":"A bit of a let down","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is unfortunate how people can be blinded by an interestingly structured film that is really not that great. Yes, it's neat to see how the three plot lines converge, but who really cares about any of these people? The characters that inhabit this film are all pretty stupid. They do stupid things. I don't mind a not-so-bright character here and there, but all of them do things that tend to come back to haunt you (and not too surprisingly, they do). I have little or no sympathy for any of the characters' problems as they kind of deserve what they get and end up getting off easy. The dialogue is pretty sharp and certainly speaks of a fairly wide pop culture background. I guess I just want a little more than dead celebrity names, mentions of Knightrider and speeches about inwardly drawn 90 minute orgasms. I just found myself wishing that within this wacked out evening of evil- something horrible would happen to the entire cast (that would reduce the element of comedy of course). The Tarantino comparisons seem a little lofty though. I find myself much more interested in a lot of Tarantino's villains than the so called hipsters that I'm supposed to care about in this film. I would certainly not discourage anyone from at least giving it a look, but what's up with the 8ish approval rating? Are people so starved for a good movie that's fairly accessible in terms of structure that they need to attach themselves to this? I heard somebody call it the movie of the decade! Wow, is this movie overrated.  "}{"Title":"Epitome of Mediocrity","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A forgettable rip-off of Pulp Fiction, Swingers, Four Rooms, etc.  The narrative style is unoriginal, the characters are flat, and the dialogue is cliched teenybopper stuff. Nonetheless, it was still amusing in a Jerry Springer kind of way.  "},{"Title":"holds your interest but doesn't quite hit the mark","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A once in a lifetime opportunity to go to the biggest rave of the year and hang out with some really cool people; a chance to ditch work, hit the road to Vegas, and get caught up in sex, drugs, and mayhem; getting out of a sticky situation only to get caught up in one even stickier; Doug Liman's youthful dark comedy centers around a group of disparate L.A. characters, ranging from a jaded checkout girl trying to score some extra cash, to a couple of television actors who get coerced by a peculiar cop, as their typically ordinary lives deviate from the norm and bring a lot of unexpected results. Good casting, plenty of twists, and some solid laughs make this film&#x97;which is clearly in the realm of Pulp Fiction&#x97;worth the viewing experience, but it lacks well-drawn characters, an effective payoff, and loses its energy after a while. Polley stands out as a thrill-seeking addict who gets in over her head. **½ "},{"Title":"It really didn't go as bad as it could have.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Some people who watch this film will mutter to themselves I've seen this before. Well, Go is not a blatant rip-off of any movie in particular, but it does have some very strong similarities to Pulp Fiction. The warping of time, the off-the-wall characters, the use of drugs and drug dealers and the thinking that they have to go through (specifically how many units of a certain drug one can sell before it becomes trafficking) all smell like a Tarantino movie that we've seen before. Directed by Doug Liman (Swingers), we follow the exploits of Ronna (Sarah Polley), a super-market cashier who helps complete a drug deal, profits going to her co-worker (Desmond Askew) who need the money to pay the rent. From there, we follow other characters through a series of events that double back on themselves, much like how in Pulp Fiction, the middle of the movie actually comes after the end of the movie, though all of the story lines come together neatly at the end of Go, with all major players ending together. Go features Katie Holmes, Tim Olyphant, Scott Wolf, and Jay Mohr, just to name a few of the familiar faces seen in the movie. It is not a bad movie, it is just that the similarities to Pulp Fiction detracts from the experience, the audience mentally compares what they have already seen to what they are saying. Perhaps this speaks to the power of Pulp Fiction that it lingers for such a long time, so profoundly. Go by itself is not a bad movie, but if I were to watch one movie about the Los Angeles drug underground, a movie that was not shown in chronological order featuring snappy, pop-culture filled dialog, I would see Pulp Fiction over Go. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant, entertaining film.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is film about a drug deal seen from 3 different perspectives and what mishaps occur along the way. I didnt know what to expect from this film as i didnt remember it even coming out on the cinema but what a pleasant suprise i got! This film is Funny,clever,engrossing and Brilliantly acted and i could not recommend highly enough for someone to watch. Who ever directed this directed this is very clever the way he got 3 different stories from the one big picture, and each story was superb. I loved the reason why the cop was trying to entice the 2 actors back to his house!!!! Not what i was expecting. If you are hesitating about seeing this DONT , it's brilliant. 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not the regular teenie flick","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What I liked Pulp Fiction style, funny, speedy (no boring parts), Katie Holmes was pretty, good acting, good direction plus it is pretty weird.What I didn't like too few scenes with Katie Holmes, few action scenes, not much suspense, too predictable at times.So all in all this is a pretty solid low budget film in the style of Pulp Fiction, though there are others I prefer, like Lock Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels and Thursday. But You might enjoy this one too. (Interested in Independent films, cause you've seen all the big ones??? Rent Cube)7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"GO see it","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The title is apt -- the film is on the go most of the time with little chance to catch your breath. This is an odd but entertaining film that can be described as RASHOMON meets PULP FICTION. But it is better than PULP FICTION because of its clearer sense of humor, irony, and coherent story telling.We get the stories of several people on an very un-Christmasy messy Christmas Eve. Each story is told from someone's perspective and the stories all interconnect at a decidedly un-Christmasy rave full of loud music, drugs, people looking for other people, mistaken identities, and the other ingredients of a wild comedy. Though some people may find it offensive, as a satire and updated film noir, it is hilarious.   "},{"Title":"Typical 90s","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go! tells the story of the events after a drug deal, told from three different points of view.This film is sort of a cross between Trainspotting, Lola Rennt and some sort of party movie like Can't Hardly Wait. It is clever in that it tells the same story from three different points of view, and not so much that you get a lot of repeat. (It is marginally better than Lola in this regard.) The cast is pretty good, even with Katie Holmes. Sarah polley is incredible as usual, and we get some fine folks like James Duval. We also get a kid from Part of Five whose name I forget because he was not important since the 1990s... Scott Wolf, maybe? "},{"Title":"Sarah Polley is it!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie is OK. You've seen it all before but it is entertaining. The Christmas dinner at the undercover cop's house was pretty amusing. The reason I would say watch it is that Sarah Polley gives a great performance. I think she carries the movie. Now that I'm aware of who she is I've been trying to see all the movies she's been in. I think she may be the best actress of her generation. Not the prettiest, or best known (read celebrity), but simply the most talented. Her ability to express emotion with her face, eyes and body language is amazing. "},{"Title":"Great film to see","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you haven't heard any spoilers about this film go out and see it before someone ruins it for you.Its a great film with a great cast especially the sexy Katie Holmes 8/10 on a good day see this movie "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, I enjoyed it","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go was much better than I expected it to be. It's a good teen/slightly dark comedy.I'll save you the plot synopsis, But basically it's a set of stories taken from the perspective of a few central characters which all come together to a conclusion. There's a bit of violence, nudity and a lot of running around.My favorite arc of the story are the two gay actors who get involved with a cop who get stranger as the day goes along.Someone convince me that Jay Mohr isn't gay. I am sure of it, even though he's married. All of the actors in GO do their parts well and if you happen to decide to rent this movie, you won't be disappointed.  "}{"Title":"The Independent Spirit Rises","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How could you tell a movie with a dynamic montagé that makes your body pump adrenalin to your head like starving of it. Eveytime you watch Go! you'll be thrilled, curious about the next thing that will amaze you. And most of all you'll laugh louder everytime you watch.I first watched this movie on a satellite tv in Turkey and when i looked at my watch i saw 1 and a half hour passed like 3 hours. You may guess this movie as a circus full of amusement.Watch Go! and see what Doug Liman's independent spirit and be bewildered by the beauties of young actresses Katie Holmes (Dawson's Creek) and Sarah Polley. And the great talent of Desmond Askew that's wasted on bad comedies. "},{"Title":"Like if UPN remade Pulp Fiction.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not to say that the movie isn't entertaining, because it certainly is.  Unfortunately, when you take your plotline and you mix it all up, offering different viewpoints on the same basic timeframe, you're going to be maligned for stealing from Pulp Fiction, because whether that movie invented that particular style or not...well, it sure seems like it did.  But if you're going to rip off Pulp Fiction, you could do worse than direct Go, which is actually a much faster and tighter film.  Some funny, some shooty, some druggy stuff.  Nothing surprising for 1999.  A good car chase.  William Fichtner=pretty funny at times.  Katie Holmes=hot.  Except have you seen her on the new cover of some movie magazine I can't remember the name of?  She's all Rene Russo now!  Something happened to her face!  I don't understand what happened!  She should not have done that!!!! Go is perfectly okay.     "},{"Title":"my no. 2 film","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie's slick, fast and cool. One of the best black comedies around. the acting was great and please everyone, stop comparing it to pulp fiction.If the two great movies are so alike, then it's a good thing. Pulp fiction is a classic, so it's great to see more films like it coming out so we can all enjoy them. SO IF YOU LIKE BLACK COMEDIES or anything like pulp fiction, THEN SEE GO!  "},{"Title":"Nice, entertaining","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a really nice little movie, yes, based on the idea of Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction, but so what? It isn't as if the concept has been totally exhausted.Go centers first among the small circle of young friends/co-workers of a local  supermarket, and continues with their exploits during a weekend on the town. They get involved with drug deals, a hustling undercover cop, ticked-off homicidal bouncers and a pair of gay actors (Jay Mohr and the Michael J. Fox lookalike, who are both in the tv series Action). Taye Diggs and Desmond Askew are cool (the Jewish wedding segment is hilarious), Sarah Polley and Katie Holmes are really cute.All in all, a pretty entertaining movie, as long as you don't expect it to be Pulp Fiction part 2. "},{"Title":"Tarantino does MTV - but in that good way.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although the Tarantino-isms are rampant, this is a thoroughly enjoyable film. It zips along at break-neck speed as it follows the drug-induced adventures of three supermarket workers during one particular weekend of sin and debauchery. At times it does feel like an Mtv-ised Pulp Fiction - the same story is shown from three different perspectives - but the events that unfold during a trip to Las Vegas are gripping and amusing in equal parts. Couple that with the appearance of the always gorgeous Katie Holmes and you're on to a winner.   "},{"Title":"Drugs, Sex, Violence, and Family Circus","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  All this and more can be seen in this dark comedy. It gives you a dose of the real world seen through the eyes of drug dealers, drugees, and drug busters. This movie gives out a hilarious dose while following the stories behind 3 grocery store employees, (including Katie Holmes), that take a drug order from a fellow co-worker that happens to be in Vegas for the weekend with his own drugee friends, (including Breken Meyer as a black wannabe.) The plot turns sour when the 20 hits of X are destroyed and an angered dealer, Todd (Timothy Olyphant), comes after them. Trying to get into the spotlight are a gay couple, (Jay Mohr & Scott Wolf) that find they're getting themselves into the drug scene deeper than they want to. This movie keeps you laughing with scenes that include burning hotel rooms, deceased celebrities that begin with an X, getting high on baby asprin, and the reason why Family Circus sucks. It's just sitting ther in the bottom right-hand corner, just waiting to suck. This is a must-see that shows the truth and irony of the drug scene. "},{"Title":"Kicks Magnolia's butt","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go succeeds where Magnolia failed so horribly by having far more interesting characters and stories, and interweaving them in a meaningful way. The dark undertones started to get to me a little and had me thinking that maybe it wasn't as good a movie as I'd first thought, but my uneasiness faded as the movie drew closer to the end. Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr were great, and Sarah Polley gave her usual high calibre performance. All the supporting roles were well done too. Yes, it can get a little graphic, but after watching Summer of Sam last night, it seemed tame by comparison and an all-around better flick. Hmm...I just realized that both movies involve talking pets. Coincidence? I think not! "},{"Title":"Very cool.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is cool,its about teenagers,narcotics,violence and comedy. The attitudes of the persons in the movie is great,(they really just live to have fun).The story is great composed and we see the story from three different angles. The actors here arent very known,but I must admit that they did a good job.This is absolutely a teenager movie,and a good one too.I guarantee that you are going to laugh,and truly enjoy this movie.I give it a 8 1/2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Go see Go","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a cracking little movie. Full of twists and turns the action shoots back and forth and kind of puts me in mind of Pulp Fiction. The action shoots back and forth with a pace that does not allow the viewer time to pause for breath. A great movie, see it if you can. "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction's witty descendant","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another grandson of Pulp Fiction, this one for the Gen-X set.  Three interconnected stories from three points of view about a drug deal gone horribly wrong at the hands of bungling and overconfident amateurs.  It all starts when some guys ask a beleaguered supermarket cashier (Polley) if she can supply any X.  An overdose, a betrayed drug dealer, a police sting and a  hit-and-run collision ensue, sped along with Tarantino-esque patter from zany characters (a smooth black guy, some gay actors, a policeman who's a vehement deadpan product salesman, a mafia type bemoaning the new generation).  As derivative as it is, it's still a fun and witty movie for all that.  Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr, the two gay actors who are being blackmailed by the creepy policeman into participating ina  drug scenes, steal the show.   "}{"Title":"Disappointing end, but entertaining enough. *CONTAINS SPOILERS*","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Firstly, before I get all critical and sarcastic, I will admit that I did actually enjoy most of this film. I was impressed with the acting, I laughed at all the funny bits and enjoyed the classic moment when the character of Manney who has just taken ecstacy dances with the check out operator in the supermarket. My enjoyment of this film however was all based on the anticiption of a fantastically clever and mind-blowingly unexpected denouement (something like the ending of Wild Things). And I am sorry to say that this film just did not deliver. I was left thinking 'well what was all that about?' and 'why did Clare (played by Katie Holmes) suddenly become so attracted to the drug dealer who she, only a few hours ago, was disgusted and scared by?' and 'Why do I still not know exactly why Zac and Scott wolf(sorry forgot his character name) were forced to help the police with their investigation. Now I am not saying that this is a bad film, like I said I enjoyed it, and from the user comments I can see that many other people did as well. But I didnt understand it. Like one commenter said, the film is chopped into segments, which would be brilliant if the writers had, like the commenter said, ensured that each segment makes a point and fits together nicely. OK, so it did fit together nicely, and I suppose in a way you could say that each segment contains a point in some way. However, call me fussy but I want more than that from a film. I want impact and consequence and shock. Also, there was so many things that this film left unexplained and many of the characters committed actions which they had no apparent motivation to do, for example Clare's sudden and unexplained passion for Todd, Mohr and Wolf's police assistance. All the way through the film I was thinking, 'cor.. this is really good, and its all going to lead up to this brilliantly clever ending, which is all centred around Holmes, as she is, as the cover and her MTV Award would suggest, the star of this film' and then it ended and I was very disappointed and wondered if Katie had even been in the film as she seemed to have the smallest part of all the lead characters. In short, an ok film, but a lot less than what I was expecting. Its a shame because it had so much potential. "},{"Title":"It tries but fails.","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a big Katie Holmes fan, I was looking forward to this release.  If you've seen the movie you can understand my disappointment since Katie Holmes is only in the movie for a grand total of about 25 minutes.  The rest of the story is chopped up and gratuitously violent and dark.  Not what you'd call the feel good movie of the year.  However, I don't really think that is what they set out to create.  I'm just not a big fan of movies that exploit the dark side of life for entertainment's sake.  "},{"Title":"Poseur-rave sloppage for WB drama viewers","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Oh dear. Where to begin?  Let me break it down like this, I couldn't finish the video.  I stopped it before the end was over.   My beef is with the plot, and the gross portrayal of the so-called rave scene. The plot was non-existent.  I'm cool with that, I can enjoy movies about nothing--kind of like watching extended episodes of Seinfeld.  However, this whirlwind mishmash did nothing for the film.  If one is going to take a story and chop it into segments, then one should take great pains to make sure each segment makes a point, and eventually gels together nicely in the end.  Tarantino knows how to do this.  This movie does not.  Instead, it rambled on and on and on.My next problem with the film is the whole rave scene.  I'm a clubber myself, and I felt the film fell back on stereotypes to define what rave is. I know that drugs are a big part of rave culture, but I'd like to point out that I know quite a few ravers who DON'T always have to use drugs when they rave.  This film does nothing but to perpetuate these gross misconceptions. I would have liked to see more dancing and hear more music, and less of a bunch of kids in a back of a van, being advised to smoke more marijuana in order to feel the ecstasy.To conclude?  More mind candy for the brainless, but trendy, viewers of the Dawson's Creek and Party of Five fans.  Any advantages?  Quite possible seeing the big pants and beaded pacifiers breaking into mainstream fashion. "},{"Title":"Potentially good movie ruined by bad cast","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Everybody's been comparing this movie to Pulp Fiction, and here's my contribution it's PF played by the cast of Dawson Creek. It's not just Katie Holmes, it's the whole damn cast. I'm really surprised that Liman, who brought us 'Swingers' could've made such an unfortunate choice of actors. There're two main things that're wrong with Holmes, Wolfe etc. a) being TV actors they're not especially talented, and b) they all look too young and cute to be taken seriously. I was sure from the beginning that nobody'll get killed, and that generally, everything will turn out fine for these brats. The least believable scenes are those where adult characters (Fichtner, Freeman) show up, and actually treat the punks as equals, instead of telling them to shove it. "},{"Title":"Junior PULP FICTION, not as interesting.","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A frenetic, energized look at the lives of a group of hedonistic teens in L.A., as seen from several angles and points of view.Leonard Maltin said it best GO is a junior PULP FICTION, only not as interesting and nowhere near as entertaining.** out of ****. "},{"Title":"What a load of b****x!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go! in the top 250 of all time? The best way to describe it is an immature Pulp Fiction about teenagers. It's a futile film. The British characters story has it's funny moments, but that is all the compliments Go is going to get from me. Go is an instantly forgetable film, especially since that young vixen Holmes doesn't get naked once. The film is completely lacking in style and class as are the characters. Egregious. "},{"Title":"Go is a NO Go","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is the hip teenage movie gone wrong. Scream started the whole teen movie fad because they did a wonderful job at making a movie fun and intelligent. Then there were others and the worst of them all, GO. The makers of this movie tried to put all the hip stuff in one movie and forgot about the all important things like acting and plot. Go was a waste of my money and time. "},{"Title":"Not a classic, but not bad.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If nothing else, Go should be lauded for the most realistic depiction of a gay male couple in film history.  Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf, the couple in question, spend most of their time sniping at each other.  It's not a classic movie, but it's worth the time you'll spend with it. "},{"Title":"Go sucked","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is another movie that should have never been. To sum it up quickly; it's very trendy, we don't care about the characters, so their little conflicts are boring creating no suspense. The movie isn't funny, and the script isn't serious enough to fully entice the viewer in what's going on. Even Liman's first effort Getting In was far superior to this.  "},{"Title":"Bizarre!","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one warped movie!  I give it high marks for the cast and soundtrack. The plot was very fast paced with few (if any) slow spots.The first half of the movie is told from three people's point of view.  I liked the way the film switched perspectives, though some of my friends found it confusing.In conclusion, don't expect any great morals or insights from this film, but it does provide a nice distraction.  I wouldn't say it was horrible, but I don't think I'd rent it twice. "}{"Title":"Film of the year","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The whole film is a wild ride from start to finish. Doug Limans direction is superb and the speed of the film never lets up. I found it unpredictable, funny and dark. Sarah Polley was excellent as was the rest of the cast. Timothy Olyphant was particulary menancing, but had a lovable streak to him at the same time. Very smart film. "},{"Title":"Stop comparing Go to Pulp Fiction!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is a really great film that critics and IMDB users like to compare to Pulp Fiction for some dumb reasons.  Other than the facts that both films are non-linear in structure and contain drugs, they have very little in common.  What bugs me is when I read a review that says Go pales in comparison to its cousin Pulp Fiction or Go owes a lot to Pulp Fiction. Go owes nothing to Pulp Fiction.  I remember reading one comment in particular that said something like the teens in Go are the kind of people who would grow up to be like the thugs in Pulp Fiction.  That is a pretty ignorant comment, as Go is only trying to show that teens and young people do some stupid things.  All teens do stupid things, maybe not like the things in this film, but you get the point.  So I guess this means that all teens are likely to become thugs like in Pulp Fiction?  There is one thing that may have been pulled out of Pulp Fiction the film opens with a brief scene in a restaurant, a scene from the end of the film.  Sound familiar to you Pulp Fiction fans??  Whether or not this was intentional, I have no clue.  The point is that Go should not be compared to Pulp Fiction.  Both are great films, however, I enjoyed Go a lot more, for different reasons, BECAUSE they are very different films.   "},{"Title":"Forgettable fun, but not up to the high standards of 'Swingers'","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like Kevin Smith and Neil LaBute, Doug Liman struck gold with his first film, 'Swingers', a distinctive low-budget comedy which came from out of nowhere. Similar to the other two director's second features ('Mallrats' and 'Your Friends and Neighbours' respectively), 'Go' retains the same style, and indeed increases it, but lacks the heart. 'Swingers' was very much an actor's film, scripted by its lead, John Favreau, so was more concerned with character development. Given the subtle dig at Tarantino in that film, it is somewhat ironic that John August's script for this one should adopt the same portmanteau approach as 'Pulp Fiction' and 'Four Rooms', with it's three stories occurring over the same night, whose main threads all combine to share the same conclusion. Los Angeles club culture is the focus of this film, and the atmosphere is admirably conjured up, with a frenetic editing style in the first half (Nathan Bexton's Ecstasy trip is pretty well handled cinematically) and a pumping score. There's some sparkling dialogue and funny scenes, but nothing here is as consistently funny as 'Swingers'. The main problem here is that, like 'Pulp Fiction', the film suffers from a decidedly random narrative. It's one thing keeping an audience guessing what is about to happen, but the stringing together an evening's worth of events into a plot with no real purpose other than to portray these events seems rather pointless. This is especially notable in the Las Vegas episode, which features some good moments, but comes across as rather redundant after a while. The various contrivances that merge the narratives together reminded me of last year's 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels', another triumph of style over substance. This is a film of scenes and sequences, that seem to gel together rather self-consciously. Up against the laidback suave of 'Swingers', 'Go' seems rather studied and forced. Still, to his credit, Liman keeps the pace up to the extent that boredom never gets a chance to set in. The end result seems to add up to be more than the sum of its parts and I ended up warming to it more than most of the films I have mentioned here. It captures the zeitgeist of late 90's drugs culture pretty well, and in a lightweight sort of laidback sort of way, is a pretty agreeable timewaster; as energetic and vapid as the milieu which it portrays. It would be interesting to compare this with Justin Kerrigan's 'Human Traffic' (1999), a transatlantic counterpart featuring more hedonistic pleasures from drug-fuelled teens. The eclectic casting here throws together Katie Holmes ('Dawsons Creak' TV show, and object of Tobey Maguire's desire in 'The Ice Storm'), Canadian Sarah Polley (Atom Egoyan's 'The Sweet Hereafter' and loads more), hyperactive Brit Douglas Askew ('Grange Hill'!), and trivia fans might like to note the presence of 70's action hero Doug McClure's daughter Tane McClure as a stripper, who's silicon stuffed tits are sprayed in blood in a scene guaranteed not to make it into the UK release!  "},{"Title":"What a trip...","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has just about every element you could look for in a motion picture.  Action, comedy, drama, and a good deal of suspense.  Go details the lives of four individuals surrounding a drug deal gone bad.  It's almost like watching four separate stories, but carries a complex storyline without sacraficing details.  Go tends to jump around in a very Pulp Fictionesque manner, but is much easier to tie together than its worthy predecessor.  I highly recommend this movie.  It's difficult to explain the way it endears one to it, but it will glue to to the screen for two hours, wondering just what the hell will happen next.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic Follow-Up to Swingers","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What an entertaining movie.  I really wasn't expecting too much of 'Go', now Im really glad that I did see it. I've read the majority of user comments posted on the IMDB for 'Go' and most of them contain references to the similarity of the movie & 'Pulp Fiction'.  I must agree 'Go' does owe a lot to 'Pulp Fiction', but that doesn't make the movie any less entertaining.   Im sure most everyone would agree that ninety percent of films produced are influenced by and borrow heavily from earlier movies, at least Doug Liman et al were influenced by one of the modern classics.The script was really witty and done great justice by a group of fine young actors and actresses.  It will be a great shame if any of 'Go's cast members are forgotten and don't get offered bigger roles in future productions.  When I initially saw the trailer for 'Go' I was really put off by Desmond Askew's Simon character, I imagined it to be yet another miswritten English character in a Hollywood film.  To my surprise there was none of the 'stiff upper lip' and stereotypical English stuffiness about Simon, which was a refreshing change.  I also thought that Sarah Polley was a standout. If Doug Liman keeps on making quirky, entertaining and genuinely funny movies like 'Swingers' & 'Go', Im sure one day he will get the critical praise and attention that he richly deserves.   "},{"Title":"Great Idea","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loves the way this movie was presented to the audience.  Having it broken up not only gave us different sides to the same story and the same story with different points of view.  It also did a good job of breaking the film up into digestible pieces.  The crew did a god job also keeping it from being repetitious. "},{"Title":"Invigorating rollercoaster.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Deceptively up-to-date 'druggy' drama is in fact deeply old-fashioned mixture of comedy and suspense.  Usual teen morality inverted in favour of amorality's dizzy rush.  Death, hysteria, madness, dismemberment all flirted with, but comic spirit prevails.  Life for today's young shown to be as joyless and repetitive as a melodrama, burdened with responsibilities - only escape is heightened reality.  Thinly characterised, hugely likeable characters, great dialogue, brilliant direction (especially the second segment), wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A Pulp Fiction with teen idols. Who would have thunk it?","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"     Go is the type of movie that is interesting the first time you see it, but lacks any substance to make it really stand out. It's a neatly done copy of the Pulp Fiction cut-up of the story, but lacks the acting and script writing that made Pulp Fiction incredible. Still, the list of teen-idol actors/actresses do a surprisingly good job and giving the viewer a fun and humorous jaunt into the dark and cynical world that the Baby Boom's generation belives it's children actually live in. While most of the stories are far-fetched and have a lot realistic flaws, you're able to ignore them with the negative, yet stylish humor that keeps you interested in what will happen next. Basically, I think this movie has a chance to become a cult-classic (in vein with the Breakfast Club), where the movie will continue to be an example of a good teen flick, but the actors/actresses in it will be forgotten. This is still the best teen flick I've seen since Clueless. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I liked this the first time, when it was called Pulp Fiction","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is nothing more than an overrated rip off of Pulp Fiction.  It has a few decent individual scenes, but doesn't add up to anything more than a trendy crime story.  It isn't too bad, but by no means is it as good as some would have you believe. "},{"Title":"To me, one of the best.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To me this movie is one of the best that I have seen in a long time. For a reason, that is unknown to me, I love this movie. I have seen it seven time since I got it for DVD I got it 6 weeks ago. This movie as a unique style. They way that all the characters tied into each other was great. From Adam and Zack to Todd Gaines and Simon. I can't really explain how much this movie means to me but I can saw it will be on my top ten for the longest time. "}{"Title":"Real disappointment","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The storytelling device of multiple viewpoints of the same period of time is very tricky to pull off and this film really doesn't manage it. I was prepared to love it because i loved Swingers so much. But the writing is weak and the onus to get through the story from all those points of view meant that important plot points and story twists came up way too conveniently. At the end it seems that the device was a real affectation and really not the best way to tell the story at all. Hats off to Sarah Polley for keeping her head above the rest on this one. None of the others fared as well. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a great movie. I heard from several people that the different perspectives in the movie would be hard to follow, but that wasn't true. Also some people claimed it was the same kind of movie as pulp fiction. I hate that movie. Go is a great movie, with some nice plot twists and a lot of humor "},{"Title":"Lots of fun and visually stunning","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie owes an obvious debt to Tarantino, and the filmmaker made no attempts to mask that, so why all the put-downs complaining that it's not as good as Pulp Fiction? Isn't imitation supposed to be the sincerest form of flattery? This is movie is entertaining as hell, and a real blast. And it's not easy to make a film like that, whether or not it references or rips off (take your pick) another movie. It's gorgeously shot in ultrasaturated hues and has a great soundtrack to boot. Yes, there are moments when you can see a mile ahead what's coming but half the fun is when those moments finally happen and all hell breaks lose. This is the most fun I've had watching a movie in quite some time. But definitely not for the prudish.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a great movie. I heard from several people that the different perspectives in the movie would be hard to follow, but that wasn't true. Also some people claimed it was the same kind of movie as pulp fiction. Ihate that movie.Go is a great movie, with some nice plot twists and a lot of humor "},{"Title":"Gritty, fast drama. 8/10.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  With an unusual crafting style the writer/director has made a really enjoyable movie. The humour is well done while the off hand brutality is occasionally chilling. My favourite sequence was the, so you want us to sell Amway.. one. Bon.More strength to the arms of enterprising movie makers. "},{"Title":"Go holds it's own","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm not going to deconstruct this film or make any Pulp Fiction comparisons, that seems to have been done enough already. I'll just say this is a great little flick that blows away the other tedious 'must see' movies released in '99 (ie.Eyes Wide Shut, Star Wars). Great script, great acting and a killer soundtrack. (it's also fun to count how many times the word 'go' is used). Do yourself a favour, go see go. "},{"Title":"Go holds it's own","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm not going to deconstruct this film or make any Pulp Fiction comparisons, that seems to have been done enough already. I'll just say this is a great little flick that blows away the other tedious 'must see' movies released in '99 (ie.Eyes Wide Shut, Star Wars). Great script, great acting and a killer soundtrack. (it's also fun to count how many times the word 'go' is used). Do yourself a favour, go see go. "},{"Title":"Rivals Pulp Fiction for one of the 10 best black comedies in the 90's....","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Gunplay, Sex, and Drugs....i know what you are thinking another mundane Hollywood release....WRONG! Go! A stunning film by sophomore director Doug Liman, who for goes the typical sophomoric slump and followsup the  great Swingers with an even better movie....GO. With great cinematography which puts a new spin on the old Las Vegas car chase...as well as great performances by not only Katie Holmes but newcomer Sarah Polley..Go is a definite MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"The film that capped a great summer of movies.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This summer, all said and done, has been a pretty good one compared to the failure of last year. Yet my favourite film of all has not been Star Wars, Thomas Crowne, Eyes Wide Shut, South Park, or any pf the other big blockbusters; It has been 'Go', the comparatively low budget piece of club-culture pulp cinema.The three-story system might have failed horribly, and been derided as a pale wannabe Tarantino imitation. I felt, however, that the inevitable moments of 'oh, I see how it all links together now... how clever' were more deftly handled than they were in Pulp Fiction, or in other films such as 'Smoke' which have also used such a narrative structure.The three stories themselves were, while keeping the same overall mood, refreshingly different in pace and style to keep my undivided attention, and I look forward to seeing all of the cast members (particularly Katie Holmes and Timothy Olyphant) in future work after their universally impressive performances in this film.If you haven't seen it yet, go and see/rent it depending on whether you live in Europe/America. It's a great film, and a fitting conclusion to an excellent summer of movies.What are you waiting for. Depart. Leave. Exit. No, that's not right... now what's the word... "},{"Title":"Surprising film","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I went to see this film without knowing it. I found the tittle very attractive. At the end of the movie i must say i was positively surprised with the actors, script, soundtrack, speed, and rhythm of this movie.One of my favourites for the 90's.Júlio "}{"Title":"Go and see the movie!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   it has one of the best story-lines ever! Katie Holmes and Sarah Polley are so good-looking. Every actor/actress did very well on playing their role. In the begin, it was a bit confusing. But after a while, you'll understand more. The movie shows the perspective of 3 different persons over the same situation, which was done in a very clever way. If you decide not to go and see the movie...You don't know what you're missing! "},{"Title":"Sometimes putting the breaks on is the best option.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the aptly titled story of a group of twenty (and under) somethings who, at varying speeds and with varying urgency attempt, succeed and/or fail to extricate themselves from perilous situations.  All of the events in Go take place over the course of one night.  Every time we think we've reached the end, we're propelled back to the beginning of the story to start all over again from another character's perspective.  This circular structure leaves us feeling as though we're playing an endless game of Monopoly in which we can never pass go.  In the first sequence, the amoral Rona (Sarah Polley) doesn't know when to stop.  Working for minimum wage at a grocery store, and in desperate need of cash to avoid eviction from her apartment on Christmas Eve, Rona gets the whole thing going when she embarks on a misguided drug deal that ends in near-disaster.  In the second sequence, her duplicitous and sleazy colleague Simon (Desmond Askew), goes along for the ride to Vegas with his party boy friends, Marcus (Taye Diggs), Tiny (Breckin Meyer) and Singh (James Duval).  Having gone too far in all of their misadventures, the boys can barely get out of Vegas fast enough.  In the hilarious third sequence, fictional TV detectives Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zach (Jay Mohr) are two dupes who don't know if they are coming or going.  Forced to go undercover in a drug sting operation (involving Polley's Rona), they must avoid the libidinous leers of a real cop named Todd Gaines (Timothy Olyphant).  When Gaines' true motives are revealed, his last name will be good for a few guffaws.  And finally, Rona's best friend Claire Montgomery (Katie Holmes) goes out on a limb with drug dealer Mannie (Nathan Bexton), to protect the whole lot of them.  This movie has a definite appeal to those who think gunplay, ménages à trois, drugs and sex are best performed at high speed.  As I'm not, I took pleasure in the strong performances and some funny and clever dialogue. "},{"Title":"An inspired fun ride of a movie.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is one of my favourite movies of the year. It grabbed me from  the start and entertained me without letup. The characters were so well drawn and the script droll and so funny. I enjoyed every moment of this inspired, fun ride of a movie.I'm certainly looking forward to this directors next movie. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A canny and enjoyable Pulp Fiction-inspired intrigue with a little of all the main genres.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Doug Liman's (Swingers) second motion picture is basically an intelligent mosaic of the lives of a bunch of L.A. characters, packed with an amazing number of conflicts and incident into its 102 minutes. John August's well-written, funny plot unites the entertaining little stories and forms an unpredictable and enjoyable composition. Viewed as a whole the film is not without implausibilities and incongruities but Liman still manages to retain a general appealing comic vision of the characters' lifestyle and encounters. And though it fails to engage on an emotional level, Go in turns offers a convincing cast (Sarah Polley, Katie Holmes , Jay Mohr, Scott Wolf...) and an original story full of surprises.Just sit back and enjoy the show.  "},{"Title":"Huge Fun Film","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before I went to see this film I had no idea what it was about, and this is the way it should be viewed. It was a complete surprise, especially from the director of 'Swingers' (Not that it was bad just slow) but this was fast and furious fun, my favourite bit has to be the Las Vegas section, I didn't stop laughing all the way through!. Despite the obvious 'Pulp Fiction' stylee, and therefore not the most original film, I was stilll able to enjoy every minute of it without cringing once. This film's future most definitely lies with youth cult classic. (especially with Grange Hill fans!) "},{"Title":" Human Traffic, with a plot!!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is exactly how human traffic should've been. It's fast, furious and funny. Scott Wolf is hilarious as the petrified gay soap actor and Desmond Askew also puts in a good performance. The sound track is the only thing to let it down, oh well, you can't have everything. "},{"Title":"A fun movie, flawed but very watchable","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't think I've read a single review of this film that hasn't mentioned Pulp Fiction, so I won't break tradition.  In the five years since that film redefined the rules of cinema, we've seen a ton of movies borrow PF's casual-comical attitude towards violence, integration of pop culture with mob culture, and in-your-face characterizations, yet precious few have adopted what was possibly Pulp Fiction's greatest innovation, its tangential storytelling technique.  Go takes an almost self-conscious stab at this paradigm, prefacing each segment with a title and often using the same shot in multiple episodes.  In some ways it succeeds, and in some ways it doesn't.  This style of storytelling definitely makes the film more fun, but it's not especially well suited to the story.  Unlike Pulp Fiction, I never got the feeling that this story *needed* to be told *this way*.  Many of the links between episodes are contrived--the bizarre twist of fate device is used perhaps one too many times.  The shifting point of view does allow us to contemplate a lot of what-ifs, but not with anywhere near the force of Run Lola Run.  But is it a good film?  Absolutely.  There are moments when it's a great film.  There are even moments when it betters Pulp Fiction.  One is in its depiction of the drug culture.  Lance (Eric Stoltz), the dealer in PF, was a simple, reasonably sympathetic character, an average guy who dealt drugs the way most people deal Amway products.  He was amusing, but he ultimately shed little light on what it really means to be a drug dealer.  Tarantino chose to take the emphasis off of him and instead made the drugs themselves the villains.  Witness the fact that in the famous needle scene, Lance is the comic relief.Todd (Timothy Olyphant), the dealer in Go, is a far better character (in my opinion, the best one in the film).  Doug Liman and writer John August clearly created him with the attitude that it takes a different sort of person to be a successful drug dealer; and in the course of the film, we see many examples of why Todd is not just the guy next door who happens to be selling drugs.  He's not the likable everyman that Lance was, but he's not a monster, either.  There were moments in the film when I was scared to death of him, and there were moments when I thought he might be fun to hang out with.  Hollywood hacks, take note--this is a *character*.  In fact, on the basis of Todd alone I'd say that John August deserves a Best Screenplay nomination.I wish I could say that the rest of the characters in Go are as interesting and three-dimensional as Todd, but I can't.  A common--and effective--method of cinematic characterization is to have a character do something that shocks the audience, and then proceed to explain why he/she did it.  Many characters in Go do things to shock us, but we rarely find out why, and this is a problem.  Marcus (Taye Diggs) talks about sex for fifteen minutes and then steals a Ferrari.  Is he the type of person that would do this?  Apparently he is, but the story never slows down for a minute to talk about *why* he is.  Ditto Simon (Desmond Askew), who does and says a multitude of outrageous things, none of which help us to figure out who he is or how he got that way.In spite of its story and character problems, Go is still a lot of fun to watch--and not fun in a brainless sort of way, but not fun in a truly intellectual sense, either.  For director/DP Doug Liman, Go is not a huge deviation from his previous success, Swingers, but it still has plenty to differentiate itself from that film, and I'm glad that Liman knows to take small steps at this crucial early point in his career.  The cast is great--I predict Sarah Polley will have a very interesting body of work ahead of her--and the film has a fun, fresh, rough-edged feel to it that really envelops you in the L.A. culture (and counter-culture).  Go was made for a mere $6.5 million; it's maddening to consider how many movies at this budget could be made for the cost of Godzilla, but it's also frustrating to realize how much one more rewrite could have improved it. "},{"Title":"Go see Go","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go uses the same structure as Pulp Fiction Three stories loosely connected. Pulp Fiction had three great stories but failed to connect them as well as Go does.Doug Liman is fast building a strong reputation as a good director. Both Swingers and now Go are little seen but much appreciated. The director is fantastic at creating likable characters. There wasn't that many characters in Swingers but you loved them all. Go has a large assortment of characters and each one is likable. Ronna. Simon, Claire, Adam and Zack are just a few of Go's loveable cast.And what a cast. A number of familiar faces make appearances such as Katie Holmes (Dawsons Creek), Scott Wolf (Party of Five), Jane Krakowski (Ally McBeal) and Jay Mohr (Jerry Maguire) and there are a number of newcomers. Each one gives their characters an air of charm but overall an air of reality. A fantastic job by a group still so young. In a few years this is the movie people will be renting to see where their favourite movie star started out.The stories are full of surprises so I don't want to give too much away. There is a different twist every few minutes, but be prepared to laugh. I was surprised at how funny this was. You will be too, so go see Go. "},{"Title":"Go vs Human Traffic","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is great fun.  After the initial 'guess which teen series you have seen the actors in before', it is great entertainment.  The only drawback was the ending, which I thought was far too nice and neat, it would definitely have benefited from something darker and looser.  Personally I rate HUMAN TRAFFIC & LOCK, STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS far higher than GO. If you get a chance see these films then do!  I won't go into the PULP FICTION thing, as you've probably read it before. "},{"Title":"Go... you must Go and watch this great film!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is gripping right from the start and is thoroughly entertaining. After watching this I made all my friends see it and so far nobody was disappointed.  I'm not about to proclaim this a the best film of all time but I think it may well be in my top ten.The story follows four teenagers through a series of events involving drugs, strippers and nasty (if dim) gangsters from Vegas over a two night period. The story get to a certain point then starts again using the a different persons perspective.  This is a similar to the way Pulp Fiction was put together but I think it's moire similar to the style of Groundhog Day (no other similarities).I think very few people will leave this film not feeling very entertained but hey I suppose you can't please everyone  o) "}{"Title":"Excellent fun!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Cracking film!  Well paced, superbly edited, lovely performances, gripping plot, nice line in black humour, colourful and clever.Nevertheless, Go isn't for everyone.  Avoid, for example, taking your Granny (unless you've briefed her on the effects of Ecstasy).  For the most part, though, `Go' is a clever film with definite pulling power.  It has the same black comedy as Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, with similar plot spins.  The plot is inventive, funny and almost impossible to relate, so I'm not even going to try - but it neatly avoids being too complicated, and leaves just enough scope for character development and humour, without playing second fiddle to the storyline.Go is actually three stories in one, tied together in a similar fashion as Pulp Fiction.  Yet unlike Tarantino's opus, Go relies on reality far more than the vaguely cartoonized characters played by Travolta, Jackson, Keitel and the like.  Furthermore, we `youths' understand this sort of situation far more than the plots offered by `Pulp Fiction' - for `Go' is about people we know, not weird folks in tuxedos who, no matter how cool they may be, actually say very little about our good selves.  It's also clear that Go has had a lot less money thrown into it, and as a result, the film retains a raw quality that gives it added punch.  This is clearly enhanced by the editing, which has a frenetic, ravey feel to it (particularly in the opening credits).  The acting is good - particularly from Sarah Polley as Ronna, and Katie Holmes as Claire.  Scott Wolf does very well here, although fans of `Party of Five' will no doubt recognise the odd `Bailey' look.  William Fichtner is superb as the creepy Burke, and if anyone has to go through the mental anguish of trying to work out where we recognise him from, it's `Armageddon'.  It's not worthwhile listing all performances in the film - all of them were good.The director of Go, Doug Liman, is probably best known for his earlier comedy Swingers, and the same freshness can be seen in both he deserves to go a long way.  This movie is one of the best new flicks around go. "},{"Title":"Ok but nothing to brag about","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Editor's note this comment contains a minor SPOILERI saw GO the other day and it was suprisingly not too bad other then a few annoying things. I have read alot of people's reviews on GO and personally do not really see where alot of them are coming from. Alot of people compare it to Pulp Fiction  but I actually think it's more like Reservoir Dogs then anything else. No matter what though, these guys definately have a thing for copying Tarrantino movies. The movie was entertaining but there are a couple of things I would have done differently if I was the writer/director. First change When Sandra is talking to the two gay guys of the story, and freaking out in the process you basically see the camera shot just on Sandra, wouldn't it have been better if the camera would have gone back in forth between Sandra and the two gay guys? I think so because you would see Sandra freaking out and you would also get the reactions of Jay Mohr and the other character. I don't know just a thought.Second change When the four kids are stuck in the car in the alley with the bad guys coming in the truck after them, they just stay in the car and take the crash. Now first of all the kids would all be dead and besides that sort of thing I have seen in movies over and over again, It's tired!! Wouldn't it have been more exciting if they would have got out of the car and the bad guys would have ran into their car and then you would have both cars chasing after the four kids. Again these are just some ideas I got after seeing the movie. All in all the movie was a very good rental but nothing more then that really. It wasn't anything ground breaking like alot of you would like to think. My grade 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"'Go' hits all the right buttons...","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Go' starts as all good movies should, in a place where the possibilities are endless, then it takes you to them all and still manages to end cohesively and satisfyingly.Three stories; three bored shop assistants in search of THE  Christmas party, two actors wanting a clean break, and four friends on a bender in Las Vegas. The viewer is taken to and through each one and shown the trouble one can get up to in one night given the motive and the means.Brilliantly acted by the entire cast - their isn't a duff character - and directed with an air of seen it, done it, been there, 'Go' hits all the right buttons. Beautiful people and a real dark comic sense of humour.The movie is as diverse and spot on they come. 'Go' see it!!! "},{"Title":"Go gave me just what I wanted 103 minutes of action, lots of supermarkets and Vegas shots and beautiful people doing wild things.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's time to acknowledge for once that Pulp Fiction was a pioneer film that created a way to do movies.With Go, Doug Liman steps on as one of the most exiting American directors as well as one of the most brilliant cinematographers of his generation.There's simply no time -or chance- to get bored by watching Go the action and fun is always there as you can only sit back and enjoy one of the most exiting rides of the recent American cinema.The cast is great and continues with the tendency of using TV stars to attract new young audience to the movies. The music may be too MTV'esque but it's OK.Something I missed on this movie was descent dialogues (SubUrbia, Trainspotting...) but I guess is just me getting a little older.I'd give Go 10 over 10.  "},{"Title":"My advice is Go!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My husband and I were probably twice as old as the next youngest person in the audience, but we LOVED it.  If you liked it, you might also like Two Hands, for roughly the same reasons. This is a nail-biting suspense (or is it just me?) with Two Hands (not Pulp Fiction or Seven) type resolutions. Terrific! "},{"Title":"Funny, suspenseful and nice to look at","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie provided a great experience even if it's not going to be classified as great by film students.  The acting was excellent, the direction was excellent, the screenplay was excellent and even the comedy (so frequently the weak link) was excellent, if not, perhaps, uproarious.Further, what kind of curmudgeon would not delight in the way the word, Go is sprinkled throughout the screenplay.  Leave your film books and notepad at home and you'll have a great two hours! "},{"Title":"nice surprise","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I knew nothing of this film before i saw it, i got a nice surprise. one part lock stock + barrels, one part pulp fiction, one part tesseract (alex garland), more british humour than pulp fiction. Grange Hill boy done good! I know Joey from Dawson's creek was is in it, but a lot of the actors could have been from Dawson....  "},{"Title":"Entertaining complication-story","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very crisp and entertaining complication-story about 3 work mates getting into all kinds of trouble because they make a shift-swap at the supermarket so that one of them can go to Vegas for the weekend. The story is told from three perspectives and intertwines all stories in a clever and very funny finale. The characters are all well played and Sarah Polly, well - she's just great! "},{"Title":"This Movie Is One Of My Favorites!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  GO was a superb movie, in more ways than one.  The acting, music, and plot made this movie a classic in my book!There were only two things that dissapointed me about this movie  Not enough Sarah Polley and Nathan Bexton!  They were my favorites in the movie, and unfortunately the plotline didn't allow them to be in it too much.The movie has three main storylines, respectively titles Ronna, Simon, and Adam & Zack.  All three plots are good, and very different from another.Ronna was my favorite, not just because it had the talented Polley and Bexton, but also it had Katie Holmes and Timothy Olyphant!  The story features Ronna, a tired and almost-broke cashier who, because she needs money to curve eviction, gets set-up by Adam & Zack...two gay actors who are working with the LAPD.Ronna has many fall-backs to her plan, and her storyline ends in a most tradgic way.Simon is the next storyline.  He is Ronna's co-worker, who has some equally bizaar experiences in Las Vegas.  Chris Rock is right...NO SEX IN THE CHAMPAIGNE ROOM!  Desmond Askew does a good job, and unfortunatley his two friends (Brekin Meyer and James Duval) don't get enough time to shine.Adam & Zack is the final storyline, which features the two gay actors as they shed some light onto some of the mysteries that were presented in Ronna's storyline.  Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr both do commendable jobs...and the whole Amway (er...Confederated crap) plot was both surprising and laughable!Finally, we have the end.  Ronna's and Simon's plots come together finally, and it all ends in a big way.The movie has one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard in a movie, and the comedy was just there naturally.  Bexton was the best comedic relief, seeing him zoned out on E....dancing with a shopping clerk to the Macarena, and talking telepathically with a cat is just part of what his character had to offer....too bad he couldn't have been in it more!Sarah Polley, Nathan Bexton, Timothy Olyphant, Scott Wolf, Katie Holmes, Jay Mohr, Desmond Askew, James Duval, Brekin Meyer, and many others make this movie THE movie to see, and I'm buying it ASAP. A movie to see with friends.  "},{"Title":"Quick and slick- so don't blink.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If there ever was a time to use the word 'Tarantinoesque' now would be it.GO's hip insight into 24 hours of LA's youth culture follows closely and firmly in the footsteps of Pulp Fiction.It blends violence, humour, drugs and sex into a luscious mix that could have so easily come out tastless.It lacks the Pulp of 'Pulp Fiction' and does seem to take its self a little too seriously at times... but usually this doesn't last and there's a wicked farcical twist close around the corner.You won't go home and philosophize after watching this film... but it won't give you a sore bum either.  You'll leave the cinema wishing for an extra half hour.Go see this film...Oh yeah - the cat conversation is priceless. You'll know what I mean "}{"Title":"Right on the money","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to the movies last night, and had the option of watching Go or Wild Wild West.  Seeing as I usually enjoy good films instead of Hollywoodised screentrash, I watched Go and was extremely impressed with the film.I went in not knowing a thing about the film, aside from the fact that it had a young cast and had fast cars and the like.  What I got was so much more than that.The structure of the film, and how it all meshed together, was very well written.  It was refreshing to see another good film that takes a few detours in getting from start to finish.  The directing of the film was brilliant - considerably better than Swingers, which I also consider a good film.The acting was done well, the characters played exceptionally.  Sarah Polley played her role fantastically, it is almost a shame that the structure of the film kept her out of a decent amount of it.The combination of humour with drama (for instance, the scene where the guy was whacked and thought the cat was telepathically talking to him) was highly entertaining to watch.  The down moments were brilliant also, the contrasts resulting in a thrill ride that made me come out of the theater saying how cool it was to my friends.It can be likened to Pulp Fiction (although Pulp Fiction has to surpass it in my eyes, it is a classic) and Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels also by its subject matter and structure, but all three are different films.  Not to take anything away from Go though, it was excellent.Oh, and I was so certain the cop was gay (and I also suspected he would do something bad to Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr, a la Pulp Fiction) but the end result was far worse!  Such a funny twist!  That the two guys turned out to be gay instead was the perfect irony.Good screenwriting, great acting, top directing, all made for a great film.  Totally recommended!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have just finished watching GO. I love this movie. Someone remarked that they didnt like the fact everyone was stupid-like that they could understand maybe one dumb person. But, in real life, not everyone is smart. Most of us are wild and make a lot mistakes. And even smart people get themselves in deep over their head. And some of us just get dragged in. I think this movie reflects more of what life is really like. Just full of bad decisions and problems. All the actors were GREAT! As for Mr. Askew, I hope to see him in many more films. I noticed he wasnt in many other films, but I think this movie gave him a boost. And the fact Scott and Jay portray gay guys is just too much. This movie had me laughing and on the edge of my seat the whole time. This is a movie a think a lot more, than less, people can relate to and enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Smartly written, well-acted and just a great movie, period.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Swingers, Doug Liman's first feature film, is one of the 90's best comedies.  It was smartly written, well-acted and just a great movie, period.  His follow-up to Swingers, Go, has the same success, but to a much different degree.  The film is more like a mini Pulp Fiction, one of the most important and influential films of the decade.  There have been numerous imitations of Pulp Fiction but Go is the most faithful to the genre as far as screwy characters, interweaving subplots, engaging dialogue and the combination of sex and drugs.  The standout in the film is Sarah Polley.  I was impressed with her performance in The Sweet Hereafter and here is no exception.  In fact, all the characters were very interesting and involving.  Even though, the film switches subplots once the tension is at its most heightened, it makes up for it by introducing another batch of interesting and quirky characters.  I recommend it for its wittiness, performances, story-telling and visual style.   "},{"Title":"Fast- paced and Hilarious","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the VERY few clever comedies of the last few years. It is also one of the funniest and easiest to watch. It lives up to it's title, starting at full speed and never slowing for a moment. The characters and twisted plot make for tons of original humor, and the performances are dead on target. A wonderful mixture of the best of Pulp Fiction and Swingers, with a definite character of its own. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie... you've got to get it","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Many have called this film Tarantino-lite... That's fair but should not minimalize the quality of THIS movie.  Shortly into the movie I said This is a good flick... I hope holds up for the entire movie.  It not only held up but only got better. I will actually give this movie the edge on soundtrack.  I now own both soundtracks and Go again holds up nicely. "},{"Title":"The worst movie on the list of 250......","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't comment too much on any of the movies, but I just had to comment on Go. It does not take a great writer or director to take three stories and wrap them all up into one. Especially when this technic was first used in another movie (PULP FICTION). There are good scenes in this movie. Better scenes were even out takes (DVD). The actors especially Ms Polly were credible as was Tim Olyphant. There are laughs and the movie is not boring, ploding along at a decent pace. In the end GO is just not great.....at all. "},{"Title":"'Pulp Fiction' with a sense of humor.....","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Go' is a non-serious version of 'Pulp Fiction'.  The movie and the actors never take themselves seriously.  Like 'Pulp', there are three small acts that involve various characters.  It is simpler to keep up with than 'Pulp' because the original situation is reference in each of them.  The acting is fun and has a fresh cast, most notably Jay Mohr and Katie Holmes.  The writing is imaginative, taking the best of 'Pulp'and incorporating the current culture.  The music is also good but doesn't always fit the mood of the story.  A real treat. "},{"Title":"a knot with no bows","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw Go! as a knot with no bows - a very interesting look at how teenagers can get themselves into a tangle without any decoration at the end. The format was excellent and Sarah Polley looks and acts like a young Uma Thurman (Pulp Fiction already?).Well, onto its parallels with Pulp Fiction, Go! reads like a younger sibling that's not quite smart enough or confusing enough to cream its elders but it is original all the same.The action is racy (as you would expect from something named Go!) and the comic bits are actually funny which makes it enough to be called a comedy/drama. There are two sides to every character - one shown from another's point of view, and then from their own. Everyone is both a hero and a victim in their own right which makes Go! an exciting ride. (Not taken literally, Simon). "},{"Title":"*** (Out of four)","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If ever there were a by-the-book Tarantino clone, Doug Liman's Go would be it.  Wonderfully derivative yet nonetheless frighteningly original for a teen comedy, Go is the type of film one watches with many qualms, almost willing to forgive it for its many so-called homages in its attempts to be a kiddie-Pulp Fiction with its unique situations and characters.  Yet in transplanting a triptychal neo-film noir to the world of teens, Liman sacrifices one thing that Pulp Fiction had in abundance heart.  Yes, the film essays the exploits of many youngsters getting into dilemmas way over their heads, but it is done in such a manner that no matter how dangerous these experiences are, there must always be a pulsating, stylistic pace to it.And yet Go has the makings of being a great film.  John August's screenplay has some bizarre inventions in it, many reminiscent of the aforementioned video clerk's masterpiece.  Like Pulp Fiction, the film is spliced together from three interconnecting vignettes which, if not thought out with as much detail as Pulp, at least maintains one's full interest throughout.  The first episode traces the misadventures of Ronna (The Sweet Hereafter's Sarah Polley), a check-out girl with an eviction notice hanging over her head. (At one point she mentions that she's only seventeen.  The film never makes it clear why this underage girl lives apart from her parents or legal guardians, but never mind.) Substituting for an irresponsible British guy named Simon (Desmond Askew) with an apparent part-time drug courier occupation, Ronna is asked by gay soap stars Adam and Zack (Scott Wolf, Jay Mohr) to supply twenty hits of Ecstasy for a supposed party.  What Ronna doesn't know is that she's being set up.The second vignette centers on Simon himself, off to Vegas with three buddies.  His adventure involves a tryst with two maids of honor at a wedding chapel, an ill-fated lap dance and a wounded bouncer who seems to be after him and his buddies not for his own sake but for his father's (J.E. Freeman, in a wicked comic turn).The third section follows the two soap studs and the police officer they're working with (William Fichtner), leading up to the film's funniest scene, where Adam and Zack seem to be in the midst of a swinger operation set up by the cop and his wife (Ally McBeal's Jane Krakowski) only to find out that their ulterior motive is equally out-of-left-field.Go of course benefits from these bizarre twists, and it doesn't hurt that Liman's cinematography is lively and energetic.  But it suffers from a case of self-awareness.  It knows how smart it is, rather than being surprised at the effectiveness of its own material.  Certain touches are amusing, such as Ronna's perpetually stoned co-worker having a telepathic conversation with a cat, and others are just a case of a cinematic equivalent of showing off, such as that same kid's macarena with a cashier.  Indeed while watching Go, not only was I reminded of Pulp Fiction, I was also reminiscing on Alan Parker's musical Bugsy Malone, a Mafia film in which all the major players were children.  Go doesn't cast its actors that young, but in making a teen flick featuring the comedic use of drugs, it sends a dangerous message, and many of the actors are not yet mature enough to convey this message.  What many of these Tarantino clones don't realize is that Pulp Fiction was a tragedy masked in the clothing of pulp comic books.  Go seems to be a comedy masked in a tragedy masked in Tarantino lore.  "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I must admit that I had my reservations about this movie, and skipped it all together in the movie theater. I just bought it on DVD and I must say that I truly enjoyed it. I had heard that it bares many similarities to Pulp Fiction, and in some ways it does, but this film stands on its own as a cool black comedy that swerved off in different directions every few minutes. Its style of storytelling is a lot like Pulp Fiction in the fact that it is several short stories that tie in together by the end of the film, but I liked Go much more. I especially liked the character of Simon and his misadventures while in Las Vegas. Overall, I would recommend it to everyone who enjoys their humor on the dark side. "}{"Title":"Doug Liman, Sarah Polley, and Katie Holmes---Sights for Sore Eyes","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Energetic, original, and spectacular. The entire cast is excellent, the script is tight and funny, and Doug Liman, returning from the uproarious SWINGERS, proves once again why he is one of the most talented and underrated filmmakers of today. His camera work is ingenious and incredible. While I enjoyed the film's first and third story, the second story was by far the best. Sarah Polley stands out, along with Katie Holmes and Desmond Askew (Simon). Very cool and very funny. Go see it now.Rating A "},{"Title":"Did somebody say 'Quentin Tarantino'?","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not bad, not bad at all.  I am a sucker for a film that plays havoc with the 'point a to point b' chronology.  Visiting the beginning of the story a number of times and using it as a springboard to jump into other character's POV was very reminiscent of 'Pulp Fiction'.  The characters are almost believable and Scott Wolf playing a gay guy is quite amusing.The story was good and the way I rate films is down to whether I would pay to see it again - and yes, I would. This one is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction, For Teens.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie, i was laughing, all the way through.The witty dialouge and constant plot twists, keeps the viewer interested all the way through. This story told through 3 different points of view is one of the best movies i've seen in a while. Doug Liman has out done himself, surpassing his previous flick Swingers which was also great. You have to see this movie, you wouldn't believe what some people can get up to. BTW the scene in the strip bar is fantastic.   "},{"Title":"Great film, but flawed Dolby 5.1 transfer on to DVD","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just watched the DVD of this movie (with Dolby 5.1) for the 2nd time on my home-theater and with some friends, one of who was seeing it for the 3rd time (the first two at the local new AMC theater). Several times he complained that some of the music, as he remembered, just wasn't there. We replayed a few selected scenes and switched the sound to Dolby analog (Surround Theater-1), and sure enough, he was right. On the scene where the bouncer at the Crazy Horse lounge gets shot, the sound of the gun going off is never even heard, but on the analog is clear and loud. Also, on the macarena dancing scene at the supermarket, the macarena music is barely audible on Dolby 5.1, but improves a lot on Dolby Analog. The same goes for many other scenes that involve music. It seems as thought the sound engineer doing the transfer on to Dolby 5.1 fell asleep on the wheel and lost (or improperly mixed) a goodly chunk of the sound track and the producers of this DVD did not exercise any quality control! This a flawed first edition of one of the great movies of the late 90's. "},{"Title":"Do not PASS GO!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Director Doug Liman has proven to the public that he knows a thing or two about making movies.  With Go, he's proven that he knows how to go about taking an idea that's already been done, and creating something that wonderfully comes into its own.I had no idea who Sarah Polley was before this movie.  Now I want to see any movie she is in because her presence in this movie makes all the difference.  She handles a drug deal with the utmost poise while everyone else around her goes nuts, she gets hit by a car and even makes into work the next day, and her slickness alone just brings the movie to another level.  Although this movie bears some resemblence to Tarantino's masterpiece Pulp Fiction,  I think many will agree that Tarantino is envious of Liman and wishes he made this movie.  If you'd like some entertainment and interesting plot twists, Do not pass GO.  Stick around and watch it. "},{"Title":"innovative and rockin'...I love Go!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this movie was under-appreciated by American audiences.  I thought it was a great Gen X Pulp Fiction and the soundtrack is awesome!  While a few of the characters were broadly drawn, the way the director manipulated time and perspective was great. "},{"Title":"Go Fast!!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It seems that the Go in films these days is selfishness, stolen cars, murder and theft; quickly and deftly squeezed into black comedy.  And if you can't cope well get wasted on Ecstasy, or better still deal some E.In this world a quick fix sure beats struggle town as a supermarket check out operator. It's only wrong if you get caught. The morality of all of this is I suppose a symptom of the nineties, but lawlessness seems to be very, very hip these days and that's not good!You'd have to wonder how much more prevalent this type of thinking is going to become as the middle classes become poorer and more desperate in Australia.  Ronna (a stunning performance from Sarah Polley) needs the rent fast and decides to deal Ecstasy. Meanwhile Simon (Desmond Askey) is off to Vegus with his mate Marcus (Taye Diggs) where they get into strife with  the local thugs.And Adam and Zack (Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr) are on a drug sting with questionable cop Burke (William Fitchner).The three stories develop together and loop back to meet as the film climaxes. Go is very Pulp Fiction. And it's nearly as much fun.Go gets along at a furious pace, is suitably goulish and is lifted by smart direction and principal photograpy from Doug Liman (Swingers). The soundtrack is bouncy and happily not from the same era as Tarantino's Pulp Fiction - that would have been far too much.	A telepathic cat, the Macarena and a very enthusiastic policeman are only three elements of a plot that provides fast paced and clever entertainment. Go will please many patrons, and a surprising ending adds an unexpected warm glow to what had been up until then a veering lawless lunge. "},{"Title":"For Every Drug Deal There's More Than One Story To Tell","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A brilliant, fast paced, hilarious, suspenseful and twisted story of a drug deal that doesn't go exactly to plan. Perfect performances all round with a special mention to Scott Wolf in the BODY RECOVERY scene. Finally a movie with characters you actually care about. Doug Liman has made a movie capturing moments that fill the audience with a myriad of emotions. An example of this was the scene in the TESTAROSSA with the newly found gun, you were kept on the edge of your seat the whole time just waiting for something to happen. This film is right up there with the best.PURE ENTERTAINMENT! "},{"Title":"GO see it!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This type of movie is one that I would not ordinarily see, however I had become acquainted with one of the actors and so I wanted to see his work. I was surprised at how entertaining the film was for me.  And I would think that anyone between 16 and 35 would love it.  It is fast paced with many twists and turns throughout and lots of laughs.  If you haven't seen it be sure to rent it or buy it when it hits the market. "},{"Title":"An excellent vehicle to introduce America to Sarah Polley.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is Sarah Polley's movie. There's just no way around it. Jay Mohr and Scott Wolf created great comic characters. Timothy Olyphant has a great future playing film heavies ahead of him. But the show always belongs to Sarah. She's flawless, and always has been, at naturalism. There's never even a hint of acting in her performance. The film, however, has two major weaknesses. The first is the wasting of James Duval(I have no doubt that the Gregg Araki fans will agree with me on this). The second is Katie Holmes. She is extremely weak in the kind of throwaway role that a good actor usually makes something of. I'm guessing that her work on Dawson's Creek was probably the only thing that got her in this film. No matter. She just leaves more room for Sarah Polley to shine. And shine she does. "}{"Title":"The best teen movie of the nineties","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is wise, fast and pure entertainment. Assembling an exceptional casting it turns this movie unforgettable. The Tarantino narrative although not new work as fresh. The jokes give life and I can guarantee that I would never forget the Sarah Polley acting and the x-mas supper, after all, it was confederate products.  "},{"Title":"Go - see the movie","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, what shall I say. this one´s fun at any rate. Three plotlines, origining from one point, going into the farest corners of young life you can imagine, coming together again at last. A rollercoaster ride through modern, young life or what we think it is. Great, great and great again. GO! Watch it. "},{"Title":"The terror of teen-flicks","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see this on assignment from my school's newspaper.  I had just seen 10 Things and Cruel Intentions, two of the worst movies I've ever paid for.  This movie saved teen movies for me.  This had bite, wit, and plenty of fun.  The Amway story was marvellous!  This movie may be geared at teens and Gen-Xers, but at least it had a brain.  Most movies would only use Katie Holmes for her Dawson's Creek bankability, but she went out-of-type here and almost redeemed herself (Dawson is still on TV, however).   "},{"Title":"It's the best movie I've ever seen","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is the best movie I have ever seen, and I've seen a lot of movies. I read some reviews and I noticed how many people compared GO to Pulp Fiction. So, since I love GO, I went to rent Pulp Fiction to see how much alike they were. To tell you the truth, they weren't that much alike. In my opinion, Go was much better. pulp Fiction was lacking a story, and it was confusing. GO on the other hand had a story, and was put together so it was less confusing. GO is clearly a great movie. Some parts were somewhat predictable, if you know film elements really well. The film was funny. I laughed so hard, and I usually hate comedies. But this was different. One of the best performances in the movie is by Tim Olyphant as Todd Gaines. I loved the scene between Todd and Claire in the living room. It's not just some teen movie, I went with my 40 year old aunt and she loved it. She laughed so hard. Mannie was really funny during his ecstasy kick. Okay, I'm rambling now, I just wanted to say Go was the best movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Haven't we seen this before?","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Call this 1999 teenage version of Pulp Fiction whatever you want but please don't call it original. This is one of the worst Tarantino rip-offs I have ever seen. The first two stories are mindless and un-entertaining. The only redeeming value the movie had was some of the humor contained in the last story. I noticed that a lot of IMDB users have complemented the acting in this film; I have to disagree. The acting, especially among some of the younger characters, was either dry, silly, or overdone. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Go doesn't go anywhere","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why was this movie made? No doubt to sucker in the family-rebelling MTV faithful, many of whom do not care about anything other than the exterior of a movie - in Go the story about drugs and sex, and the crude humor.  While the plot line of the movie is interesting, the unsympathetic and underdeveloped characters give us nothing to care about.What is most bothersome is that at the end of the movie nobody learns anything.  This movie would have been much better if it had a point.  It makes brief and ambivalent references to family life, but never really has the guts to develop its critiques.I guess what makes this movie so pathetic is that every character is like all the other characters.  What's worse, never in the film, not even at the climax, do any characters distinguish themselves. The four men in Vegas hardly differ at all, and the three convenience store workers are all the same. If you want to waste your 7 bucks on uninspiring and forgettable slop, Go is waiting for you. "},{"Title":"Morality?","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In short Go went nowhere. It said nothing new in a very recycled (can we say Pulp Fiction) way. The acting was excellent, the story was almost engaging, but the comedy was tragic. The lives of the teenagers/twentysomethings was so amoral it was depressing. With no standard of love or love of life, those characters had no right to laugh. They need a good lesson in morality and then a lesson in life.  "},{"Title":"boring, shallow","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is one of the most boring and shallow films I've ever seen. Perhaps a better word is hollow. I'm beginning to wonder if it's even possible for the Gen Y crowd to produce sincere art. Cynicism and irony, detachment, etc.. We're too self-aware and films like this in particular are just STRAINING to be cool. It's an Empire Records like aura, but with more coitus and flashing lights. I've never been accused of being a sycophant so I can call this film what it is a weak, affected waste of time. If you don't know what affected means, look it up.I enjoyed Trainspotting and I selectively enjoy Tarantino, so I have no qualms with the style or subject matter. But Go brings to mind a film called Swimming With Sharks, starring Kevin Spacey, about a Hollywood studio executive and the rampant cynicism pervading the movie industry. Go is the sort of film they talk about throwing out there for the kiddies. It just strikes me as being so cynical. Perform an autopsy on this film and you'll find it has no organs. It's a waste of time, and in my view, an indictment of my peers that it's getting rave reviews.  "},{"Title":"Did anyone care about ANY of the people in this movie?","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw GO after reading a number of very good reviews for the movie, and I cannot begin to express how disappointed I was.  It left me with many unanswered questions 1.  What was the point of this film?  If the film-makers were trying to make some sort of statement about contemporary society, their point certainly eluded me. 2.  Why did I have to spend almost 2 hours with these characters?  I did not like or care about any of the people in this film.  They were presented without a shred of humanity, and I didn't BELIEVE any of them. 3.  Why did the movie makers try to imitate so much of the style and structure and atmosphere of PULP FICTION?  Tarantino's film hit all the right notes, and his characters - in spite of their amorality - all had a certain charisma. The characters in GO were loud and shrill and charmless. 4.  Why can't the US film industry make films that tell intelligent, interesting stories with some appeal to people over the age of 17? "},{"Title":"Stop","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Terminally pseudo-hip stepchild of PULP FICTION, orbiting three stories around a botched drug deal and a joyride to Vegas. The credit for the screenwriter, John August, should read, Based on an issue of Details magazine. As PULP was a compendium of gen-x fetish objects, GO attempts (and fails) to do the same for gen-x-and-a-half Vegas! Ecstasy! Trance music! Sizzler salad bars! The director, Doug Liman, of the excruciating SWINGERS, tries to stick something trendy--a music cue? a silver-and-blue raver t shirt? Christmas lights inside a $500 beater car?--in every scene, and quite probably every shot in the movie. The only explanation for the movie's handful of second-coming rave reviews is critics' terror of being out of it in the era of the teen movie--maybe this one, bunglingly artier than most, enabled them to renew their membership cards in the hipsterati. "}{"Title":"Edited and acted well; but I can't believe this script got filmed","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a total hack.  The opening scene has a boom mic drop in twice. Then it tried to be clever with twisting plots and time elements.  It tried so hard that it was pitiful.  The editing was very good, they probably compensated for a hack filming job.  The actors did very well with what they had to work with.  But the writing was absurd.  The writers must've invested in some script writing software and forgot the need to be creative.  Just because the director worked on Swingers, don't be fooled by any comparisons to that movie.   "},{"Title":"disappointing third effort","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After being thoroughly entertained by Doug Liman's last effort, Swingers, I was looking forward to this film about 1-2 days in the lives of these ravers / drug dealers / barely-out-of-high -school teenagers. Unfortunately, what starts out promising ends up as just a ho-hum by the time the film creaks to a close.The movie uses a single scene in the lobby of a supermarket as its core from which to sprout three different stories using alternative points of view. All are tied together neatly at the end, but ultimately the film leaves the viewer with a huh?  wha- happened? and who cares?The first tale, the best one, has Ronna (Sarah Polley) in a big bind.  Rent is past due and she's looking at eviction.  When the opportunity to sell some hits of the drug ecstacy presents itself to her, she goes for it.  What follows is a harrowing scene in a  drug dealer's apartment; another well shot sequence in a hotel room with some small-time actors in way over their heads; and an exhilarating rave party where a showdown of sorts occurs. It's all well done and had me interested.  The acting here was superb, especially Polley, Katie Holmes as Claire and Timothy Olyphant as the drug dealer Todd Gaines.This story blends into the second tale and, alas, this is where things start to come apart.  A group of buddies hit Las Vegas ready to party.  But things quickly go bad when two of them lay in the hotel room doubled up with food poisoning.  The other two, Marcus (Taye Diggs) and Simon (Desmond Askew) head downstairs for some gambling.  But things really start to go wrong when the two boost a car and then shoot their way out of a strip club.  Soon, killers are after all four of them.  I was interested in this story, but it lacked the inventiveness and mood of the first.  Diggs and Askew are fine here, but the story itself lacked creativity and an original vision (yep, that's right, another car chase...oh goodie).Finally, like a bad rollercoaster ride (all the fun at the front, kiddie time the rest of the way), we get to the film's third act.  Not that it is so bad (I liked the bit in the cop's apartment with the wife and two guys wondering what the heck they've gotten themselves into).  But it DRAGGED. By the time it sputters to a conclusion, we've tied up all the loose ends, but that's all that's been done.Director Liman certainly has an eye for details and technically the movie is fine.  I liked the vision of a person who's on extasy and how they view a rave.  Liman, in two of his films, shows us a different type of Los Angeles than what we've seen before, and I'd like to see if he can develop a better project next time out.In a movie like this, though, the third tale should be the strongest.  It has to wrap everything up cleanly and leave the viewer with a WOW!  We didn't get that in this one. "},{"Title":"A very fast-paced excellent ride!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't stand teenage movies.  First, CLUELESS was the one that started the 90's teenage trend of teens, and I thought it was horrible.  Then came the SCREAM movies which were nothing more than remakes of the slasher films of the late 70's and early 80's.  I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER and it's sequel were remakes of SCREAM.  SHE'S ALL THAT was an unhip remake of MY FAIR LADY, and it didn't work.  CAN'T HARDLY WAIT is suppose to be a 90's party movie (like ANIMAL HOUSE and BACHLOR PARTY) the only thing was that was missing from that movie were the jokes. And last and worst of all CRUEL INTENTIONS was a remake of DANGEROUS LIAISONS suppose to be a teen intelligent film,  where the teens tried to act smart, instead they looked silly, and the movie was bad.  But finally, there is a teen film that is out, that I would call a classic, GO. GO is unique and excellent because 1.) Unlike all the other teen movies, there isn't any teen jargon which only teens would understand.  And makes adults confused and people like me, in my early 20's roll our eyes.  2.) The characters aren't stereo-typed, the girl isn't worried if the handsome hunk likes her or not, in GO she's worried about getting rent money or she'll be thrown out!  3.) The stories are different, in a average teen film, the climax is either a big dance, a big school event, etc.  GO has not one but three climaxes, yet one of them is a rave or dance, it's still more entertaining than a majority of the other teen films. I'm not going to say or talk about what GO is about, since there are plenty of surprises and plot-twist to see in this film.  I will say that it is a very entertaining film, and I think that all teen film directors should see this movie and see how teens really act.  Teens don't usually talk about clothes or wonder if the sexy girl likes them or not.  No, they are more like the ones featured in GO.  And plus, the soundtrack isn't all modern dance or grunge music, (there's the classic Steppenwolf song MAGIC CARPET RIDE nicely put in this film). Yes, it's similar to PULP FICTION, but like PULP FICTION, it's fast, it's funny, it's intellegent, and it's a classic.  I have to give credit to Doug Liman, he's the first person to actually capture how teens in the 90's really talk, dress, and act.  No other director has done that well, and I don't think they will.  This is a excellent movie that shouldn't be missed.  You should GO see this film!  ***** (out of *****) "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Similar to Pulp Fiction, this relates the drug-centric events of a night from three points of view. Once it gets going, this absurdist black comedy is quite entertaining. Director Liman, who did his own cinematography, brings a lot of energy to the proceedings, with his quirky hand-held camera work. The opening Polley-Holmes segment is the most serious and least interesting of the three. Although the humor is sophomoric, the Vegas segment is quite amusing. Perhaps the funniest of the three segments is the one with Wolf and Mohr as gay actors forced to go undercover by gay cop Fichtner, who also happens to be an Amway salesman. Silly but fun. "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction-lite...","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film without a doubt has traces of Pulp Fiction embedded in it, but a little Swingers and other films to it as well. All in all it's an entertaining movie that goes nowhere and ends without an epiphany for these characters. This film has multiple stories that all relate with one another in some form that does not try to be alternative and cool. It doesn't condescend to its audience and it's always one step ahead of itself. Sarah Polley (whom I never heard of at the time but follow her work now) was great; Katie Holmes wasn't quite Katie Holmes, and that was good (although she is probably so above this movie now that she's with Tom). William Fichtner was dope as the weird cop, but it was Timothy Olyphant who stole the show as the charismatic drug dealer (and you never ever hated him). I've read other comments and these people just take this thing TOO seriously! It's not the movie of 1999, it's not Pulp- it's just Go. I have this movie on DVD and heard Doug Linman's commentary he sounds like he had too much fun making this. And it was sick watching this! I guess if I came in with some expectations I wouldn't hate it like so many others do on this site! But I did catch this movie on TV on New Year's Day, and they butchered it so much because of the perverse and profanity-rooted scenes. The movie was so f**cked-up that I didn't even enjoy it, hence, I was part of that same crowd at one point. "},{"Title":"Locker room glory","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What makes this movie so interesting is that the events that happen to the cast are stories you've most likely heard in some variation inn a locker room or some other high school function. This is what makes it such an enjoyable movie. A newer Terintino style film, this movie dosn't follow the usual pulp story set up. As Terintino uses low and dark lighting, GO! does the exact opposite. Instead, it uses Bright lighting and colors that creates a drug induced dream feel. This trippy lighting trick can make the audience feel uncomfortable and sometimes disturbed. A good casting and excellent setup for this night owl kinda film. A movie to watch when your suffering from insomnia. All and all good movie. "},{"Title":"Fichtner rocks!","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a superior 'club culture' movie with some slick dialogue and slightly irritating time-lapse narrative tricks. As far as the music is concerned, its refreshing to see Americans looking vaguely cool at a rave, as this usually looks desperately square to a European audience. Sarah Polley is definitely a star in the making as Ronna, but it is a more established actor who really catches the eye.William Fichtner has been a brooding, unsettling second or third billed supporting presence for some years with notable turns as Roger Van Zant in 'Heat' and Sullivan in 'The Perfect Storm'. In this movie, he plays narcotics detective Burke, who has busted a couple of young soap stars and blackmails them to try and nail their dealer. Simple stuff, you might think, but there is a sensual edge to Fichtner's performance you just don't expect and his behaviour when he persuades the two young men to join him and his wife for dinner is quite astonishing.This is a career making performance, and has the potential to put him on the first page of the casting director's list of 'disturbing, sexually ambigious leading men' and finally throw down a challenge to the great James Spader. In fact, I'd love to enter a parallel universe with Spader in this movie and Fichtner taking the lead in 'Secretary'.One final point, the young actor playing Simon has the worst English accent since Anthony Lapaglia in 'Frasier'. Yes, that bad. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Pretty amazing for a film that was probably shot for $1.98. A story of several ill-fated and not terribly bright young folks mixed up with drugs, dreary lives and some very bad people, told from a number of different perspectives. Katie Holmes is the only Big Name on board, but this cast of mostly unknowns acquits itself quite nicely. Best sequence four young males go on a gambling spree in Vegas that ends in near-ruination for all. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Large number of recent Hollywood movies are being done with the motto 'something meets something else'. Go is a perfect example of that. It's tagline could very well read 'Pulp Fiction' meets MTV or 'Swingers' meets 'Kids' or serious and legitimate actress Sarah Polley meets the frat-boy idiot and pretend actor Jay Mohr and Breckin Meyer, respectively. The possibilities are endless.Go is neither boring nor bad, it's just one of those movies that were made by rehashing other better works, notably Pulp Fiction. Had it not been for the commercial success of Tarantino's masterpiece, this flick along with a slew of others would have bitten the dust at pre-development stage. Sarah Polley is good, there's some cute scenes and that's about it.See it only if everything else, including the.....Actually just forget it, don't see it at all. Rent Pulp Fiction one more time, instead. Why watch a copy when you can see the original. "},{"Title":"Not such a wonderful ride","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is over hyped.  We're told it's a wonderful ride of a bunch of teenagers who are going off the rails, drug dealing, visiting strip clubs, taking on Las Vegas, some mad actors and some weird police people.Actually this is fairly tiresome, particularly the scene we continuously return to in order to start the next character's tale.  That really irked and got very boring -- the man who did this spectacularly was Tarantino, and this is nowhere near that level.It's OK, but not one I'd bother seeing again. "}{"Title":"thinks it's more clever than it is","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One critic(I think it was the guy from Entertainment Weekly)called this a junior Pulp Fiction. Not even close. Pulp Fiction is a much better film. Yes,GO has a twisty,interlocking story with unsympathetic characters but it's trendy and pseudo-hip. It just seems to be mayhem for mayhem's sake,with a strip club,a car chase,raves,some nudity(relax it's just some homely strippers),disposing of a dead body,etc. I guess this is supposed to be a wild ride,but I was bored. ** stars out of four. "},{"Title":"Don't - it's a waste of time","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go is an overrated and highly derivative let down. The plot as represented in the media makes the film sound so basic and dull (seen it all before, one thinks) that the rave reviews that accompany the film leads to the conclusion that it must have something good to offer. It does not. It's a huge disappointment, in particular as the director's last film, Swingers, was so great. I thought the POV switch, upon which virtually the whole film is structured was a shameless rip off of the marvellous Jackie Brown. It only goes to show that it ain't what you do, its the way that you do it. In tone, the film does indeed ape Pulp Fiction, but isn't fit to lick it's boots. The action is unbelievable and the characters behaviour non-sensical. At no point does one identify with any of them and I personally spent the whole time wishing the worst for them. The actors try their best, but they are in the main playing shallow characatures.   "},{"Title":"It was great","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It took awhile to get interesting, but when it did I was completely intrigued with all the characters and situations, and by the time it was over I was ready to watch it again.  I didn't  like one segment that much better than any other; they all had entertainment value.  Out of the large cast, I enjoyed Katie Holmes the most.  I would recommend the movie to anyone, and even though I can see where it would be labelled Junior Pulp Fiction, I think it stands on its own very well.  "},{"Title":"Pointless, Meaningless, Aimless. *1/2 out of ****","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Making a bad movie is one thing, but making one as infuriating as Go! is a whole different sin. The film contains every dysfunction that could possibly be contained in one person's life. Whether its underage drinking, illegal drug use/dealing, lying, cheating, stealing, scheming, newlyweds having affairs, gay men having affairs, straight men fooling around, homosexuality, lap dances, the subject of murder and violence, car theft, extreme profanity, occupational problems, stripping, sexual immorality, the list goes on and on. This movie is a complete waste of time.There are at least three interlocking stories in Go!, and maybe more. After the second, I gave up on trying to figure out any sense in this movie. Each one of them is so ugly and repulsive (and sort of plotless) that explaining them to you would be a waste of my time. The way the filmmakers setup the plot is as confusing and irrelevant as last year's dud Dead Man on Campus, which has a lot in common with this film. Both movies were about lifeless young people doing drugs and partying, but at least that film was kind of funny, this is nothing but a massive hour and forty minutes of pure nothingness, literally.The characters are as about as mind numbing as they get. They wonder around talking about personal, inapplicable and vulgar things. The only interesting people in the movie out of the dozen or so leading actors are Jay Morh and Scott Wolf, who add cute comic charm to the film. I was surprised how much I was actually intrigued in them...and how disappointed I was in them when the profoundly annoying script required that they were gay.Go! has a lot of style in it. I could compare this movie's failure with the recent The Mod Squad. That movie was shot is supreme style and glimmer, pleasing just to watch, but there is not real significance to the elegance. I almost felt like that this movie was trying so hard to be hip that it ends up just being off. Even the offbeat but colorful performances that were filled with spirit and high energy couldn't save the picture.Another good thing in Go! the music. Jayvee, sweet, grovin' tunes that will catch your attention and will not let go. Sometimes the soundtrack kept the movie alive, even when the most weird events were taking place.I saw Scott Wolf, a star in Go! in an interview on the Regis and Kathy Lee Show the other day. He said that the film was a black comedy, and that very bad things happen and they are funny.somehow. But being a hot young TV star, I couldn't believe what he said next He said that he couldn't turn the role down because the script was so good. Well, coming from a star playing an eccentric gay man cheating on his boyfriend, I do wonder if this man was acting in the interview, for after viewing this production I couldn't say that line with a straight face, that's for sure.The film is directed by Doug Liman, who has done much better, albeit not much. With credits including Swingers, (1996) I am beginning to see this man's personality and point of view at life. Both movies are about young people parting their hearts out. Both were full of style and substance. Both were chuck full of objectionable material. Both were complex, hard core comedies. A shame Go was every created.  "},{"Title":"Fun film deserves to stand on its own","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A lot will be said about GO being nothing more than a knock-off of PULP FICTION.  Well, yes, but if you're going to steal, you might as well steal from the great ones.  And while GO may steal, this isn't a cash-in job, like the Tarantino wannabes which ape his hipness without having his talent. Director Doug Liman has talent; in fact, visually, he's ahead of Tarantino with some dazzling camerawork, especially in the first story where Manny (Nathan Bexton) is dancing with the supermarket customer to the Macarena(a song I despise, but it worked here I must admit).  And while the story structure seems less essential here than it did in PULP FICTION, it still works because of the way writer John August ties them all together at the end.Of the three stories, the second is by far the weakest; it seems too repetitive and self-indulgent.  That it gets by at all is due to newcomer Desmond Askew, who really does seem to be getting high on experiencing Vegas for the first time.  Also, Taye Diggs does nice work, and it's nice to see J.E. Freeman playing menacing again, even if it is with a mustache still (without it, in RUTHLESS PEOPLE, MILLER'S CROSSING, and WILD AT HEART, he was terrifying).By contrast, the first and third stories are strong, not just, again, how they're tied together, but because underneath the bored front everyone puts up, there is a sense of desperation.  Ronna(Sarah Polley), the supermarket cashier who takes Simon's place not just on his shift, but as drug dealer, jumps into dealing not for the thrill, but because she needs rent money to avoid getting evicted.  Likewise, Adam(Scott Wolf) and Zach(Jay Mohr) are trying to buy from her not for the high, but to avoid getting busted by Burke(William Fichtner), the rather strange narcotics detective who is using them.  And at the end, while, as Ronna says, Things didn't go exactly as planned, you still get a sense that things will probably work out.All of the cast is strong; Mohr mugs less than you'd expect, Wolf has fun playing off his image, Timothy Olyphant cuts a menacing image as Simon's dealer Todd(and later shows an unexpected side without getting sentimental), and while Katie Holmes doesn't have much to do at first as Ronna's friend Claire, she's appealing as always, especially when she does come into her own.  But the standouts are Fichtner and Polley.  Like Freeman, Fichtner is best known for playing sleazes (THE UNDERNEATH, STRANGE DAYS, ALBINO ALLIGATOR), and indeed looks a little like the master of menace, Christopher Walken.  But here, he shows an unexpected comic side when he reveals his true purpose, or when he's demonstrating the real way to cuff someone.  And Polley shows true talent and instinct here, knowing exactly how to play each scene and capturing perfectly the cynical, deadpan attitude most of the characters(or people her age) have.  And she makes you believe in Ronna's ability to improvise her way out of trouble.This didn't do too well its first weekend, but I hope it finds an audience on video, for this deserves to be known for more than being a copy of Tarantino.  It's a lot of fun.  "},{"Title":"Pretty cool","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Go' is not a great movie, but it is pretty cool to watch. It tells the story of Ronna (Sarah Polley) and Claire (Katie Holmes), the story of Simon (Desmond Askew) and Marcus (Taye Diggs) and the story of Adam (Scott Wolf) and Zack (Jay Mohr). These stories all end together, and on the way sometimes mix with a character named Todd Gaines (Timothy Olyphant) who deals in drugs, and a policeman named Burke (William Fichtner). It is an entertaining and funny ride with some nice touches, music that supports the stories and a good cast. Director Doug Limon, who also directed 'Swingers', does a very nice job again. Definitely an entertaining movie, that sometimes seems to be inspired by the great 'Pulp Fiction'. "},{"Title":"Finally a decent mainstream Hollywood movie! And a teen one to boot!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First let's get the 'Pulp Fiction' comparisons out of the way. While Quentin Tarantino obviously didn't invent unconventional narrative storytelling in movies, anyone who tries to claim that the overlapping, inter-related three story structure in 'Go' isn't directly inspired by 'Pulp Fiction' is fooling themselves. Especially after Doug Liman has discussed Tarantino on more than one occasion, and given the director a cheeky nod in his previous movie 'Swingers'. But apart from that device, the two directors have very little in common, and Liman is no rip off merchant. 'Swingers' showed he was a fresh talent, and 'Go' cements it.'Go' is one of the few mainstream movies of recent years that will appeal equally to the MTV bubblegum crowd, and hep movie buffs. Quite an achievement! The movie features clever and genuinely amusing situations and dialogue, and while obviously trendy has enough substance to hold up well now, a couple of years down the track. One of the movies obvious strengths is its inspired casting. Putting TV pin-up girl Katie Holmes (in her most convincing movie role to date) together with the more credible Sarah Polley (best known for fine movies like Egoyan's 'The Sweet Hereafter') is a bold move. This is continued with the rest of the eclectic cast, who range from teen heart throbs like Scott Wolf, to Gregg Araki regular James Duvall, to solid character actors like William Fichtner ('Heat', 'Albino Alligator') and J.E. Freeman ('Wild At Heart', 'Miller's Crossing'). All are excellent.A very entertaining, fun movie with substance. I wish Hollywood made more like it! "},{"Title":"Interesting flick. Kind of like a Jim Jarmusch movie.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go represents a style that Jim Jarmusch created (and Tarantino copied) which is a variety of vignettes of the points of view of the different cast of characters, all concerning a particular situation. In this, it was a night in the lives of a group of young Generation-Xers working at a grocery store, and after a drug deal which all seemed to have a connection to. The characters all had  potential to be despicable low-lives, but instead, they were *interesting* low-lives.(Dig the line at the begining between the cashier and the customer. She told HER!) Due to some melodrama the movie was only sporadically funny, but always amusing. Doug Liman proves he could establish a more interesting concept with a little more money; Swingers was as slight as finding a nickel on the ground; Go proved rich with better character development.  I'll recommend it, but to see the similarities I mentioned in the begining, rent Mystery Train and Night on Earth. "},{"Title":"It sure isn't any Swingers","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The thing that worked so well about Doug Liman's first and only other film, Swingers, was the script.This time around, he was jinxed with a script that begs to be cool. Unfortunately, reading it is much different than acting it out.  It's not the actors fault, it's just not actable.Throughout the movie, the characters are involved in drug deals, drinking, fires, shootings and car accidents.  Fabricated with care bear plot lines, no one ever feels the cold end of the stick.  No one dies, no one gets arrested, it's a world that knows no bad consequences.The script and  final product is trying too hard to be a Tarantino film. It doesn't even come close, because there is no momentum or precise flow to the movie.  The characters are barely introduced, therefore not gaining any sympathy from viewers who can't feel for them.There is no innovative humor here, and even the humor alone is pretty boring.There is a scene where one character is to get their arm shot, and it is obvious that if shot at such a close range, he would lose his arm. Instead, he offers no sign of pain, just calling to his friend in his normal voice. The actors should be ashamed of this movie, which isn't one that will further or mature their career.It makes you wonder what kind of message we are giving out to youths.  In a society dealing with all real bad habits, the characters all seem invincible to being hurt by it.  Regardless of a rating, this movie is geared towards teens, with it's teen genre sound track and teen genre actors.I put a lot on this film before seeing it, because I was amazed at the flow of Swingers.  This movie proves the theory that sequels really are worse, because even tough this is his second film, it acts as a sequel to the film makers resume.  It would be cool if it were done five films later, as Liman 's switch of genres (talking head comedy to Tarintino action) is too messy,Jon Favreau really was the secret behind Swingers.  In Go, he is not there to cover up for Liman's bad film making.Save yourself the time, and GO to something not so painfully boring. "},{"Title":"Cool ride.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Doug Liman's GO is apowerhouse of a film that could have been inspired from Quentin Tarantino.  The characters also make this film watchable, including Sarah Polley, Katie Holmes, Jay Mohr, Scott Wolf, Taye Diggs and J.E. Freeman.  The showcase one night in 3 different stories.  Each one vibrant, cool, and often funny.  It end with a bang, and a good one at that. "}{"Title":"Deceiving cover, not a bad movie but...","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I got this movie around a year ago... yes it took me some time to watch it(which i did tonight). The reason is simple, i got it as part of my obsession for teen comedies. Yes the kind of Superbad, American Pie, College, Van Wilder and so on. I learn afterword on IMDb that it was actually not a comedy at all, more like a serious movie with a good scenario. I waited for he right occasion and i did tonight.So lets just say people where exactly true on IMDb and the cover arts are really misleading cause despise a few things in the middle, it ain't a comedy at all. I was really surprised when the movie cut back to the beginning after the Ronna's story. I was disappointed cause i was starting to like the story and was eager to know what would happen next to her. But then the Simon story happen and its clearly the most fun of the 3. It does have a bit of a teen comedy feel even tough its much more serious and dark but i wish that part would had last longer.Finally the third part with the actors was really forgivable... boring even to be honest, and its disappointing the movie pretty much end with it, adding only a little story conclusion at the end.So bottom line what can i say... i liked part of this movie, i didn't like others, i am NOT a fan of movies cut into pieces and showing different point of views a la Pulp Fiction, but at least this one was made so the story is unfold in order, unlike Pulp Fiction, which was hard to follow and boring to my own taste.I will say i am glad i finally watched it, had a good time but its going to the pawnshop with my next back of DVDs for sale... If i could put 6.5 on 10, i would, but the movie does not qualify to a 7 to me. "},{"Title":"A few good scenes in an otherwise stupid movie","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A long (seems longer than 100 minutes), manic and extremely tedious movie about an extraordinarily obnoxious group of people who evidently are supposed to be funny but are only annoying. The most obnoxious actor and character by far is Desmond Askew as Simon, and his namesake middle segment - about four morons in Las Vegas - is the most irritating.The ONLY ten minutes worth watching in this stupid movie are a hilarious Christmas dinner involving characters played by William Fitchner, Jane Krakowski, Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr and a tiny but delightful bit with Melissa McCarthy. Both of those scenes are in the final Adam & Zack (Wolf and Mohr) segment, which would have made for a good end if only some of the morons from the insufferable Simon segment hadn't reappeared and dragged the movie back down into stupidity.Maybe you need to be a Tarantino fan to appreciate this movie. The 17-year-old straight male goons who have taken over movie theatres probably loved it - especially the middle segment about morons just like them. Except for the scenes with Wolf and Mohr, which seemed like a different movie, I hated it. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have no clue why horrible 90s movies get such high ratings. It was the worst decade from movies ever. Actually this film was from 1999 but it looked more like it was filmed in 1991. It was sort of like the 90s trying desperately to cling onto it's worn out style. Anyway the plot acting characters script was all simply terrible cheesy and didn't even have camp value. No wonder our local CW station plays it for week end filler. Usually on Saturdays they will play old movies that are terrible. I guess they realize that moves people are out doing stuff. But once in a while I have the misfortune of being stuck home on a Saturday afternoon and having to watch such dreadful garbage. Not all movies from the 90s were bad but most of them seemed like they were overly focused on the grunge style as a total and utter crutch to support it. With a total lack of real script, premise, and plot these horrible films were just cranked out of Hollywood one after the other. It was like a decade in which they weren't even trying at all. Even a lot of cheesy stuff from the 80s seemed like Hollywood was actually still trying back then, but by the 1990s it's like Hollywood gave up. Id have to say though that after 2000 movies started getting better and better. But back in the 90s most of it was nothing but trash. And even if 'trash' was the point it wasn't even good trash. ha ha I think this movie was out of place too for 1999 because by then styles were starting to change and yet this movie has a total 1991 feel to it. So not only was it typical 90s garbage but it was out of style even for it's time. "},{"Title":"Permanently altered Paramount-logo perception","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" You know how some films mess with the studio logo that comes up with the start? Well this one does it so well with a track so typical of the rest of the movie that now, whenever I see/hear the stars-round-the-mountain logo I still think it's about to go into that first dance-club intro shot. OK, I have seen it a few times which probably explains part of it.Great, fun, lighthearted movie that surprised me. I'm just disappointed that we never got round to watching it at the cinema, me and a mate were going to go.. Nevermind, it's almost as good on DVD.It never gets too serious, it never pretends to be anything it's not (although you could take a drug/party-culture message from it if you want), and it's down to earth. Katie Holmes is just as pretty and not quite as hurl-inducing as her Dawson's character, Sarah Polley's good in it and the cast work well together. It's just fun. "},{"Title":"Decent effort, but we've seen this before...","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Three different stories of edgy subject matter, but none of 'em are as interesting as you'd hope.   Call it Pulp Fiction for the rave set, and just take it for what it is.  A highly watchable, but instantly disposable movie.  Desmond Askew is pretty fun to watch.  I hope to see him do more work stateside.Liman seems to be getting more money to work with on each production he undertakes, and I do like his style.  But check out Swingers or The Bourne Identity instead. "},{"Title":"I fail to be amused by this","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go / 1/2 starI had hoped to find something to make my time worthwhile during this movie, but I realized that such a thing is clearly impossible in such a movie. For one thing, some of the music in this movie is the worst I have heard. I guess I'm not much of a 'raver'.I mean, come on. What is it with movies these days? Is there nothing good coming out any more? It is clear after watching this garbage that the plot was easy to come up with. The writing wasn't much either. I can honestly say that I have not seen anything quite so displeasing in a long time.This movie follows a night in 3 different perspectives. First there is Ronna, a grocery store clerk that needs some money so she doesnt get evicted. So instead of thinking for a bit of how to get some more money, she decides to go against the law and sell drugs. Then there is Simon, who gets a trip to Las Vegas and encounters a wild night. Last and definatly least, Adam and Zack, who get involved in a hit and run kind of deal.If you have listened to my words this long you will have found no good reason to watch this movie, but that is because there isn't a good reason. The only thing this movie has that keeps you awake is a couple (literally, a couple) laughs. "},{"Title":"Stupid main characters to say the least...","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  WARNING, BRIEF SPOILERS AHEAD! WARNING, BRIEF SPOILERS AHEAD!Ugh. I simply could not stand parts of this movie. For example, the main characters are just too stupid. Ronna has maybe 1 good line in the entire film. Her character could have just asked for over - time or could have taken over someone else's shift to resolve the whole eviction deal, but no, she has to sell drugs and get her self in an even bigger mess. Brilliant. Then there is her friend Simon, who could have got himself into a huge mess as well by shooting a guy, he could have just not touched the stripper. And then Adam and Zack, who instead of potentially getting involved in a hit and run, could have called the police. And they could have even more so avoided it by KEEPING THEIR EYES ON THE ROAD! No, of course they couldn't do that, instead they stare at each other giggling like women, and speeding in a parking lot and end up hitting a person. This movie has OK writing and OK moments, but certaintly nothing you would watch more than once or twice.* / **** stars. "},{"Title":"Appallingly bad","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The comparisons to both Pulp Fiction and Trainspotting are entirely unjustified. This is one of the most disappointing features I have seen in recent years. A messy story with a good, but over played soundtrack, with some extremely bad Dawson's Creek style acting.... I really can't believe how hyped this film was.It seemed that there were a few good ideas, like the 'psychic' cat, during the paranoia scene, but none of these ideas were thought through properly - That paranoia scene could have been so much better.It's a short comment which I've made, but I simply can't be bothered to spend too much on this review, in the same way as Doug Liman and John August couldn't be bothered to finish off a potentially good film.3 E's out of 10  "},{"Title":"Pretension is its flaw","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie looks like a first work from a director who wants to make epics but has been given the money to make first of all a feature-length movie that would cost lees money. It shows that the director lacks a certain experience, but the real transparency here of its pretensions is the way the story has all the clichés but still tries to cover them up in an easy way. If the movie weren't american, I think I would have liked more, but from my point of view, I think this one has came out of the American Pie school of movies, and  therefore I won't give it more than 5.  "},{"Title":"A Ride On The Wild Side Kind of Movie","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"       Go is a great movie with a great cast which includes Sarah Polley (eXistenZ), Katie Holmes (The Gift, Teaching Mrs. Tingle), and Taye Diggs (House On Haunted Hill, The Wood). Go is a good crime movie about drug dealers. It is a highly entertaining crime movie. I give Go a 9 out of 10. ) "}{"Title":"A rip-off of Pulp Fiction","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie just tried to make a very poor attempt at becoming the next Pulp Fiction.  This movie tells many different stories of different people during the same time and shows how they are all connected.  The only thing is there isn't good acting and it's one of the most clicheic movies I've ever seen. Although it was pretty bad it was about equally as good with a great car chase and some interesting unexpected scenes. I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"MTV editing?","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The phrases 'MTV style editing' and 'latest and greatest' should never be said in the same paragraph, let alone the same sentence.  Since anyone with an IQ over 75 and an attention span over 5 seconds absolutely despises the MTV style editing, I can't believe anyone would list it as one of this movie's strong points. "},{"Title":"MYV editing","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The phrases 'MTV style editing' and 'latest and greatest' should never be said in the same paragraph, let alone the same sentence.  Since anyone with an IQ over 75 and an attention span over 5 seconds absolutely despises the MTV style editing, I can't believe anyone would list it as one of this movie's strong points. "},{"Title":"Ah, I don't know...","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this film is a bit overrated now to be honest...I couldn't give a s**t if it bears a resemblance to Pulp Fiction. I remember reading some guy saying how memorable the dialogue was....well....no. Tarantino has memorable dialogue this has average dialogue. It's just the fact that it's a hi-octane film with teens running around in 100 miles per hour scenes that shadow the fact that the script has been seen before. To think John August(Writer) has gone on to write so many big films bemuses me somewhat.... he's a good writer, just not a 'here, write every big film that comes out' kinda writer. Taking that into account, there should be hundreds of writers equal to him and better, yet never went on to write big films, but then again that is the wonder of Hollywood - you take a load of scenarios that have been seen before, add your signature to it and with a bit of luck you could be the writer that's earning 6 figure sums of money to write yet more films we've seen before.... It's all about luck, kids and f**k me, John August got it in bucket loads! "},{"Title":"too many teen-hunks, not enough depth","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i liked this film at first, we all know its not as good as SWINGERS, thats a universal opinion. yet, afterwards, i realized how shallow this film is, the cinematography is flashy and all that, but if you gonna split a plot/story into several points of view, please ensure that they have coherency, depth and most of all, A POINT!!! as if, the bouncer would only shoot the british guy in the arm, if he was as tough as doug liman proported him to be, he would of wasted the entire room and blown katie holmes head off to shut her up for good measure!!! how much hunk-quotient can one movie have before it becomes nauseating?? whatever. the only reason this film rules is because of SARAH POLLEY. she flat out rules - i just love her so much, every performance she gives is so intriguing, i cant say why  - i love for the same reason i love KATE HUDSON i guess. interesting that cameron crowe considered scrapping ALMOST FAMOUS cos sarah polley turned down the role of penny lane, glad she did cos that film sucked (except for kate) also the soundtrack was so top 40 that it had me screaming for the toilet, NO DOUBT make me wince - ugh. i know this review sucks so i'll stop now....see SWINGERS for a really money movie. VEGAS BABY VEGASfinal verdict - 4/10 "},{"Title":"predictably unpredictable","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a very loyal PULP FICTION fan so when GO came out and someone said it had similar structures to PF, what could I do but see it?First of all, the story. It was OK, average, nothing really special and then I felt as if the writer tried to liven the pace, trying to make unfunny things funny (a la FARGO style), add bits of 'unpredictability' to it and generally make a little muddle of a story for the audience to figure out. (But then again, this isn't exactly a 'thinking' film!)In terms of editing and putting things into perspective, I had absolutely no problems. After years of watching Tarantino films, my mindset is permanently trained. Yet even in this relative ease, I did feel that this film deliberately tried to make a 'coherent' non linear film, distinguishable absolutely (a la SLIDING DOORS style). It gave me the impression that it had its foot in the door as to whether or not he should stick to conventionalities.I thought the 'interested' policeman was somewhat, a take on Christopher Walken's character in PULP FICTION. The same absurdity.Yes Mr Quentin Tarantino rips off things from everyone and everywhere. He was ripping off B grade stuff to show to mainstream culture and he added his own 'signature' to it which is more than what Mr Doug Liman can say about his piece of PULP FICTION wannabe. But at the end of the day, PULP FICTION had a strong and absorbing message of redemption. GO seemed to be shallow and hollow and loving itself for it and wondering why others don't like it because of its superficiality. "},{"Title":"Going, Going, Gone","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go **1/2Go is an odd movie. It tells three different stories that take place at the same time. The idea was neat. But they didn't do enough with it. It was neat when they went back to the same scene and then a different character and his/her story. The best story was the first one involving Sarah Polley. The one with the group of guys (Taye Diggs and others) was the worst.The movie is filled over the top with sex and drugs. Not cool. It's just unnecessary. It does play a part in the plot, but they didn't need to show EVERYTHING. The plot involving the most sex is the worst. It involves a stripper, but they could have made it so there wasn't that much sex. Then Simon Baines (Desmond Askew) was so annoying. He did things he wasn't supposed to. He did things people told him not to do. I mean, come on. We can do better than that. The movie could have been so smart and clever, but it took the easy way out. And the easy way wasn't enough.  "},{"Title":"We've all seen Pulp Fiction, it was a good movie - now, can we move on?","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is Doug Liman's follow-up to the comedy classic, Swingers.  On its own, it's not a bad film, but as a follow-up to a movie as flawless as Swingers, this movie is weak, baby.  One other thing  we've all seen Pulp Fiction, it was a good movie - now, can we move on? "},{"Title":"I like it  WARNING - SLIGHT SPOILERS","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have a thing for Timothy Olyphant (thank you Deadwood), which is really the only reason I bought this film. I had no fixed idea of what it was about and I was pleasantly surprised. It has its flaws and is not for everyone but I found it very enjoyable. The cast are strong; I had not heard of Sarah Polley (Ronna) or Nathan Bexton (Mannie) before this film, but they both deliver top performances. William Fitchner is unnerving as the cop seemingly hitting on the two gay guys. Scott Wolf (Adam) and Jay Mohr (Zack) are convincing as a gay couple having problems. The four friends on the Vegas trip is my least favourite part of the film, as I find the characters unrealistic and shallow, but it moves fast and is funny in places. My favourite scenes are Ronna and Claire's dealings with Todd at the beginning and end of the movie. I'm biased. Any film in which Tim is half naked is good in my book. His character, Todd Gaines, may be a drug dealer, but he is not one-dimensional.He is scary and dangerous, charming, confident and forward, whilst also being nervous and vulnerable around Claire. Not your normal, run of the mill bad guy. A very sexy role. "},{"Title":"ready...set...","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is not the sort of movie that I would have expected. Before I watched it, I wasn't sure what to expect, but I was pleasantly surprised. Telling several stories relating to a drug deal, the movie maintains a good pace from start to finish. Katie Holmes shows a clear flair for the same kinds of performances that she later brought to Wonder Boys and Thank You for Smoking. Sarah Polley, William Fichtner and Jay Mohr also do quite well. I certainly recommend this movie. A real treat. Hopefully, in the near future we'll all give it the respect that it truly deserves.Xerxes. Heh heh... "}{"Title":"Sarah rulez, but can't save the movie","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good acting here, especially from Sarah Polley. Before I watched the film, I saw its poster and didn't liked her, who is that skinny woman over there ? But after the film, I had become a fan of her. I think she's maybe the best of all actors of her generation.On the other hand, I didn't even liked the original 'Pulp Fiction', and this is just the same kind of movie, only much worse, without the funny dialogues, characters, events, anything. The chaotic plot leads to nowhere, at least for me. Everyone seems to be some kind of criminal here, but everyone is also superharmless and goodhearted, even the drugdealers. The dialogues sound much like teenage movies, such as 'American Pie', even if the jokes aren't at all as tasteless. Okay, technically it is quite good, as I said good acting and so on, if that alone is enough for you. But what does this movie want to tell us ?!?In the sum, its just 'Pulp Fiction' for the poor. I can't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Four reasons to watch Go","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are four, not three, but four reasons to watch this movie1. Sarah Polley2. Sarah Polley3. Sarah Polley4. Sarah Polley.Any questions? "},{"Title":"bad, full of clichés, completely uninspired","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  That's a completely superfluous movie - there's nothing new, no nice ideas, the characters and plot are pure cliché, you never think the film-makers did this trivial and primitive flick with any kind of love or ambition - I am indeed angry that I watched it. If I came over it on TV I would have zapped away after at least five minutes. Maybe young popcorn-eaters like it. "},{"Title":"Pointless would-be comedy not worth watching.","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  About a girl who might get evicted so she tries to do a drug deal for extra money?  It's pretty stupid.  I guess it's supposed to be funny.  Her friend tries to talk her out of it to no avail.  Her other friend uses some of the drugs and is high for awhile.  She also sells overthecounter medicine as drugs to other kids.Why doesn't her friend just help her find a new place?  Why does her other friend use the drugs she's trying to sell?Is there any point to this mess?  I gave up on it about half way through. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly boring","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expecting Go to be entertaining, if not brilliant. I liked Doug Limon's Swingers a lot--it was witty and hip. Go, on the otherhand, tried to be hip and witty, but often was just boring and predictable. Watching on video, I found my self fighting the urge to fast forward. A definite to-be-missed flick. "},{"Title":"Not so good at all","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Humor is not funny. Characters are too dumb. Jokes are mostly stolen from other movies. This is the common characteristic for most Hollywood movies. I dislike very this movie because it does not introduce anything new. If you want to laugh at a white guy who considers himself black - here is True Romance. If you want to see semi-gangster story with really dumb chars - here is Snatched. And a huge amount of movies introduce viewing the single story from different points of view. After all, Jackie Brown had been shot two years before this movie. But if you want to see a mix of various predictable scenario moves plus flat jokes... do you really want to see it? Worth seeing only if you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"What a Guy Thinks a Date Movie Should Be","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Go is basically Post High School Pulp Fiction. Definitely a guy flick, particularly the scenes and dialog of male fantasies one after the other, with no particular point to the plot or character development.Guys however will think this is a date movie as Sarah Polley and Katie Holmes are so good, but they're good as victims like Wil E. Coyote who just keep coming back strong, like Fish on Ally McBeal would say Hey,bygones! Yeah it's funny and the characters interface cleverly like they do in Playing By Heart. The camera work is busy. I'm surprised at the rave reviews it's getting. The positive one can say about director Liman after seeing this and his Swingers is that he's appreciative of dialog and a screenplay.The music was disappointing, not all that cool.(originally written 4/11/1999) "},{"Title":"It's no Swingers","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw Swingers, I saw Go, I saw MADE.  One of these things is not like the others.  Go does not fit in this group.  Favreau was obviously the one responsible for all the charm, humor, and heart of Swingers, because in Go, it is no where to be found.  Thankfully, it popped up again in MADE.  I think Go is fine.  GROOVE is a better version of it, however.  And GROOVE has more of the Swingers charm.  Liman could've made a better version of Go if he kept the style and energy from Swingers, as the people who made GROOVE did.  I think John August's script is very clever.  I'm just wondering what Liman is really bringing to the table in these movies.  I guess we'll have to wait for Bourne Identity to find out. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The makers of this movie simply tossed some young people, drugs, raves, violence, swearing and softcore sex together and split them all up again on the editor's bench, apparently with an intention to make a hip movie. Unfortunately, their effort failed pathetically and the movie turned out quite pointless and boring. Guess they were expecting the audience to apes over anything cool they put into the thing. Oh, cool, drug dealers.. gee, look at that, nudie breasts.. did you hear that, the guy said an F-word, wow. If you were looking for something in the lines with Pulp Fiction, that is, a movie with cool characters, a plot and fun dialogue, this one is *not* what you're looking for. It's especially surprising that it's categorized as a comedy, as any funny moments to this movie are notably absent.In short, save your money and see Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels instead. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Unusual movie, a Teenage Pulp Fiction, but quite good entertainment.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Caution - parents, if you still have teens at home, don't see this movie. It will drive you mad!This is really 3 short movies in one, with all three intertwined. And it definitely is a comedy, although at some parts you're not sure.  Hapless teens and young adult drug dealers get into tight situations, make snap decisions, which are usually wrong, and then have to extricate themselves.I don't believe this movie was made to communicate any great message, just to be a funny, entertaining romp, which it is.I gave it 7 of 10.  It definitely is *not* one of the top movies ever made. "}{"Title":"Go more like Blow...","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can say many bad things about this movie, but I must give it some credit, it did live up to it's name, because that's what I wanted to do the whole movie. Oral sex jokes there's a ground breaking quantum leap in the science of comedy. Even if you can get into this movie for free don't Go. It's not even good for making stupid comments to your friends during the film. "},{"Title":"making my generation look dumber","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a lame attempt at trying to be Pulp Fiction.  Only it lacked any real cajones, and was completely impossible in many points. SPOILER ALERT The drug dealer's character was a lame attempt at being a Samuel L. Jackson -type, only a skinny white boy with not even a tattoo to make him look tough.  And what was up with that 30 second take the shirt off and turn around while the music plays, then cut the music... crap?  Trying too hard, are we?And the whole set-up thing with the girl!  How dumb is she?  A) don't deal a lot of drugs to new people, B) when you show up, and there's a 3rd guy there, DON'T SELL THE STUFF, C)when they say they're out of o.j., JUST WALK OUT THE FRONT DOOR YOU CAME IN!  They can't make you stay!  Never would happen that way in real life.  Just lacked reality, and thus the drama was lost.Next, the strip-club thing.  1) a bouncer wouldn't be THAT upset that you used hands, I'm sure it happens all the time, they'd probably just throw you out on your ear.  2) THE BOUNCER wouldn't be armed?  3) a big truck slamming into the side of the car at that rate of speed would have killed them all, or at least moved the passenger door into the center of the car, killing the passenger.These are just two major things that blew the movie for me.  Add to it the fact that nobody could act, the flagrant use of drugs to appeal to kids and look cool, the completely TOP 40 SOUNDTRACK (even from one year later the songs sound stupid and out of place... Macarena for Pete's sake?), and the wanna-be-Pulp-Fiction-but-I'm-too-weak editing style just made one of the dumbest movies I've ever seen.I'm 22, and I hate what this movie makes my generation look like.  We're not that stupid, even those of us who deal or do dope.Nobody over the age of 16 should find this movie interesting. "},{"Title":"Go somewhere else.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you have the chance to see this movie.  Then please see something else. This movie was boring and I think that critics thinking it would be the best movie of 1999 is a serious blow to morality.  This movie was no good.  It was an attempt to make a pulp fiction.  I admit that I liked pulp fiction but this movie definitely was not written by Quinten.  What a waste of my 8 bucks. "},{"Title":"Cynical Ripoff","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is a cynical ripoff of a Quentin Tarantino film. It's a bad looking film as well. I wanted my money back after seeing this turkey but the theater only gives refunds if someone leaves in the first 30 minutes. I foolishly stayed.  "},{"Title":"The second worst  Movie I have ever seen!!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok, What is up with that movie? Why did It play scenes over again. I was confused at the end because it just suddenly ended. I hated that movie with a passion. I would never and the rock means never mention that movie to anyone. I couldn't stand watching that movie, except for Simon. That part was cool. Everything else sucked royal behind.  "},{"Title":"The Worst movie of the year. Zero Stars out of ****","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Go, is the worst movie of the year. It contains everything possible that could make one's life miserable. This is not entertainment. How in the world could this pointless waste of time be given such a high vote rating on the Internet Movie Database? Or be given such good reviews? This is not a good movie. It is recycled out of Pulp Fiction, and contains nothing of my liking. What a mess. --------------1 "},{"Title":"Spoiler Warning! It was a mistake to have rented this trash!  Stay away from this one.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Since when is crime without punishment supposed to be funny?  This movie is just not funny. I have a great sense of humor, I like noire-comedies.  Doing drugs is just not funny! The contents of the movie are not good.  A bunch of kids, who cuss a lot,  doing drugs and are in the business of selling drugs. . .  They are cute kids, but they are losers.  I hope people do not think that everybody whom (1) drives drunk, (2) sells drugs, (3) shoots at the police, (4)  accidentally runs over a pedestrian, is going to do all that and go back to work two days later is mistaken!  They will end up in jail where they belong, if not dead which might be the natural consequence of their behavior! I am an anti-drug person and against the glamorization thereof. It was a mistake to have rented this trash. Stay away from this one. The  movie has no redeeming qualities. I have written very few negative comments but it is impossible to stay silent in the mist of such profanity and immorality! Please do yourself a favor do not waste your time! "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This cinematic experience was quite horrid.  This was quote masterpiece unquote got off to a sluggish start, and took the viewer through myriad of unpleasant imagery and monotonous story plot or lack thereof.  The story-line seemed to go nowhere despite the fact that some people think this was the point, it was merely a ludicrous show of pretentious poppycock and balderdash.  The acting was unseasoned and vapid.  Every time Katie Holmes delivers a line the movie screeches painful halt.  Mr. Tartentino probably was infuriated by the blatant plagiarism of his magnum opus, Pulp Fiction.  In addition, Irvine Welsh the writer of Trainspotting, and Danny Boyle the director, may also have been offended by Go's counterfeiting of their brilliant film.  Go was merely an artificial and annoying waste of time.  Such videos should be avoided, and quite possibly burned in a large pile.  The film was possibly as unpleasant as its soundtrack.  "}]