[{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"53 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil has everything.  You come expecting a story of a woman who takes care of a child in a harsh social milieu.  You sit in disbelief as this woman shows herself to be a heartless opportunist, and as your expectations are being confounded, you begin to realize how this villainess came to be such a person.  The boy she begins to help is also no innocent movie cherub, he has an endearing slyness and a will to survive despite the horrible tragedy he has experienced.  Their road trip is an odyssey from bad to worse, and you begin to sympathize.  The characters they meet and the landscape they traverse give us in the north a flavor of Brazil which I cannot confirm as being authentic.  But they seem as complex and beautiful and full of contradiction as the Brazilian music that I love.  And the final destination for the boy (you're on the edge of your seat hoping things will turn out right) is not a happily-ever-after, but seems to indicate a new direction for the character.If I sound overly sentimental (I'm sure I do) it's because very few films have moved me like this one.  I watched it through three times and cried at the scene of Dora on the bus every time.  The use of religious imagery, from the modern evangelicalism of the truck driver to the more unfamiliar scenes with the pictures of the saints (incredible camerawork here) added dimensions of complexity in a medium where Christianity is often treated either in a saccharine fashion  or with heavyhanded disdain. See Central Station. "},{"Title":"On the road","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"42 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film, which we watched at the Vancouver Film Festival years ago, turned up the other night on cable. On second viewing, the film still packs quite an impact, as it still feels real. The work of Walter Salles and Fernanda Montenegro was amazing then, and still is now.This is the story about a cynic and jaded woman who resorts to do menial work and who is a small con artist herself. Dora has seen better days. She is retired now, but in order to make ends meet, she sets a letter writing desk at Rio's train station where she writes letters dictated to her by the illiterate and eager people who can't do the job as they want to communicate with distant family and friends through Dona Dora. In many cases, as it's the case with the letter she has written for Ana, she has no intention of ever sending those missives dictated to her by the unsuspecting people.Josue, the small boy, who witness the death of his mother, is wiser for his younger years than one might suspect. He sees right through Dora as a charlatan and a con woman. When Dora takes the boy home, she has no intentions of ever helping him much more than a few days. Later, upon learning about the adoption agency, she sells the boy to the unscrupulous people involved in the traffic of children for a thousand dollars without any problems. It's only when her friend Irene tells her the fate that Josue will encounter, that Dora leaps into action.Since she can't stay home without having to return her money, she takes Josue on the road. This odd couple begins the journey as complete strangers, but this voyage will make them appreciate one another and even move Dora into becoming a better woman for having the courage to do the right thing. Josue also realizes that Dora, in her own way, has been, for however short, the mother he lost in the tragic accident.Fernanda Montenegro, perhaps Brazil's best actress, is amazing as Dona Dora. She is the whole reason for seeing the movie. Her Dora is one of the best creations in her film career. This intense performer shows an actress who fully understand who Dora is and the way she would behave in the situation. Young Vinicius Oliveira is a sweet Josue, and Marilia Pera, is the kind Irene, who makes Dora see the monstrosity of what she was about to do.The music by Jacques Morelembaum and Antonio Pinto is an asset, as it adds an atmosphere to the long journey of Dora and Josue. The interesting cinematography by Walter Carvalho, shows the immensity of Brazil's interior as the odd couple go to find the little boy's father.This film is a triumph for both Walter Salles and Fernanda Montenegro. "},{"Title":"The most extraordinary movie of 1998","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is special.It shows the real Brasil with a simple but beautiful and touching story about a little boy looking for the father he never knew and a woman looking for a second chance. The performers are brilliant! Fernanda Montenegro is extraordinary in the role of Dora.The chemistry between the main characters (Dora and Josué) is splendid. The film photography is wonderful, so as the instrumental soundtrack. Central do Brasil(Central Station) is one of the best movies I have ever seen.Be ready to weep and be happy! "},{"Title":"This film explains how Hollywood has lost touch with reality","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It took me 10 years to learn of this film's existence. I'm very sorry I wasn't paying more attention. It came out at a time when I had pretty much given up on films in general and Hollywood films in particular.How was I to know that somewhere in the world a courageous director chose to film a story that didn't involve sex, comic-book sadistic or crime-glorifying violence, fake superheroics or CGI-augmented horror? How was I to know that not all Latin directors were involved in a world of idiotic and heartless self-centered proto-fascistic make-believe like, say, Guillermo Del Toro? How was I to know that Brazilian actress Fernanda Montenegro who got robbed of an Oscar by Gwyneth Paltrow in the almost preternaturally ridiculous and superficial Shakespeare In Love gave a performance that is rarely imaginable at the movies? Or that Brazil could produce a film that can rival Murnau's Sunrise or the neo-realist masterpieces of Vittorio De Sica for the title of best film ever made? I watched this multi-leveled, multi-faceted reflexion piece dubbed in French late one recent Sunday night on Radio-Canada while recovering from the flu. The tears I cried were very good for my sinus condition. But they were also cried for the fact that I was such an idiot for having let this film slip by.If you haven't seen it yet, there is still time. Watch it and ask yourself What happened to America that it can't tell simple, moving and true stories like this one anymore? You won't have to cry but you will anyway. "},{"Title":"Sad and beautiful","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Central do Brasil' is basically a road movie about a boy Josué (Vinícius de Oliveira) who just lost his mother searching for his father. He does this with the help of Dora (Fernanda Montenegro). She writes letters for illiterate people in the central station of Rio de Janeiro. Dora has a secret, she doesn't mail the letters. She knows Josué because he and his mother used to write letters to Josué's father and when his mother dies she takes care of him, although she has other intentions at first.The movie is mainly about the relationship between the boy and the woman. Of course they meet people on the road. Especially the part where they travel with a truck driver is very good. We also see a little of the life in Brazil. This is a movie with a good story that is very well directed. The acting is terrific. Montenegra as the older woman and especially De Oliveira as the boy is very good. "},{"Title":"Very Moving Film","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A wonderful film, that works on several layers. This is a film about a cynical woman who becomes a mother to a young boy who has just lost his mother. Through the course of this film, this woman, Dora, learns to love. The young boy, Josue, learns to live again. Each is so clearly delineated and so clearly defined that the film is a pleasure from beginning to end.Central Station actually beat Life is Beautiful at some of the world's top awards ceremonies for that year, and you can see why. Its acting is superb, and Walter Salles' direction is with a masterly touch. The cinematography, evoking that desaturated, golden world of Brazil is beautiful - it's a lesson in itself on how to make an apparently 'gritty' world very beautiful. Watch this film.  "},{"Title":"rehashed storyline creatively told","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In reality, there are a finite amount of interesting story lines to tell. What makes one movie telling the same storyline more worthwhile to see is a combination of creative expression, in depth character development, superb acting, exquisite photography, and believability, or the ability to persuade the moviegoer to suspend disbelief.How many times have we been exposed to a retelling of Shirley Temple's Heidi, where a young non-related child falls into the life of an old curmudgeon, and teaches that curmudgeon to enjoy life and/or develop morals and values? Too many times for me, so I was reluctant to see this film. It would have been a shame had I not.There are many creative twists and turns along the way to keep the suspense level up in this film. The photography in Rio is OK, but once out in the Brazilian countryside, it is fantastic. At the end of the film, there is little doubt but that the way this story turns out is how it would have had to turn out. The character development of Josue is a little weak, but that of Dora is superb. And you will see a lot of films before you will see an acting performance like Fernanda Montenegro's as Dora again.This movie thankfully is not overly sentimental, that would get in the way of the story, it is just a great film to watch and enjoy. 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"The Great Fernanda","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was terrific, a little slow in parts, but I  cared about the characters and was interested in their journey. I also liked the fact that the main character was not portrayed as a saint - Dora is a real person, flaws and all.  Montenegro was robbed at the Oscars and so was the movie. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great movie, warm and bittersweet.  It somehow reminded me ofMy Life as a Dog (1985) because it more or less deals with thesame issues, but we move from the Swedish North to the sunnyBrazilian South.  Beautiful colors, great acting--Josue and Doramake a wonderful pair and they really foil each other out.  Almoststarts dragging a little before the end, but it picks up again.  I highlyrecommend. "},{"Title":"There are movies and there are MOVIES!!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was surprised when I first saw Central do Brasil. First, because, living in Brasil, I have had the chance to see the rise and fall of our movie production. Suddenly, a powerful cinematographic milestone comes as a delightful surprise to movie lovers down here. A few things must be said it's pretty obvious that Central do Brasil is too much of a real and daring movie for the Academy. It's almost a relief that it didn't get any Oscars, but was praised all over the world, winning more than 50 ( !!!) prizes in Europe, Asia and Americas. For those who find it boring, it's time to reavaluate your concepts on what good cinema is. Stop seeing The Patriots and Independence Days that infect America's so-called Industry, and try to research a little bit more on sense and sensibility!!  "}{"Title":"They don't make them much better than this","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie one night, and the next day found myself haunted by it, almost as if the main characters had become part of my life. In short, I couldn't shake it. Then I saw it again and remained intrigued by the writing, acting, and directing. Even the cinematography, which is not your usual fare, added much to the fullness of the story.The first half hour or so of this movie is somewhat disturbing to watch since people and their needs seem to be so expendable, but from that very stark reality -- which is so real it has been reported repeatedly by the media -- love has a chance to make at least this one story different.One of the most amazing things about this movie is how Vinicius de Oliveira was able to perform so well that he excellently complemented the acting of one of Brazil's top actresses. From shoe shine boy to a riveting performance in a major film. Good for him. I hope he makes his mark. And no less praise for Montenegro who was splendid in her interpretation of Dora, or for Marilia Pera for her very candid performance as Dora's neighbor.***SPOILER ALERT*** I think a miracle occurred when Dora fainted, and that she was never to be the same person after that. "},{"Title":"Masterful Montenegro Dominates Salles' Career-Defining Road Movie","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like Gena Rowlands in this country (who ironically did a similar film, 1996's Unhook the Stars), Brazil's Fernanda Montenegro is a masterful actress who inhabits her characters wholly with a minimum of fuss and a maximum of personal depth. In this beautifully filmed 1998 film directed by Walter Salles, she offers a superbly realistic portrayal of an aging, embittered spinster named Dora, who earns money by writing letters for illiterate passers-by at Rio de Janeiro's Central Station. At the outset, she is a petty thief who takes the letters and decides with her friend Irene which ones to post if at all. Her dull world changes when Josué, the nine year-old son of a woman for whom Dora has written a letter, suddenly becomes orphaned when the woman is killed by a speeding bus. The letter was to be sent to Josué's father to reunite the family. Now his plight gradually becomes Dora's concern, and over the course of the film, her destiny.What Salles does with great dexterity is show the gradual closeness between Dora and Josué without resorting to any obvious sentimental plot devices, as neither is particularly sympathetic at the beginning and use their surly, obstinate personalities as protective shells. Even though this story has an overly familiar structure, Salles and screenwriters João Emanuel Carneiro and Marcos Bernstein bring a heavy dose of neo-realism within the unfamiliar, non-tourist locales used. It's all reminiscent of Vittorio de Sica's and Roberto Rosellini's classic post-WWII work in Italy like The Bicycle Thief and Open City. With his later film, 2004's wonderful The Motorcycle Diaries and now slated to film Jack Keroauc's seminal On the Road, Salles is obviously becoming known as a master of the road movie, and it is easy to see why with this work. Helping considerably is the stunning cinematography of Walter Carvalho, who presents vividly inhabited tableaux with each new phase of the journey from the bustle of inner-city Rio to the open roads to the religious pilgrimage to the new shoebox-style settlement.But it is Montenegro who dominates the proceedings as she gradually develops a character who earns our sympathy economically and honestly as she makes every moment count. For example, as she senses herself becoming attracted to Cesar, the religious truck driver, she applies a stranger's lipstick with a quivering hesitation that is almost as heartbreaking as the realization she faces moments later that he has left for good. A real shoeshine boy picked by Salles, Vinícius de Oliveira plays Josué with equal economy and responds to Dora's actions with realism that alternates between touching and frustrating. Smaller roles are filled expertly with Marília Pêra amusingly ebullient as Irene and Othon Bastos compellingly conflicted as Cesar. The climax comes a bit out of left field with the introduction of new characters that provide some amount of closure to Josué's fate and wrap up many of the open plot threads, but the somewhat pat turn does not undermine the genuine strength of the film.The DVD provides a nice extra with Montenegro, Salles, and producer Arthur Cohn contributing invaluable audio commentary in English. Salles and Cohn talk about the sources of inspiration for the movie as well as the more technical aspects including the rigors of location shooting with masses of amateur actors and a minimum of art direction and constructed sets. Montenegro speaks less, but like her performance, makes all her comments resonate. It's interesting how variations of the film's basic plot have come up in recent years - for instance, Jan Sverák's 1996 Kolya from the Czech Republic and Takeshi Kitano's 2000 Kikujiro from Japan - and this one certainly holds up well as a prototype. "},{"Title":"Central Station","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This woman (Dora) is a fraud and cheat. She charges poor illiterate people for letters to friends and relatives and yet never actually mails them. She is a poor retired teacher on a small pension and sees in this newly orphaned 10 year old boy Joshue no more than enough cash to buy a new television set. However when she realizes through a friend the awful consequences of what she has done, she rescues the child from a fate quite awful to contemplate and unable to return to her apartment to face retribution from the criminals she has angered, she goes together with Joshue in search of his Dad.The boy has never known his father and has an exaggerated idea of what and who he is. The child having just lost his mother & overcoming his initial very reasonable dislike for Dora grows to love her. Dora in turn during a series of adventures with this boy among the poorest of the poor in Brazil and perhaps because she has never had any children becomes fond of Joshue.I will not spoil the experience by telling you of the ending. However things turn out well for the boy in a surprising way and Dora leaves, her heart breaking. The bond established between these two is the point of the story and there is a bitter-sweet ending.A lovely movie. "},{"Title":"Touched my heart","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw Central Station at a little art house theater in NYC (the Quad), and was astounded at how beautiful a picture it was. I was sobbing at the end. I told a friend about it, said that he had to come with me to see it. He asked what it was about and I told him and he wasn't at all enthusiastic about seeing it, but I dragged him anyway and at the end, sure enough, tears were streaming down his face (we were two guys in or 20s then if that says anything about how powerful this film is) and he looked at me and said we have to see movies like this more often. I bought it on DVD and have watched it a few times since, and I think that every single time, the ending still makes me emotional, just so sad because I wanted Dora and Josue to stay friends, somehow remain in one another's life. The story, the tone of the film, the acting--everything about it meld together to create a work that is simply fascinating and beautiful in it simplicity. A rare find. "},{"Title":"Best since De Sica!","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's moving, it's credible, it's true and its beautifully shot. It's likely that his is the best neo-realist movie ever made, at least since the neo-realism - I think De Sica himself would be proud! The characters are presented with lots of mixed characteristics - good and bad - that really should prevent one from getting involved, yet, after some half of the film one cares as if it was one's own family. The ever more intense adventure of the boy and the woman makes one forget about the camera - an achievement only a very few masterpieces of cinema have reached before. A true tribute to humanity! Don't miss for all of the world! "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" it is amazing the ability of director Water Salles to play at the heartstrings with such painful eloquence; fluid in a sense that the ubiquitous issues explored within the context of the film Central Do Brazil or Central Station were secondary to the road trip of two lives intersecting at a train station; a place where people come and go on their own subjective way.to be honest I couldn't tell if Walter Salles view on religion were pro or con; even after the continues repetition of religious symbols. At first it appeared to be in the positive based on the premise that images of piousness, self-sacrifice, or charity were themes played throughout the film in association with religion. It appeared that Salles was making a connection that man is on a quest for enlightenment through the interconnectedness of different modes of transportation that bring humanity as one; be it a pilgrimage of Christians; or two unlikely partners on a bus, train or truck, in search of unanswered questions. The recurrent images seemed to try to make a link of these two examples.dora seemed to be the only heathen in this quest, which in retrospect seems to be Salles possible speaker for the truth. From spectator feelings of ambivalence to hatred, and coming full circle to being the hero of the story, we see acts of courage in Dora's transformation from the poster boy of everything ugly in Brazil, to the embodiment of true altruism. She is the clarity in a convoluted Brazil - or humanity - who is left on its own without the so-called benefits and safety of civil society or an absolute dogma.in Central Station, we are like flocks of migrating birds together for safety from an indeterminate existence; in search of intangibles be it love, god, or an answer for mass suffering. It is not mans fault that he is drawn to mysticism to heal the wounds of poverty but it is the fault of society and the unequal distribution of wealth that leaves the majority scraping for leftovers. "},{"Title":"Back to Basics An Amazing Film With a Realistic Storyline.","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Amidst the hustle and bustle of Brazil's busy Central Station in Rio De Janeiro, a retired school teacher Dora (Fernanda Montenegro) sets up a table to script out letters dictated to her by a hodgepodge of illiterate people. They are writing lovers, enemies, and family and each is passionate in their anger or love as Dora writes out their letters. What none of these people realize is that this is as far as their letter will travel to the home of Dora who shares the notes with her closest friend and then decides whether the letter will be thrown out, or if it is worthy of the purgatory drawer where letters rarely leave.The director, Walter Salles, is an expert of exhibiting reality in his films. In Central Do Brasil, he easily exposes the corruption in Brazilian society. The hardened Dora has no remorse over her deceit of taking money and not sending letters. It is seen on a larger scale when a thief shoplifts from a stand in the station and when he is caught, he's shot with no mercy or grace offered. When the owner of the merchandise stand returns to the station after killing the man, it is apparent that everyone knows what must have happened to the thief, but no one asks questions or looks for justice. Corruption is a way of life and Salles challenges his audience to ponder this.The plot is a simple one true to real life with no distracting or unrealistic additions. Through her letter writing, Dora meets a boy, Josue (Vinicius de Oliveira) and his mother who are writing to a father he never knew. When Josue's mother suddenly dies, Dora feels sympathetic towards him and takes him into her home. Her worldview is hardened though, and so while her conscience insists that she can't leave him to become a thief in Central Station, she also does not see him as her problem and looks for a way to get rid of him that will be advantageous to her. Leaving him with a sketchy adoption agency, her conscience (often seen convincingly through her friend Irene-Pera), again convinces her that she cannot except blood money in exchange for the boy's life. But when her life and home suddenly in danger, Dora sees her only outlet as taking the boy to find his father in the north.This turns the film into one that fits in the road-trip genre one that Salles executed well in this film and in his 2004 film Diarios de Motocicleta. The shots bring the viewer on the road with the actors, displaying the beauty and simpler life of the north of Brazil in contrast to the dirty and busy metropolis of Rio de Janeiro. Through Dora and Josue's journey, the themes of guilt, conscience, motherly love, family, religion, and adolescence are all explored and the excellent acting makes it easy to connect and relate to the characters. The scenes also add to the moment as they are shot to assist in making the story come to life. For example I really appreciated the filming of the scene where Dora loses Josue in a crowd of religious zealots during a ceremony. The camera follows her rushed movement and then when she enters a building with candles all around, the chaos of the filming makes you grieve even more for her situation as you feel the turmoil she is feeling.I would recommend this film to anyone in any walk or stage of life could find something to connect with. Meanwhile, the beautiful cinematography and award nominated acting make it a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"An Unforgettable Road Adventure","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Central Do Brasil' can easily be described as an extraordinary road movie, perhaps a prototype film of the genre. Salles tells a very down to earth story with the use of simple devices. The sets look very raw which adds to the realism of the story. But also the high crime that has dominated much of Brasil is shown in a very subtle way (e.g. the scene where the thief is shot dead and the one about giving children up for 'adoption'). Similarly, the characters are very well defined and easy to relate to. None of them are likable at the beginning but the beautiful transformation, as they develop, wins the viewer's heart.There is a poetic quality to it that, next to the eloquent writing, is also reflected through the lyrical dialogues, the simple soundtrack and Walter Carvalho's expert cinematography. The cross-country Brazilian landscape looks familiar but at the same time breathtaking. The city shots are brilliantly executed capturing the crowd, heat, commotion and chaos and they contrast well with the village sequences.The acting is superb all the way. Marília Pêra is very likable as Dora's friend. In a way she also serves as her conscience as she provokes Dora to rethink her 'immoral' decisions. Vinícius de Oliveira is terrific as Dora's younger counterpart. He holds his own matching wits with Fernanda Montenegro. Their scenes together are the most amusing and moving parts of the film. Finally, it is Montenegro who towers above all with a knockout performance. Her transformation from a bitter, self-centred and greedy spinster to a loving and caring motherly figure is portrayed with sincerity and 'minimalism'. It is both a heartwarming and a heartbreaking performance and only a masterful actress like Fernanda Montenegro has done full justice to the role by defining one of the greatest performances in cinema.It has been almost ten years after which I finally got the opportunity to revisit and re-experience this stunning piece of art. 'Central Do Brasil' easily ranks among my all time favourite films. It's simply one of the most beautiful films. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Perfect","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is grimy, beautiful, funny, poignant and always perfect.Filmed with a remarkable eye and executed by performances that don't miss a note. Characters wind up on a journey that's physical, emotional and spiritual. And where they finally end up is very different (and better) than from where they started. An absolute 10. "},{"Title":"I miss everything","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At a certain point of the movie, Dora said eu tenho saudade de tudo(I miss everything).Whoever met and lost friends, had memorably happy moments in the past, or knew once the true meaning of love, can understand the unequal mixture of joy and sadness.Now I have a movie to recall to me those feelings,and I will watch again and again,to help me celebrate life! "}{"Title":"A brilliant, evolving piece of art","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a simple history, about simple people of a simple country. No special effects, no superproduction. The director relied only on feelings as raw material to the movies. It shows that, no matter your resources, if you are willing to help someone you really can. And the reward can surprise you...This movie is to make us remember the simple and meaningful aspects of life! "},{"Title":"So Heavy in Human Values That It Couldn't Carry More","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To say only that's one of the greatest movies ever it's unjust. It's much more than a great movie. It's so heavy in human values that it couldn't carry more. Behind the apparent serenity of the cinematic eye, calmly following the abject and the divine that are mixed together, behind this is a burning, passionate belief in the infinite capacity of redemption that's hidden in us. Says movie director Walter Salles, I come from a country and a continent whose identity is in the making, where things are not yet crystallized. And that's true for each of his personages; like their country, their characters are on the making, they are on the road. The kid, Josué (played incredibly by Vinicius de Oliveira, a shoe shine boy found by Walter Salles on the street), can become a crock, like old Dora (the great Brazilian actress Fernanda Montenegro). After all also Dora came in life from a similar childhood. Anything can happen, and the movie does not want to say us explicitly what will be with them in the future. The end of the movie is open potentially to any outcome, however the tone is optimist. The director doesn't know what will happen to Josué and to Dora; however he cannot look at their adventures but with an immense sympathy, for Josué is looking for his father while Dora is looking for her chance in life, and on the road they open themselves more and more one to the other. A road where picaresque happenings come one after the other, abjection and unexpected humanity, mishaps in a chain solved by unexpected miracles, it's Brazil, land of extremes, open, like Josué and Dora, to any future, a country followed by the eye of Salles with an immense sympathy, because the country is also on the road, like the heroes. And says again Walter Salles, I don't think we can say what the Latin American identity is, but I think we can try to look for the reverberations from it... and for this, you have to try to capture reality as it happens. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but touchingly done","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dora is an ex-school teacher who now makes ends meet working a stall writing letters for people who can't write.  However to make it more profitable, she takes the letters home and destroys them.  One of her repeat clients is a mother and son who write to the son's no good father.  When the mother is killed crossing the street, Dora reluctantly takes Josué into her home, but only with plans to sell him.  A small change of heart leads them into a cross-country trip to return Josué to his absent father.I suspect that many users take the view that a film has more merit if it is in a foreign language and is in subtitles.  I'm not saying that all viewers do this but I notice that good foreign films tend to have greater praise than good western films.  Anyway, aside from that, this film is still worthy of praise &#150; even if the plot treads a familiar and slightly predictable road.  Despite this, it is well told and is quite touching.  The way the characters change is touching and gradual &#150; at times it verges on the overly slow but for the most part it is a nicely paced tale.A big part of the reason this works as well as it does is the two lead performances.  Montenegro is great as Dora and works even better as she is an unknown quantity to me.  If a well known actress (to me at least) had played her then I might have had baggage that came with her &#150; e.g. if she was well known for `nice' characters then I might have not accepted her character.  As it was, she was wonderfully unpleasant and unsympathetic for much of the film &#150; making any changes in her evident and touching.  De Oliveira is excellent, not only for a child but for an actor full stop!  I have never understood why so many western films employ child actors who are sickly cute.  Here De Oliveira is realistic and touching in his performance.The film is not perfect.  It does wander a little bit while on the road, and some of it feels far too slow.  Plus the plot is familiar and goes just where you expect it to.  That said, it is still a classic product and is quite touching at several points.  Not a movie for cinema goers who demand something to blow up every few minutes, but it is touching and has two wonderful performances from Montenegro and De Oliveira. "},{"Title":"Slice of Brazil, Soaked in Reality , Film Par Excellence","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am from India. I always used to think India and Brazil have great connection at least when the world calls these countries as BRIC economy and countries to watch out for. Well after seeing Central Station , I saw that Brazil is full of life - just like India - same dense population , same cut-throat living competition , every day existence driving goodness out of even among good people. I also saw that the Brazilian people were deeply religious as shown in movie and everywhere there were pictures of Mother - Mary. And all this when interwoven with the reality that the director Walter tried to paint , I liked the whole lot. I think the plot was good and touching but I do not think it was over stepped on sentimentality. It was just the correct doze. Fernanda Montenegro was a treat to watch. while story , the plot of a con-woman ( not intrinsically) interwoven with an young boy made orphan by a sudden twist of fate is good to watch with great scenarios of Brazil - I really fell in love with the background location - I felt that the movie moved a little slow. But then the director was in control and he delivered. This is a movie that one must watch at least once in life time. what type of genre is this movie ?. - It's about life - every day existence in every part of the world and not just Brazil. It can happen in US too - only that Hollywood do not have the courage to make these type of movies.... My rating - 8 /10. Reduced only for slowness "},{"Title":"Not everyone is born in America","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This story happens in an impoverished area in Brazil. The buzzing, noisy central station is infatuated with people bustling for nothing but life necessities. To put it into more vulgar words, people's life is cheap. It can be seen in this film that a thief is shot dead by the vendor.It is this exact reason that makes this film even moving than, say, if it happens in The United states. When one is living in indecent conditions, one should be given more credit if s/he offers to help others.Isadora is such a woman. She is not a good person in a strict sense. After retirement as a primary school teacher, she makes ends meet by deceit, i.e. helping illiterate people write and send letters but tears up those letters back home. By fate, she is connected with a boy named Josue. Josue's mother, one of Dora's client, is killed in a road accident.After several mental struggles with herself, Dora decides to help Josue find his father according to the letter. On the long way to the kid's father, Dora and Josue's relationship turns better and better and finally they become friends.Shortly after they find the location of Josue's father, it comes the time for them to part from each other. Dora writes a letter to Josue and in this letter Dora asks Josue not to forget her.I think Dora wants to be remembered as she devotes her love to Josue particularly she does not have a happy childhood memory. Her fundamental humanity is awakened during this journey. Yet this selfless help is not a pleasant experience for Dora as she sees how Josue's father and brothers love little Josue which for sure reminds her of those painful childhood memories. Despite all, the awakened humanity impulses her to leave Josue to where he can grow up with love and care. In a sense, she chooses Josue to help finish her unfinished childhood dream for a caring father and family. Loving someone but letting someone fly to better places is a huge sacrifice yet the highest rank of love.Thus, Dora does not want to be forgotten. I remember one line extremely clearly, 'When you grow up and drive the truck one day, do not forget that I am the first one who let you sit behind the wheels.' "},{"Title":"Powerful and Emotional","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is uncommonly powerful, with very dark tones but bursting with hope and love. The main character, a jaded and bitter letter writer working in Brazil's largest train station (Fernanda Montenegro), is suddenly burdened with a kid who eventually wins her over. But unlike the common feel-good comedies with the same setup, Central do Brasil takes the viewer on a sometimes hopeless, openly vulnerable, and powerfully emotional journey. You can really feel the connection between the boy and his new caretaker &#x96; you can feel all of her emotions, really, because her acting is just that spectacular. The acting, the camera work, the soundtrack, and the beautifully written story all come together to produce just an amazing movie, well worth watching, that may just jerk a tear from your eye. "},{"Title":"searching","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brazilian director Walter Salles (of Motorcycle Diaries fame) has created a visually beautiful and emotionally heartwarming film. The opening scenes impacted me the most. Hearing the various stories and letters that the travelers dictate to Dora are touching and set the tone for the movie. In fact it is the letters that bring Josué and Dora together and initiate the journey that they embark on together to find Josué's father who he has never met. While traveling through the countryside the audience gets to enjoy shot after shot of breathtaking scenery and is really able to appreciate the beauty of Brazil. There is a subtle religious symbolism that is most noticeable in the biblical names of the characters. Young Josué is searching for and continually waiting for Jesus to come back. He has put his faith in something unseen but has no doubts about its existence. It's his child-like faith that ultimately inspires Dora to believe as well that Jesus will one day return. Although Josué is the one searching for something, it is Dora who discovers more than she ever expected. "},{"Title":"A Rare and Wholly Satisfying Film","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Walter Salles' gleamingly beautiful film CENTRAL STATION is one of those films that most people who appreciate the art of cinema will place in their personal library. Not only is the story raw and touching but it is graced by the magnificence of actress Fernanda Montenegro who continues to be Brazil's finest actress both on stage and on film. The story is a bit disturbing at first Doña Dora is an elderly educated woman, with a history of turning to grifting for life support, sit in the Central Station and makes her money by writing letters dictated to her by the illiterate people who line up for her services - but Doña Dora often trashes the letters after collecting her fee. Into her life enters Josue (Vinicius de Oliveira), a young kid who witnessed the death of his other and is searching for his father. Josue is world wise and sees Doña Dora for what she is - a con artist. But the old lade takes Josue home on the superficial disguise that she will help him only to later sell him to the illegal adoption racketeers for money. After being paid for her sale, her friend Irene (Marilia Pera) informs her of what likely will be Josue's fate and knowing that she cannot right her wrong without returning the trafficker's fee, she escapes her home, taking Josue on the road to find his father. The 'road trip' results in a mutual respect and love between the two - Doña Dora softens, having made a kind change in her life, and Josue gains the feeling of love for the mother he has lost. Walter Salles understands emotion, when to allow the tragedies to emerge and subside and also how to credibly introduce the change of philosophy of his actors. The cinematography by Walter Carvalho captures both the claustrophobia of Rio de Janeiro as well as the desolation of the raw uninhabited lands outside the city where the strange couple go. But the real reason for the success of this film is the multifaceted sensitive portrayal of Doña Dora by Fernanda Montenegro - a performance that has and will continue to make film history. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"A powerful, moving film.","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Salles' picture of Brazil is that of a land of conflict in this road movie. The characters in this film are often harsh, and with good reason. Poverty reaches throughout this world, and the consequences of that poverty touch everything and everyone here. Tragedy affects everyone in some way, and the occasional good fortune often is temporary. The rare friendships found here are usually of the tough love variety. The primary relationship here, Dora's friendship with young Josué, is a tenuous one initially, based on some sense of mutual obligation but rarely on genuine affection until later in the film. Other relationships, both temporary and permanent, seem largely based on convenience or circumstance.The environment is quite contradictory. The viewer is presented with noisy urban scenes of dirty, overcrowded trains and images of cramped villages, rife with poverty and desperation. Close shots and numerous indoor scenes create an overall claustrophobic feel while adding focus to the characters themselves. Wide shots of the gorgeous Brazilian countryside are also occasionally included, showing the viewer that all is not dust, grime and desperation. Sadly, these beautiful vistas are ignored by the characters; they have more urgent matters to attend to.Numerous Christian symbols pervade the movie. It is easy to see the symbolism in Josué's quest to find Jesus (his father), guided by a single mother figure who could potentially represent Mary. However, the roles are often turned upside down, as this mother is far from saintly. All the same, the bitter Dora, who often comes across as downright evil, ultimately does the right thing, which is more than can be said for many of the ostensible Christians seen in the film, who eat in front of the obviously hungry, ignore the sick and abandon those in desperate need. There's a lot that can be read from this movie from a religious standpoint, regardless of one's beliefs.While Montenegro is perfect in her role as Dora, the acting throughout is top-notch. The ending, while heartbreaking, makes perfect sense in context of the characters and situations. This is definitely one worth watching. "},{"Title":"Global awareness of Brazil's rebounding film community continued to grow with Central Station, the third feature of Rio de Janeiro-born director Walter Salles.","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central Station is an Academy Award-nominated and Golden Globe-winning drama film set in Brazil. In Rio, a cynical retired teacher, who writes letters for illiterate peasants separated from their families, accompanies a young boy into remote regions of Brazil in a search for his absent father.The film is a conventional but heart-warming tale of bonding between an old grump and a young cherub that's lifted by director Walter Salles' remarkable eye for the imagery of his homeland - and his concern for the beleaguered state of its distant outposts. Central Station premiered at the 1998 Berlin International Film Festival. "}{"Title":"Aswome  Film","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hi Folk,s Sean Hear, This is a real tear jerker of a film. I truly enjoyed it I cried through the whole film. It is in Portuguse with English sub titles, but well worth the time it takes to watch this film. It is about a Boy whose mother is killed right in form of him and the journey of the heart he takes. at 106 minutes it is a long movie that demands your attention, Though I would not recommend this film for any one under 13 because of adult thems and language. It helps to be a fast reader because the sub titles go by kind of fast. But use your own judgment on this point Thank you for taking the time to read this review. Really just one man,s opinion. "},{"Title":"Walter Salles is a great director.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the past year, Brazilian director Walter Salles has gained much recognition in the United States for The Motorcycle Diaries and Dark Water. Central do Brasil (called Central Station in English) shows his work before these movies. It focuses on former schoolteacher Dora (Fernanda Montenegro), who now writes letters for the illiterate. She befriends young orphan Josue (Vinicius de Oliveira). It is sort of a second chance for them both.Salles does a really good job showing human emotions without ever trying to manipulate the audience's emotions. I would say that from these three movies, he is on the way to becoming Brazil's Alfred Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"details","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A couple of reviews seemed to be negative for the wrong reason.  Dora took Joshue to the 'adoption agency' convinced it was the usual thing to do and also get good money.  It was only after Irene told Dora what happened to those kids (killed for parts) that she made a moral decision to steal the boy back and then run like hell.  The only place to run to was where the boy's mother wrote the address of his father. To say the Dora character was evil for selling the boy for parts is incorrect.  She was an amoral hustler eking out a marginal living in the station; but killing the kid was not on her agenda.  "},{"Title":"'Gloria' meets 'Merchant & Ivory'","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is one of the most poignant films I have seen in a long time.There are two reasons I prefer to rent at the video store being of typical English stock I loathe to show emotion in public, and second public theaters can't afford to play movies that don't pander to the lowest common denominator. That said, you won't see this film in an American theater; be glad then, because its too emotional and simply stated it emanates a core emotion too personal to be shared in public.I almost didn't rent this film. It's a subtitled Brazilian film, and having lived in Central Florida half my life I've become a bit biased toward rude Brazilian tourists. Then I noticed that my favorite video store carried over fifty copies of 'A Civil Action' and only four copies of this film. Only then did I know it had to be a good movie.First off, see this film under the right conditions. Preferably alone, with a plate of pasta and good bottle of cabernet. Second, turn up the color on your TV set. This film is a visual treat. Once you get over your western prejudice of all that which isn't new and gleaming and begin to pay attention to the beauty of the indomitable human spirit your exuberance cascades back onto what you initially presumed to be the ugly decay of poverty.This film is great exactly because I can't express in words the manifold emotions expressed through the eyes of a mature woman and a brutally honest child caught up in a city of people just trying to cope. If you live in a big city you'll surely understand why this woman doesn't just keep walking. Cities are full of cruel people who don't care to help themselves and aren't deserving of yours. This kid doesn't want her help and what's more he can see straight through all her city mask pretensions.There's an ineffable quality here. The milieu of poverty contrast so well with the richness of emotional honesty. If you were poor in your youth and now middle class you'd do well to consider seeing this. Don't trust anyone over thirty, because most have sold there soul to 'get by'. Dora redeems hers by becoming the savior of this diamond that refuses to tarnish.My vote 9 out of 10.A must see! "},{"Title":"A resume of my country","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is a special film for us, brazilians because we can see our real people on the screen. Brazilian people is recognized only for Carnival, beaches or any kind of celebration, but we have problems, and the film shows it poverty, illiteracy. At the same time, all the world can know our friendship and kindness on the characters. As a brazilian, I see Central Station like a post card of my country not for tourists, but for refined people. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie with a perfect actress and a perfect script with a perfect director...","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is about a woman without hope to change her life and about the meeting with a boy, a dreamer, that looks for his father in the Brazilian northeast. It shows two cultures of Brazil. Its about the hope and the faith. Its about love.  "},{"Title":"Central Station is well worth the trip..","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have always been a fan of redemption stories. In this movie, Isadora's redemption is done in such a dynamic way that I can say my feelings about her transform with her through her journey. Her quest to bring a young boy to his father makes her face some things from her past she has not dealt with. This movie does a wonderful job of taking us through several settings in Brazil -- from the very rough streets of the city to the laid-back countryside. This movie is a combination of buddy road picture and redemption film. From a filmmaker's standpoint there are several technical aspects of this movie I respect. This is one of the films that I was assigned to watch for a film class. It has a green light from me, please rent this film and enjoy. The movie is not one I would normally seek out. I enjoy foreign films and subtitles do not scare me away, but I didn't think the cover made it sound very interesting. I was pleasantly surprised to find such a hidden gem. It's worth a look.To see more of this review please go to http//fatsamuraireviews.blogspot.com/2011/06/central-station.html "},{"Title":"Review of Central Station","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many people would look at Central Station as a road trip like movie between a woman and a child. Though in the end the two of them develop an everlasting relationship, I feel this film focused on a Dora's identity. The personality of Dora is very much similar to the atmosphere of Rio De Janeiro. Working as a letter writer at the Central Station, she is seen as a cold hearted person, who only cares about her own well being. She hates having to deal with customers and the majority of the time she chooses not to mail the letters that people give to her. But that begins to change when Josue, a nine year old boy, comes into her life. With his mother passing away in a tragic accident, Dora assumes the maternal role for Josue, as they take part on a journey along the countryside to find his father. They go through a series of trials and tribulations throughout the film. And as the movie progresses, they begin to rely on one another. The film concludes with Josue finding his family and Dora returning home. The experience with Josue, molded Dora into a different person. She showed love and compassion for the boy. Two traits I never thought she had. In a world full of hatred and greed, Dora was given an opportunity to do good, and she came through. Though I wished the film would have had ended on a happier ending, Dora's letter to Josue showed her eternal love for him. "},{"Title":"a feel good movie","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a crowded Brazilian train station, Dora, a retired school teacher, writes letters for the illiterate. She conveys their anger, frustration and longing and is paid in exchange for sending their letters &#x96; except she never sends them. She is a hardened, conniving, con artist exploiting the poor uneducated Brazilians that pass through the busy Central station. On a particularly busy day she meets Josué and his mother Ana. After a freak accident Dora becomes responsible for Josué and they trek across Brazil in search of Josué's father. Central Station is a heart warming film with a lot of depth that isn't evident the first time you watch it. There is a lot of religious symbolism that could act as a subplot throughout the second half of the film. This is a movie that can be enjoyed whether you see both story lines or only one. The acting is superb and it is a movie that I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Salles never ceases to WOW audiences all over the world","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If I heard I was going to watch a movie about a little boy whose mother dies outside a crowded train station and a retired teacher who helps him find the father he never met, I would imagine I would be watching a sweet story unfold about a sad and lonely boy who is comforted and cared for by a loving and kind hearted woman who takes him under her wing in a motherly and heart-warming way. Central Station is not a feel-good movie. The retired teacher, Isadora, is neither warm nor motherly and the boy, Josué, is neither receptive or desiring of her help. However, Isadora and Josué still embark on the seemingly hopeless journey in search of a father who may or may not be alive or around. The movie is by no means predictable, as demonstrated in the way that the characters do not personify those which audiences would expect to see in Hollywood movies dealing with similar plots. It is intriguing and captivating to watch how a stubborn and cold Isadora finds herself best friends with an equally stubborn and cold Josué. Rather than their similarities creating a bond, they constantly drive each other away from the other, but in the end they find themselves forever changed by the remarkable friendship that formed between them. The genius of the movie rests in Salles' success in telling a story that is captivating and unpredictable. He is creative and unconventional and the product that results is phenomenal. "}{"Title":"Station of life..","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ostensibly, this is a relatively simple road-movie, with a relatively simple storyline. Making up for it, the direction enhances the film with existential edge. The neo-neo-realist aesthetics, accompanied by the lazy strumming of the soundtrack, provide a zen-like meditation on the flow of life. The slow and poetic gros-plans, traveling and panoramiques (Angelopoulos-ian in nature) further enhance and dilate this feel, depicting the protagonists as helpless travelers in life. One last transmutation happens within the religious/ litany scenes (represented by the woman passing out), the direction now flirting with the same psychedelic feel as in Coppola's Apocalypse Now. When the movie returns to a realist setting, the protagonists have changed, have assimilated the flow of life within themselves and are now richer and whole, seeing life with new eyes after their long journey. "},{"Title":"A Story of Two Strangers","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central Station is a touching story about two strangers from different walks of life who journey through the dustbowl of Rio de Janeiro to find that they have more in common with each other than they initially realized. Dora is an elderly, retired school teacher who's never been married and is jaded towards most people. She sort of has a Travis Bickle mentality&#x97;believes most people are trash and that it's her job to clean things up. She demonstrates this by refusing to mail the letters she writes for the illiterate populace of Brazil, saying that it would only worsen things if such people actually received these letters. Josue is an intuitive and sly 10-year old boy without a mother who's in search of his father who left him years ago. He sees right through Dora's depraved behavior and calls her out on it. Together, the two take a journey into the heart of Brazil in search of Josue's father.The significance of their journey applies to the common bond between them. They both suffer from loss. Dora's loss is manifold her lost opportunities to marry and have children, the loss of her feeling beautiful, the loss of her enthusiasm for life, etc. Josue's loss is two-fold the loss of his mother after her accidental death, and the loss of his father, Jesus, who left him years ago. Succinctly put, both of them suffer from a loss of love. On their journey, both are able to play certain roles to help fill these voids in their life with love. Dora acts as a surrogate mother to Josue, takes him under her wing as she tries to help him find his father. Josue indirectly acts as the child Dora never had, allowing her an opportunity to break her selfish shell. Both, however, are reluctant and cynical towards each other at the beginning. Dora keeps trying to abandon the responsibility of caring for Josue (i.e. when she tries to leave him sleeping on the bus), while Josue keeps reprimanding Dora for not acting her age (i.e. when he scolds her for stealing food at the grocery mart). These sequences demonstrate the power of role-modeling. Both are indirectly guiding the other to find what they need most care and love from each other. The film seems to suggest that Dora's never had a positive male influence in her life, nor does she feel beautiful enough to qualify for one. Consequently, what she needs most is a real man who will help her out of the Scrooge-like cave she's created for herself.Without money and without a travel ticket, Dora's poor example leads Josue to lose hope in any caretaker. The specific moment of change that converts Dora to start really caring for Josue (rather than treating him as heavy baggage) is when he runs away from her through the crowded, religious chanting streets of the Brazilian countryside. This scene is ironic Josue runs away to find his father, Jesus, the crowd of people pray to God with hopes to be redeemed through Jesus, and Dora needs the love/reassurance of a Jesus-figure in her life but doesn't realize it. The swirling camera movements used as she roams through the sacred room of burning candles and crucifix's suggests what's taking place inside her mind&#x97;she's losing control of her life as she has lost control of Josue. It's as if the unsteady camera movements act as the pangs of her racked conscience, causing her to realize her poor role-modeling qualities. When she recovers, she wakes up in the arms of Josue outside&#x97;their relationship has grown for the better (Josue realizing he's loved, and Dora realizing she has to love).The theme of the film says a lot about how we project certain images upon people when we're younger, only later to realize how false those images are when we grow older. For example, Josue believes his father is really a good-spirited man who loves his children. However, all the rumors told about his father say the opposite that he's a drunkard; a no good beggar who sold his life for hedonistic pleasures when the going got tough. I think this idea also compliments how God is viewed in this film. During the chanting scene in the countryside, groups of suffering people gather together to pray for release from their pain, but it seems to be futile&#x97;they are not released from pain. It seems, then, that the film is making some type of commentary on what happens when the father's in our lives&#x97;be they mortal or divine&#x97;leave people on their own without care. "},{"Title":"Brilliant character piece played out between two very different people on a long and rewarding journey.","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central Station begins with a shot of several large groups of people pouring out of train carriages and onto the platform at a local train station. The shot is linked to the next scene that takes place on ground level of the station, that being a pouring out of emotions that happens when several people partake in dictating letters to a woman they've never met but entrust to write down what they've said before mailing them off to the chosen address' of loved ones. Just in the opening, director Walter Salles foretells the spilling out of emotion the characters will go through in this film whilst, some might argue, bringing to attention the illiteracy problem that he believes plagues his native Brazil. The opening also goes a long way in establishing the protagonist of the film, a certain Dora (Montenegro), and how she is 'before' the film develops her.Central Station is, essentially, a road movie but it is one of the better road movies that I have ever seen. It is a humbling and thoroughly interesting piece that studies two people of binary oppositions in a situation that consistently pushes weight down on top of a delicate mindset that is possessed by the protagonist. As a character, Dora is initially unlikable. She spends her days writing out letters dictated to her by illiterate people but rarely posts them to their respective addresses. She is friendless, bar a loose woman named Irene (Pêra) whom visits from the apartment downstairs, and does not have any family or pets. But what makes Central Station so memorable is the gradual changes Dora undergoes in order to become a better person and this is accomplished through the time she spends with a very young boy named Josué (de Oliveira).So the film is a character study, made in a language that is not of the English variety and stretches out to a little bit under two hours. But what brought it its success, I think, is its familiarity in regards to structure, a constantly shifting film that moves on down its single strand arc, effortlessly gliding from location to location and setup to pay-off. The beginning of Dora's transformation occurs not so far from her own door given how many miles she must travel in this film. She witnesses a young boy steal something from a stand before he is chased by security and mercilessly shot in a desolate area near the station. The initial incident from the outside that interrupts Dora's life, which itself could constitute as the set up, is her acquiring of Josué, when a tragedy befalls him. She figures he is helpless and may need to steal to live, similarly to what the prior, now dead, youth had to do also.The centre of the film revolves around Dora delivering Josué to his father, an address that she acquired a few days earlier when the boy's own mother dictated a letter to her. The character's goal is in a very remote and far off place, too many bus rides and truck lifts away to be reached in a relatively quick time. But complications to do with people having moved on or being missing equate to the two having to trek on to the point where it would be wiser to continue into the unknown rather than just turn back, since a certain point as been crossed.During this time, Dora will undergo a transformation. The ideas behind the film are perfectly captured by a truck driver, whose words double up as the film's entire study, something the author(s) wants to make quite clear. At one point, whilst driving flat out on the open road, the trucker exclaims that 'the open road has changed him'. Not only this but 'many times' when discussing his job and his experiences with Dora. Principally this is exactly the point. Central Station, being the 'road movie' that it is, allows two or slightly more persons to learn more about themselves as they travel on a continuous route of no return. This is the crux of the film as explained by an individual who is helpful for as long as he needs to be, states what he needs to state before being removed from the text once his kind-natured spirit is brought into repute for aiding in some shoplifting.Additionally, the boy Josué himself brings to both our and Dora's attention Dora's flaws. If the demonisation of Josué's father is very much present as this uncaring and far away individual, who enjoyed being under the influence of alcohol, then the boy points out Dora bears a similar mindset with her attitudes to alcohol. The statement draws on parallels with the father, as this uncaring and quite solemn individual who doesn't see job through. Then we remember Dora's attitude to all the letters she wrote and to the people she took money off of, while she insulted them in the process. Is Dora any better than the boy's father? Did she ever stop to think of this? Perhaps the father is a better person for at least he, as pointed out by the boy, could mould wood and earn a living out of a skill.While thoroughly engaging and always interesting as interactions and situations are played out, Central Station takes time to develop exchanges and studies like all great, slow-burning character studies do. The film is rewarding in a spiritual, dramatic and emotional sense and it could quite feasibly be labelled as one of the better films to ever come out of South America. "},{"Title":"The new Brazilian movie Golden Age","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I could say Central do Brasil is the Brazilian cinema comeback. After 30 years of mediocrity on Brazilian productions, this movie is one the very first quality movies, starting a new era, with decent stories and the virtual end of cheap nudity from the time of pornochanchadas.The main plot, it's something seen even in many B American movies. The difference is how the story is told. It's about Dora (Fernanda Montenegro), an old woman who fooled simple minded and illiterate people from Northeast writing letters for them, keeping the money and not delivering the mail. Her fate changes when she meets Josué (Vinícius de Oliveira), a boy who had lost her mother, run down by a bus. Cold hearted at first, she goes with the kid for a trip heading Northeast to find the rest of his family.The movie's pace is something slow, as in many Brazilian movies, but it doesn't make you sleep, for sure. Since it's character movie, you enjoy every little scene they appear. Montenegro is our Prima Donna, doing her work superb as usual - if (argh!) Roberto Begnini won an Oscar, she would deserve 10; the boy was very realistic, even if his acting wasn't brilliant by that time - he did it fine, though; Marília Pera, one of my favorites, was gold-shining as that neighbor who helps Dora on escaping from the criminals - she has a real perfect comedy timing that beats even professional comedians; pay attention on Matheus Nachtergaele, playing one of Josué's brothers and the always efficient and ready-for-the-action Otávio Augusto, as a corrupted police detective.I recommend this movie for all non-Brazilians so you can learn about the real thing. We don't have just cheerful things like the Carnival and beaches or the notorious city violence. We have much more to show, and good cinema is one of them. "},{"Title":"Great film. The characters are complex and you both hate them and love them at different stages. The actors are extremely good.","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A great film set in Brazil. It's realistic and moving. The acting is immense. The characters are complex and they make you go through stages in which you hate and love them.I rate on a par with foreign films such as the Le Choristes (The Chorus). It is realistic and earthy.Just missed on an Oscar like Le Choristers - perhaps foreign film Oscar nominees are an indication that they are probably worthwhile films to watch. They are certainly more likely to be more interesting than many English speaking films with Oscar nominations.It shows you that good films can be done without a huge budget. "},{"Title":"Touching friendship","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Old woman Dora made a living by writing the letter for other people in the railway station. Sometimes the customers would require her to post the letters for them. However she did it under her will. One day young boy Josue's mother (one of her customer) died of traffic accident. At first Dora made use of Josue. After realizing her mistake, she decided to accompany him to find his father who had been leaving him for many years. An interesting journey started.In fact Dora was also the victim. She left home at early age because of her alcohol-addicted father. When she was helping Josue, she was also helping herself. In the end she liberated herself from the burden that haunted her many years. Maybe she would post the letter for her every customer.Life is not always smooth. But if we can adjust timely our mood, the situation will be different.The movie is similar to another great Japanese movie named Kikujiro no natsu. Both of them can bring laughs and tears. Of cause the wonderful performance came from Fernanda Montenegro and Vinicius de Oliveira should not be overlooked.An excellent Brazil movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"proud to be brazilian","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When my english friends ask me what it is to be brazilian, I tell them to watch this film. It does make me feel proud of being brazilian. Salles is a excellent director and proves that there is a lot more to cinema than silly americanized films. The film has got a heart and soul of what it is to be brazilian and live in Brazil. But, as most of our internet friends said very well, it is a piece of art. a must-see! "},{"Title":"Preconceived ideas taken from the film","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen too many simple minded comments about this movie, most of them from Non Brazilians (NB), but a few from Brazilians (B) also. Also, these comments are filled with preconceived ideas about how Brazil and brazilians are.That this movie was appreciated by hundreds of NB is a good sign. It proves that the director did a good job technically, that this movie's great soundtrack and camera shots were recognized by the movie audience worldwide.There are Brazilians whose comments sound much alike the NB simple minded comments. These comments analyze the movie by American Standards, which is absurd. This history would NEVER happen in the US, i'm sorry to say but Americans are too sellfish, or individualists, to be in such a story. IF you want to watch american manners and culture, watch american movies! If you live in Texas, don't compare it to Brazil, don't even try to understand the movie. This movie requires either a very open minded audience; or an audience that understands the brazilian way of life.For example there were comments about the biblical names of the characters. Most brazilians, particularly in the northeast, are very religious and really have biblical names. It's not uncommon for brazilian parents to give all their children biblical names. It was not a Director's idea to give the characters biblical names so they would be easy to follow. It's true! But religion is not the only hope a burgeoning ccountry, as a person from Texas states... This are the preconceived ideas that makes us brazilians mad.Some comments also mention the brazilian society and culture, which, believe me, is portraited VERY realistically by the film, and shows Brazil just the way it is poor, religious, sometimes cruel, but most of the times compassionate and benevolent. This is what makes Brazil such a unique country, according to sociology, and the BEST country, in my opinion although it sometimes is difficult to survive in Brazil, every one can sense the friendliness, always-ready-to-help initiative, and companionship off the brazilian people.The poor life condition of the majority of the brazilians makes them cruel, and sometimes dishonest, but their kind hearted approach to life makes the story of the movie true and realistic to any person that knows how brazilians REALLY are.Believe the film, it's a real portrait! The fact that no police shows in some scenes, when it should, is true! Police in Brazil is really very lame! The fact that a woman would sell a kid is true, it really happens, and it helps to show everybody a really brazilian approach to situations. No matter how tough is the situation, brazilians find a way around. It's the famous jeitinho brasileiro, which has been exhaustingly explained by sociology. The jeitinho is often done in a good way, although the movie gives a mean (but true) example of it.Also don't consider the comment of a Brazilian Artemis, from Belo Horizonte, in this forum, who is ashamed of the real Brazil, and wants to make people believe that Brazil is such a developed country. This person is either very ignorant or very stupid, because the Brazil she describes is only true for a minority of the brazilian people the ones that live in big Cities, like São Paulo and Rio, and that have MONEY.Brazil is a great country, the best, but it's far from developed. Just watch the movie! "},{"Title":"One of the best road movies (could contain spoilers)","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A few months back, I watched Takeshi Kitano's KIKUJIRO. I thought it was sentimental but well-acted, nicely-filmed and original. I may have to take back that last adjective, because Kitano's film has a feeling of a remake of CENTRAL DO BRAZIL. A story of an immoral person gaining a change of character through his/her meeting and subsequent trip with a 9-year-old boy looking for a lost parent.Which brings me to CENTRAL DO BRAZIL. It's the tale of Dora (Fernanda Montenegra), who works in Rio's central station, writing letters for the city's numerous iliterate citizens. She is an immoral, cynical person, who often tears up or discards these letters, including one by a woman writing to her husband on behalf of her young son, Josue (Vincius de Olveira). But when the woman is killed in a car accident and Josue is orphaned, guilt drives Dora to take him under her wing. At first, she tries to sell him, but again her guilt makes her go back to him and she reluctantly agrees to take him up to the North of the country to find his father. She repeatedly tries to lose him but can't bring herself to and the journey becomes one of discovery for both of them Josue of his roots, Dora of her long-dormant ability to love and show compassion. It is also a discovery of the country itself, for us and for the brazilians.Indeed, Brazil is a country undergoing great change, socially, religiously and morally and director Walter Salles turns a critical yet tender eye on the people and ways of this country, which is both beautiful and rotting, corrupt and yet full of goodness. The best evocation of this is Dora herself, but I could also refer to the lorry driver, a kind man, true to God and the principle of good will who nonetheless refuses to allow himself to love or open his heart.The film is also a reflexion on God and religion, rich with symbolism (something not present in KIKUJIRO). The two main characters resemble pilgrims and find spiritual strength in each other. The country itself, in its turmoil, turns to God for help. Help comes for some (Dora and Josue, for example), but whether it's God that gives it is for us to decide. It could be a deity or it could be mankind's own spirit, his inate goodness, often deeply buried under cynicism and anger. Salles gives no answer except this man can do good, even the most apparently heartless, be it thanks to some outside force or to his own nature. I suppose it doesn't matter, provided we yield our jaded attitude in the end. In this way, no matter what, this is an optimistic film, full of hope, despite the bittersweet ending ( that almost had me in tears!).Apart from the fantastic story and interesting philosophical and theological reflexions, this film benefits from great direction. Salles is a master with the camera and CENTRAL DO BRAZIL becomes a tribute to Brazil's receding and tragic beauty. The contrast between the dark, corrupt heart of Rio and the countryside so open, full of hope and dreams that just need working at, is remarkable. Thumbs up for Salles.The film also benefits from great acting, most noticeably from Montenegra and de Olveira. The chemistry between them is incredible. CENTRAL... also boasts a great score, moving and powerful.This is a great movie, cinematic poetry. Between Salles directing, the poignant story, the reflective subjects, the score and the acting, there is so much that makes this the number one film of 1998. Better than SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE by far!Uppers 1)The poignant story; 2)Gives you things to think about; 3)Fantastic acting, especially from the two main stars, OSCAR-deserving stuff!; 4)Fabulous music; 5)Salles' directing masterful, Kubrick-esque, a tribute to Brazil's tragically fading beauty; 6)The last scenes bittersweet emotion; 7)The scenes with the lorry driverDowners none of great importance.I recommend this to anyone with a heart and advise for all those that have lost touch with it. "},{"Title":"A taste of love as it lived here in South-America","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is a Movie filmed by the heart of an authentic South-American person. No handsome people, no fancy clothes, beautiful neighborhoods or fantastic cars. Just ordinary people with Angel's hearts. It's impossible not to love this film, that only can be defined as an experience to see, to hear and to feel.  10/10 "}{"Title":"A wonderful film. A real picture with real people.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful film! You just have to watch the minute or so before the titles appear to know that you're in for a treat a real picture with real people.First it's a story about a woman, Dora, and a nine year old Josue, who is looking for his father. Yes, this is a tear jerker, and in the best sense of that phrase. The development of their relationship, the point of the film, is subtly and beautifully done. The story itself develops and ends with a bit of a surprise.Want to see who should have won the Oscar for best actress? Just watch Dora (Fernanda Montenegro). Do you like odyssey films? What about a trip through Brazil, full of surprises, heartbreak, people, and adventure?Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"A touching story, astonishing images, a little boy and a great dame actor.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is far superior to the other Oscar nominees because it combines all the elements that can turn a movie into a spectacle of art. There you have story, acting, edition, music and most of all, images.  Images make Central Station special.  Images of a country of vast landscapes, magic landscapes, colourful and mysterious. It could only be a cinema film, never a T.V. production. And that's why it's already a classic, because the filming itself - apart from the story - is a tribute to the movies art.  Not to mention the extraordinary performance of Fernanda Montenegro.  In a role that requires a load of humanistic generosity she makes use of her immense talent and dignity to produce moments of strong emotional appeal.  Only the finest artists are able to reach that far.  And few in the planet can do so. It should be an honour for the other young actress nominees to be put together with such an international star. Her nomination has enriched the Oscars' story. "},{"Title":"Fernanda Montenegro Great job!","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Congratulations to Fernanda Montenegro for her wonderful work. Thank you for everyone that made me cry for such a beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Hands down, my favorite film of all time!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station just finished it's stint at the 1999 Nortel Palm Springs International Film Festival, January 7th-18th, just prior to Oscar nominations.Once the word circulated at the festival about Central Station; as it normally does regarding exceptional films, we very nearly witnessed fist fights in ticket lines in an attempt to get into the third and final showing.I was fortunate enough to be in attendance at the very first showing! When I say that Central Station is an absolute masterpiece of human emotion, that is only telling half of my true feelings. It is a cinematic experience that will stay with you forever.After the showing, one of the film's producers was in attendance to offer a question and answer period. My favorite story from that Q&A is as followsThere were approximately 700 young boys being considered at the time for the lead role in Central Station, but none of them really clicked. Director Walter Salles was on his way by air to Sao Paulo. In the airport, a young shoeshine boy walked up to him and asked if he could borrow enough money to buy a sandwich, as he was hungry and not doing well that day shining shoes. Mr. Salles instantly saw something in this one particular young man. And this is the story of how young Vinicius de Oliveira came to play the role as young Josue.Ms. Montenegro is brilliant in her title role. This film is not to be missed!  "},{"Title":"A beautiful, sad movie with real people -- something Hollywood can't do.  See it","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful, sad movie with real people -- something Hollywood can't do. See it "},{"Title":"A tale of twists and turns","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A treacherous woman writes letters for illiterate people for a living and shamelessly throw them off rather than posting them. A son follows her to get the address of his father from one of the million letters she wrote and misplaced or destroyed. The over all film is about changing priorities and relationships.It's a very good film. The best thing about the film is story. It's a very humane film. Character of Dora is just phenomenal. She contradicts her character in each and every scene. I watched this film last year and I remember so many things. I must have seen almost 200 hundred films since then but I still remember a lot. For example the scene where she puts a lipstick on her face to look attractive and get some food, Dora and Josué making money in a village fair, Josué haunting Dora, Josué's brothers, Dora and her friend. There are so many conflicts in the film. Dora's TV, her childless life, Dora's opportunistic behavior, Josue is no innocent character either. The plot is very similar to 'Kolja' but Kolja in my opinion was a boring film but I've heard it really works for the people who understand Russian language. This film was pure fun to watch. It's not a divine revelation but it's quite good. 'Central do Brasil' actually won many awards and beat 'Life is beautiful'. I am not surprised. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A simple and poignant story which refuses to compromise.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station focuses on two very different people, a poorish middle-aged spinster and an orphaned boy, who come together because of circumstance and mutual need. The relationship and journey which ensues is the substance of this simple film. The story is told with harsh reality and an uncompromising honesty which serves to make the bad times bitter and the touching moments sweeter. An earnest effort which breaks all of Hollywood's rules of commercialism and will find it's market among cinema purists. "},{"Title":"THE SEARCHERS Brazilian-style (possible spoiler).","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On one level, CENTRAL STATION seems formidably local.  The film has been called an allegory for Brazil an its contemporary problems.  While a national director has no obligation to 'explain' his country to the uninitiated, some of Salles' references can be opaque to the outsider.  The Central Station itself seems to represent a confluence of all the ghastly failures of modern Brazil from which our heros escape to find a kind of order.  Untranslated slogans permeate the film, placenames seem to be weightily resonant, characters and situations seem to belong more particularly to this culture.And yet the film has been acclaimed worldwide.  This is presumably because it uses that age-old universal structure - the quest.  The film actually conflates two in its storyline - the search of a young boy for his father (and hence, I presume, his place in society, masculinity, Brazilian heritage etc.), and an old woman's regaining her identity and humanity.When we first see Dora, she is a maliciously detached, cold, godlike figure, a letter-writer in a shockingly illiterate Brazil, mocking and abusing the unfortunates who put their trust in her.  At one point she sells the recently bereaved boy to buy a new TV.  Her tragedy is her frigid solipsism, and the film traces her emotional thawing, her move from an imperious, sterile, changeless present, to her recognition of her place in history (her reciting family memories), and her own identity as a woman who belongs to a community of others, accountable to others (see the many mirror scenes; her putting on lipstick to reclaim her feminity).  By the end she realises that letters and writing are not irrelevancies, but possessed of a fetishistic power, representing real people and hope.Her quest is heavily linked with religious imagery - she and the boy evoke the Madonna and child; the pair's bleakest moment is played out against a religious rally straight out of the Dark Ages. The very real power of this nocturnal scene, though, is revealed to be Elvis-like kitsch by daylight.The boy's quest, beginning like a Roald Dahl story with the almost whimsical death of a mother, is framed as a road-movie, heavily quoting those classics of the genre - THE SEARCHERS and PARIS, TEXAS.  His journey is an attempt to impose order on the chaos represented by Central Station, but life is less malleable than this.  Those films' conclusions are here reversed the missing relative isn't found, but the hero does find a family.  Indeed, his father takes on the quality of a benevolent Godot-like figure.The film is saved from maudlin sentimentality (an unforgivably lush score softens any of the horrors the film hints at) by a refusal to simplify or seek easy closure; by a very ambiguous, problematic and arguably misogynistic ending; and by the remarkably tough perfomance of Fernanda Montenegro.  CENTRAL STATION is, however, too derivative and conservative to be considered a success. "},{"Title":"An inconsistent film with a flawed premise","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Known in English as Central Station, this is an inconsistent film with a flawed premise. This is the first film in many a year that I watched because I had to rather than because I wanted to as it was assigned viewing for a Law and Film group of which I am a member. It is not the kind of film that I would ordinarily choose to watch as it is rather depressing in spite of its would-be moving moments. The script by Walter Salles can never seem to decide on a tone and, at the end of the day, I didn't care what happened to the characters, which is never a good sign. On the bright side, the film looks great and it was interesting to watch my first film in Portugeuse - and only my second entirely in a language other than English or German - but I wish that my introduction to Brazilian cinema had been more successful.Fernanda Montenegro is very good in the Oscar nominated role of Isadora Dora Teixeira and it is a shame that the film could not have been on the same level as her performance. A cynical, bitter retired teacher, she writes letters for illiterate people at the major Rio de Janiero train station Central do Brasil. Half the time, she does not even send the letters, either tearing them up or sticking them in a door which her friend Irene compares to Purgatory. After one of her customers, a woman named Ana Fontenele, is knocked down by a bus, she takes in her son Josué Fontenele de Paiva but it is not out of the goodness of her heart. She sells him to child traffickers for $1,000, which she then uses to buy a new TV. Dora is an intelligent, well-educated, perceptive woman so I find it very hard to believe that it had never occurred to her that he would be killed and his organs would be sold until Irene points it out to her. She then experiences a crisis of conscience and steals him away from the dreadful place where she sent him in the first place. The film is concerned with her supposed redemption but it did not work for me because I don't think that she could be redeemed after that.In order for me to find a character interesting, they have to be either sympathetic or compelling and, unfortunately, Dora was neither one. I don't have a problem with characters doing terrible things if the storyline is gripping or, far less often, if it is able to redeem them. For instance, I was fascinated by Judah Rosenthal's existential moral crisis after he became heavily involved in a murder in Crimes and Misdemeanors, which I watched only last week, and Michael Corleone's gradual descent into darkness in the first two Godfather films is a beautifully told, engrossing story. The problem with this film is that I don't think anything that Dora did or perhaps even could go any way towards redeeming her. She clearly regretted it, which is something, but I think that committing the act was unforgivable and there is no way back from that. I had much the same problem with The Godfather Part III actually but that was far from its only flaw.Because of this, I did not find Dora's bond with Josué - who is played by the rather bad child actor Vinícius de Oliveira - very sweet or believable as I was presumably supposed to. Frankly, I could not get the child trafficking thing out of my head for a single second during the film. She warms to him and does admittedly become a better person as the film progresses but it can't erase what happened earlier. She embarks on a trip across Brazil with Josué, albeit trying to abandon him several times along the way, so that he can find his father Jesus, a shiftless drunk who beat his mother while she was pregnant with him. Is this really all the poor child has going for him? He eventually finds his half-brothers, who are nice enough, but it is heavily implied that his father will never return in spite of a letter to the contrary. This is for the best as Josué might be able to actually experience real happiness, something which I certainly didn't while watching this film. Besides Montenagro, Marília Pêra, who sadly died in December, as Irene is the only actor who particularly stood out. Overall, the film hinges on being able to forgive Dora, which is a flawed premise in my view, so it did not do much for me, I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Brazilian Cinema Circa 1998","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An emotive journey of a former school teacher, who writes letters for illiterate people, and a young boy, whose mother has just died, as they search for the father he never knew.Critically, this film did really well, winning the Golden Globe for best foreign film and getting Oscar-nominated not just for a foreign film, but best actress as well. Sure, it did not win either Oscar, but that is still an impressive feat.According to Richard Schickel, the film is an odyssey of simple problems, simple emotional discoveries, a relationship full of knots that Salles permits to unwind in an unforced, unsentimental fashion. His imagery, like his storytelling, is clear, often unaffectedly lovely, and quietly, powerfully haunting. Beautifully said, Richard. That is ultimately what makes great cinema an odyssey of simple problems.Director Walter Selles went on to make Dark Water, The Motorcycle Diaries and On the Road. "}{"Title":"Made me change some of my concepts.","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I approached this film thinking it would put me to sleep within 30 minutes or less. I already had U571 in the back burner, just in case. I expected Central Station to be too touchy-feely. Either that or too graphically realistic about things I already hear and see everyday here in Rio. Normally I get my entertainment from Hollywood blockbusters like Avengers - which takes me far away from reality - or comedies like A Million Ways to Die in the West, so I really went against my cinematic instincts on this one. I was pleasantly surprised to be proved wrong and prejudiced about Central do Brasil (Central Station). The film kept me very riveted to my couch, eyes wide open, wanting to see what was going to happen at every turn. The narrative begins with some very impacting scenes and situations and then turns into a heartwarming, involving and captivating story. You really get in touch with the characters and their afflictions. Great movie. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming and heart-breaking. Tremendous performance from its leading lady.","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had been familiar with director Walter Salles from a long forgotten affection his 2004 travelogue The Motorcycle Diaries, a film I adored the first time but have not felt myself drawn to since. However, i still remember it fondly, and the differences between its contemporary rugged style and the vintage and cinematic Central Station are striking. Albeit, there is still a journey involved, an emotionally and physically exhausting journey, this is just through a different lens. The centrepiece of Central Station is the remarkable performance from veteran Brazilian actress Fernanda Montenegro. She's compassionate yet judgmental, kind-hearted yet mean-spirited. It's a delicately dimensional character haunted by the demons of her early life bolstered by a forceful performance that surely deserved more attention than it did in 1998.Her support isn't quite as strong however, but her bonds with them certainly are. While the wayward route is probably the best choice to portray the small boy that she takes on to return to his father, he is inherently irritating for his rowdy behaviour. This makes her plight all the more sympathetic as we questions whether the sacrifices she made for such an agitator outweigh the good deed. It's got interesting themes on family, regarding roles and structures. It's wonderful to see a small accidental family form as they meet a generous man who helps them for a small portion of the way, but of whom swiftly abandons them without reason. It illustrates how painfully fleeting these relationships can be. It does feel distinctly anti-male due to these representations, but it is the point the film is trying to make about the emotional poverty it causes.The film is full of atmosphere with sweeping cinematography capturing the heat of Brazil and the density of its population while they weave in and out of frame. Even with the company, it's hard not to feel alone. However, some scenes do feel a little forced in the direction, breaking the spell of reality that some human moments have, such as overblown conflict between the two characters before their eventual kinship. It makes storytelling sense for them to go through it and the film is richly written in that regard, but it could've been handled better. It also suffers from a trite motif in the score that tries too hard to jerk tears but it's easily ignorable. Central Station is a heart warming and heart breaking film that's among the best Brazil has to offer, especially in its leading lady.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great performance","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dora (Fernanda Montenegro) is a petty deceitful selfish old woman who writes letters for illiterate people at the central station in Rio de Janeiro. Josué's mother asks to write a letter trashing the father as she demands he sees his son. She is killed by a bus and Dora is left with the young Josué. She sells him to some child traffickers, but she has second thoughts. She rescues him and takes him on a road trip to see his father.Dora is not a saint and the movie is better for it. She is bitter and struggles with her moral compass. The kid sees this and resists her at first. This is no light comedy, but the growth in their relationship is what's so great about this movie. Fernanda's performance is second to none. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sometimes, a film doesn't have to do very much to be special. From the surface, this is just a basic road movie of a lonely woman escorting a young boy who's just lost his mother in a car accident, to his dad's house across Brazil. She takes pity on him after he is forced out onto the street, and despite initial distrust between both parties (with good reason... she nearly sells him to organ farmers) they forge a grudging alliance which increases the closer they reach their destination. These are not perfect people... they lie and steal with abandon, and little remorse. But that is what makes them so relatable, and even the smallest role is filled by someone who has noticeable quirks. In other words, don't expect any cardboard cut-out characters here.It's also a great travelogue for Brazil, as we get to see all the beauty and ugliness that makes the country one of the most cosmopolitan around. It makes a nice change for a film to be shot there, without one scene set on a sun-kissed beach. With the twin events of The World Cup and The Olympics on the horizon though, it'll be interesting to see if most of the poverty and crime present here has been eradicated over 16 years. My guess is no. Tourists, hang onto your cameras. Back to the present... this is a wonderful film, full of depth and insight, which will resonate long after its over. Odds-on for a placing in my top 10 of the year come December 31st. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Something to make Brazilians proud","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Central do Brasil' is exemplary when it comes to simple film-making. It doesn't try to be something it isn't, always remaining pure on its simplicity. It follows a less is more philosophy, which means that the simplest things can be good.This Brazilian piece of cinema is almost a road movie, although it does a good job in two different things taking us to the streets of Brazil and to places outside of the town. I'm not Brazilian, but I'm sure this movie makes Brazilians proud... provided they like it, of course.This motion-picture tells the story of Dora (a grumpy and apathic middle-aged/old woman), an ex-school teacher who writes letters for illiterate costumers as a job and Josué, a poor boy who just lost his mother tragically and son of a father he never met. This lady and this boy, so different in personalities and ages, have a troubled relationship at first and during much of the movie. They have a really hard time to get along. But later they do and well. And yet, just when things are getting fine for them, circumstances force them to separate from each other, although they find ways to remember each other. In real life, the boy developed a great friendship with Fernanda Montenegro and to this day they're still close and in touch.Fernanda Montenegro and Vinícius de Oliveira do their roles well. "},{"Title":"Beautiful & symbolic","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Walter Salles reveals a dramatic and sentimental journey with Central do Brasil, sure to capture the attention and sympathy of any fortunate viewer. The film tells the story of two characters, Dora, a retired schoolteacher who writes letters for the illiterate public in the train station, and Josué, a young boy in search of his estranged father. When their paths cross following the accidental death of Josué's mother, they are forced to form an unlikely bond as they travel across Brasil in search of Josué's father. The cinematography is breathtaking, revealing the true beauty and wonder that resides within the Brazilian borders. Likewise, I believe the relationship that develops between Dora and Josué to be just as beautiful, portraying two people who want nothing to do with one another, yet, who need each other in order to discover the truths of life's journey. Moreover, the various people and situations they encounter on their search for Jesús, Josué's father, add a rich eclecticism to the film. There is a deep symbolism present as well, which upon recognition causes the viewer to truly ponder its implications. However, even without the realization of deep allegory, I still believe this film can be considered a gem among others. "},{"Title":"Central Station","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central Station's story is about as original as the story of Adam & Eve, so it's to it's credit that it manages to draw you in and keep you absorbed while avoiding the stereotypical and/or sentimental pitfalls that so often diminish the road/quest movie.Fernanda Montenegro plays Dora, a jaundiced ex-teacher who writes letters on behalf of the poor and illiterate at Rio's Central Station, but rarely posts them as promised. One of her clients is the young mother of a nine-year-old boy who wants to introduce her son to his absent father. When the mother is run down by a coach outside the station, Dora 'adopts' the boy, initially to sell him to an adoption/organ-selling ring, but ultimately to help him find his father.The central theme of the story, as with most road movies, is the transformation of those undertaking the journey in question. While Dora's trek with feisty young Josue (an engaging Vinicius de Oliveira) is plagued with setbacks and disappointments (not least of which is a sad, almost pathetic, encounter with a truck driver that is acutely observed), the unlikely couple's adventures work to restore her faith in herself and others.This being a Brazilian movie, religion plays a major part in the film. Its early scenes, in which the letters dictated to Dora are all selfish or reproachful, emphasise the stimuli that have jaundiced her world-view. As she and Josue embark on their journey, the religious signposts become increasingly prominent, as if the pair themselves are on a pilgrimage (which, of a sort, they are) until the turning point in their relationship comes during a fraught religious festival. Penniless and hungry, Dora writes upbeat letters for people at the festival (aided by Josue who summons them to her desk) to raise some money and literally becomes a conduit to God, thus nearly completing both her spiritual and physical odyssey.The film ends on a warm note, with the final letter one of tenderness and generosity of spirit, but is mature enough to understand that no real-life transformation is complete Dora may have reclaimed her humanity, but she still retains her human character, flaws and all.Apart from one short period that drags a little, the film tells its story at a pace that, while leisurely, is exactly right. "},{"Title":"A trip  to yourself","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Life, hope and love in a subtle mixture. A child and a woman. The death of a mother in a train station and a long, strange and deep trip for search of a father. Silence, fear, hungry and looks. Some words and a duty who transforms the soul of a old teacher.Brasil as the skin of ordinary dream. The trust and the sense of hours on the ways of a delicate mission. Faces, gestures, food and desire to be yourself. Catharsis or destiny. The nuances are the same. But the touch is different. One of the great interpretations of Fernanda Montenegro. Few shadows of telenovelas and a ethic lesson about the small pieces of an existence. A powerful story. And a beautiful pledge for the lost causes. "},{"Title":"heartfelt without being watered down","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An excellent movie, especially considering the story line of the movie... not original in the least but the path they chose for this movie was perfect. Character depth and story progression were well balanced. A very well made film... I recommend this movie to anyone with time to see it. Many films featuring a child in distress fall into a pit of sappy mush and the end result is a movie whose characters are one-dimensional and flat and a story that fails to truly progress. Central do Brasil is everything but. Vinicius, the boy who plays Josue, is a natural talent and is completely believable because he basically lived the part. All the actors are extremely talented and Brazilian backdrop is beautiful. It really is a wonderful movie! "},{"Title":"A travel to the center of our souls","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Central Station' is one of the best Brazilian films ever made. Its touching story about an orphan in search of his family and an old, cynical lady in search of a reason to live may sound corny, sentimental, but Brazilian director Walter Salles is a master in his job of balancing pure emotions and story telling. Screenplay by João Emanuel Carneiro and Marcos Bernstein is superb. Bernstein, by the way, is an excellent director himself, which debut film, Do Outro Lado da Rua, brings back to the movies the fabulous Fernanda Montenegro, the first Brazilian actress nominated for an Oscar (Central do Brasil/Central Station in 1999). "}{"Title":"Nice Brazilian road movie","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Okay, here we go. This movie is made in Brazil. It has a good story which might qualify it as a road movie mingled with drama elements. The main theme is young Josué's quest for his father he has never known, propelled by the most natural of all desires - the yearning for a family and the affection of loved ones. His only help is Dora, a dour and thoroughly disillusioned old woman, who doesn't really like Josué's presence. Somehow - though very slowly - she discovers a growing bond between herself and the lonely boy, as they continue their journey through the Brazilian countryside. The movie is simple and lacks any special effects. Rather it provides an insight into the daily hardships and burdens of ordinary Brazilians. It is the story of two outcast characters developing friendship and dear commitment to each other's wellbeing while allowing us a glance at socio-cultural circumstances and contemporary struggles of simple people. I personally liked the simple storyline which still provided so much if you were able to value the little background hints and entanglements. The acting was solid throughout the entire plot. "},{"Title":"not much fun to watch but a good film","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is this film fun to watch? Generally NO. BUT, I still appreciated the fine acting and the film's refusal to give into cheap sentimentality. The main character is a realistic portrait of a woman with a heart of aluminum at best (certainly not GOLD). She is generally uncaring a self-serving but over time she grows a little--if you expect much, then boy are you in for a disappointment. And, considering how this violates the clichés associated with this type of film, I was thrilled. In many ways this film was a Brazilian version of the Japanese film Kikujirô no natsu (or vice-versa) in that both main characters are terribly flawed and try to help a lost child. FYI--Central Station appeared a year before Kitano's film, Kikujirô no natsu. "},{"Title":"The greatest Brazilian film!!!","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central Station... A film so unique than powerful. The Brazilian cinema never produced something so beautiful and impressive. A gorgeous history that portraies the hard life of simple and diligent people, that show a sad reality, but that it also discloses the great capacity to love of the Brazilian people. Central Station is a intimist film that in its dense and full atmosphere of the most human feelings involves us, of the beginning to the end, and in which many of us identify with Dora and Joshua. Unhappyly, the Academy of Motion Picture and Arts of U.S.A. unjustly denied its recognition to the Central Station. However, the world-wide cinematography certainly must be felt honored with so great artistic and cultural monument, where the art is express in its more pungent and honest form. Central Station a film to be in the history of the cinema and all the hearts. "},{"Title":"A Triumph of Humanity Could contain spoilers.","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Cenreral Station is a film about a journey through Brazil, which ultimately becomes a metaphor for a journey through life, and in particular the lives of the two main characters whose circumstances mean that their path - or in this case road - through life collide.Dora, the lead character, who is played superbly by Montenegro finds a new beginning in the twilight of her life, giving new hope to her. In this respect the film is inspirational.For her to come to this Renaissance of life Dora has had to learn how to survive by immoral methods - charging illiterate people money to write letters for them, which she never sends. However this does not make Dora innately immoral. She has become immoral because she is an older single woman, without children - thereby going against the grain of acceptable social norms - who needs to exist in a patriarchal world, in a relatively poor country. This has made Dora bitter, and subsequently hard in her emotions.But underneath all her hardness, Dora exudes humanity, which is an innate trait in her which surfaces, and ultimately triumphs. This here is the moral lesson of the film, which Director Sallis manages to illustrate very well. This shows the talent of a director who deserves to be very proud of this film.Plaudits for all involved in Central Station! "},{"Title":"This film restores one's hope for a better tomorrow","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This quiet little film, with it's sincere, poetic magic, tells the heartbreaking story of its main characters with a glimpse of hope at the end, suggesting a better tomorrow.The main characters are a 60-ish woman, Dora, and a suddenly orphaned 9-year old boy, Jesuel. Initially Dora sells the child to acquaintances who promise to facilitate an adoption. Dora later snatches the boy back, risking her own safety for crossing a gang of criminals.The pair are searching for Jesuel's father. Dora is in and out of her motherly instincts mood, at times even shouting terrible things at the boy, which she immediately regrets. Without revealing the details of the ending, look for one very magical moment towards the end involving pictures with the saint.One last comment It appears that Brazil has a very low literacy rate. Dora made a living writing down people's dictation, as well as reading letters to them. It is inconceivable to have a letter writing shop at a train station in the US. -- Another problem hinted on in this film is the plight of hundreds of thousands of street children, either orphaned or simply impoverished. One scene shows how a shop lifter is chased down and mercilessly shot. Apparently such swift justice would not be challenged by the authorities. -- Gaining status in the world community, Brazil still tackles major social issues and imbalances. Central Station and its successful screening all over the world, has given Brazil yet another voice with which to reach the world. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, poignant, well-acted...","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central Station is a brilliant modern film... well acted, well written, well directed. I just watched this movie recently and several aspects of the film that struck me... I was so moved by the young actor's performance in this movie. He was absolutely adorable! I would love to see him in more recent productions. The director was brilliant in capturing the beauty of the Brazilian countryside. Although I do not speak Portuguese, I am fluent in Spanish and was able to understand much of the movie without the English subtitles. If there's one thing I can't stand, it's a predictable movie. This was anything BUT predictable. It seemed as though NOTHING occurred as I would have written it (or as I would have wanted it to). For example, when the trucker leaves Dora in the restaurant... Where did THAT come from? That and other parts came as surprises, which ultimately kept me very enticed until the very end of the film. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This little gem!  I keep looking for a review that caught on to how deeply resonant and symbolic this film is.  They all seem to only see it as a story about a woman who helps a little boy find his father.  None seem to have recognized how it is the story of us ALL!Ave, Maria... "},{"Title":"An amazing movie ...","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... there is not much to say.  Go see it if you haven't.  I don't cry at movies ... this movie just blew me away.  Also great to see the Brasilian countryside ... refreshing break from everything else we know of the country. "},{"Title":"Where people come and go and hopes live on","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a beautiful movie of trust and innocence.  The characters were not exactly friends in the beginning, and never really amounted to that, but they did develop a respect of each other through their journey.Dora's more or less a spinster, a former teacher who never found the man of her dreams and neither is her best friend, also a former teacher.  Together they live in the same housing section and laugh at the people whom trust Dora to write and send their letters.  Education is their talent, but not integrity.When Josue's mother dies in a horrific accident (which he witnesses) he has no one except his father to turn to, but Dora was mailing the letter.  Dora, feeling sorry for the boy, takes him and and her journey for love and acceptance begin.  She learns that her greed could cost the life of young little Josue and rescues him.  Then, they start on the journey to return Josue to his father.  Her lack of experience with men gets them abandoned in a little town.  She is a drunkard just like Jesus, Josue's father.  Josue learns to accept Dora as she is, without a painted face and lonely.  Dora accepts Josue as a nice boy and one with many dreams and hopes. They get to Jesus' town, and find revelations aplenty.  He has left town and disappeared.  Unusual circumstances bring about Josue and Dora offering her services as a writer to make some money.  The next revelation is that Josue has step-brothers and they too are wondering about their father.  Jesus left a letter for Ana, Josue's mother, which arrived six months before Dora and Josue, and Dora reads it to them.  The father will return!!Dora realises now that Josue has a family and doesn't need her anymore and must make the decision to stay or go.  Josue wants her to stay with them and the step-brothers like her too.  Will Dora stay and become part of the family, or return to her life as a spinster with her friend, Irene?   "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you ever need a movie to prove that a movie doesn't take a blond bombshell and a leading man that needs $10m to make it worthwhile then here it is.Magnificent photography, a storyline that is SO based in a world of reality, and performances from the main two protaganists that are just WONDERFUL.HOLA! "}{"Title":"A great film","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is definitely a great film on many levels. How Fernanda Montenegro was not bestowed with an Oscar is one of the great travesties of the Oscars which has numbered many. In Zukavian terms this is the evolution of two souls who intersect on he path of life and gravitate to a higher evolution of awareness as we all should. And the people who asked for their letters to be written were delightful because the were real and sincere. Definitely a movie worth owning. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Central Station' is a beautiful movie made with sensibility and a touching feeling of love, courage and adventure. Highly recommended for the whole family, who will surely enjoy the interesting way this story is shown. It's not a slow boring movie or a fast action movie, but a film that follows the natural rhythm of life. Not to be missed!Fernanda Montenegro, one of the best Brazilian TV and theatre actress (who got the Academy nomination for this role &#150; plays a woman who writes letters in the name of illiterate people. Her boring life goes on until the day she sees a woman die after being hit by a bus. The `letter writer' decides to help the dead woman's son to find his father, who lives far away in a small city. The woman and the boy so go on a tiring journey towards northeastern Brazil. Very beautiful scenery.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is amazing.  The astonishing cinematics, the Brazilian scenery, the superb acting, the enchanting music all combine make this one of the best movies ever made.  The duo's chemistry is unique, and even if the plot has had holes worn in it, the great acting in this movie makes up for it.Some movies, in my opinion, should be shown to everyone in the entire earth. Why?  Because some movies are able to make us stop. Think. Re-evaluate our lives and become better people.  If only some American-made movies were this good.Any supposed plot holes that people have supposedly found, aren't really true, it's just that some people didn't really understand what was happening.  Case in point...The reason Dora decided to help the boy was because she had just seen a street kid get shot.  She didn't want Josue to grow up on the street, and perhaps, meet the same ending.  And since she was running from the kidnappers, it would have been wise for her to go on a journey through the unknown coutry-side.This movie is unforgettable, and a must-see.  "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was very funny and kind of touching.  It never gets depressing, although it frequently threatens to.  I could not guess the plot at all, and it actually becomes coherent at the end. An evil woman becomes a semi-decent person while helping a boy, whose mother has just died, search for his father in Brazil.Watch it if you liked the Shadowlands or the Sixth Sense or even Life is Beautiful. "},{"Title":"Simple, compelling","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be very authentic. The cinematic elements are there, but they don't distract from the core of the film -- the characters' development. Dora and Josue are completely believable in their roles. I frequently return to watch this movie because it reminds me of the simple, beautiful bits of life that make all the rest of it worthwhile.The difficulty of life in Brasil accentuates how hard it is for Dora to turn from her selfishness to help Josue. On our journey with Josue and Dora across Brazil, we encounter a wide spectrum of Brazilian society and see the variety of reactions to the fome that's such a Brazilian reality. The glimpses that we get of real Brazilian people through Dora's letter writing scenes are some of the most memorable moments in the film.It you're ever in need of a goodness recharge, watch this film again. "},{"Title":"The Most Moving Film of 1998","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central Station was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign-Language film of 1998 and was my personal favourite film of that season. The young actor was a shoe-shine boy in an airport where he was discovered by the director (Walter Salles) after a long and, until then, futile search for just the right boy. At the Toronto International Film Festival I rated it 8 and, after a second viewing, I rerated it 10; it grew on me.A boy named Josué (Vicinius di Oliveira), whose mother has just been killed, adopts a retired teacher, Dora (Fernanda Montenegro), to help him find the father he has never seen. Dora tries to avoid this but he persists and she reluctantly gives in. She wavers among selling the boy for adoption, keeping him herself, getting him to the father, who is a drunkard.Their personal growth is beautiful; the music is wonderful and the cinematography is beautiful. Watching the relationship grow between them is spellbinding; their personal growth is inspiring. "},{"Title":"One of the best foreign films I ve seen","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central station is probably one of the best foreign films I ve ever seen. Fernando Montenegro gives a splendid performance. Watching her on screen you can actually feel what she is going through. Furthermore the movie is shot in the divine country sides of Brasil and the director capitalizes on the refreshing locations. The soundtrack which for me is as essential as the acting, is soft and touches the heart.Even if you aren't a big fan of foreign films  you should watch central station- you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is really unique and I love it. I sincerely believe that it deserves all the awards and all the respect by the viewers and the critics. It's a jewel of cinema. Don't miss it. You will love it, too. "},{"Title":"A moving picture of two individuals.","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central do Brasil is a must-see film! Surely I can try to describe the brilliant acting performances by Dora and Josue, or the central station of Rio de Janeiro, or the beautiful landscapes and characteristical surroundings, or....! That is just not possible, it would be injust. There are hardly words to describe this cinematic jewel! Therefore I really can't understand the fact that Central do Brasil 'was beaten' by La vita e bella, also a very nice movie, but still....! Central do Brasil shows us a real Brazil, not the Brazil always shown in the media, in a negative way. It's about real people and real issues of life (life and death).About emotions why doesn't Dora send the letters and why will she help Josue? The only advice I can give you is you have to see it for yourself! If you really want to know more about one of the greatest countries in the world, rent this movie or see it in a theatre near you! By the way, did you know that Vinicius (Josue) really was a homeless boy, before the film? The director met him and thought of him to be in his next movie!And as you will see, he is a natural talent. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie expecting a cute story about a middle-aged spinster and the young orphan who magically changes her life.  Boy, was I in for a surprise.  Central Station is one of the most beautiful and affecting movies I have ever seen, in its own subtle way as powerful as anything that has come out in decades. Part religious allegory, part character study, altogether brilliant from start to finish, this is a movie you absolutely have to see.  The final few seconds, where Fernanda Montenegro's Dora confesses her feelings of loss and anguish, are an acting triumph, her face expressing more in that short time than many actors do in an entire career.  Made with brilliant direction, gorgeous scenery, and a stirring musical score, Central Station is one of the great films of all time.   "}{"Title":"The best ever from Brazil","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Walter Sales has managed how to show an unknown Brazil to the whole world in a very emotive story. Academy Nominee and winner of the Golden Bear in Berlin Fernanda Montenegro is absolutely tremendous, as usual. Too bad that very few people from outside Brazil know her. "},{"Title":"If you see only one foreign film...","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If I could get every American to see just one foreign film that never went mainstream, Central Station (Central do Brasil) would be it. The story of two unlikely companions who, through a twist of fate are driven together and despite their mutual mistrust eventually become friends. This film is remarkable. With wonderful writing and astounding cinematography, combined with the stellar and empassioned performance by Fernanda Montenegro everyone should see this movie. One of my Top 20 films.  "},{"Title":"This is an amazing film","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't imagine a better film I've seen that revolves around a child.  This film from Brasil is simply amazing.  It avoids cheap tricks to evoke emotion, and earns every sentimental feeling it wrings out of the viewers. If only all films could be this well written, acted and directed. "},{"Title":"Can't summarize it one line","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A wonderful movie, I first saw it on a flight back from Brazil, but got sick (not due to the movie), and couldn't continue watching the movie. So I watched it again a few weeks after I landed and it was magnificent. The young boy gave such a wonderful performance, as did Fernanda Montenegro (who, together with Cate Blanchett, deserved the Oscar). This is a touching story about the relationship of a young orphaned boy and a poor letter writer, who together go on a journey to find the boy's long lost father. On the way they encounter interesting people and experience unforgettable experiences. Through out the movie we see superb acting and beautiful views of Brazil. Don't be lazy to read the subtitles, it's worth it.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful film, with another child stealing the limelight","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is an enchanting film that should be watched by anyone that wants there emotions touched and there appreciation of the bigger world enhanced. I'm a great believer in people watching a film without knowing too much about it, so I would just say I watched this film in a double bill with 'Life is Beautiful' and I thought both were fantastic.8/10 "},{"Title":"Subtext of old vs new testament ethos.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station has been rightly appreciated for its human drama of transformation in a harsh world.  But like the classic Black Orpheus, it also plays at a deeper mythic level.  The father of the three brothers (Joshua, Moses, and Isaiah) is a carpenter named Jesus.  He has disappeared in the wilderness and may or may not come back.  Throughout the film are images of Christianity, mostly of poor, desperate people seeking help and solace from their religion.  But it often seems that the line between religion and hucksterism is thin.  In a pivotal scene Dora wanders into a claustrophobic house of shrines and candles where she is overcome by hunger and fatigue.  Neither the shrines nor the seemingly drugged pilgrims help her.  But the boy Joshua cradles her in his arms.  (Joshua, of course, was the one who led the Israelites into the Promised Land to which Moses had brought them.)  "},{"Title":"Epic journey","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Few movies have created the sense of real happening, in Epic proportions, as well as Central Station. But the interesting thing to me has been, in discussing the movie with friends, how many think it is a movie about the boy. Perhaps it is because they can better identify with the boy, than a post middle aged dishonest translator, since few professions like that exist in the US. But this is an Epic, in the classic sense, for the woman, not the boy. From the vast sprawling Metropolis of Rio, to the sprawling emptiness of the Sertao, she matures from the shriveled soul cheating people of their sent messages to a magnanimous matron who shows real agapai for the boy. Few stories have been so well told and shown such great character development. "},{"Title":"deeply moving","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is after American Beauty the outstanding film of the nineties.The story is moving, and it is told in a interesting and highly sophisticated way, especially the scenes in the trains and at the pilgrimage in the North.Nevertheless two reasons prevented me from giving a tenAt the end the story endulges into religious kitsch too much.Moreover the film shows the deep influence of Ozu's Nagaya Shinshiroku. Ozu's use o aesthetic tools, however, is more rigid and off course his film is more original, therefore I had to make a little difference. "},{"Title":"This Movie Makes Me Love Brazil Even More ! (+","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the first Brazilian movie I can remember seeing and I thoroughly enjoyed watching it. I was very impressed with Vinícius de Oliveira's performance. From what I read, he was an actual shoe shine boy found by the director. The director wanted him to play the part of Josue after looking at thousands of actors and decided he wanted it to be real. He couldn't have made a better choice in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Second chances","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a film about life. About confronting childhood memories. Brilliantly photographed, excellent acting by the two leads and great chemistry between them. William Wordsworth said that 'child is the father of man'. A little boy literally drops from the sky into a retired teacher's life and ends up teaching her  about herself. She writes letters at Central Station to 'make ends meet'. Never really letting those letter get to her. Many a times she does not even mail them, because she thinks she knows that 'the reality' is simply harsh and painful. But the boy changes everything. A wonderfully sweet film.  "}{"Title":"One of the best films I've seen in 1999","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After not being much impressed with the trash that is showing at the common denominator multiplexes this year, I am glad that my eye caught this video slick when I was in the store looking for another video, in fact. I was pleasantly surprised by this film, which is beautiful in it's scenery and cinematography, and is held together by the superb acting duo of Dora and Josue.IMHO, Montenegro deserved an Oscar for her portrayal of Dora. The audience is shown the dark side of her character at the outset, but she undergoes many changes through the course of the film which are well expressed by Montenegro.Oliveira is delightful as the young boy seeking out his father, and works well with Montenegro to keep the audience interested in his quest.The scenery in the film is beautiful and the cinematography is slick and clever. The film is held together well by a good score.I have also seen Life is Beautiful, and I would definitely rate this movie higher than that. I give it *** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"foreshortening of Brazil, with strong feelings & great music","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a great movie in which the director has been able to show the reality of a country that is a symbol of social contrasts, strong religious feelings, humanities and poverty. It's a story that deeply touches the heart and arouses the desire to travel and see such reality. The music is fantastic and gives a great contribute to the atmosphere. The photography is original and there is a good mix of irony and happiness, together with the severity of the everyday life drama that people there constantly live. Must see!! "},{"Title":"Magnificent and wrenching to watch","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has ensured that I will NEVER travel to Brazil, but it is surely one of the most wrenching and wonderful films I have ever seen.  It is a film of universal appeal, about a cynical woman who begins to see life through new eyes by helping a child find his way across Brazil to find his father.  The performances of the main two characters make this film a must see.  It was criminal that the main actress did not win the Best Actress Oscar of 1998.  She ABSOLUTELY deserved it. "},{"Title":"Touching!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful film which shows us the harsh life in Rio de Janeiro if you are unlucky, and a teacher teach how to love. A young boy loose his mother in an accident. A retired teacher who writes letters for people, feel sorry for the boy and start helping him finding his lost father.   Grow to love both the boy and Dora(The teacher). Bring tissues! "},{"Title":"Jesus Found.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a great movie.  The Cinematography alone makes it worth watching.The pair go looking for a drunken Jesus.  Grace comes in the form of swearing at times obnoxious child.  Redemption is possible. You never know what form the Holy Spirit will take. "},{"Title":"touching movie","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best pictures of the year, the actress deserved the Oscar. The movie teach us that we can change, no matter if we are old and mad, we always have a chance. The chance for her was meet that boy. Excellent "},{"Title":"A visual and mental feast","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful movie!! Like so many foreign language films, the plot line takes second billing to the marvelous acting and, in this case, to the stunning photography. But the plot is strong enough to carry the story along and get and keep you interested. We quickly grow to like and be concerned about the two lead characters, and I loved the way their relationship developed without the sugary sweetness too common in American films.For me, an especially great part of the film was the photography of Brazil -- the beautiful colors and images made a tremendous impression on me. (Personal aside -- I'm redecorating my house at the moment and I kept pausing the film to announce that's the color I want the walls to be!)One other thing I love about this film is that it is so typically un-American. Here, we would have cast Sharon Stone or some other gorgeous woman to play the lead. Only in foreign films do they dare casting people (particularly women) who look REAL! "},{"Title":"Emotionally Constipated","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In order to review this movie and explain what I didn't like about it, I had to reveal some plot elements that might spoil it for those who have not seen it (including the ending). So, please read ahead only if you want to.Central Station / Central do Brasil is a film about a boy whose mother is hit and killed by a bus and he has nowhere to go but to a dishonest elderly woman who earns a living by writing letters for illiterate people. She doesn't actually send the letters, though. The reason for this is not entirely explained although we are given her reasons from a few cases.If you are a realist movie-goer you won't like the beginning of the film. You would expect that, after the boy's mother is killed, the police would show up who would locate the boy's relatives and place him at a home. We never see any police, not even an ambulance arrive on the scene. A little later, someone steals some food and runs off. He is chased by a man who shoots him. Again, where are the police? There are not even any security guards at the station as you would expect.The film kind of gets going after this. After almost selling the boy (possibly for body parts?) we see the couple embarking on a quest to find the boy's father. We get to see the absolutely beautiful Brazilian countryside and the interesting characters that the woman and the boy encounter in their travels. We also see how the film uses the characters and events to make reference to Christianity (the boy's father is named Jesus and he is trying to find him).However, when the boy, does find his two half-brothers, for some unexplained reason, the boy and woman keep it from them that this is their lost little brother whom they had been expecting. We WANT to see the joy on the faces of these two older brothers when they learn that this is him. But we never get to see this. We are led to believe that they are to find out when the old woman leaves, dropping off a letter the boy's mother wrote to his father before she was killed (although the two brothers were illiterate, but there was supposedly a picture of mom and son in the envelope). In short, the emotionally constipated ending without resolution leaves the viewer disappointed.**1/2 out of **** (fairly good) "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is great! I asked my mother to go to the cinema with me, and she chose Central Station. I said it was ok but I didn't think I was going to like it. It's so good to be wrong!!! It's one of the best movies I have ever seen. About the Oscar... no comments, everybody knows the truth. I'm sure that some day they will look back and see this terrible mistake. "},{"Title":"And I almost didn't go because of the poster!!!!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a great movie! An almost too realistic story from the poorest part of Brazil. We've all heard it in feature, but at last we see it with our own eyes. But money isn't all - there's more to life. The bitchy older woman is great, and it's the film is fabulous when she softens up by the little boy. A heartbreaking story with tons of love! Central do Brasil is guaranteed to make your tears come out, due to the simplicity in the warmth of the storytelling and the real heartfelt passion.The acting is great, and this film stands out to impress us about Brsilian movie-making, as well as it makes us believe in humans, even when they have lost belief in life itself.Why don't they make more films like this! I could watch it over and over! Guaranteed value for money! I give it an undoubtedly 10 out of 10 for the realism and the guts for making it! "}{"Title":"My English is bad but my country is BETTER!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The summary of my comment is a copy of what Fernanda Montenegro said when Central Station won the Golden Globe. (but not country, but soul) Here in Brazil everybody was saying that that movie was incredible, touching, beautiful.... When I went to the cinema I didn't thought all this. I thought only Central do Brasil as a good film, as a mark in Brazilian cinema history. But since the beginning I found Life is Beautiful better. Some months later, I went here and gave 7 to C do B. But after I've read other user's comments I decided to change it to 6. Now I know the truth about Brazil. I knew the situation in Brazil was bad, but now I see that it's serious, 'We can see Brazil as it is and other comments like this. I screamed to myself Do that European and American people really believe that Brazil is that horrible monster they have shown in the film? Unbelievable! Central do Brasil doesn't show Brazil as it is. Do you think Brazil is so poor, so ugly, so dry as they show in the movie? How could us be the 7th richer country in the world in money circulating? How could us be the 4th in number of shopping centers? How could São Paulo and my city have less than 2 people for each car? How could São Paulo have one of the most polluted airs in the world if there isn't in your minds any car or industry in Brasil? How could the 4th biggest McDonald's in the world be here (yes, we have McDonald's, actually 700)? How could us have 4.000.000 PC  connected to the web? How could us have the biggest hydroeletric in the world if nobody have energy in the houses? How could I be writing in English (bad English!) if in the film looks that nobody in Brazil knows how to read or write? You don't even know that 98% of the children of Brazil are in school now. I don't think Central do Brasil is a bad film but it only helps in the preconception that you richs have. Don't watch Central do Brasil and say that Brasil is poor or anything. Try to use the web to research and discover that we are better, very much better than everything you think about us.  "},{"Title":"Be prepared to weep.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is a beautifully acted film that cast a spell on me.  The two main characters are complex and intriguing and I grew to care about them very much as the movie progressed.  There aren't enough superlatives to describe the acting of Fernanda Montenegro.  She plays a worn-out and cynical harridan who reluctantly becomes involved in the life of a street-wise child whose mother is suddenly killed.  Montenegro's body language, her facial expressions, and the nuances of her speech are all tremendously evocative and effective in expressing Dora's loneliness, pride, toughness and vulnerability.  The actor who plays the independent and adorable child is also outstanding.  Montenegro and Oliveira play off one another like two old pros. The is a road picture with depth and heart. It is one of the best foreign films of recent years.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Plays out like a good mystery novel although it is not.  The young man (Vincus de Oliveria) who plays the orphan is very good considering that this is his first film.  Fernanda Montenegro is brilliant as the aging, bitter letter writer.I did not find the film sentimental at all and I highly recommend it.  Just watching the two main characters at work is a joy.  "},{"Title":"Interesting and emotional","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought Central do Brasil to be a very interesting film. You learn a lot about Brasil and their very different lifestyle. The vastness of the country, the different cultures, the crime, the economical and social changes can be seen. This makes the film already worth while seeing. In addition to this information the film is full of brilliantly acted emotions. These displayed feelings made the connection to my European life possible and I could identify with these people from distant Brasil.  "},{"Title":"This is the most beautiful foreign film of the century!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very beautiful and emotional film. I knew life in Brazil was hard, but never would I have imagined it like this. Josue did a wonderful performence, and so did Dora. This movie certainly deserved more then the awards at the Berlin Film Festival. It should have won the best foreign film at the Oscars. Two thumbs up for this film, and make sure you take tissues with you when you see the movie!! Incredible picture, wonderful actors, and beautiful music. Walter Salles really knows how to make a beautiful film!! Central Station is an un-missable movie!! "},{"Title":"The best foreign film of '98!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fernanda Montenegro gave us a one in a million performance.  She inhabited the character so completely that one forgot that it was a film.  Paltrow on the other hand gave us a mannered little exercise in a highly over rated film.  This film was pure art.  Life is Beautiful was a lovely gimmick. Two Oscars went to the wrong winners! "},{"Title":"All the ingredients for a corny dud, yet...","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie deals with a young boy who is en route to a life filled with disappointments and a woman who has authored too many (disappointments). Their paths cross, and she leads him to the very edge.  As she dangles him over it, she recapacitates, and sees an opportunity to regain the faith in humanity that she lost so long ago.  A boy in difficult surroundings looking for his estranged father would ordinarily be a fine foundation for one of those silly feel-good movies.  In this movie it is okay to feel good, and in the bargain a film of substance is viewed. "},{"Title":"This film made me missing my country","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm out of my country for almost two years and I had the opportunity to watch this movie here. Although unfortunately portraits sad parts of my country, at the same time shows a Brazil full of hope and wishes to change the bad things. Technically, it's perfect very good story, perfect sound, beautiful music (unfairly not nominated), excellent photography, excellent actors. Step by step, our country is finding his way in the movies world.... "},{"Title":"a great story about learning to love","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station had the unfortunate timing  of being released in the same year and  compared with Life Is Beautiful.  There  are similarities of which the most obvious  is they are both great foreign films  deserving all the accolades and  nominations received.  Both were written  (story) and directed by the same person,  in this case Walter Salle whose work I  look forward to seeing more of.  Both have  wonderful child actors, in this case  extremely talented beautiful boy, Vinicius  De Oliveira, who in my opinion stole the  show.  If I remember both boys were even  named Josue as well.  I again look forward  to seeing his career develop.  Both  stories are about selfless love, albeit in  this film a developing acquired one.  And of  course in both cases this love had to  overcome many obstacles.  I do not want to  fail to mention Fernanda Montenegro's  wonderful portrayal of Dora, a jaded self-  centered letter writer whose character  evolves slowly and believably.  Both have  somewhat bittersweet endings as well.  I  do not mean in any way to belittle this  film by making comparisons for it is  fantastic in its own right ,and I highly  recommend it to any and all.  I believe it  received an R rating which must have  been for some language and violence which  fairly mild by American standards.   Central Station was also beautifully  filmed presenting us with a chance to  appreciate Brazil, its people, and  customs.  This is a MUST SEE!  Four  Stars!!!!   "},{"Title":"The best foreign language film of 1998, hands down.","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a stunning achievement in a leading actress role for Fernanda Montenegro!  It's easy to see why, at 69, she is the most popular film and legitimate theatre actress in Brazil.This is a story worth telling, lovingly and credibly told.  I stopped waiting for the emotional manipulations so predictable in Hollywood films with this sort of theme -- after a half hour or so I relaxed, knowing I'd be allowed to witness a story unfold on the screen without heavy-handed moralizing or sugar-coated characterizations.  This film was populated with human characters, not stereotypes.  Because of this it was possible to stay emotionally in touch with the two main characters and those in smaller roles throughout -- as each faced crises or morally ambiguent choices unpredictably but true to the characters as they were developed by time spent with them.Caught up in the tensions of the story line, I didn't fully appreciate the cinematography as much as on the second viewing.  I'll bet it strikes a particularly deep chord in its Brazilian audience.Such iconography so naturally blended into the film visually -- the reverse Madonna and child, the religious ecstasy of the celebrants, the barrenness yet stubborn hopefulness in the prefabricated barracks-style freshly created communities in the countryside, the older and younger brother at the lathe, the summary execution of the young thief in the rail line...What a breath of fresh air this film was.  Superior to all its Oscar competitors, and I certainly would have awarded Best Actress to Montenegro!10 of 10. (only two films got that rating from me in '98) "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful film about the life, and the Life is beautiful. The poor side of Brazil is shown  in a wonderful way. Fernanda Montenegro is a brilliant actress and the OSCAR was deserved. Salles find Vinicius de Oliveira in the Central Station, Rio de Janeiro, he was a shoe shiner and work marvelous, with emotion. Salles made a great job with this film and show from the world that Brazil isn't just samba and carnival, have excellents actors, actress, directors, musics, scenery,......The best film of 1998, and one of the best film of Brazil "},{"Title":"The Best movie","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is the best film of 1998,depict the life of a little boy(Josué) looking for his father with the help of a woman who was having another chance. The film is in Rio de Janeiro, in Central Station and inside Brazil, in a region of drought. Is a wonderful movie about the life of a poor and abandoned boy looking for his father. Emotional!!!  "},{"Title":"A pity about LVeB","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a fantastic movie. I saw it and La Vita e Bella on the same day, and I immediately felt sorry for Central do Brasil.  Life is Beautiful is the better film, but CdB is still breathtaking cinema.  I gave it 9/10, and can't help but feel that this film will be forgotten behind LVeB.  A pity, cos this one is so good.  "},{"Title":"Something to make us proud","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now the world can start understanding that Brazil is not just Samba and Carnaval. We have talent around here as well... Central do Brasil is one of the things that makes us proud of being brazilians. It's genuine, pure, real and emotive. It is a shame that somethings cannot be translated just with the lines. If the whole world was able to understand portuguese, this movie would have won the Oscar... Scenes like the faces of those people who ask Dora for the letters are enough reason to drop tears from the watcher's eyes... The dialogues are intense and deep. The photography is perfect, the actors are unique and Salles deserves at least a very loud scream Congratulations! And thank you for giving us all this happiness... "},{"Title":"A solid well-made movie that's thankfully straight-forward","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is pleasurable for its straight-forward, unsentimental view of its characters and its landscape. Both are served straight up by the director without an excess of comment or manipulation. He simply shows you these character's emotional makeup and the less-than-ideal environment in which they live without any comment on their value as good or bad, desirable or undesirable. I believe it is this sense of honesty that makes people call this a great movie. Time will be the judge of the movie's masterpiece status.  "},{"Title":"Life is beautiful. Again.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This could almost be a companion piece to Life is Beautiful, although this is a darker, more somber piece. The bond that develops between the character played by Fernanda Montenegro and young Vinicius de Oliveira is so moving, I was brought to tears. Montenegro gives a towering, haunting, unsentimental performance and de Oliveira, making his film debut, more than holds his own. Stunning.   "},{"Title":"In Praise of Older Women","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fernanda Montenegra must be feeling just a little of the old chagrin that she didn't get one well-earned Oscar.  Josue reminds me of Sudi de Winter in our very own Say A Little Prayer and he is marvellous, but Ms. Montenegra is the joy and the tragedy of this fantastic film.  This was my first vicarious experience of Brazil and has a terrifying air of realism.  Definitely a film of educational value but it needs much longer credits so you get a bit of a chance to restore your equanimity before leaving the cinema.  Wonderful. Fabulous.  And highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Ferdagro made me cry.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Simply brilliant.  The magnificent Fernando Montenegro is at top form as Dora, and the film is a masterpiece.  I went into this film not expecting much, and I came out weeping.  It's a pity that Central Station had to be pitted against Life Is Beautiful this year.  Especially surprising is the fact that the little boy, Josue, was played by an unknown found in a nation-wide talent search.  "},{"Title":"An adventure through a big country to save the life of a poor child.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ok, i am a Brazilian, and i saw the film in my country. I saw the Oscar and saw lots of Brazilians sad because of the non_awarding of this movie. Ok, La vita e Bella is a good movie too. But lets see this movie in this point of view A big country showed in a great movie, without censure; a story of a boy that lost his mother and now is trying to find the only thing that he admires now, his father; villages full of religion and costumes as old as the Brazilian history. It is an excellent movie, that won several awardings all around the world, and made people weep with this realistic story. Everyone saw how Central Station or Central do Brasil received more screams than La Vita e Bella...and lost. But something is clear Central Station is a marker in the serious movie factory.It is already part of our history, our reality. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece that makes me proud of being Brazilian!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Congratulations to director Walter Salles and all who contributed to the production of Central Station (Central do Brasil), a masterpiece of Brazilian cinema and the entire world! Central Station is a perfect motion picture all the elements of the movie are perfectly integrated compounding a cinematographic production with inestimable quality, which reflects the professional talent of Walter Salles direction. By the way, talent is something that do not lack in Central Station with an extremely emotive and original screenplay by João Emanuel Carneiro and Marcos Bernstein, extraordinary performances by Vinícius de Oliveira and two of the best Brazilian actresses, Fernanda Montenegro and Marília Pêra, a wonderful dramatic score composed by Antonio Pinto and Jaques Morelenbaume, and an spectacular cinematography directed by Walter Carvalho, besides other high quality cinematographic elements, Central Station is a motion picture that portrays faithfully and with an humanitarian reality the dramatic and touching journey of Dora and Josué to the heart of Brazil, and the life of millions of Brazilians!Central Station is an important chapter of the Brazilian cinematographic history for marking the top of the growth of Brazilian cinema and consolidating Brazil as a great source of cinematographic production. All the awards conquered and its international reputation are merits that belongs to the quality of the movie and the spectacular work of all its cast and crew to bring it to reality. Central Station is a masterpiece that makes me proud of being Brazilian, an absolute landmark in the history of cinema! "}{"Title":"Central Station More beautiful than life...","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I couldn't resist comparing Central Station with the clunky Life is Beautiful. I found Central Station to be a moving, easily flowing journey that earned its tears and emotional moments. It is far above the two-headed monster that is the film Life Is Beautiful. Fernando Montenegro is amazing. I believed her choices. I believed her portrayal. I believe Central Station is the best world movie of 1998, or 1999. "},{"Title":"Beyond Beauty","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Perhaps the most touching story ever set to screen.  The vivid nature of both character and country come together and form an amalgam of color and sparkle that almost twists into an acute presentation of yesteryear animation.  This film is, perhaps, the most beautiful film in the last twenty years  (besides Care Bears Save Christmas that is).  Perhaps, the most surprising aspect of this cinema success is that the actors truly do match the the awe and grandeur of the absolutely devestating Brazilian countryside. It is a must see (as is Care Bears Save Chrismas; they are just so cute).  "},{"Title":"A Journey to Brazil's Heart","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now with the recommendation for so many audiences and the nominations for Oscar 99,the world can't resist to this unforgettable and sad tale about a child and a woman that desperately need love and to be loved,and behind this there is the heart of a country that want to be discover. Fernanda Montenegro was already the most loved actress in our country and now every brazilian can be more happy for to see where she is ...an oscar nomination....  "},{"Title":"It deserves first place as Best Foreign Movie!","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It may be shocking to some people to know that Central Station shows the way things are here in Brazil for the most part of the population. But it's the naked truth! Of course, there are other things that make Brazil worth while living in  beautiful nature, hot weather, interesting and nice people (you can find them everywhere), besides other wonders of this big and lovely country! Come to visit us! "},{"Title":"Reality","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is such a great film ! You won't see the beautiful Rio de Janeiro, but the poor side of it . The reality that happens everyday, in the dark side. It's about love and solidarity. It's touching, but there's no silly affectation. Virtuose! "},{"Title":"Speech-less","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The lack of technical resources and visual effects of latin movies is compensated by the incredible passion and emotionality they imprint on their scripts and the way they manipulate the visuals of the movie by using more artistic and effective photography and clever dialogues.This is the type of movie that you take back home.  I mean, it gives you something to think about, and creates on you the need to talk it over with your friends.Bottomline  This is the portrait of life on the poor side of Brazil, portrait of their beliefs and their hopes, their lifestyles and their illusions.  It's a sad history with a glorious ending. "},{"Title":"Full of emotions","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a great film. Great actress. Great director. Wonderful cinematography! But, there's some similarities in its course... -The little boy's mother dies in a sequence like the airplane toy in Empire Of The Sun. -Fernanda Montenegro in the bathroom at the gas station looking at the mirror is very similar to Susan Sarandon doing the same scene in Thelma & Louise, they both see their faces and changes in an auto-reflexion take. -The final sequence is almost a copy of E. T. the boy as Henry Thomas and Montenegro as E.T., the meaning of I'll be right here, the boy's look with wind blowing his hair, the separation and growth, etc.There's much more, but this is not bad for the film. It's still  great film, there's true feelings in it. But, you know, a film is many films and so on...  "},{"Title":"Experience a little bit of Brazil!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is a wonderful picture of a Brazil unknown by most brazilians. Experience the wonderful photography and the extraordinary performances, in special the one known as The Brazilian First Lady Actress Fernanda Montenegro!  "},{"Title":"Bravo!!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An unforgettable film!! It is surely going to take part of the world´s cinema history. A real emotional experience. A film that touches our hearts and makes us deeply think about the life. Fernanda Montenegro is one of the greatest actresses in the planet. You have to watch it to feel the pressure!!! Beautiful. The Academy was gifted and blessed by this actress nomination. I hope she wins. "},{"Title":"The image of a neglected and unloved people","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest brazilian movies, a genuine made in Brazil movie. It's amazing how this little genius Vinicius and Fernanda Montenegro, my favorite actress, did it with too much sensitivity. All my good emotions were aroused by this touching, and eloquent movie. The sad image of my needy brothers was showed with spontaneous simplicity.I dislike the way it ends because I was wishing and hoping a happy end as I wish to my migrant north-eastern brothers. "}{"Title":"It's just wonderful!!!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is for sure one of the best films I've ever seen so far!!It great to see that our cinema industry is capable of doing such a masterpiece like this one.It does show a country with all its problems but these problems are not not so different in many industrialized countries like USA or England. I have already had the opportunity to visit these two countries and I could see by myself that Josue's story is also common over there but the difference is that The Great American Movie Industry is not really concerned about showing this side of the own reality;all that we can see in American films is the glamour that wovens the whole country.They're good at the fact of hiding the dark side of the own society. I don't know if they right or wrong in doing that.But Walter Salles,our great Brazilian movie director,had no fear in doing such a hard job which was to show a real Brazil that does exist. I'd just like to let people know that Brazil is not only that!!! We also have modern cities,excellent professionals and so far... "},{"Title":"Although it may seem very Brazilian at first glance, it's about some universal subjects that most people can identify with.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has a simple, but beautiful story. It's very moving. Although it may seem very Brazilian at first glance, it's about some universal subjects that most people can identify with. It's one of the best movies, on all aspects, ever made not only in latin America, but in the world. I highly recommend this movie to everyone. It's a touching story that anyone can relate to it. Fernanda Montenegro did an excellent job and Vinícius surprised everyone. The photography is also worth-mentioning. "},{"Title":"The amazing picture of a true story.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everyone in Brazil is talking about the race between Central Station and Life is beautiful for this year's Foreign Language Film Oscar. It is sure a good race.Both of the movies are gorgeus as they show human's feelings, weaknesses, and both the movies truthly touch the hearts of those who see them. I, as everyone else in the world, loved them both.But, as a Brazilian, I must remind you of one thing Down here is exactly like you see in the screen of Central Station. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil (Central Station) is the best film that I saw. It's unforgettable! Fernanda Montenegro, Vinícius de Oliveira and Walther Salles, all the cast were wonderful! This film shows for all the world Brazil like a poem! Central do Brasil showed the world that Brazil has a great culture! "},{"Title":"One of the most touching and delicate movies of 1998","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil - a masterpiece of Brazil's new cinema -  is one of the most touching and delightful surprises of the year 1998. Certainly one of the best movies of the year. A movie that teaches us not to judge a book by its cover.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil (Central Station) is the best film that I saw. It's unforgettable! Fernanda Montenegro, Vinícius de Oliveira and Walther Salles, all the cast were wonderful! This film shows for all the world Brazil like a poem! Central do Brasil showed the world that Brazil has a great culture! "},{"Title":"A real picture of the most extraordinary country in the world","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Probably this film will not be a award winner but the nomination is a real and shinning way to show that there is life outside US. A sensitive and brilliant movie from the country of the future.  "},{"Title":"Great, Great Movie...Placing Fernanda Where She Belongs!!!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great Movie. Beautiful Music. Excellent Casting. Fernanda just what she is. Fantastic. As she is known in Brazil, The 1st Lady of the Brazilian Stages.   "},{"Title":"An Unforgettable Classic Road Film","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cheers to everyone connected with this absolutely moving film!  How sad that so many Americans who (for whatever reason) won't see foreign language films because it's one of the loveliest films in my memory.  No mean feat since I've been a film fan for more than 50 years!  Kudos to the director for creating a poignant film without being cloying and sweet without being saccharine.  It's not JUST the story of a lonely old woman and the young boy although that is enough indeed! Brazil itself becomes another character with its noisy city, arid deserts and teeming masses.  You can almost smell the sweat.  And the music (a lovely piano) and cinematography and screenplay just add more and more dimension.  An utterly beautiful film with two wonderful performances by Miss Montenegro and the young boy!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil has too much to think about. It´s brilliant. Fernanda Montenegro shows all her art and experience in this superb film. The story is full of human being feelings, mistakes, starviness, poverty, vices, crimes but, at the end (and that's the best of all) it´s full of hope, like telling if you want, no matter what you have been, you can change your life and become a good human being... Thank you for this, Dora. And Josue, thank you for telling us that, if you believe in something and are able to fight for it, it will become a reality. Finally, thank you Salle, for this film, one of the best I've ever enjoyed. "}{"Title":"A special journey","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Someone said that you can make movies about four themes two people that love each other, three people that love each other, the fight for the power and a journey. Central do Brasil (Central Station) is a magnific journey. With rare sensibility, the director Walter Salles creates a story about humanism that makes me remember the movie Bicycle thieves (Ladri di Biciclette) from the great italian director Vittorio De Sica.  "},{"Title":"I'm going to see it again.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Breathtakingly beautiful frames, flow of ambient motion. My first response of resistance to the passion of this was to mutter something about melodrama. HA! This is preparation for a journey. You can pick up from the Portuguese dialogue some references to the road strada . . . . (remember La Strada?) . . .  The more ordinary character Irene serves as a sort of anchor, the wise feminine home base . . . Something immense occurs in this film.  A small epic of human longing and character in increasingly remote settings. Battles in the heart.  My companions and I, a tough bunch of spaghetti Western aficionados, all in tears at the conclusion.  The goddess principle of Lakshmi, the feminine nurturer, is there . . . this is an apotheosis for Dora.   All this affecting the viewer down deep not only because of quality of acting, wisdom in storytelling, but because of power of visual presentation . . . so much pure art and unvarnished humanity in the short time . . . have to see it again.  "},{"Title":"The best movie of the year 1998","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a movie goer. I love cinema more than any other forms of art. Central Station is already recognized by many as being a masterpiece. Fernanda Montenegro should win the oscar for best actress because she is a giant in her field. The landscapes are like postcards reflecting the beauty but also the fragility of Brazil. I am sad that the director did not get nominated and that the movies was nominated just in the foreign category. I feel this movie is the most oscar worthy out of the bunch. Go see it once, Go see it twice. There is so much to learn from it. I can not wait for it to come on video so I can see it a thousand times.   "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies made in brazil.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is a kind of movie that plays deeply any person of any age. Highlight for the scenes of the begin and of the end of the movie. That the boy loses its toy when losing its mother and it wins another toy when find his brothers, that will be his family.  "},{"Title":"It is a true and beautiful portrait of Brazil.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love the way the movie depicts characters as being both good and bad and I think the bus trip scenes are just perfect. Although I do not live in such a poor part of Brazil (neither social or geographically) I know it is absolutely true. If you want to understand Brazil, or know a little about it, you have to watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Unifies the worst cliches of Hollywood and Brasilian films.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film unifies a lot of cliches while trying to be artistic. There are some strong ideas, but the realization is far too sentimental. Even Titanic was better. Not recommended for anyone of good taste.  "},{"Title":"a touching and brilliant film...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is an example of the new brasilian's filmography. A touching and brilliant film, in that a woman discovers a meaning in her life. Beautiful photography and a splendid interpretation by Fernanda Montenegro.  "},{"Title":"About The Central Station Movie","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For the last five years, the Brazilian Movie production has grown and became better. This evaluation was slow yet steady, and we started talking about the re-born of our cinema. With Central Station, we've reached the top. We learned how to combine the reality  - cruel, painful, revolting - with the hope that remain on a humble heart. There, from an outrageous life, emerge a group of people that still believe, and go on looking for better days. This is, truly, one of the most touching and endearing films ever done. Walter Salles coped with the human feelings and counted with a wonderful crew - Fernanda, glorious; Vinícius, amazing (specially because he had never worked as an actor before, since he was a poor boy who polished shoes). And all the other actors and staff behind the scene. Great, great, GREAT! (Ps Hold on for the next film of Walter Salles, The first day - more emotion in an intelligent drama once more) "},{"Title":"An extraordinary movie with real people.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie shows people the way they are. Not great heroes, not hopeless criminals. Just common people with their deficiencies, but touched by love.  "},{"Title":"The Oscar is coming...","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Do you really like cinema ? If your answer is yes I like you have to see this film. This is one of the most wonderful films I have ever seen.Do you want to see a good actrees ? If your answer is yes I want -again- YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS FILM...See Fernanda Montenegro and tell-me...Isn´t she the best actress of our time?The OSCAR is coming...It has to come for both - Film and Fernanda.  "}{"Title":"The BEST I've ever seen","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film shows the real Brasil, different people and amazing landscapes, not Carmen Miranda, Pelé, Carnival, Football/Soccer, Ipanema, Amazon, etc. But it's a film about life and how can we look to ourself when we are looking for or helping someone else. It's a universal issue with brazilian accent.  "},{"Title":"A movie that touches our hearts","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie made me think that our lives are a search. I have seen it several times and each time I find another meaning in this movie. I think that Fernanda Montenegro is wonderful. This movie is the face of Brazil. It is impossible to not be impressed with this movie.  "},{"Title":"About People","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I prefer to comment about the people in this film. Fernanda Montenegro is the best. Comments are not necessary. But it can show to the world that we have a lot of great actors/actresses here, but Fernanda is our first lady in the theater. About Walter Salles ...  I love him. Since ... I don't know. There is a competition here to try to find something wrong with him, some defect. There isn't. He is handsome, intelligent, very well dressed, so kind, rich by birth, young and his film was nominated to Oscar. I think he should be nominated to best director too but... And about Vinicius de Oliveira, I hope he mustn't be a new Pixote. Sorry by my English but I think that I could say what I'd want to.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very amazing movie, that made me cry. Fernanda Montenegro is an excellent actress and she was wonderful as Dora. The boy, Vincius de Oliveira impressioned me too. I think Fernanda should be chosen for Oscar's better actress.  "},{"Title":"We, human beings, can do a lot!!!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Masterpiece. Not to have pity on the difficulties of a certain people in a certain third world country. But to realize how different the world we live is. How fantastic is the human soul and heart. And how much we can do, no matter who we are, to make it better.Original screenplay. Perfect acting. Human theme. Deserves the OSCAR...  "},{"Title":"Universal Station","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a real life story that happens all over the world in different dimensions. The movie shows in a particular way that hope still exists independently of life situation, timing, environment. The argument teaches us how simple and tragic life could be. On the other way hand, it is deep and cruel also. By the end, there is this generosity and hope that shakes our emotions. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"One of the most touching movies ever filmed!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil (Central Station) is one of the most touching movies I have ever seen. The story depicts the hard life of millions of anonymous characters who live in a country with so many discrepancies as the ones we have in Brasil. The central character (played by Fernanda Montenegro, nominated for Best Actress in the Oscar) presents a conflict between her values and the temptation created by the problems she faces in her life, trying to overcome the tempation and follow her values. The movie shows how hard can be the life for billions of people all around the world and that we try not to see, even in poor countries such as Brasil. "},{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really thought this movie was touching, funny, sweet and moving. The plot was solid and it was completely thought-out. I've only seen four foreign films in my lifetime, but this has to be one of the best! Next to Life is Beautiful, it's the best foreign film I've seen! I aspire to be a director and I think that this movie really shows how well a director can do.  "},{"Title":"A simple way...","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Movies like this one are a full represetation of simplicity and harmony, show us a way to think more about ourselves... And show us the simple life ofa simple person. Simple and good, a pretty combination. The best for the Oscar. "},{"Title":"Something to be proud of...","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a Brazilian, this film, very human and well done, dealing with universal feelings, has two major meanings. First, is an emblematic sign of the reawakening of the Brazilian movie industry, almost dead 4 or 5 years ago. Second, and most importantly, it shows our ability to do very good things, andshows our very good people and artists in a very delicate moment, when our entire country is under suspicion of being a failure, just because our people is paying for decades of bad administration, with governments that really didn't represent our real people interests... Go for it Fernanda, Vinicius and Walter, we love you! "}{"Title":"This film ...","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this fantastic movie twice, but it's in my mind till today!  Probably , everyone should be thinking  She's telling this because she's brazilian. But , the truth is that this movie is very good. It shows the worst part of Brazil . The sad one . So, it shows us that we have to help people who needs help , like the boy in Central do Brasil . If you didn't see the movie , or if you didn't like it , watch it with your heart . I'm sure you will love it!! (Sorry , I'm so bad in English !! )  "},{"Title":"The touching film.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We got it. You all should see this film! With not much money and a lot of emotion Walter Salles Jr. could make it! Well, beats me , we have Fernanda Montenegro. When I started Watching this film I could not imagine what would happen. As a brasilian I was thinking what a sadness, how many poor people, so much suffering! But as the movie goes on you realize that this suffered people can also be happy on their way, there are most important things on life! You learn about changing, about soul and about love in every meanings.For who doesn't know, the little boy on the movie, Vinicius de Oliveira was a poor child, who used to work shining others shoes until the day he met Walter Salles Jr. who took him to the movies tests.And for the ones who doesn't know too, Fernanda Montenegro is our best actress. She has a long career on theater playing Tchecov, Nelson Rodriges( one of the best brasilian authors)etc. She is the changingof the movie.Well, I miss words to discribe this movie, that was made with so much love and so few money. It shows our truth soul. I hope you all to like it and to fall in love with this story of a pure love.  "},{"Title":"A must-see film","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is one of the the best films already produced. A cheap film (US$ 3,000,000) but rich in emotion. Fernanda Montenegro shows why she was announced as best actress. A beautiful film, for everybody children, adults, old people, etc.  "},{"Title":"Pure Poetry","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The work done in this movie pull us to a reality of a country that is trying tell the world that besides all its matters it really worth. It is a poetry that can be SEEN, read, heard and felt.  "},{"Title":"Shows the reality that people don't want to see.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fernanda Montenegro involves you and has the ability to share with you the feelings, and put you into the story, as it was happening beside you. The theme is very cruel, but it's REAL. I know these places and these kind of people the movie is about, and Walter Salles, developed the story without importing foreign cinematographic languages. It's attained to the places and people. It's not as you were seeing a movie with a european point of view, or using the european style to make movies. The same apply to an american view of the problem, or using a televison language, or even using a brazilian medium class view (you may not believe, but even in Brazil there are many people that ignore these theme). It's unique. The movie talks the language people talks and show the images as you can even smell the sand and the trees, as people see it, as people live it/ I know the policy of Hollywood is never to show life as it is, but as it will never be. But this movie doesn't follow this line, it shows what is at your side, and nobody wants to see. "},{"Title":"BRAZIL's COUNTRY/CITY LIFE","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil (Central Station) is up-to-date movie which reports one of innumeral situations in Country/City people. As real as possible into movie story, Salles made a perfect portrait of ideals and solidarity in Brazil. Perhaps, this movie claims all the world to a new mondial order, where all citizens equally take oportunities of life.  "},{"Title":"Elegant and visually stunning","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A wonderful movie. Salles should have been nominated by the Academy for Best Director. The subject matter isn't really new - we've seen similar plots many times before - but it's a wonderfully told story and the performances are great all around; despite the familiar subject, I never felt the movie was totally predictable. Loved the scenes of the train station and the religious festival the endless reams of people traveling every which way... I find many of the comments here that criticize this movie to be elitist in the worst way and quite disturbing; they seem to relish in calling Brazil a backwards or Third World country, as if there was no stories to tell in that God-forsaken cable-TV-deficient hellhole over there. Oh well ... at least the Academy found it worth a nomination or two.  "},{"Title":"A piece of humanity...","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Central Station (Central do Brasil) movie, shows us something different; It makes us travel in a story fulfilled with emotion, and makes us desire to be the one that could help the little boy find his father.That's a movie that really make us go into the screen, and for a few hours, forget all around, and be part of the drama.Certainly, one of the greatest movies of this century... "},{"Title":"The best of the best!","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is a film that talks to your brain while touch your heart  "},{"Title":"Not the place for prejudice!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't help commenting on the ignorance shown by alex-187 about Brazil. Color TV is no dream, it is available for 90% of the people; 7 out of 8 Brazilians can read, though it is still a sad number; and I would really like to believe that there's no kind of violence and poverty in Italy... This is not the place to try to diminish a country, or to show prejudice.The world was lucky to produce two splendid non-U.S. movies in 1998. Life is Beautiful is great indeed, and had the luck (or smartness) to deal with Academy's all-time favorite subject, World War II. Central Station is superb, deep, touching, and well-done. Both are far better than this year's American movies. There's no point in criticizing one or the other, or attacking cultures, inciting a Brazil-Italy rivalry. Please leave the Rome-based Catholic Church apart from it as well. Let's just enjoy the movies, and thank God cinema has two outstanding geniuses like Salles Jr and Benigni.  "}{"Title":"The pure human emotions","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is one of the most important films of the history of cinema. It is very simple and, maybe for this, all the human emotions, explored with sensibility, are there. Walter Salles is a great director and Fernanda Montenegro shows that she is one of the most important actresses of our days.  "},{"Title":"Fernanda Montenegro is a complete Brazilian actress.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is a revolution in Brazil. It shows our really country and the sensibility of the human being. Brazilians are emotionals, sensitives and seekers, and Central do Brasil shows it clearly. Walter Salles is a great director. He could register Brazil in your entirety. A big hug for everyone of the cast.  "},{"Title":"The best from Brazil","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is a very good film. It shows the way of living of the brazilian poor people. This kind of people do not have internet access or even some bread. The reason presented was only one, in millions misery created by the human body organ exchange. It deserves the Oscar.  "},{"Title":"Fernanda Montenegro","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fernanda Montenegro is the best actress in Brasil nowadays. She is a wonderful person and has a special way of transmitting to people what she acts. Her personality is the great mark of acting. She had won all of Brasilians' hearts since she played a TV actress on the novels that are showed since long time ago. She is admired by the people who work with her, and by the public that see her performances even on theater or on TV and now in cinema, I believe that she merits the prize of better actess not only for her performance on Central Station, but for her wholly career as an actress in Brasil. "},{"Title":"The Best Brazilian Film","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is not only the best Brazilian film it also represents the power and creativity of the Brazilian people.It is very important to vote here and to wait for the Oscar. I hope that the members of the academy choose Fernanda Montenegro and Central do Brasil as the winners in their categories. "},{"Title":"Even if it does not win, it will be always remembered!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CENTRAL DO BRASIL will be always remembered by every movie fan as the film that brings one of the most fantastic performances by an actress. Fernanda Montenegro, a superlative theater and cinema actress has been famous in her country for many years. Luckily the world has the chance of getting to know her now. If I have to compare, names like Italy's Giulietta Masina and Anna Magnani and Sueden's Ingrid Bergman come to mind. The nomination is a consequence of her imense talent. The film is pure emotion. It's about time we start looking for films that bring something to think and make us better. If the Oscar goes to this masterpiece it will be only fair. If it does not, still CENTRAL STATION and Fernanda will remain forever in our hearts.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic new face","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Central Station, the Brazilian movie industry shows a new face. It´s a fantastic movie, with a excellent story registering a very particular life in the country a life distant from the modern, cold world of the big cities. Furthermore, the technic used in cinema today in Brazil is completely competitive. The photograph, sound track...everything is perfect. It´s a movie which deserves the best of all the world. "},{"Title":"The station of feelings","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A few years ago, Brazilian people would never think of watching a Brazilian film (believe it or not). But, now that Brazil got three Oscar nominations in four years for best picture in a foreign language, Brazilian people are more interested in Brazilian films. Even with very good films such as Four Days in September, Central Station is the best of Brazilian movies. Fernanda Montenegro is great, and the film is excellent. Watch it, and you'll surely like it. Even if you're Brazilian. "},{"Title":"The World reality of the movie","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is an important mark in all the world because it shows the reality of the children that live in the street. This happens in all the world (and not only in Brazil), but never was shown in such way.  "},{"Title":"A Movie About People and Relationship","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie had an amazing effect on me. It showed me a different way of seeing the world and the things that happen around. We know too little about our world, and about the people who live in it. This movie shows, in a simple and efficient way, that life can be hard, but it is wise. It shows how people can change, and how the friendship can change a life's row. The amazing Fernanda Montenegro and all the other actors, including the ones who dictated the letters, made the movie not like a fiction, but like a documentary, because of their truly way of acting. This movie is well directed, has a great soundtrack, has great actors, has a great story and is very emotive. Simply Awesome!   "}{"Title":"A special movie","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being Brazilian, we know kind of close the problems commented by the film. It is a poor and sad part of Brazil pictured thru the film, in a very sensitive way. "},{"Title":"Simply outstanding!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the one of the best movies ever. The weekend is coming, so you may go to a cinema near you to watch this movie. It's so kind and lovely, with an interesting view of an unrecognized Brazil. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Can anything be better than this?","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It´s not everyday that we can see a movie as great as Central do Brasil. And here, in Brasil, it´s once in a lifetime. The story of the woman who takes a lost boy to go find his father is touching. Fernanda Montenegro, in another of her inspired actings, take us on a magic travel through forgotten places of the country where we can find a little of ourselves in everything, from the train station called Central do Brasil (which is in Rio de Janeiro) to the little store lost in the middle of a road, where you can find crackers and goiabada, things that might make one remember its own childhood. Vinícius de Oliveira, who appears as Josué, is a happy surprise. For a boy who use to shine shoes at Central do Brasil, he´s a great beginning actor. A movie like this is always nice and welcome. Everywhere. "},{"Title":"Wonderfull film with profund human touch","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Shows the human side in a metropolis like Rio de Janeiro and shows how hard life is. Participation of Fernanda Torres fulfills our heart of compassion. Congratulations Fernanda, we need love in this world ! "},{"Title":"A Classic of all times","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil (Central Station) is a wonderful emotional movie.  Keep your eyes with tears as the story goes.  Fernanda Montenegro, the best Brazilian actress, was simply fantastic.  She makes you feel all the emotions her character is feeling on the screen.  The story is simple but rich in details like our own lives. This is a movie everybody should see and learn from it.  "},{"Title":"The best of the world!!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is simply the best! Everybody needs to see! Good luck Central Station!Patrícia Freitas - São Paulo - Brasil  "},{"Title":"I've liked this movie very much.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have liked this movie since I saw it on the preview. It so touching. I loved the way it influenced my thoughts about human behavior. It's a must-see. "},{"Title":"One of the finest films this year","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the finest films I´ve  seen.  It shows how low and rough a person can become. That is something that anyone who lives in a big city and has been, in a way, abandoned fears to become simply numb to all the cruelty around.Dora is a woman who has no expectation in her life for she had always dealt with a cold world until she herself got defeated and felt nothing.  When she meets the young kid who was one in a million other kids now living in the streets, she struggles with the idea that helping the boy was the only way she could help herself. She would finally know the meaning of love and faith.It drives everyone to an unknown side of the world and at the same time it carries a story which can be related to anyone due to its universality. "},{"Title":"Great Brazilian movie","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well made movie, with a good plot, excellent photography and perfect acting. Brazilians ought to be proud of their cinema. It is a movie about human frailties and relationships. I loved it. "},{"Title":"A film about the soul.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Central do Brasil is a very touching film. No matter in what language it's spoken, it uses the universal language of the soul.Reading the comments in this section, I can only see positive reviews, except from the Italians. Maybe they are afraid of losing the Oscar to a Third World movie (as one of them said, as if we could not make good cinema).I have seen both movies (Central Station and Life is Beautiful) and I can recognize their values, instead of criticizing the opponent just for erroneous patriotism reasons. Both are real masterpieces and I hope the best one can win. "}{"Title":"The most extraordinary movie of 1998","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Regarding its universal message, Central do Brasil brings all things you can only find in Brazil - like all religious fever and simple happiness of the Brazilian Northeast, or the overpopulation and violence of the southeast. Dora's and Josue's voyage to the heart of Brazil - to Brazil's Center - is a long voyage within the human nature, and one that nobody should miss. "},{"Title":"At the end an agreeable surprise!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My first impression wasn't really good. Brazilian films seemed to me to always lack a good history. This film showed updated themes that lots of people even in Brazil had never thought could exist. Reality is usually very impressive. Hope Central do Brasil be indicated (at least) for the Oscar. Congratulations also to Mr. Morelenbaum and all the music folks that composed the great song theme that the film has.  "},{"Title":"Central Station gives hope to people","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil (Central Station) is one of those movies you see once in a lifetime. It's characters are so well played by Fernanda Montenegro (Dora) and the wonderful Vinicius (Josue), that you cry not because the beauty of this tale, you cry of happiness, to know that mankind has integrity and courage to overcome every kind of problem, even when you are considered a loser by the society. The search for a lost father in a semi-arid region, something quite impossible for the most of us, is the start for a cruzade that would change the way the two main characters see the life and it's priorities. The movie still show an unknow face of Brazil, even for brazilians who live in the major cities, and with it's spectacular photography, touches our hearts giving joy and hope in everyone's life. "},{"Title":"Where Jesus?","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bitter, alcoholic, letter-writing crone (Fernanda Montenegro) learns to love a 9-year old orphaned boy (Vinicius de Oliveira) in the dizzyingly dirty Rio streets and beyond.  Except for the blatant religious references--searching for boy's absent father, the carpenter Jesus in the remote village Estrela do Norte; older brothers Moses and Isaiah; constant, hypnotically beautiful singing of worshipping throngs--this film is a shiny gem.  Original idea and directed by Walter Salles.  Written by Joso Emanuel Carneiro & Marcos Bernstein.  The ending is a three-hanky in true Brazilian fashion!  Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Very very very good!!!","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil e um filme sensivel e inteligente. Uma verdadeira obra de arte com paisagens belissimas e a interpretacao espetacular de Fernanda Montenegro.Central Station is a sensible and intelligent movie. Wonderful landscapes and Fernanda Montenegro is an excellent actress. "},{"Title":"Universal feelings on the screen","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A superb film built upon the relationship of Dora (pungently played by Fernanda Montenegro) and Josue (intuitively played by Vinicius de Oliveira). A deep  and still silence filled the movie theatre in order to follow Walter Salles Jr's description of a flow of feelings between the main characters hate, antipathy, distrust, dependency, partnership, caring, love. These were never easy feelings simply produced to make the audiences cry. On the contrary, they were an authentic delicate punch in the heart. Put your prejudice aside this may be a Brazilian film, however the emotions on the screen are universal. This film is definitely a must see.   "},{"Title":"Best all-time Brazilian movie...","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a must for anyone who wants to know what Brazil is really like. If you think Brazil is all beaches and samba, it may be a shock to you, especially if you consider that at least 70% of our population lives under the conditions described in the film. The film itself is marvelous, with an exceptional performance by Fernanda Montenegro, who is Brazil's best actress ever! Vinicius de Oliveira, who plays Josue, a 9 year old boy, is an excellent surprise. "},{"Title":"Wonderful performances","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see the movie totally unaware of Fernanda Montenegro's incredible performance. Her performance and the movie itself really touched me in ways I cannot describe. A brilliant film and a perfect performance. I do hope that Ms. Montenegro gets an Academy Award nomination for her role of Dora. Go see it !!! "},{"Title":"Best picture of 1998","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Few,if any films, this year delivered as much emotional impact as Central Station.  The film captivates the audience with its characters and their journey, and the over-powering, bittersweet conclusion brings forth themes of hope and faith in humanity.  With outstanding performances by the two leads, this film should beat the unrealistic Life is Beautiful for the best foreign film Oscar.  A true cinematic masterpiece and the best film of 1998.  If this movie doesn't touch your heart you probably don't have one.  "},{"Title":"Best movie, ever!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't have enough words to describe it. But there is one thing that I have to say Central Sation is one of the best movies I've ever seen, and should be watched by everybody! Congratulations to all who worked in this great movie! "}{"Title":"A Brazil that is unknown to most Brazilians!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sensitive and poetic. Fenanda Montenegro is fantastic as always. She deserves all the prizes she's getting. Walter Sales Jr. showed a country unknown to most of us in Brazil - full  of colors, happy and sad at the same time but above all, sensitive and touchy. It makes us love more Brazil because of its diversity of feelings. This diversity shows cities like Rio, São Paulo as the richest ones and the poorest parts of the Northeatern Brazil that is completely left apart of Brazilian Society. Because of it Central do Brasil deserves Golden Globes, Oscars and every single prize it gets! Congratulations Brazil!  "},{"Title":"There's no doubt Central Station is the best film ever made in Brazil, and it deserves the 1998 Academy Awards.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is a masterpiece. One movie in thousands. A little and simple masterpiece about love, redemption, sadness and happiness. The film proves that is perfectly possible to make a great movie using little money. Cinema is art, Central Staion is art. It is a touching must-to-see filme that deserves - no doubt about it - the Academy Award.  "},{"Title":"Fernanda Montenegro is Oscar bound","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film that cannot be missed.  Fernanda Montenegro digs deep within her soul to bring out the best of the human emotions.  This is a performance that cannot be forgotten. Fernando Montenegro gets my vote for the best performance by an actress in a leading role.  "},{"Title":"Don't miss it!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is brilliant to show poor people rich in their hearts. For me, Central do Brasil is the most touching movie picture of 1998. "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE. Brilliant","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is an emotional roller-coaster. Be ready. The cinema photography is beautiful. It will make you miss Brasil if you haven't been in awhile. Enjoy. Ate logo. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is unlike any foreign movie I have seen.  You barely notice the subtitles because the actors are so compelling.  The story pulls you in and makes you a part of what is happening.  Vinicius de Oliveira who plays Josue is virtually an unknown in acting, and is brilliant. He is certain to make a huge impression in the future.    "},{"Title":"Beautiful road movie","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a Brazilian born French and I learned some things about Brazil seeing this movie. It's interesting but also beautiful and well casted. At first, I thought of a remake of Gloria by John Cassavetes because the main characters are alike in both films. But Walter Salles emphasises on the road and the country, he's full of hopes about his own nation... and Brazil just needs hope. The characters find hope in Jesus the one we all know and also, Jesus is the name of the orphan kid's father they are looking for. "},{"Title":"Central do Brasil made me feel happy...","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in Brazil in April this year. Now that it is being released worldwide, I recommend it to anyone. It gives an outstanding example of an excellent movie.Unlike many other movies, Central do Brasil features a character (Josué) who really decides about his destiny in spite of all the difficulties he has to face on his way.The performers are excellent. The emotions are strong.The movie shows also a different image of Brazil, and this image is probably much more real than the samba shows and the street crime high rate depicted by the usual media headlines.You will feel happy after viewing Central do Brasil. "},{"Title":"A superb film","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I usually tend to measure the strength of a film by the power of emotions that it drives me to. A reviewer, here in Brazil, when talking about Almodovar's Carne Tremula, said that you can see how good a film is by its number of memorable scenes.In both ways, Central do Brasil is a masterpiece, and I'm not saying it only because I'm a Brazilian.I saw it some months ago and was afraid to be exaggerated on my comments, so I waited to confirm that I was not only impressed at first sight. But now, when it's being released all over the world, I will feel glad if I can induce people to see it when reading this comment, cause, until now, the film is vivid on my mind and in my heart because of the greatness of its scenes and also because of the care and the tenderness it borrows to the common ones, the ones who gets hardened by nowadays troubles.The first scene, when there are some illiterate poor people inside central station in Rio de Janeiro asking Dora to write the letters they cannot write, is overwhelming. The one when Dora pays attention to her femininity and decides to put on a new dress and some lipstick is very great too. And there are so many others before the unforgettable final...Aligned with Saving Private Ryan, The Truman Show, Jackie Brown, Carne Tremula, Karakter, and some others this is one of the best films released here this year. Please, see it and choose your own favorite scenes. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the year","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's not easy to see a movie like this,a masterpiece, one of the best of my life! Fernanda Montenegro and Vinicius de Oliveira are superb and the photography is amazing! This movie deserves many Oscars! "}{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies made in the renaissance of Brazilian cinematography. Central do Brasil represents a harsh critic to  the Third World drama that we live in. And it's getting worse since globalization and the consumist urge transform us in mere spectators of disgrace. Showing all the cruel poverty that Brazil still has, Salles made a movie that equals the geniuses of the Cinema Novo(mainly Glauber Rocha). If you want to see something that touches your heart, go see it. It's impossible not to get out of the cinema without experiencing all the great and the worst in human beings. But don't take my words for it. If you like it, just write here what you felt.  "},{"Title":"Quest for redemption","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite their critics - and there aren't few - Central do Brasil is a great movie. In it, we can rediscover a Brasil that isn't touched yet by the individualism, the hypocrisy and the solitude of our lives nowadays. A Brasil that is a beautiful place to live, despite the starvation, the violence and the poverty. We see that redemption is what will take us back to Love's path. And, moreover, that this redemption is at hand of everyone of us. Fernanda Montenegro and Marília Pera give a real lesson of the art of acting, in the few moments that they act together. "},{"Title":"A work of sheer brilliance","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the great fortune of being able to see this film at an advance screening at Boston University, prior to which the producer, Arthur Cohn, introduced the film. He said, simply, that viewers at the Toronto Film Festival, when questioned following the showing, admitted that they hadn't noticed that the film was in Portuguese. That sums it up. Walter Salles has created a work of pure genius, deeply personal and deeply moving, that could have been spoken in any language. It is so powerful, it transcends words and cultures. "},{"Title":"A work of sheer brilliance","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the great fortune of being able to see this film at an advance screening at Boston University, prior to which the producer, Arthur Cohn, introduced the film. He said, simply, that viewers at the Toronto Film Festival, when questioned following the showing, admitted that they hadn't noticed that the film was in Portuguese. That sums it up. Walter Salles has created a work of pure genius, deeply personal and deeply moving, that could have been spoken in any language. It is so powerful, it transcends words and cultures. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Awesome, yet touching film.  I saw this movie first with one of my classes as a field trip back when I was in high school.  I never thought for one second that this unknown foreign film would come out so brilliant.  I still remember many of my classmates had the same feeling.  Til this day, after 5 or 6 years, I still love this movie.  The ending was sad.  But overall, more than worth it.  Definitely my favourite foreign movie so far. Character build-up was put together very well, and the acting, just great...SUPERB FILM! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is awesome.  It commanded my attention from start to finish. Having lived in Brazil for several years, I found this movie to be very realistic in its portrayal of Brazilian culture.  The acting was great, the scenes were well shot, and the sound track is excellent.  To tell you the truth, I was a bit surprised at the quality of the film, having seen other attempts of Brazilian Cinema that made B Grade movies look like Oscar contenders.The only problem I had with the movie was the translation of some of the words.  If you don't speak Portuguese, you are none the wiser.  But, the F word was used several times unnecessarily.  And so were other cuss words. Now I know that translation can't be done word for word, but I object strongly to the unnecessary use of profanity.  I really don't get why this movie was rated R since I have seen movies that had much more profanity and dealt with more difficult topics get only a PG-13 rating.  I really think that perhaps if some of the added cuss words would have been dropped from the sub-titles, the rating would have been at most PG-13.Definitely a great movie, although not for all tastes.  I give it an 8 1/2 out of 10.  I would have rated it higher but the added profanity really makes me mad.I welcome your comments and would especially like to hear from any Brazilians or Portuguese speakers (ie people who have lived in Brazil) who live in the Greater Cincinnati (or thereabouts) area.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant! One of the greatest films ever.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a marvellous and compassionate story which everyone should go and see. Montenegro is a fine actress who should win an Oscar. Cinematically the film is a masterpiece with its superb editing and great photographic journey through Brazil. "},{"Title":"Central do Brasil is not a movie It is CINEMA!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of course, Central do Brasil doesn't deserve an Oscar. Today's Oscars are tailored for motion pictures, blockbusters, and CB, being cinema, doesn't qualify. Besides, the way the Hollywood lobby choses movies for the award is tantamount to the way the United Nations make politics. Marlon Brando and Paul Newman know very well what an Oscar means and what it doesn't mean. Gone are the days when only a director's skills and cast competence were all it took to make unforgettable movies like Mr Smith Goes to Washington, Shenandoah, The Best Years of Our Lives, Sunset Boulevard, among a few others. Gone, too, are directors like Frank Kapra and William Wyler. Central do Brasil belongs in those former first rate winners and certainly Walter Salles Jr stands shoulder to shoulder with Mr Kapra and Mr Wyler. "},{"Title":"Cry, definitely - yet smile and laugh together with Dora and Josue","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very well written, directed, and acted &#150; central character Dora by Hernanda Montenegro, young boy Josue by Vinicius de Oliveira, and supporting role Irene, Dora's close friend, by Marilia Pira.  The music score was aptly used &#150; there were certain moments that the scenes were presented in quietness without a note of music nor additional sound (the whole theatre audience was just as quiet without a sound.)Story unfolds steadily introducing to us the setting of this Central Station in Rio, and the centre of our attention Dora, yet no moment is wasted, one thing leads to another in definite pace. The interactions and the relationship between this woman with a well-worn face and this seemingly self-assured boy, in spite of his young age, kept developing.  The things we notice and discover as we follow them, following through their journey -- it became a road movie, we went along with them on this search for Josue's father. The vignettes along the way &#150; there were suspense of unknowns, seemingly despairing moments, mix of stubbornness, warmth and caring for each other ever-leavened.Give up on trying to define right or wrong in your head, moral society approval or not &#150; &#145;tis not important any more as you go on this journey with them &#150; we are watching and changing the emotional high's and low's with them. Smile, laugh and cry with them.   "},{"Title":"Hope for Brazilian Humanity","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Walter Salles' Central Do Brasil is on the surface, a story about the growing relationship between a bitter, cynical old woman and young boy set in the impoverished, violent and illiterate city of Rio De Janeiro. It goes much deeper than that, however. The film portrays elements of Brazil's Cinema Novo in that it attempts to raise awareness about the poverty, child trafficking and the vast number of illiterate people in the country. In addition to the social and cultural problems of Brazil, Salles shows the beauty and vast landscape of the interior dry-lands of the country called the Sertao. Utilizing elements of the road film, we see the gritty city of Rio De Janeiro, with its decadent, violent, miserable every man for himself society compared to the exploration of a different part of the country, the underdeveloped but vast and beautiful landscape of a more rural Brazil. The protagonists, Dora and Josue, embark on a journey of self-discovery while searching for Josue's estranged father. Throughout the film each hardship the protagonists experience molds them into a more compassionate and empathetic human being. "}{"Title":"Why they must separate?","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is that the ending of every great movie must be sad ? Can't the ending of this movie be Dora and Josue living together in the house of Josue's brothers? Irene can go there and live with them too. WHY THEY MUST SEPARATE ?In my opinion, there should be tell more about the relationship between Irene and Dora , the movie will be more attractive.Overall, It is a great movie. A minute description of the relationship between Dora and Josue, how can a stubborn, conceited boy deals with a old fashion, opinionated woman ? The movie will tell you.I don't know any background knowledge of the movie before I watched it. The movie just show up next to a TV program, after the first part of the movie ,I have the strong desire of watching it!The actor(Dora and Josue ,etc) was brilliant! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Perfect","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The expectations I had of this movie came true. It was touching, it was funny and it was just great and Fernanda Montenegro is an outstanding actress. It's probably one of the most moving stories I've ever seen. Since this movie I became more into foreign language or art house movies. Can't wait to see more of these kind of masterpieces.   "},{"Title":"Sensibility and innocence","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nominated for the Best Actress in a Leading Role and Best Foreign Language Film Academy Awards, Central do Brasil is one of my all time favorite movies. The screenplay is very well written, the cast is amazing (from veteran Fernanda Montenegro to newcomer Vinícius de Oliveira) and the plot is filled with sensibility and innocence, characteristics that are very hard to find in today's movies. "},{"Title":"Some details to understand Central do Brasil","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I understand that some haven't liked  Central do Brasil. But I think their explanations make mistakes. Let us see they said that Dora released a job and a life to help a boy to find his father. But an important detail was forgotten in this comment Dora decides to help (?) the boy  to sell him  for a gang that traffics children. So, she decides to help him because she can gain much money. Do you - dear reader - find this impossible? Brazilian and world news show us this is much more common than we can imagine. It's true that Dora regretted - after having been reproached for her neighbor and only friend Irene - and freed the boy. Remorse, guilt? This also happens - or not? Now, the fact of Dora to have travelled with the boy looking for his father was also not moved by no goodness. After her bravery act of freeing the boy, she started to be the target of a gang of the traffic. Which alternative for Dora, except running away from the city? All the remaining portion of the film also is coherent - mainly the final. We can't forget that Dora takes a needy existence, an old dismissed teacher that steals the customers (she receives money and doesn't post the letters) to live, without family, with just one friend. And talking about  Life is Beautiful , if we analyze it under the point of view that some analyzed the film of Walter Salles, we wouldn't see the movie it's impossible to imagine that spree in a concentration camp! Put yourself in the place of that boy, prisoner for months, far of the mother... No joke of his father could make him happy as shown in the film. And certainty, nazi weren't so 'fool & funny' as  Life  showed. But, cinema is fancy, magic, and  Life is Beautiful  - although all the nonsenses - is moving. Therefore, it conquered the world. What also it happened with  Central do Brasil  - take a look at 'awards and nominations' at IMDb. That's all folks.  "},{"Title":"well worth seeing.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i put off seeing this film for a long time - not sure why.  for some reason i thought i wouldn't like it.  but it was quite good - it captures your attention early on.  fernanda montenegro was great - and the kid is really good too.  it took me a while to warm to the characters.  it is a good story - and i liked that dora was not a saint.  it reminded me of cassavettes gloria..   "},{"Title":"A few laughs, a few jerked tears, a tender moment","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station **1/2 We've all seen this story before; older person and child person come together by happenings in their lives.  They don't particularly like one another but things happen and they bond.  There is some tension about whether-or-not they will become family or once again be torn apart by life.  A few laughs, a few jerked tears, a tender moment. The scenes of Brazil are interesting.  The acting by Fernanda Montenegro and Vin Dcius de Oliveira are good.  Fernanda Montenegro was nominated for best actress for her role as Dora in CS.  When Gwyneth Paltrow won the Oscar, Fernanda reportedly complained that Gwyneth won because she was American. (No Fernanda, Gwyneth won because she did a better job of acting than you.)  A so-so recommendation from me.   "},{"Title":"Sparse, dense and thought-provoking......","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central StationDIRECTION T% Simple, precise and neat.ACTING = 90% The starring duo put up a convincing performance. Just like mother and the son she never had.EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS &#21;% Not much here to talk about, but it is a plain story!PLOT v% The main plot is for the son to meet his father. But there are other tragic moments within the movie dealing with relationships and exploitation.STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC = 15% Did not notice much. But I don't speak the language anyway!MUSIC = 85% Brings across the slow tense search for the unknown. SOUND = 20% Does it's job to know what Brazilian atmosphere sound like.HOOKABILITY &#149;% Very strong to see another landscape, unless you live there anyway!LASTABILITY '% You'll want to know if this movie has a happy ending.OVERALL = 85% Sparse, dense and thought-provoking. Silently emotionally charged with hope and without hope mixing together in the lives of two people looking for a purpose and belonging in life. Will they find it?  "},{"Title":"Not Good Until End","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found the film to be largely annoying except for the Brazilian countryside shots.It didn't come together for me until the end where the woman is tearfully writing the boy a farewell letter and you finally get her innermost thoughts. "},{"Title":"Powerful film of self-discovery","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having seen both Life is beautiful (The academy award winner for best foreign film of 1998), Children of Heaven, and Central do Brasil, I'd have to say that HANDS DOWN this film should have taken the award for best foreign film.After seeing this film I am even more fascinated in wanting to visit this magnificent country they call Brasil.  The highlight of the film has to be the contrasts between the letter writing that is done in the crowded, cold-hearted station in the city versus the writing done in the small rural town during the religious festival.This scene is the basic core of the movie and it is such a powerful metaphor..  Definite recommend MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"Duties of the Heart","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This, for me, is a film about holiness, because it offers whatever we may have worthy of grace without excuses or embroidery of any kind.  Set in Brazil, the central characters could have been from anywhere because they are fully human with all the frailties, uncertainties, and imperfect relationships that we all share.  Fernanda Montenegro plays Dora, a train station vendor who writes letters for the illiterate poor in Rio de Janeiro.  Dora is selfish, cynical, and contemptuous of her patrons.  She takes all the letters she writes home with her, opens them and laughs about them with her best friend before discarding them.  Montenegro gives an unembellished portrait of Dora, exalting her by telling the truth rather than by glamorizing any part of her life or actions.  Dora comes to know and gradually care about Josué, the young son of one of her patrons, after his Mother is killed in a freak accident.   Their personal and her emotional journey form the bulk of the picture.The film shows the harsh things they say and do to each other in the course of finding their way to some resolution.  One scene presents a festival of lights where thousands of pilgrims are praying for God's help.  In the midst of this crowd, Dora has told the boy that he is worthless and a burden, and then tries to find him after he runs off.  Neither is praying for help, but, in the stark cruelty and pettiness of their immediate past, they are nonetheless stripped bare of all pious defenses as are all petitioning before the judgment seat of God.  Whatever we may be worth is calculated in the lives we touch and whatever of meaningful value we take with us in life is built on our relationships with others.  Central Station divines this common holiness by depicting real people with nothing to fall back on but each other and the kindness of strangers. After reading the comments from others describing this as just another road movie or yet another child in danger accompanied by an adult, I realized that most people were not finding the same things I did. The closest films to this, in my experience, are not the overtly sentimental films like Gloria or  Life is Beautiful, but films like The Conversation and the religious drama Strange Cargo.  Central Station does not play up the danger to and protection of Josué, but concentrates on the transformation of Dora.  She does not have a heart of gold and her awakening to a new life is a human evolvement based on shared traumas, not a reward for altruism or heroism.  Gene Hackman gave a similarly affecting performance in The Conversation as an isolated security expert whose basic humanity was imprisoned behind his paranoia.  Strange Cargo followed a group of escaped convicts who in turn face or reject opportunities for redemption.  All three films share a respect for basic human nature rather than trying to make them or us more than we are. The denouement need not be a Christmas Carol transformation, just a visceral recognition of what is at stake when the soul is forgotten.  "}{"Title":"Good movie, mundane storyline.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie. Not great, because the plot is recycled from many other movies (A lot of foreign films involving a child supporting character is either the nominee/winner in the Academy Awards. Isn't that interesting?) But it was done well. Beautifully filmed, and an especially  good profile of life on the streets in Brazil.(When they shoot the thief, using young children as business items, illiteracy, etc.) But the cream of the crop was Fernanda Montenegro, who's face can show signs of sadness, pity, happiness, and hope. Her bitter (at the same time good natured) rendition of a grandmotherly type should of won the Oscar for Best Actress. We all know the award was given to the blonde salamander, which is unsurprising. Still, with the nominations and winners these days, it does show that the Academy's taste is becoming more diverse.  "},{"Title":"it's Brasil, I think.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station, worth being recognized as one of the best foreign films, describes current Brazilian ideology and life style in the din and bustle central city, and other various! country views which include endless plain, thorough the breathtaking story. The friendship is quite moving to tears. But from my stand point, I prefer to focus on the description of Brazil that is not just beautiful, but so impressive that makes me have in mind not to go there without any determinations. "},{"Title":"The best foreign film of 1998!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central Station is one of the best films of 1998, and THE best foreign film of 1998! It's a moving film about the relationship that develops between two completely different people.  Fernanda Montenegro is superb as a bitter older woman who proves that she does have a heart, by looking after a nine year old boy who is left an orphan when his mother dies.  Besides demonstrating the bond between these two characters, the film also shows two faces of Brazil it's stunning landscape (which is beautifully photographed in the film), and the overwhelming poverty of its people.  This film is a must-see for all film buffs. "},{"Title":"Fine film flawed by fear of sentimentality","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's great seeing a film about simple people, their hopes, decisions, and feelings -- a type of story Hollywood rarely does these days.  They're too busy blowing things up and crafting narcissistic vehicles for over-priced stars.  CENTRAL STATION is well-written and directed, and beautifully acted, especially by Montenegro, but I have one problem with itSentimentality -- making life sweeter than it is -- may have marred films at one time, but it's been out-of-fashion for decades.  CENTRAL STATION shows what replaced it a pseudo-tough anti-sentimentality that's just as false and clichéd.Real life contains hope and despair, bright and dark.  The greatest writers, like Shakespeare or Tolstoy, show it all to you.  But CENTRAL STATION, like so many modern plays and films, projects a two-dimensional negativity, as if ugliness, hatred, injustice, and pain are the only true reality.  The trouble is, this viewpoint is as false as pretending life is a bed of roses.The filmmaker's fear of sentimentality warps his story so that parts of it make no sense.  Dora is established as a woman hardened by a tough childhood and the cruelty of Third World lawlessness and poverty.  She has become cold, selfish, and amoral.  The story shows us how reluctantly caring for an orphan boy ends up humanizing her.A fine, if not terribly original, idea.  But the film won't let Dora change *enough*.  Fearing sentimentality, the filmmaker shows her heart melting and then doing things so cold they make no sense in the context of her changed way of thinking.Near the end of the film, when Dora has begun to know compassion and self-sacrifice, she is pointlessly cold to her only friend, a kindly woman named Irene.  Then she callously abandons the boy without even saying goodbye.Her decision to do this makes no sense.  She has no life to go back to.  It's obvious the best thing she could do is live with the three illiterate, abandoned brothers, at least for a while, to help raise and care for them. But the film won't let her do it.Instead, she flees -- which makes no sense, especially after she's told Irene she wants to settle somewhere far from Rio.This ending is fashionably bleak and completely artificial.  It doesn't affect us emotionally because it doesn't follow from what's come before.  Equally unrealistic is the final shot of the boy smiling through tears as he somehow understands why Dora has abandoned him.  How can he understand what makes no sense?  This boy has been abandoned by everyone in his life -- that Dora does it to him again is meaninglessly cruel.  His tearful understanding is sentimental anti-sentimentality at its worst.Films used to have artificial happy endings tacked on, to please audiences.  CENTRAL STATION has an artificially bleak ending tacked on, to please critics.  This film, good as it is, shows how anti-sentimentality can be just as false and phony as its opposite.  "},{"Title":"too honest for this viewer**SPOILERS","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Instinct had me put off seeing Central Station until just last week, and now I know why. While I am a big fan of foreign films, i.e. Cinema Paradiso, Il Postino, Toto le Heros, Como Agua para Chocolate, etc., I found this film to be too heavy for its own good.Perhaps it's my own cultural centrism speaking, but the constant sins of the female lead were too much for me to buy as redeemable. To knowingly sell the boy to be butchered for spare parts, when there is no clear desperation or need so drastic in the woman's life to demand such a heartless act, is unforgivable for me. I understand that there are people like this woman in the world, who make choices that include selling children to be murdered, but I don't find such people interesting enough to make stories about.Many comments on this movie describe it as enchanting and beautiful. I'm not sure what film they were watching. Urban blight and hollow souls aren't enchanting. This is a bleak, heavy-handed morality play, not a lyric visual feast.It's also a little too by the numbers. All the males get easy-to-follow Biblical names. The closing image of the two friends with the plastic saint transforms our crusty old maid into the Virgin Mary. However, the role of Christianity in this film, and in the Brazilian society it portrays still troubles me.This woman is not redeemed by faith, but by friendship - which the boy keeps thrusting upon her even though she gruffly drops him at every opportunity. However, we are Oliver-Stoned with religious imagery and religious people in the film. Is religion the opiate of abused peasants? Is it the single hope of a burgeoning nation?I don't know after seeing this film, and I don't think the director does, either. The devout in the film seem to be happy, but Dora is rewarded for her sins without ever making any leap of faith. Yes, she makes it to the end of the journey, but only because she's stranded without money (b/c of yet another selfish attempt to ditch the boy), and has to stay the course with Josue b/c she has no other choice.I don't want to condemn this film, but it is certainly not one of the best films of all time, nor even of 1998. Shakespeare in Love won awards for itself and its actors because it was written by the finest living writer of the English language, Tom Stoppard. Rushmore, an even better film, told a much funnier and more compelling story than Central Station of two flawed characters in need of redemption, who believably fight their way to a unique friendship.Central Station is an achievement - it is not afraid to show the frightening truth about homeless orphans in Brazil, but it fails to illicit more than pity from this viewer. It resorts to cheap emotional tricks (what I call poking a puppy with a stick) where the film intentionally tortures the sad-eyed boy to illicit sympathy from the audience. These tactics aren't very different from the emotional games played in most lame American films.The crusty single person with a hidden heart of gold meeting and ultimately caring for the scruffy, pouty and spunky kid from the street is a very tired story, and beyond the early scenes of the horror these children are faced with, the movie brought nothing new to an over-done plot.  "},{"Title":"Heart-warming","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is a heart-warming film with some really interesting characters. Dora is a very complex woman, she's good and she's bad, she's strong and she's vulnerable. It must have been an actress's dream to read a script with such a complex female character. And Fernanda Montenegro does a really good job and would probably have been a more deserving winner of the Academy Award than Gwyneth Paltrow. The film is good, although I found it difficult in the beginning to be engrossed by what was going on and afterwards I was still confused by the fact that Dora never sent the letters that she was paid to send. Did I miss something? Was there something that I didn't understand? She had no motivation whatsoever for tearing up the letters and that is a serious lack in the script. Overall, though, Central do Brasil is a touching and heart-warming film. (6/10) "},{"Title":"What is all the fuss about","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I should not be too critical as this film is watchable and enjoyable. Some of the camerawork is very impressive for example. However, I can not escape the impression that this is world cinema in the hunt for an Academy award. It just feels false, over polished and a little cold. My reaction is not dissimilar to that experienced when I have to sit through some of the costume dramas that come out of Britain.This film just fails to grab my interest and it irritates that others seem to rate it so highly. To me this film is as much about marketing an image as The Phantom Menace, it just the audience that is to be duped that's different.   "},{"Title":"The voyage of a child searching his own roots. A fairly poor film","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the Brasil of today where a color-tv is still something to be dreamed about and where the ability to read and write is available to the very few, a child loses his mother and is accompanied by an acid old lady in the voyage to reach his no-good long-lost alcoholist father. Along the road, both characters shall undergo a change in their attitude the lady will realize that you can use (and abuse) the ignorant and the poor only for as long as you find yourself by the lucky side of the fence and the child shall learn how to tell the difference between your real goal and the mental picture you have of it. The film also does not forget to remind us of the sad condition of the Brazilian children (the old lady initially sells the child to an organization of organ-sellers) and adolescents as well (a teenager is shot and killed for having robbed a valueless object) and - the director hints - religion and prayer are the only things left to the Brazilian (say the whole Third World) masses today, though there's an abyss between religion (all the people are equal...) and the cruel reality (...but some are more equal than the others). To correctly judge the film, I can not help but compare Central do Brasil to Solanas' El viaje the latter is a masterpiece, while the former is nothing more than sufficient. If this was Berlin '98's Golden Bear, then the average quality of the films had to be fairly poor there. "},{"Title":"Brazilian Road-Dogs","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was not entirely a waste of time. It is educational. We learn that Brazil is not all spotless beaches and festivals. We learn it is a land of drab work-a-day people, of people who cling to the outside of commuter trains, of dank faceless project-like housing. We learn that so many people are illiterate that they must pay another to write letters for them.We also learn that Brazil is a place in which a little boy can watch the death of his mother in a traffic accident and just be left at the scene to fend for himself. The main character is a charlatan letter writer who makes fun of the letters later with her girlfriend, and then throws them away. She has no scruples and one shudders to learn that she is a retired school teacher! The picture lacks any humor or lightness whatsoever. Brazil is shown to be a third world mess. We are never sure why the letter writer offers shelter to the petulant waif. He is neither cute nor endearing.The ending is inexplicable. When she finally finds people that accept and need her, that would no doubt rejoice at her remaining with them, she runs home to her tragic existence as if none of this had ever happened. Has she grown at all?But one must admit that the acting was natural and good all around, and that explains my four star rating. "},{"Title":"Latin America for the tourists...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I dislike very much movies made to be liked. Central do Brasil, as a portrait of Brazil's reality, in my opinion, fails. And as simple story of a boy and an old woman trying to working things up with life, fails too. It has a weak script, and is poorly developed as a story. The boy is cute, and the old woman is a great actress, but that's all the good in this movie for me. "}{"Title":"Well done","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I missed this in theaters, so was glad to finally catch up to this on video, and I wasn't disappointed.  For the most part, CENTRAL STATION is an engaging film, and while it is a tad predictable(we know Dora and the little boy are going to become friends before the movie is over), director Walter Salles allows us to go into the personal journeys of each character, more than a U.S. film usually does, which makes it deeper.  Both lead actors are also terrific, which helps.  I haven't seen too many films from South America(off the top of my head, I can only think of PIXOTE, DONA FLOR AND HER TWO HUSBANDS, and THE OFFICIAL STORY), but based on those, I definitely hope to see some more. "},{"Title":"Unsent Message","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This has such promise in the two or three moments when the lettersenders dictate. It would have been in the Latin tradition of fine film to have made something of the writer inventing the reality of the film.But no. Other than the letterwriters, the whole thing is a treacly, sentimental morality play.Watch this only if you are interested in the religious superstitions of rural Brazil.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film based on a good story, but with a confusing script and an over-lenghtened realization.The musical score is ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Implausible story full of cheap sentimentalism","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Central do Brasil is really idiot. Imagine the following situation.You are a common person, you have your private life, your job, your responsibilities etc. You are working when suddenly you see a child crying. You don't know this boy, you had never seen him. He tells you his mother has just died and ask you to find his father, who lives in a city far from about a thousand miles. Then you spontaneously forgot your obligations, your work, your life and travel with the child in search of his father.You or someone you know would do it? Don't you agree it's a nonsense? Because this is the beginning of Central do Brasil. And the movie goes on with a lot of slush. How can somebody be so stupid on the verge of write this implausible script? But the most impressive aspect of this silly movie is its nomination to the Oscar of Best Movie in Foreign Language. Fortunately the Oscar went to Roberto Benigni's La vita è bella. "},{"Title":"A boring, pathetic and seen hundreds of time story","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gee, people, this is surely going to win an Oscar! It's the same story as in Kolja, only without the humor. There's a cute child, a grumpy old lady, lots of violins in the ever-present soundtrack, many tears, the misery of a people, some sociological comment and every way of exploiting the so-called civilized people's interest in a Country so obviously uncivilized that only one person in the whole film can read and write! I just hope that, when Oscar time comes, the Academy members will prefer Benigni's Giosue' to this Josue' in search of a father. Surely Mr. Salles must have treasured his reading of the book Cuore by Edmondo De Amicis. "},{"Title":"Not true to life","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very frustrating movie experience because this would have been one amazing film if it had more realism.  The situations were played out perhaps only one or two notches too low on the stark realism scale, resulting in some important plot twists falling flat.  All the other ingredients were there -- too bad. "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated movies ever!","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This silly tearjerker is certainly one of the most overrated movies of all times! If you've ever seen one of those Mexican soap-operas, then you can imagine what this film is all about, except that it is made with even less skill and good taste.  It is hard to understand why the Academy decided to nominate the leading lady although her performance is not mediocre, it is absolutely not worthy of an Oscar nomination.  "}]