[{"Title":"One of the best of the 90's","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"56 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Strange, opaque and deeply unsettling, the War Zone is the only way a film about a topic as horrifying as incest should be. Tim Roth, realizing that the family of the film is too far gone to elicit much empathy from the audience, simply tries to convey the story as truthfully as possible. With crushing results.At the beginning of the film, we're introduced to a nameless clan a genial father (Ray Winstone), a mother exhausted from recently giving birth (Tilda Swinton), a sullen teenage boy (Freddie Cunliffe), and his strikingly beautiful older sister (Lara Belmont). All four have recently moved from London to the remote, seaside village of Devon, leaving the two kids feeling isolated and adrift.What follows for the next hour or so is a brilliantly confusing experience--Roth presents a series of odd quirks about the family that makes the audience question what is merely eccentricity and what hints at something darker. Why, for example, does the family walk around naked most of the time? Don't those siblings seem slightly too affectionate given that they're teenagers? What exactly does the boy see his father doing with his sister in the bathroom that bothers him so? All of this mystery leads up to an absolutely harrowing scene which leaves no mystery as to the dynamic between father and daughter. More emotionally explicit than physically so, the scene is rightfully regarded as one of cinema's more horrible acts of on-screen violence, yet doesn't feel gratuitous in the slightest.This film is as sparse as possible, with almost no inflection or melodramatic effects. Scenes are generally shot in long takes with a static camera (gorgeously framed in widescreen). There is little excess dialogue, and almost no music. Often we are placed into the middle of confusing scenes that are open to numerous interpretations. We more or less have to come to our own conclusions about what is going on. The teenagers are as inexpressive and introspective as teenagers in real life, which makes there unexpected emotional outbursts all the more powerful.Why Roth hasn't made any other films is beyond me. He has a lean, cinematic sensibility which is unmatched by any other actor-director. I hope he gets an opportunity to use it again soon. "},{"Title":"A captivating work of art.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film dealing with the subjects of rape and incest could easily be sensationalistic and, consequently, undermine the very issues it supposedly tackles. It is, therefore, highly commendable, and testament to Tim Roth's skill as a director, that the War Zone does not cheapen its plot by doing this, but instead, provides a sensitive, dignified and beautiful treatment of the devastating effects of a father's depravity on the rest of his family, and, indeed, on himself.One of the most striking aspects of the War Zone is the stunning and epic cinematography. Filmed in Devon, on the southwest coast of England, bleak, grey skies, the vicious sea and jutting cliffs frame the desolation of the central characters of the movie Tom, the son, and Jessie, the daughter. The former, a withdrawn teenager, is devastated when he unwittingly discovers the secret relationship between his sister and father, and struggles with hatred and horror for them both, as he endeavours to find out the depths of the depravity he is privvy to. Jessie is equally, though differently, affected by the actions of her father. As she attempts to hide the truth from mother and brother, while also in turmoil over her own part in the secret, she feels a burden that manifests itself in moments of self-loathing, anguish and despair. However, the true depths of these emotions are never laid out for the audience, never portrayed in such a way that they could simply wash across our path and be discarded; they are merely hinted at, shown in fleeting moments. The fact that the protagonists in the film are being tormented by the events they are part of is obvious; it is left up to the individual to interpret and imagine the depths of the feelings being felt. This subtlety serves to add realism to the film, and also heightens the harrowing effect of it, as the events and feelings hinted at, or partly displayed, are absorbed and twisted by the mind of the viewer, almost contaminating him by forcing him to do the work in fully comprehending the goings- on in the family; making him empathise with Tom.Although the emotions and feelings the characters in the film undergo are shown in an equivocal manner, several scenes are, in contrast, stark, with events lain bare to the audience. Again, this could be a point at which the War Zone sensationalises the subject matter. However, even the supposedly shocking scene between Jessie and the father is portrayed with sensitivity through the dignified direction. Indeed, in a film made as the War Zone is, it would undermine the very realism of it to avoid showing what goes on between the father and daughter. It is a movie that endeavours to show the realities of abuse in a family, and to gloss over an aspect of this would lead to an unfulfilling exploration of the subject. To re-iterate, though, it is testament to the skill of Tim Roth, that while not hesitating to show the full horror of abuse on screen, he does so in a way that does not cheapen the feelings of those  involved. Indeed, there is almost an air of gentleness in several of the more harrowing scenes; despite stark images being portrayed, one feels they are being shown in a highly respectful manner.The War Zone is, in sum, a beautifully artistic piece of cinema. The cinematography, solemn, despairing music, slow yet strong direction, and fine acting contribute to a film that, though harrowing, is highly rewarding and enjoyable. I think the fact that it offers no answers or satisfying resolution to the events it has portray is again something the serves to add realism to the subject matter. After all, abuse is not a topic to be resolved without reducing it to trite concessions to viewers keen not to be forced to realise that some facets of life are not rounded, with simple answers and easy reprieves, but jarring and jagged, with no answers, resolution, or simple end.  "},{"Title":"This is hard medicine -- definitely NFE (not for everyone)","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The 1998 Danish Dogma film The Celebration (Festen) is another hard medicine movie, intense drama about family strives and  incest. The Danish film shows the intensity through dialogs and character reactions. Tim Roth's film cuts to the chase and shows the vivid horror of the actual act. Tim does not skirt around the subject. He takes the subject right on and tackles it directly and really shakes up the viewers. It's raw emotions -- nothing sentimental. The actors are in their natural appearances with not much make-up Tilda Swinton you see her with the pregnant creased skin-folds of a tummy inelegance; the two teenagers (Lara Belmont as Jessie, Freddie Cunliffe as Tom) in their casual demeanor/slouching poses; Ray Winstone as the seemingly unsuspicious father who looks like any man of the house, full of himself and chatting incessantly (in a way, an indication of certain insecurity and self-doubt?). We don't get to see the predator's face much. Director Tim Roth wants the focus on the heinous act vs. personal faces, which could be anybody who has had such traumatic experience at home. Home is where the trust and warmth of a family together should be. Through Tim's delivery, we see the coldness and frustration the two teenagers face, esp. Tom the son, who discovered the wrongful act accidentally and felt confused and unable to talk to anyone about it -- his sister, the victim, just as confused and unable to talk about it. The different levels of fear that each member of the family has&#133; A poignant film, with explicit scenes sensitively choreographed, demands viewers attention to the tough subject at hand.  We can't turn away -- the inevitable merciless truth presented in our face on the screen. It's a bold attempt. This film calls for attention to the subject of incest and its traumatic consequences beyond imagination. Roth succeeded.   "},{"Title":"Disturbingly Realistic, Incredible Acting, Sad.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Whew.  At a loss for words.  You really feel like your gut has been ripped out after watching this truly sad story.  Lara Belmont definitely deserves some kind of award for this; her role of Jessie, the sexually abused daughter is amazing.  I didn't know who to feel sorry for most, Jessie, her brother, or the mother.The love between brother and sister through this dilemma is tear jerking.  Rarely has a movie caught such realism in the expression of utter despair and hopelessness.  My desire to reach through the screen and strangle the father was outweighed only by my desire to hug the daughter, and root for the brother.  It's hard to believe this actually happens for real, but unfortunately the reality is, it does.  I think part of the penalty for such a horrible thing as incest and child abuse is to watch The War Zone.The cinematography is outstanding and serves as almost a beautiful counterbalance to the main story's theme.  I guess it takes some of the best scenery in the world to help balance _that_ out.  This film easily gets a 10, and deserves every bit of it. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Find","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen many powerful films in my life, but few compare to the off-beat, unsettling and totally uncompromising 'War Zone', actor turned director Tim Roth's first film. Many people despised it for being so raunchy, straight-forward and too realistic, while others praised it for that very same reason. 'The War Zone' is a very hard-to-watch film because it portrays incest -- such a terrible and disgusting event going on in some families today. I was repulsed by the film's haunting and brooding score, but I have to say I was amazed also. 'The War Zone' is a brilliant film and an incredible first effort from Tim Roth.'The War Zone' follows an isolated British family living in the lush green hills somewhere in England. The family consists of a dad (Ray Winstone - Sexy Beast), a mum (Tilda Swinton - The Deep End), a baby (Megan Thorp), a in-her-late-teens daughter (Lara Belmont) and a in-his-younger-teens son (Freddie Cunliffe) who's perspective the film is shot from. Everything seems to be going so excellent for this new family with the new baby and all, until one day the son sees something he's not supposed to -- the dad molesting the daughter. This tears this seemingly happy family apart and it comes to a huge, yucky boil at the end of the feature.'The War Zone' moves a little slow towards the beginning but in a way that it is it's only flaw. Tim Roth does a semi-amateurish but mostly consistent job directing while Alexander Stuart provides an incredible screenplay that should have picked up an Oscar nomination. The cast is astounding with a powerhouse lead performance from Ray Winstone that proves him to be perhaps one of the finest British actors working in film today. Tilda Swinton is excellent for the limited screen time her character as 'mum' has, while the movie in a way belongs to the kids. Freddie Cunliffe is extraordinary in his role, while newcomer Lara Belmont is spellbinding in every scene and never ceases to bring emotion out of the viewer. Supposedly she was working at 'Burger King' before she did the film. I think it's safe to say she won't be working there anymore. The camera-work is really low-budget and the DVD frustrated me because it had no subtitles.All in all, Tim Roth's 'The War Zone' is an amazing motion picture but a crappy DVD. The poorly-formatted DVD is worth buying just because of the awesome quality of the movie itself. If you love and appreciate film and think you have a strong enough stomach for this one, be sure to do a 100-meter dash to the videostore and snag a copy of 'The War Zone'. Grade A- "},{"Title":"Father Knows Best","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A melancholic boy faces the prospects of adapting to life in a craggy, rugged English countryside separated from the London he knows.  We soon discover things are going to go from bad to worse.  The War Zone is a special film about incest taken entirely from the perspective of the teenage son, Tom, and his sister, Jessie, giving it a quality of children versus their parents.  Incest has been broached before in other films like Celebration and The Sweet Hereafter but never with such all encompassing realism as The War Zone.  You feel like a voyeur prying in other people's business.  Director Tim Roth presents scene after scene of stark, uninviting, seashore landscapes as well as a mesmerizing  movie score that vacillates between rushed crescendos and unnerving calm to give The War Zone a cold, somber tenseness.  The acting is outstanding but Freddie Cunliffe as Tom and Lara Belmont as Jessie carry the film with their brave, demanding portrayals.  Tom must weigh the secret he knows with preserving the stability of the home.  He is so perplexed about normal love and the mere act of lust that when he comes upon attractive neighbor, Lucy and the set-up vixen, Carol, he becomes stupefied rather than attracted to them. Jessie must walk a fine line between the sex act she craves and her sense of right and wrong.  Indeed, at one point, we sympathize with her less because she doesn't seem to mind her predicament.  The War Zone ends in a way some will find unsatisfying but it is very consistent with the film's theme - lost children who will never find their way back.  "},{"Title":"Uncompromising drama that borders on voyeuristic at times","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A young family moves from London to a remote country house.  The young son suspects that his sister and his father's relationship is more than it should be.  As he looks more and more into it he finds a sinister element that his mother does not see.This was Tim Roth's directorial debut and he certainly wasn't looking for a popcorn hit.  The story by Alexander Stuart from his own novel is very slow and deliberate but is ruthlessly effective.  At first the whole family seems to have a strange sexual edge to it - the mother breast feeds in full view, the teenage brother and sister lie naked in front of each other etc.  It gives things a strange feel but it's quickly forgotten when you get used to it.  The guts of the story revolves around the father's sexual abuse of his daughter Jessie, who no longer fights but accepts it as part of her life.  Some of the scenes - in particular &#145;the scene' - are too hard to watch and the whole thing is very powerful.  The film develops slowly and does not allow the father to be a monster-type (the British media have a habit of demonising people rather than taking objective views).  Here the film doesn't let him become a caricature even when his crimes come to light.The cast are roundly brilliant.  Winston plays it perfectly all the way and doesn't take the `monster' route.  Freddie Cunliffe is excellent as Tom - although all he has to do is mope around the place.  Lara Belmont is outstanding - this must have been so difficult to play but she is absolutely excellent throughout.  Swinton is good as the mother, but her character is not well used or developed.Overall it's very hard to watch.  Roth's direction is a little too clever but is very good generally.  A powerful story very well told - but it may not be to everyone's liking. "},{"Title":"Roth creates a directorial debut masterpiece","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was warned so much in advance that I entered the cinema wearing a (virtual) bullet proof vest and was equipped with two packets of Kleenex. As the film ended, I found myself oddly desensitised. I felt like someone punched me in the stomach and I was left out of air, almost hollow.Roth, following his mate Gary Oldman, has chosen a courageous yet uncommercially viable issue to tackle in his directorial debut. Nevertheless, aided by gifted photographer, Seamus McGarvey, and inspired casting, Roth's film is a triumph.The stunning and clever location, the 'understatedness'/'Englishness' of the characters, the harrowing soundtrack, the unanswered plot threads, all make for a disturbing, horrifying, and unmissable film experience.Thumbs up for Tim Roth.  "},{"Title":"approximately harrowing","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tim Roth as director delivers a drama with the kind of gut-wrenching family story that happens only so often in the movies; not even Todd Field's films, however excellent, come close to The War Zone as being truly insightful into a specific dark corridor of a family slowly ripping itself apart. Part of it is the exceptional naturalistic acting, wherein actors I've never seen before like Lara Belmont and Freddie Cunliffe are subtle in just glances and stares to one another, and when they dig deep into the tragic parts of the story they're revelatory, maybe even more so than Ray Winstone and Tilda Swinton. You can't take your eyes off of Cunliffe.In the War Zone the family is a father, mother, son and daughter, with the mother giving birth to a newborn daughter at the opening of the film. The story, however rightfully thin, concerns the secret that Jessie and Tom holding fragility when Tom sees Jessie and their father in an incestuous act. There's denial, fighting, lots of scorn that grows between the two, while the rift between the son and the family becomes so thick that it could explode at any moment. But what's brilliant about the story, as well as rightfully heartbreaking, is how logically the tragedy unfolds, how the secret soon comes apart and leads into some unexpected scenes (one of which involving self-abuse, the other towards the end, a more conventional but still shocking act of violence).Roth could be considered purely an actor's director, and he is one first and foremost. But he also is able to convey a profound sense of agony if only with the choice of scenery, of this quiet and dark seaside area and the bunker by the house where the incest takes place (apparently the R-rated version omits some explicit bits, but it doesn't feel compromised and actually helps by showing little), and the shots he films linger as much on the characters as in the viewer's mind. This isn't merely some pretentious decision but a deliberate choice that, somewhat akin to a Bergman picture, emphasizes those crushing beats that are much truer than something more stylish. With the unflinching eye, as some other critics have noted, Roth shows us things that make us uncomfortable, but because of this it doesn't lie and that's a great service through art for those who have been afflicted with abuse in families. At the least, it isn't a schlock-TV movie. A+ "},{"Title":"If Bergman did an abuse movie, it might look like this.","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I went to see Tim Roth's directorial debut War Zone to get insight into a deeply talented actor, much as that's a reason to see Sean Penn-directed movies. War Zone is a cross between Once Were Warriors, the visceral NZ movie on domestic violence, and Wuthering Heights.It's visually stunning, painterly, as the dysfunctional family is set in almost Edward Hopper-still life isolation on the moors, surrounded only by the elements--lots of rain, sea and relentless wind--with the characters mostly silent you sure hear that howling wind instead of conversation-- with an occasional human being staring them down.While the family's close-knit physical intimacy was realized in an almost 17th century way of togetherness, I'm not sure the abuse was, as I thought most incest more pedophiliac than this. So the universality of any message is lost, other than the lesson that family members are love-tropic and take it any way they can get it with some fine lines dividing functional from dysfunctional.If Bergman did an abuse movie, it might look like this. Excellent acting all around, though as usual some working-class Brit accents can be hard to decipher by an American. (originally written 12/31/1999) "}{"Title":"Beautiful, troubling, superbly acted","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Probably the worst thing about Tim Roth's audacious directorial debut is its title 'The War Zone' conjures images of something rather noisier, and less subtle, than this film about aberrant sexuality within a family unit. Roth is brave enough to show love among the hate, and to assign a limited degree of complicit guilt to the apparent victim the film gains greatly from both of these decisions. He also has interesting visual ideas the film is full of lonely, widescreen images in which the central subjects appear almost lost; and homely Devon has never looked wilder and less civilised than it does here, depicted in winter and at night. Roth also gets great performances from all his cast in what is essentially a four-hander, Tilda Swinton is good in a limited part, Ray Winstone shows (not for the first time) that he has talents beyond those required for his customary hard-man roles, but it's the young actors who are most outstanding Freddie Cunliffe as the troubled boy who discovers dark secrets, and especially the beautiful, opaque Laura Belmont who is simply tremendous as his sexually aware, not-as-cool-as-she-seems sister. At time the soundtrack seems a bit generic, and I'm not entirely convinced by the open ending, but this is still a better film than many directors make in their careers. On the strength of this movie, Roth should enjoy a long career behind the camera. "},{"Title":"So Unrelentingly Grim And Bleak As To Be Unwatchable","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's always something of a cliché when actors decide to direct and certainly a mixed bag . Without doubt one of the outstanding directors in the world today is Clint Eastwood who deservedly won two Oscars and would probably have earned another if MYSTIC RIVER hadn't been released the same year as RETURN OF THE KING . Watching THE WAR ZONE Tim Roth's first - And hopefully last - movie behind the camera it's a safe bet that actor Roth won't be gaining too much acclaim as a director I have to question Roth's judgement for picking THE WAR ZONE as a directorial debut , couldn't he have done a romantic comedy instead ? I mean people could have flocked to the cinema to see characters on screen laugh , kiss and fall in love with the audience walking home hand in hand in a nice happy mood . Instead of filming a story with commercial potential Roth has made a movie centered around a teenage girl being sexually abused by her father . There's no implication involved , everything is blatant and the audience are shown a quite sickening scene where the father has anal sex with his daughter that will have a TV audience scrambling for the off button of their remote control . This is the most distressing scene in the movie but it's not the only scene that will depress the audience . The whole movie has a bleak , grim atmosphere with close ups of emotionally traumatised characters faces along with scenes of self harm . It should also be pointed out that one of the aspects Roth fails in as a director is the sound mix since I could hardly understand a single line of dialogue I will give Roth credit for getting the best out of the cast but since the actors are playing characters crushed by revelations of sexual abuse the performances are difficult to watch . Lara Belmont is to put it kindly not the most attractive actress you'll ever see but she gives a truly great performance as incest victim Jessie . Likewise Freddie Cunliffe who plays Tom and who finds out his father is having sex with his sister gives a haunting performance as a devastated teenager . It's not often the words  courage  and  actor  appear in the same sentence but I will praise actor Ray Winstone for having the courage to play the part of the abusive father . It's a sad fact of life that some indivduals can't tell the difference between fictional movies and reality so you can just imagine Winston being in the pub pleading   look mate I'm an actor , I play different characters and I'm a lovely bloke in real life so can you please put down that machete  . Perhaps it's just as well for Winstone that THE WAR ZONE didn't reach a bigger market since he'd never be able to walk down a dark street again As I finish off writing this review I feel myself being more and more distressed by the movie the more I think about it . I read the story on the IMDb trivia page of the man who attended the Toronto Film Festival and who became almost hysterical while watching the movie and I can understand how he felt and the more I think about THE WAR ZONE the more I start to wish I had never seen this movie in the first place . You have been warned "},{"Title":"The Dead Zone","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The War Zone directed by Tim Roth fully confirms its reputation as extremely dark, pessimistic tragic, and highly admirable given the deeply disturbing nature of its subject. Performances are fantastic &#150; natural and honest. As a director, the first-timer Tim Roth is very impressive &#150; he created the atmosphere that makes a viewer suffocated, uncomfortable, and hurt which is appropriate for this type of film. The most talked about scene in a bunker between a father and his teenage daughter as seen by the eyes of their son and brother, Tom is handled with such incredible array of quietly screaming emotions and pain that it almost overpowers the similar scene in Irreversible (believe it or not). It is very powerful piece of film-making and deserves all its praise and awards. There is a little but, though. One of the reasons I wanted to see the film was to compare it to the Alexander Stuart's novel of the same title which the film was based on. With all respect and admiration for what Tim Roth has done, Stuart's book is much darker, more open and goes far deeper in its attempt to understand and explain the tragedy which ruined and destroyed a seemingly happy and loving family. "},{"Title":"Caught in the middle.","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Only a couple days after watching No Way Home, a Tim Roth lead role flick, I happened to stumble upon The War Zone, his directorial debut. Gotta love when that stuff happens. Anyways, I really enjoyed No Way Home and as soon as I saw The War Zone, I just had a feeling I was going to be treated with two really good films. Son of a bitch! This film was fantastic.The story revolves around a what-seems normal family. They're new to the country-side and it seems they're struggling a tad adjusting but overall the family seems moderately happy. All goes wrong when the son accidentally spots Dad and daughter in the tub together. Uh-oh! The War Zone is a fantastic flick that deals with incest and family relations on seriously deep levels. Containing issues of jealousy, confusion, love, disgust, innocence....it goes on and on.Tim Roth's directorial debut is a great success, and when mixed with a fantastic cast, great writing, and beautiful cinematography and music, it's very hard not to be swept up while watching this thought-provoking and disturbing film. If you're into films concerning very mature themes, don't hesitate to watch this film. "},{"Title":"like voyeurism","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Usually, when we watch a movie, even if it portrays an embarrassing situation, we don't feel like we're spying on the characters. Watching The War Zone, I felt like I was spying on the characters. Portraying a family about to discover an unpleasant secret, Tim Roth's directorial debut really turns your stomach.Like many other English movies, The War Zone discredits what I call the Mary Poppins image of England a bunch of happy-go-lucky rich people and humorous cockneys. As we have seen in many English movies, the country is mostly working class, and unpleasant situations often arise. And believe you me, one arises in this movie. Among the cast are Tilda Swinton and Colin Farrell, before they were household names here. Perfect. "},{"Title":"Should be required viewing...","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  im Roth's directorial debut is an absolutely stunning piece of work.  Roth, as well as the actors and crew involved in the making of this film, should be commended -- not only for their art, but for bringing such an important subject as this into the light in such a sensitive way.  Everything about the film -- the look, the use of music, the adaptation (by Alexander Stuart, from his novel), Roth's direction, and the incredible work of the actors, is first-rate.  Especially notable is the work by Lara Belmont and Freddie Cunliffe, the young actors who portray the brother and sister in the film -- I would have never guessed from their performances that this was their first time out.Many viewers have been caught off-guard by this film -- it's easily one of the most gut-wrenching I've ever seen.  One woman I've talked with saw it at the Sundance Festival, without knowing anything about it beforehand, and was totally devastated by it -- but moved to such an extent that she went back to her community determined to do something positive to help survivors.A film that can touch people on such a deep level should be more widely seen -- especially when it deals with a subject as important as this one. "},{"Title":"Disturbing But Good","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well yes this film does portray a rather taboo subject, probably the first one I have seen with incest in. But my god this is a great film. All of the actors are incredible, Ray Winstone is a fine actor and so are the two children, the boy Tom is excellent, when he finds out what his dad is doing he is completely cold to him, what he does to him at the end of the movie is understandable.This is a very gritty film quite slow as well but it needs to be I think to give a harsh account of the family. The scene of the actual incest will be very disturbing for some, their is quite a lot of nudity in this film from most of the actors, also there is a lot of swearing ad violence too.I think this film is harrowing at first but after all things like this happen in real life and I think Tim Roth has done a great job of portraying a touchy subject to film. "},{"Title":"Kudos to Tim Roth for this graphic portrayal","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In these days of incredibly gory action, horror, and exploitation films, I find it interesting that The War Zone is criticized for being too graphic. Other films and TV shows have dealt with the topic of incest, but they have whitewashed most of what actually happens in the families torn apart by sexual abuse. Too much innuendo gets in the way of what it's all really about (i.e., rape). Tim Roth has shattered any possibility of denial by making a clear and forthright film about the horror of familial sex abuse. While it's hard to take, I believe it's important that this film be seen by as many people as possible. I applaud Mr. Roth and the entire cast for the incredible and gut-wrenching job they've done in The War Zone.  "},{"Title":"pervasive inappropriateness","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent comments below, shan't repeat here. I do want to add, i think Tim Roth wants the audience to *feel* the inappropriateness at a gut level and not just recognize it intellectually. He surrrounds the core illicit behavior with shocking examples of inappropriate contact between people who are supposed to be normal. Meanwhile the father himself is very much a study in normalcy for much of the movie, in stark contrast to the boy.In the end, i dont know what's more creepy, the relationship between the girl and her father, or how the brother behaves throughout the movie. Dont want to give anything away here. I will say though, the brother is in many ways sexually aroused by what's going on, and engaged in a quasi sexual relationship with his sister. And through the brother, I think Roth wants the audience to feel the same way, to deepen the unease.(SPOILER ALERT) Consider the stark contrast in the infamous scene (what has to be one of the most brutal scenes in cinematic history) the language between the girl and her father is almost tender, very much daughter-father-esque, even as they engage in the unspeakable. Meanwhile, the brother, the putative hero and protagonist, is engaging in nothing more than voyeurism, continuing to watch even after all justification for it has passed. What is worse, incest, or being aroused by it?And so on. This film to me is brilliant because its not just the shock of the one encounter--the whole film just exudes a creepy air of wrongness. "},{"Title":"Darkness in Devon.","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tim Roth dons the directing hat for the first time and brings to the screen a shattering tale of incest and child abuse. Alexander Stuart adapts from his own novel and it stars Ray Winstone, Lara Belmont, Freddie Cunliffe and Tilda Swinton. Story is about a family who have moved from London to the Devonshire coast. The son, Tom, is unhappy and feels alienated in the new surroundings, but when he discovers a dark family secret, things become much much worse.It's an uncomfortable viewing experience at times, making it a film you don't readily recommend, but Roth's approach to the story gives out a powerful message without exploitation or sermonising. The script is deliberately taut and sparse, while the marrying up of the crashing waves and jagged rocks of the locale with the emotional turmoil is a deft piece of directing. The use of newcomers Belmont and Cunliffe add a potent sense of realism to the whole thing, aided no end by an intelligent screenplay that doesn't go for conventionality. Quite simply it's an unforgettable film, a claustrophobic emotional battering ram of celluloid. 9/10 "}{"Title":"dark disturbing story","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tom (Freddie Cunliffe) is bitter at the family being moved from London to rural Devon. His dad (Ray Winstone) crashes the car taking his pregnant mum (Tilda Swinton) to the hospital. She has a baby girl. Tom accuses his older sister Jessie (Lara Belmont) of having sex with their father which she denies. Colin Farrell plays local boy Nick who takes a fancy to Jessie.This is a dark disturbing story of incest and the conflicting blame that occurs. It's Tim Roth's directorial debut. He tries to make this a quiet moody film. The extended desolate landscape scenes are fine but I don't like quietly waiting for the actors to speak. I also don't like the Tom character although I grow to accept him. I'm not impressed with Cunliffe's performance but it could very well be his character. On the other hand, Lara Belmont is compelling. The final act is terrific with Ray Winstone acting up a storm. On a side note, Farrell's role is rather small. This is a disturbing compelling movie despite a slow start. "},{"Title":"dark disturbing story","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tom (Freddie Cunliffe) is bitter at the family being moved from London to rural Devon. His dad (Ray Winstone) crashes the car taking his pregnant mum (Tilda Swinton) to the hospital. She has a baby girl. Tom accuses his older sister Jessie (Lara Belmont) of having sex with their father which she denies. Colin Farrell plays local boy Nick who takes a fancy to Jessie.This is a dark disturbing story of incest and the conflicting blame that occurs. It's Tim Roth's directorial debut. He tries to make this a quiet moody film. The extended desolate landscape scenes are fine but I don't like quietly waiting for the actors to speak. I also don't like the Tom character although I grow to accept him. I'm not impressed with Cunliffe's performance but it could very well be his character. On the other hand, Lara Belmont is compelling. The final act is terrific with Ray Winstone acting up a storm. On a side note, Farrell's role is rather small. This is a disturbing compelling movie despite a slow start. "},{"Title":"The WZ... a Masterpiece","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The War Zone a Masterpiece (the movie and the book). This movie is a Must see... especially if you lived similar situations... Movie made from Alexander Stuart's novel (check the 20th anniversary edition of the book...bonus diary of the making of + afterword by TR). The last image of the movie represents perfectly the abuses in the society... like the bunker in the landscape..if we turn a bit the head/eyes we see them... Abuses can happen in any family, rich or poor or middle class, and to any gender girls but also boys... http//tinyurl.com/c8jw95The WZ is a precious brick in our (Survivors) rebuilding. it can be very hard to watch for many people but the movie and the novel describe what some live daily behind the walls. My life wont have been the same without The War Zone. Grateful daily and forever to and for The WZ.To discuss about The War Zone The War Zone Message Board ( more than 10 years of existence) https//www.voy.com/243297/ "},{"Title":"The War Zone is compelling and powerful as it is disturbing and sickening.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An alienated teenager, saddened that he has moved away from London, must find a way to deal with a dark family secret. Roger Ebert said that Unsurprisingly, The War Zone affects viewers much more powerfully than a simple morality tale might. It is not simply about the evil of incest, but about its dynamic, about the way it does play upon guilt and shame, and address old and secret wounds. The critic James Berardinelli says that when he saw the movie at the Toronto Film Festival, a viewer ran from the theater saying he couldn't take it anymore and went looking to pull a fire alarm. Roth was standing near the exit and intercepted him, becoming confessor for an emotional outpouring that the movie had inspired. Roth is one of the best actors now working, and with this movie he reveals himself as a director of surprising gifts. I cannot imagine The War Zone being better directed by anyone else, even though Ingmar Bergman and Ken Loach come to mind. Roth and his actors, and Stuart's screenplay, understand these people and their situation down to the final nuance, and are willing to let silence, timing and visuals reveal what dialogue would cheapen. Not many movies bring you to a dead halt of sorrow and empathy. This one does. The War Zone is compelling and powerful as it is disturbing and sickening. "},{"Title":"a  case  of  hate","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" a story about hate.against a fundamental sin. against yourself. against lost of a space. against universe as reaction of age. gray lines. delicate subject. truth as drawing of profound sin. and search of sense for each character. a film like a stone in ash. harsh touch, memories of fire, culpability, fear, need of freedom, gloomy shadows. most cruel - the scene of ordinary family. and powerful feeling to be one of many other similar stories. nothing else. only a bleak circle like deep hole. and the art of Tim Roth to create affective mist of a situation. because the crime is only fruit of a hopeless situation . the man. his family. the power and levels of frustration. silence and fragile world of a teenager. a case. but not isolated. a cry. only as sign of empty space. "},{"Title":"A haunting and heartbreaking experience...","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Prima facie, The War Zone comes across as a misnomer for this brutally disturbing drama directed by Tim Roth. This reviewer thought it is set against the backdrop of a war, but when the film unfolded, the underlying meaning of the title became clearer; the only war this film deals with is a personal war; a war within!15-year old Tom (Freddie Cunliffe) is the hero of this sad story. His family, consisting of 18 year old sister Jessie (Lara Belmont), Dad (Ray Winstone), and Mum (A bloated Tilda Swinton) have moved to the Devonshire countryside to live on an isolated property, leaving their London city life behind. Tom is bored and feels lonely, clearly misses London. There hardly are neighbours; the area is mostly desolate. Pregnant mum just delivers a baby amidst difficult circumstances (a car accident!) and yet the baby is born healthy. Everyone is slightly injured, but in the end it's all hunky dory and life goes on. The isolation and modest living conditions have also made these people used to casual nudity around the house. Tom is a curious teen, and he seems to have taken fancy to a neighbouring girl, Lucy (Kate Ashfeld).The seemingly peaceful environment in the family is disrupted one day when Tom comes face to face with a shattering truth about an incestuous relationship between his Dad and sister&#x85;But haven't we seen so many other films that deal with incest? Maybe so, but what makes The War Zone distinct, is in its non-adherence to rendering simplistic treatment to its characters. These characters are complex, they aren't necessarily pigeon-holed to predictable traits. So then, when we witness the dynamics of these characters we are forced to ask ourselves several questions. The dad seems to be a really nice and loving father. Why then, does he develop the sick desire to sexually abuse his own daughter? Is he even aware of what he is doing? Is he aware of the gravity of his heinous act? Or is it rather casual to him; ....perhaps he himself has a history of abuse dating back to his childhood?And then there's Jessie; she is well aware of the implications of the deeds she is involving herself in. Or is she? Maybe she is going along with it, maybe she is enjoying it. Or perhaps suffering (?) silently, because she is too afraid to bring it out in the open; maybe just too ashamed. And the mother is blissfully unaware of what is happening....will she be able to take it once she realizes?Which brings us to Tom, who is at the epicenter of this explosive situation. It is actually through his eyes that we see the film. You can't help but yield to a hint somewhere in the middle of the film that there's a curious voyeur inside him who wants to videotape the action. And you wish deep within that it is only to expose the sick act. But it can't be ignored that Tom is a 15 year old teen struggling with his own transition into adulthood. And call it a case of bad timing; fate is playing a cruel joke on the boy by invoking the adult inside this vulnerable teen by bringing him face to face with the most aberrant of sexual acts inside his own home! At a point of time the sister almost hits the nail on the head after a confrontation, This isn't just about me and dad is it? further insinuating that actually Tom wants to know about sex and himself wants to experience it!Tom is thus, a soul torn apart. Maybe he knows the difference between right and wrong but is finding himself succumbing to a perverse temptation, given his unstable transition phase! Jessie tries to put her assumption about Tom to the test in a bizarre episode at her friend Carol's place in London; then again, perhaps her intentions are different altogether! Her eventual action further clouds any hopes the viewer may have about gaining an insight on Jessie's thought process. It is in this unpredictability of the characters that most of the success of this excellent handling of a fine screenplay by Alexander Stuart lies. Tim Roth, a fine actor of our time, proves that he can handle the director's job with an equal finesse. He clearly understands his characters' complexities and his vision of the characters' personae enables him to deliver their perfect transition to the motion picture.The soul is all there, but what about the body? No complaints there either; Roth captures some of the finest images of the isolated, rain-soaked country side and the rocky seashore. The feeling of desolation is further enhanced by the achingly beautiful score by Simon Boswell. The choice of actors is spot on. Winstone and Swinton are simply great in their respective roles. But special mention must be made of the actors who play the siblings, Lara Belmont and Freddie Cunliffe who had no prior acting experience but emerge winners with their effortless performances.Do not miss Tim Roth's The War Zone. It is a disturbing look at something as warped as incest but a patient and an open-minded viewing would ensure that instead of turning your head away in shame, you'll end up thanking yourself for subjecting yourself to this mind-numbing yet rewarding film experience. "},{"Title":"The Silence is Broken","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For movie buffs, The War Zone is one of the more notorious films made. It's a deeply disturbing film, so much so that at one film festival, a man viewing it screamed I can't take it anymore, and ran out of the theater, intending to pull the fire alarm. Tim Roth was there, and it took him 20 minutes to calm him down.The film is about a British family who has just moved from London to Devon, England. They seem to be the perfect family the genial Dad (Ray Winstone), the Mum who has just given birth to a child (Tilda Swinton), and the teenage children, Tom (Freddie Cunliffe) and Jessie (Lara Belmont). But beneath the exterior lies an unspeakable secret.Incest is one of the most unspeakable crimes. It is abuse in every sense of the word sexually, physically, emotionally, psychologically. However, most victims stay silent, and the abuse continues. With The War Zone, Tim Roth brings the issue out into the open.The War Zone is a well-made film, but I found it somewhat uninvolving (then again, with a story like this, how involved would I want to be?). Part of the reason is that Roth uses a lot of emphasis on non-verbal communication. We know what the characters are feeling, but it doesn't translate to the audience. This is because our guide in this story, Tom, is not well-acted by Freddie Cunliffe. Tom is a sullen, brooding character, but Cunliffe's portrayal is flat and not very interesting. He is not adept at non-verbal communication, which is why many of the scenes are not as effective as they could be.Fortunately, the same cannot be said about Cunliffe's co-stars. Lara Belmont is stunning as Jessie. She is remarkably good at portraying Jessie's storm of feelings. Guilt, shame, fear are all evident in her performance. Ray Winstone shines as the likable Dad, and it is easy why no one would suspect him of doing something so evil. Tilda Swinton is great as well, although she doesn't have much to do except look after her newborn baby and appear oblivious to the horror going on around her. But that is important; incest is such a secretive crime that most people don't know is happening unless they are told.Tim Roth is one of the best character actors out there. But like Sean Penn, he's also a good director. He takes chances, and wants this story told in the best way possible. However, the film could have used a little more dialogue and a little less subtlety.I've heard people say that this film is not for everyone. While it's true that this film is intense and disturbing, I think that it IS for everyone. If people don't know about these crimes and their affect on the victims, then it won't stop. The DVD has a lot of information about incest, including helplines for victims, which is good. Don't let that fool you into thinking this is a preachy docudrama. This is a film that simply tells the story, and that is what makes it effective. "},{"Title":"Take a bow, Mr Roth","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Why? Just why is Tim Roth not directing more films?Watching this film a decade after it's release I was quite amazed to see director Tim Roth not having directed anything else. We all know the man can act, but what exactly is he like behind the camera? So far The War Zone is the one and only way to find out, just unfortunately it's not the type of film most people would want to watch. Roth decided to make a feature based on the novel of the same name, and he made it with stunning results. Dealing with a shocking and heinous story and shot in the dull and dreary English countryside, The War Zone proves to be a tough film to watch. So much so that apparently actor Ray Winstone walked off the set because he was so upset at acting out one of the scenes. Talking about Ray Winstone, it is his superb acting that makes up for such daunting content. As per usual, Ray prevails and shows the maturity and skills to pull off such a disgustingly complex character. The rest of the cast do a very fine job too and there's even a baby-faced Colin Farrell to be seen(the only aspect of the movie where you'll possibly find yourself smiling). Matched with stunning photography and a simple yet haunting score, Roth is able make the film seem desolate but at the same time compelling. It's really crazy to know that Roth hasn't dabbled more as a director because it seems he'd have a great future as one. Even with the subject matter at hand, I'd still recommend this film to people who are no stranger to dark and disturbing films such as Mysterious Skin and Funny Games or even to those who simply appreciate well crafted films. The War Zone didn't win the best British film award for nothing. "},{"Title":"A bleak, relentless look at child abuse featuring amazing performances.","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tim Roth is an excellent actor. Throughout his career, he has demonstrated a variety of personas, taking on roles that are both challenging and intense. It is apparent that, as a director, he has the same talent. Tim Roth's first and only directorial effort to date, The War Zone, is a haunting picture of family. Featuring perfect acting, intense scenes, and an overall atmospheric darkness that coincides with the main themes, The War Zone is an excellent film. It is also one of the most difficult movies I've ever had the opportunity to watch.The film opens with Tom (played by Freddie Cunliffe), a teenage boy who is angry with his family for moving away from the city and into Middle of Nowhere, England. He misses London and he's not getting attention from his family because of his mother's (Tilda Swinton) pregnancy. Along with his mother, Tom lives with his father (Ray Winstone) and older sister, Jessie (Lara Belmont). Not long after the film begins, the mother's water breaks and the four of them make their way to the hospital. It is a dark, rainy night and, on the way, the father flips the car. Luckily, everyone is OK despite a few minor scrapes and bruises. Mum delivers the baby and the kids go home with Dad. The car accident is not mentioned again throughout the film, but it serves as a kind of foreshadowing of events to come. The normal schedule of life, interrupted by something startling, is the basis of this film.After Mum comes home and the baby settles into the home, things seem to go back to normal with this family. One day, however, Tom sees something disturbing. He and Mum and when they get back, Tom goes around to the side of the house and sees his father and sister in a position that looks a little too close for comfort. He confronts Jessie later, but she calls him a perv and says he didn't see what he thought he did. Tom is determined, though, and his search for the truth leads him to discovering the most horrible of family secrets and what unfolds is an emotional reckoning that no family should ever have to face.This is a devastating look into the degradation of a seemingly normal family and Tim Roth's direction shows that perfectly. Throughout the film, the entire atmosphere is dark and it is typically rainy. Even the beach, which is shown several times, looks like an unhappy place. The actors play each role to absolute perfection. Tilda Swinton is very good as the mother, a woman who is seemingly unaware of the terrible secret bubbling below the surface. Ray Winstone is terrifying as Dad, a father who seems very loving on the outside. On the inside, though, there is a monster waiting to attack. The two children are played by newcomers Lara Belmont and Freddie Cunliffe. Tim Roth has said in interviews that these two were selected because of their fresh faces, the fact that the audience would know them as their characters instead of actors. This is very effective. Lara Belmont is heartbreaking as Jessie, a teenage girl forced to put up certain walls. This is one of the best performances I've ever seen from an actress of that age group. Without her, this film would not be what it is. Freddie Cunliffe is excellent as Tom, the boy who discovers the truth about his family and must decide what to do with his newfound knowledge.The War Zone is consistently bleak and is often relentless. It shows abuse for what it is an unnecessary evil that affects the lives of everyone involved. This film is never a happy story. It is free of clichés and makes for some difficult viewing. If a person can get past that, though, The War Zone is a rewarding film experience. Tim Roth has accomplished something great here. I can't wait to see him do something else in the future.9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best films you will never see...","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE WAR ZONE is as compelling and powerful as it is disturbing and sickening. This motion picture is not for everyone, but those who manage to sit through its ~95 minute run-time will feel like they have experienced an almost unrivaled cinematic journey.I will not give away the plot/synopsis here for the benefit of those who would like to be surprised. Just know that while the film itself is not about 'War' in the conventional sense, the title is appropriate, if one realises that War can also be defined as active hostility or contention; conflict; struggle.Tim Roth is masterful in his debut as director, as he ably pushes the envelope to limits that veteran film-makers seem fearsome to approach. Roth is helped by an outstanding lead cast, half of whom are virtual unknowns. Ray Winstone and Tilda Swinton are reliable and dedicated as always, and should have garnered some more recognised plaudits for their roles. For me, the real star of this film is newcomer Lara Belmont, who delivers a stunning performance, encompassing and portraying a range of powerful emotions that will leave most veteran actresses somewhat jealous. If this film deserved only one Oscar nomination, it should have been for Supporting Actress (If it deserved two, the other should have been for Screenplay). Suffice it to say that due to its powerfully realistic approach to sensitive content, the Academy seemed to 'graciously' shun this film. I myself was not surprised, as mainstream success would have come hand-in-hand with widespread protestations.The location (shot almost entirely in Devon, England) is suitably haunting, as is the musical score. Both go long ways to emphasising and enhancing the overall theme of the motion picture. In almost every outdoor shot, the weather is bleak and rainy, which suits the atmosphere inside the house, and inside the infamous bunker. The scenic shots of the beach are especially beautiful.I say that this is one of the best films you will NEVER see because it was doomed to fail at the box office, due to its subject matter. It is very unlikely that any Cable company will show this during prime-time either. As such, your best bet will be to visit the local DVD video-store. I strongly urge you to use whatever means to see this motion picture. You will be shocked; your jaw will drop for most of the last half of the film; you will feel sickened, angry, and saddened; you will be sporadically moved to tears even long after you have left your seat. But at the end of this experience you will come to accept that you have witnessed one of the most powerful events in cinematic history. This will haunt you for some time to come.I will give this movie 4 stars (out of the conventional 4) simply because I think everyone should see it. It focuses on one of the most taboo and commonplace themes in modern families (note that statistics do very little to highlight the common nature of this theme since most of the victims remain silent) and should not be bypassed, even if it takes you more than one sitting to get through.10/10. Should enter my Top 60 at #55 or so. Unreservedly recommended. "}{"Title":"This war zone is about the decline of moral values in a British family ! ! ! !","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" According to Tim Roth a taboo as well as disturbing subject of incest has rarely been judiciously tackled by Hollywood.This is because most of Hollywood films have too much of preaching involved.So he has deliberately chosen to avoid this trap while he was making his debut film.He was also bothered about the fact that there are not so many challenging roles for children.This is the reason why young actors like Lara Belmont and Freddie Cunliffe have given bravura performances under his direction about which it can be said that they are far superior then the likes of Tilda Swinton and Ray Winstone.According to Alexander Stuart who wrote the book based on his novel,there is no solution to such an evil problem of incest as family members are forced to bear the consequences arising out of shame and guilt.In The War Zone much of anger is depicted through angry eyes of its talented actor Freddie Cunliffe.His portrayal of tormented boy Tom is so convincing that he will surely appear as the only innocent soul of this sordid tale who did not commit any sin. "},{"Title":"Mud Season--3rd Review","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Thank the Gods that this was a film and not a documentary.The War Zone is perhaps the most brutal and painful drama made in recent memory. It lives up to its title. It is painfully ugly, upsetting, moody and rife with discomfort and if it lacked that would be exploitative and devoid of its difficult message.Tim Roth does an excellent job convincing his actors to devote themselves into the story. The score was understated, simple and effective in evoking the necessary moods, colours and emotions. Well shot with considerable efforts made to utilize the hard exposed landscape of Devonshire, which makes Vermont look like paradise in the Mud Season.Flatlanders, like me, like to use wild similes, like Dennis Miller, so I apologize for that comparison. The background given on the status of the family, recently moved from the big city London to the gloomy countryside to look for work seems somewhat absurd given the nature of the decline of agricultural and industrial work in the country. But its only background information meant to relate the story to its audience.The performance given by the lovely Lara Belmont, is probably going to her most memorable and important as well as Ray Winstone--channeling George C. Scott. Tilda Swinton is terrific as always as the Mother and Freddie Cunliffe as the brother conveys the meh angst of his age. Colin Farrell and Kate Ashfield make small appearances.While the film is unique in its raw intensity, pervasive sexual culture, and difficult subject matter it compares quite easily with Paul Shrader's Hardcore (1979) starring George C. Scott.Hardcore covers similar material, with Shrader's evil sense of humour as evident in his Auto-Focus and Affliction. The actress, who played his daughter, Ilah Davis gave a similar performance (with little screen-time)to Lara Belmont, although her character was far more exposed to the perverse.The War Zone is beautiful in its ugliness, detached moodiness, photography, and its acting. Its like an episode of Law & Order SVU on Heroin + HBO. Its not for everyone obviously. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable but brilliantly acted and directed drama on a difficult subject","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The War Zone is a shattering,powerful film dealing with a very difficult subject. It's not exactly an easy film to like,but than incest is not a nice subject,and it's easy to see why generally it's still not a subject that is portrayed often in cinema.Set for the most part in one house and revolving for the most part around it's four inhabitants,one might expect a dull,uncinematic kitchen-sink kind of movie,but any worries are almost immediately dispersed by the beautiful and bleak shots of the Devon locale,the rocks and waves especially seeming to comment on the film's story and characters. Throughout the film,director Tim Roth lets many scenes play out in almost silence,aware that a look can say as much as five pages of dialogue.Immediately one is grabbed by the film,the tension is extraordinary as you know things are not right in the family. Although there is one main plot thrust which builds up to a truly shocking scene,throughout there are other hints about about other things which may or may not be going on. For example does the son actually have sexual feelings for his sister? Does the mother actually suspect from the beginning? Did the father,well,I won't spoil one especially disturbing suggestion at the end. The important thing is these are things that were put there and sometimes only register on an almost unconscious level. Roth and his writer treat the viewers of the film as intelligent adults,and one person's interpretation of one thing might be different to another persons's.Ray Winstone,who sometimes seem to get by on just grunting and swearing,gives a marvellously complex characterisation-those who think he is too 'normal' and nice miss the point. Tilda Swinton isn't really in the film enough,but perhaps the biggest kudos would go to the two children,playing extremely difficult roles. Which brings me to the central 'rape scene' in the film. It's not the sort of thing which anyone should want to watch,and maybe the point could have made just as well with the camera just focusing on the character who is witnessing the event. Still,Roth deserves credit for having the guts to go ahead and not compromise.Despite the central main subject matter,there are moments of love and compassion in this film,although don't expect a happy ending. Some things are resolved,but one gets the feeling other unpleasant things could easily take root,may have already done so,in the characters. Essential viewing,but be warned-you may feel like you need a good wash afterwards! And please Tim Roth-make another film! "},{"Title":"Tough but important film","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very tough film to watch due to its subject matter of incest and molestation, but the film turns out to be very good and touching even though it is also very depressing. The film features an exceptional cast with Ray Winstone at his best as always and newcomers Lara Belmont and Freddie Cunliffe. The film also features a very early role form the up and coming star Colin Farrel. Tim Roth should also be commended for his directorial debut. Overall the film is very good and it should be watched by everyone. "},{"Title":"Hard and moving, but warmly advised.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am very sorry not to have seen this film in the most appropriate place, that is at the cinema (of course !), because I guessed that it could be a very interesting work. Luckily I have been able to recover the film thanks to the pay-tv, and it has been a true revelation! It is shoot with very personal style but very effective, its development is essential and clean, but the characters are quite outlined. It is certainly one of the harder film I have ever seen, but it is also one of the few capable to move and to stay well impressed in the memory. Exceptional the interpretation of the young Lara Belmont (but where Tim Roth found her ?), who performs with such realism to make to experience pain to the audience for the sufferings that her character lives in the story, but all of the cast is of excellent level. I hope that Tim Roth continues to shoot other film of same level, and I wish a shining career to Lara Belmont. Hard and moving, but warmly advised.  "},{"Title":"A piece of art","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film certainly is uncomfortable to watch... but that doesn't detract from the fact that it is beautifully crafted cinema.Yes, there are a lot of things that need answering... but that is not the point, really. This is not a specific family- it is any family. If you are wondering why things have not been explained properly by the end, then you have not been watching it in the right frame of mind.It is very different to the novel... but as I understand it, certain things in the novel were thought of as superfluous or incorrect. It is simply taking a different tone to the novel. I definitely prefer the film to the novel, partly because of the way the situation is handled and partly because of the stunning visual effects.The silences in the film are what create the atmosphere- there is a lack of communication in this family- that is the point! There is such an intensity... what Tim Roth, I think, is trying to show is how much can be said without words.This film is a beautiful, heartbreaking experience. "},{"Title":"Outstanding film, if you can escape from Hollywood","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes the best films are slow, but powerful.  The War Zone certainly is. It never punches you, but subtly hits you.  A film about a family in England, and the secret it has.  The casting is excellent, none of them are over-played.  Freddie Cunliffe and Lara Belmont as the children are both excellent.There is some full-frontal nudity, but it fits in well with the film, and is almost unsexual.  There is some violence, but again, it fits in well with the film.  The good-looking in a next-door-neighbour way Lara Belmont now has a few fan clubs, and does have a sulky sexuality about her in the film. Tim Roth has done well to bring this out, whilst dropping hints about secrets.Don't expect action, or titilation, or humour even.  From the titles onwards there is little light, most of the film seems to be shot on rainy days. The characters seem to be miserable most of the time, and the gloom of the weather only makes this worse.Yet, the respite from the high emotions of a Hollywood film are welcome, and this is a film that you will think about for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"One wild take","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Roth approaches one of the most controversial themes withstrong conviction. His use of almost no colour, blends the storywith the film in quite an uncanny way. The story by its own apparentnormalcy, tears apart anyone who dares to go inside it. The verydeep emotions that are safely guarded through different masks,are only hinted through attitudes. Never openly.This may be the strongest point to the filmmaker. He did atremendous job of keeping the secret through a very enigmaticrelationship in a family that, otherwise, would look as any simplecountry family in the coast of England.I think that the dramatic work of each and every actor isremarkable. It gives this story an even harsher and real touch tothe drama that  is already developing behind their characters. "},{"Title":"Another Winner!!!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Roth has directed a masterpiece. With all the elements involved in making this movie, what made this movie stand out more was the atmosphere- literally.  The days were forever rainy and overcast which helped add to dreary life lived and suffered by Jessie (Lara Belmont) and Tom (Freddie Cunliffe)- sister and brother.Based on a novel by the writer of the screenplay, Alexander Stuart, it's built around a father (Ray Winstone) practicing incest with his daughter, Jessie; a mother (Tilda Swinson) who is totally blind to this behavior; and a son, Tom, who becomes suspicious of the father-daughter relationship.There seems to be a correlation between the opening scene and the balance of the movie where the home that the family lives in is isolated (they moved from London to a rural area), much like the lives of Tom and Jessie.  What helps glue the plot together is the reference to sexual activity, actual and implied at various levels-  Mum and Dad gave birth to a daughter, Alice (Megan Thorpe); Tom whose puberty was growing into desire; and Jessie, who was having a sexual relationship with Nick (Colin Farrell).  It shows how sexual relationships can be both healthy and unhealthy with the principle characters.Tim Roth with Alexander Stuart were able to create an engrossing film. With the direction and writing, each scene was developed and played with thought provoking action.  No scene was wasted and the acting of Freddie Cunliffe and Lara Belmont will leave you satisfied.  The silence the actors spoke in this film many times spoke louder than the dialog they were given.This is a must-see movie with dramatic filmmaking at its best.10/10.  Nothing less will do. "},{"Title":"powerful and daring; spoilers ahead!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot tell a lie. I knew that The War Zone was actor's Tim Roth directorial debut, but that was about it. So when this movie was broadcasted on a dutch network the other night, I sat down in front of the telly, opened a large bag of potato chips and poured myself a nice glass of Lager (Grolsch). About a hundred minutes later, the beer and the chips had remained untouched and I just sat there, trying to stay calm. I hadn't been affected by a film for a long time (not since last year's Dancer in the Dark, to be exact). I expected everybody to rave about this movie, but was surprised to find some fierce cons as well. I want to respond to some of these criticisms.First of all, I was surprised by the actors. The actors are wonderfully refreshing. 'Hey', I thought when I laid eyes on Tom, 'That cat looks like me when I was fifteen years old.' A real teenager instead of a twenty something actor like Jason Priestley with a 'we're up to meet the wizard smile' tattood on his face. This guy's got real acne, instead of 'Kelly Bundy calls Bud Bundy pizzaface when his face is actually smooth as a baby butt'.Jesse was refreshing, too, pretty but lacking everything Hollywood would demand from a leading lady.I read some criticism about the photography. It has becomes a cinematic cliche to use a handheld camera to indicate a pseudo-realism or a seriousness (the dogma rules, anyone?) Tim Roth wisely chose to discard that technique, which has become too tiresome, too quickly. Using a tripod or handheld camera isn't a matter of right or wrong; it's a matter of choice, what fits one (as a director) best? The 'beauty' of this movie also serves as a symbol of this family's state of mind. Sure, everything looks normal, everybody's going through their normal daily routines but hey, something ain't right.The actors come across as well rehearsed? Well, only because their characters behave in that way. These people are on stage, performing a role. These people are scarred emotionally, but struggle not to let anyone know (and that includes themselves). Dad is doing a bang up job. He has become a method-actor, really believing in his role, in his 'everything's okay!'attitude. Another reviewer on this page points out the scene in which dad is confronted by his son as the only scene that seems improvised. To defend his self-image, to fight to stay in his role, dad paradoxically must abandon it just once and look what happens his body, mind, and mouth are trying to do ten things at once. Look at Jesse. She loses it in front of him, but dad doesn't notice, can't notice, mustn't notice. He runs away, only returning when he's calmed down, able to pick up his role again and trying to convince the kids to pick up theirs again as well. But the kids are still young. At that very crucial point, Tom and Jesse decide that they didn't want to go on with playing that part, listening to the prompter who whispered them their lines. But dad is long gone. It's too late for him, he can't ever change. Some people discard this film because it moves away from the fact that, in the book, Jesse wants dad, not vice versa. Therefor, some people think of the daughter as the real monster, not the father. First of all, there are no monsters in this family, only victims. And if a seventeen year old girl has an sexual interest in her father, she's ill. If a father, the parent, who's supposed to be the more mature and sensible one is not able to resist his daughter coming on to him (or to find some help for her), he's ill as well.A lot has been said about the scene in which Jesse takes Tom to a friend's house. Jesse persuades her friend to deflower Tom, but intervenes in the last minute. It's like she found out that not only does she have the right the make a choice, but actually a capability to choose.What are her (their) motives? Who the hell knows what they're doin' in this family? Tom videotapes his sister getting raped, only to throw the tape away a few moments later. Did he want to use it as evidence? Than why trow it away? Did he want to use it for his own pleasure? Does dad have a reason for what he does? Does his daughter really turns him on? Is there any pleasure involved in raping his own girl? Why does Tom wants his dad to stop? Jealousy (there's a mild incestuous relationship between and his sister; he gets to lie naked in bed with her, but that's it&#133;or, at least, that's what's shown to us)? A real concern? Something else? Who knows what these people's motives are? This is who they are, what they are. This is their existence, their reality. And if that ceases to exist, what have they got?This is powerful stuff that left me flabbergasted.***1/2 out of ****  "}{"Title":"Fantastic, heart-breaking, gut-wrenching account of human behaviour","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The very essence of the film The war zone that I was able to catch on Swedish TV a few weeks ago, is how humans act and interact when the element of society and social awareness has lost its grip. The film focuses on 16 year old Tom and his family, wherein his very pregnant mother gives birth in the beginning of the film. They have moved from London to the very isolated location of Devon, to seek a fresh and new start in their lives. Or, so one thinks anyway.My impression of Tom was that he was a very shy, withdrawn child (who actually *looks* like a typical teenager as well - Thank you Tim Roth!) of who isn't very different to the boys in my class for example, and who misses his mates in London. What is extraordinary with Tom's family, is that they are very relaxed with nudity, and both parents seem, to a start, be very aware and eager with discipline and to raise their children in the best way possible.But one day, Tom starts to suspect something very amiss between his sister and his father when these two supposedly share a bath. What surprised me, is that he confronts his sister at first, and blames the whole situation on her, in an attempt to reach out indirectly to his father, I believe. All *very* human for a boy who doesn't want something like that going on in his family and seeks the easiest solution.Though, things go far worse from there. Tom then witnesses his father fully raping his sister, in a scene that left me cold and disturbed for a long while. It is shot without remorse, without giving account for the situation earlier or after; it only focuses on the terror and the unbelievable degradation of the human body and mind, and I have seen nothing like it.Without giving any spoilers, I can say that Tom is forced to find a new way out of the dilemma, and help his sister who he loves (though I found the relationship a bit *too* intimate now and then) and in the same way manage his own struggle with adolescence and growing up.The war zone is an astonishing account of how people behave towards eachother when all other elements are erased. We start out as humans, but we don't necessarily continue on that road. The film leaves us bare to our own miserable existence, but it also promises something good to come out of it, if we wish to fight for it. "},{"Title":"Responses to some of the comments ...","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that moved me the most and so I periodically keep coming back to check on the comments made by others. There are quite a few comments that mention that the movie was unengaging because it was too slow, the characters were underdeveloped and hollow, that none of the questions raised were answered.Drama arises out of conflict. Conflict arises between obstacles and personal motives. Resolution of conflict provides closure. Whether well-made or not, standard movies rely on personal motives, obstacles to them, the resultant drama and its resolution. We, as audience, are used to seeking these in movies either consciously or subconsciously.Tim Roth has made a movie here that goes beyond this standard premise. Even though the set up of motives-vs-desires-obstacles-conflict works in all our lives, often times we don't get concrete solutions. This is really because we don't clearly understand our/others' motives and desires. It is very easy to ask questions such as, Why did the father start the relationship with his daughter***? Did the daughter at any stage enjoy it? What was Tom's true feelings for his sister Jesse? Emotions are never easy to figure out; that is why our emotional reactions are often hard to figure out and border on ridiculous. Anger, frustration, depression, denial etc. are unproductive and we know it. Yet we can't help but react. Now this is the case for simple situations and the problems highlighted by the movie are anything but simple.Look at the whole setup from the perspective of the family. They don't ask reasons. To ask for reasons would mean acknowledging the problems to begin with. None of them are in any emotional state to face up to their lives. The only time they ask questions, you know what is the result. The family is already so dysfunctional without Tom's adolescence and the resultant unraveling. Their sense of love for each other is completely twisted and yet strong. They look out for each other in so many ways that are shown in the movie. They very simply turn a blind eye to anything in the family that threatens to break them up because they don't have anyone else (atleast so they think). While Dad needs serious treatment, so does Mum. I mean she has been in denial all along. Jessie wants power and freedom and yet cannot completely break free from her family. Tom is literally a peeping Tom teenager. He has no clue what his hormones are doing to him, much less as to what is going around him. Scene after scene after scene, Tim Roth sets this all up amazingly. You see, the characters have been built so intricately that almost nothing is left out. Now these are challenging enough issues to show.While the questions posed by the viewers (the whys and hows) are extremely relevant and may even offer a 'solution' to the conditions of incest and pedophilia, those very questions, no offense, trivialize the whole issue and are, in some level, no offense again, insensitive in nature. Those questions reduce Dad, Mum, Tom and Jessie from living human beings to fantasy stereotypes. While we subconsciously seek fantasy stereotypes even in our lives despite our best intentions, Tim Roth has smartly and superbly gone around them and presented living beings to us. So have the actors. I have the utmost respect for everyone involved in this work, from the helpers and extras to the director and producers because they have shown tremendous sensibilities. As an incest survivor myself, I still don't have answers. If you asked me, '10 years after your experiences, did you enjoy them or why didn't you tell someone' or any such question, I have to say honestly, 'I don't know'. Granted sex gives pleasure and can be painful too. It was both. And most definitely there were so many, so many chances to tell someone. So why didn't I tell someone until it was all over? Does that mean I was a willing participant? Or does that mean I was too ashamed to tell anyone? Or that I thought I deserved it? Honestly I don't know. If only I knew ... If I knew the answers, I would scream them out from the top of the world and do everything possible to wipe pedophilia and incest out from the face of the earth!So this movie is unlike most other movies that we watch. The movie is slow because life passes excruciatingly slow for each and every one of those people involved. The movie is hollow because they are hollow. That is the only way for them to maintain sanity through all that they experience. The characters' motivations are not explained because they don't want to know their motivations. They are not ready. Perhaps the best way to explain this to you would be to ask you to go back to your teenages - the weird feeling of sexual attractions and crushes and anger and frustrations and rebelliousness that you went through. Looking back, can you claim that you understood what was going on at that time *while you were a teenager*? People grow out of teenage. We tend to get stuck as incest survivors. Our only real option is to accept what happened to us, process out our pent-up feelings as a result of those experiences, shake hands and move on with life. What else can we do? Any further analysis has no end because it trivializes everything that we went through.I strongly urge you to watch the movie again. Look for how the characters behave. May be those mannerisms might give hints for you to pick up something going on among someone you know, though I sincerely wish and pray no one ever has to face anything like that.Finally, my most sincere respects to Tim Roth and everyone involved in the movie. Particularly Freddie Cunliffe, Laura Belmont, Tilda Swinson and Ray Winstone. A crowning jewel in your life!10 out of 10!!!*** It is interesting to note that though there is no mention in the movie that the father started the relationship, the novel's premise is that Jessie seduces her Dad. "},{"Title":"Who is Carol and why is she in the film?","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is very powerful and it has haunted me since I watched it. Initially I thought it was a very good film - now I'm starting to think that it's a fine film.I spent far too long during the film questioning Tim Roth's motives for various directorial decisions. The more I think about it each concern I'm more reassured. For example, initially I was infuriated that we did not see the bath scene so that we knew the truth. I felt manipulated about something that you just can't toy with. But soon after I saw that the truth did have to take a while to unfold.Also, I was concerned about Jessie being topless so often. OK, the burning incident makes a powerful point and I guess that we are also forced to examine Tom's sexual development, but I felt like a voyeur (is that the point?). Overall, I don't buy the argument that the casual family nudity states that there is something 'improper' about the family. This would suggest a reactionary morality that I don't think Roth is part of.I'm surprise how some question Tom's motivation is he just jealous. Christ! he's 15 and just learning about life, sex and the horrors within his family. It's positive that Roth does not clarify this issue as some wish.But my main point is who is CAROL? What is her role in the action? Maybe the novel might explain - but some reviewers say that there are major variations from the original book. I would really like to read other people's take on CAROL. I find this plot item the biggest mystery in the film. I think that as Carol and Jessie are from different generations Jessie knows Carol through Dad. Especially if Carol is the woman in the Polaroid's with Jessie - isn't she?. So I assume that Dad took the pictures of them? Therefore Carol is an accomplice in Jessie's abuse. Carol's home on a council estate suggests Dad's working class roots and that they knew each other from way back. Is this to give an historical depth to the abuse? I.E. it is not a recent occurrence (as some reviewers suggest) around the birth of the new baby. But you are posed with another uncomfortable and understandable contradiction that Jessie and Carol appear to be warm friends. When they greet each other I felt a warm hope that Carol was a confidant who 'knew' and could help Jessie. Surely Tom's 'treat' is part of a cover-up job?Other points- I disagree that it was wrong to put Tom at the centre of the action. Surely societies' thinking on child abuse is still only adolescent?Some have stated that as we don't warm to the characters it's hard to feel unconditional sympathy for them. Please join the human race!I agree so much with James Berardinelli when he stated even when the sex is ostensibly consensual, it is rape. I think that you have to recognise a whole system of rape that Dad has created leading up to the scene in the bunker.Some worry that Dad is presented as a nice guy (if bluff); others that he is vocally abusive (IMDB plot outline). Surely Dad's character is the central point of the film - that abusers are not scary monsters from a proletarian underworld that has little to do with society generally. I was stunned how Dad tenderly kisses, strokes and tells Jessie he loves her after raping her. I find it really jarring that people on this board talk about the subject as incest (which includes a range of behaviour), sexual desire, a sexual relationship. This film is about sexual abuse! But worse phil6875 says that in the book is not really a story about child abuse, the father is not a child molester and certainly not a rapist - as Jessie sort to seduce him. Phil thinks that (in the book) Jessie is the monster. I am utterly appalled that this comment has not been challenged. It's still monstrous abuse! I find beni hill's satirical comments here less offensive. "},{"Title":"This movie has it all, not in a good way...","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know that incest and sexual abuse within families is a MAJOR problem, seemingly in all societies. And I believe it could be a good or meaningful topic for a movie.... but this is not it. This film is so uniquely, surrealistically dismal and disgusting in the events portrayed, that it became more about how it was shown and could it be shockingly, relentlessly depressing, not a credible depiction of the way this problem exists within families. Therefore, it became exploitive of this issue rather than meaningful.Besides the issue of the molesting father, we get a gratuitous, shocking car crash... relevance to the story zip! We get all sorts of female nudity around the house, including long shots of the teenage daughter's breasts while in discussion. Relevance zip! Including the silly concept of a girl sleeping naked under a single blanket in an old house in England's winter...why? Just so the blanket could be shockingly pulled away, of course. Add to all this the Euro style of filming where tight shots linger on barely lit sad faces for silent minutes at a time. It was like the director just wanted to practice everything you might do in a Eurotrash horror movie, but give it a topic that might propel him into the realm of meaningful. I'm not buying it. And WARNING Do NOT bring this home for the family thinking you are going to see something enlightening about normal family issues. This is a rough, ugly, sad ride thru some real prurient exploitation. "},{"Title":"Problematic to an enormous degree","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The War Zone is a very frustrating film. Most self-proclaimed film buffs and critics will and have been easily convinced by the film. That's not to say that if you like this film you're dumb. You just missed the flaws. Anyone who wanders upon it unawares is likely to be repelled, needless to say. I, who have been wanting to see it since Jamie Berardinelli spewed about it as being one of the best films of the 1990s, that bone head, I myself found it contrived and very annoying, containing some bits of worth in individual scenes. To me, it seemed that Tim Roth, as well as the screenwriter (who also wrote the novel on which it's based), had calculated every iota of this film from the dialogue to the shot composition. Their goal was emotional manipulation, but the camera records the film's falseness clearly.This film is an attempt to produce a realistic situation. In the cinema, realism is achieved by a naturalness in the actors and writing, as well as the actual filming. In a good 90% of the scenes, dialogue was obviously scripted with nothing improvised. I would bet that the minutest detail of tone of voice was written into the script. You can tell this because the rhythm of the dialogue is so precise, it leaves no room for invention. It might seem natural to the untrained ear, but it is phony naturalism. In the remaining 10%, I think it is possible that there was some improvisation, especially in the scene where the father denies everything and attacks his son for suggesting such awful things. I would bet my life that Tim Roth began his career on the stage. He's a mediocre but entertaining actor, speaking his lines, even those in the basest slang, as in Pulp Fiction, with the most eloquent and practiced diction. As a director, this is how his actors turn out, too. It should not be this way. The acting is measured to an unnecessary degree. All of the performances, except for a few individual scenes, seem forced. I can just see Roth directing these actors from behind the ever-present camera.Also, the impeccably composed photography is totally out of place in The War Zone. This should have been done with hand held cameras, maybe even on video. It should have seemed sloppy. Instead, we get one of the most beautifully shot films of the past few years, which tells me that Roth was so confident that his subject matter was important, the only thing he was worrying about was the cinematography. Movies about sexual abuse should not be beautiful in any way. The photography definitely undermines the weight of the subject.Even if the film had not seemed so phony to me, I still would have had problems with it. The film sickened me, not because its subject matter was sickening, but because it is treated in an exploitative way. My guess is that more people would get off on it than would get anything from it. Nudity is rampant, which is called for, I suppose, but Roth couldn't have found a more sexually compelling actress to get buck-naked. I guess if the film had worked, I would have felt guiltier about finding that actress so attractive. But she seems like she's playing naughty through the whole film. Sadists will love the scene where she burns her nipple, not to mention the very graphic depiction of daddy-daughter anal sex. Speaking of which, the version I saw was rated R. I swear it was rated NC-17 in the theaters, so I assume that there was some editing done to reduce it to R for HBO. But what the hell could have been removed? I'm certainly no prude, but, if any film has ever earned an NC-17, whether or not I saw an edited version, it is The War Zone. It's the truth that the evil MPAA castrates a ton of indie films with that rating when they don't at all deserve them, handing awful Hollywood products R's, but this is not a case of that sort of discrimination, for sure!This is most definitely a failure, an enormous one. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Irrelevant , indifferent and obscene .","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As I progressed through this movie I was caught off guard by some very ugly scenes . I knew the subject of incest could be awkward and harrowing but this movie seemed to celebrate and languish in the acts . The bleak landscape was only matched by the not so great murmurings of Mr Winstone . The movie did not touch on the perpetrators reasons or history ,etc for doing such things but rather made victims of its viewers ; forcing us to participate/ witness these horrific acts . It wasn't a  deep  movie with complicated , captivating characters or story lines , It was an irresponsible , irrelevant piece of movie making that limped on to find a story to tell. Next time Tim Roth feels like producing something like this , he should remember he's in the  entertainment  industry . A horrible movie that should never have been made . "},{"Title":"A compelling, hard hitting drama","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" British cinema and filmmakers has often been willing to take a harsh look on life and kitchen sink realism is often a style British filmmakers use. That is the case for Tim Roth's only directional effort with The War Zone.In the Devon countryside a family have moved from London this family includes Tom (Freddie Cunliffe), his older sister Jessie (Lara Belmont), their dad (Ray Winstone) and pregnant mum (Tilda Swinton). After Mum gives birth to a new daughter, Tom makes a horrible discovery when he finds out his Dad is having a sexual relationship with Jessie.Roth takes a hard-hitting approach to film and he does not flinch from the subject manner. It is a tough watch as Roth does not sugar coat or hint or tone down the subject he throws you in at the deep end, including seeing a very brutal rape scene where we see very bit of pain Jessie suffers.Roth employs the kitchen sink realism style but uses it in a rural, coastal setting. There is naturism with his direction, accepting the world as it is and with the wet landscapes and wintery weather he brought out a harsh beauty. This isolated setting was fitting and it almost felt like the Yorkshire Moors in a Bronte sisters' novel. The gentle key, piano heavy amplifies the low-key, natural tone that the film brought out.The acting was incredible throughout. The actors gave honest and grounded performances and they were believable constantly. Jessie and Tom felt like there really were brother and sister and the family relationships are extremely well written. The writer understood the situation, showing the complex dilemma someone would go through if they uncover this within their family. Belmont gave a great performance and Winstone was a great examination of a underpowered form of evil.The War Zone is very compelling film that is brilliantly acted and directed. But is a very hard hitting film and there are moments that very difficult to watch. "},{"Title":"Impressive transition for Roth.","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In The War Zone, First time director Tim Roth makes an impressive and smooth transition from being in front of the camera to behind it. A searing drama about incest, The War Zone is a brave debut by Roth. The subject matter is noncommercial, and Roth confronts it angrily, and without exploitation. Simply put, The War Zone is one of the best films of 1999.The film takes place in the rural Devon countryside, where a family of four has just moved from London. Events are related from the perspective of 15 year-old Tom (Freddie Cunliffe), who is unhappy with life away from the city. His 18 year-old sister, Jessie (Lara Belmont), has apparently adjusted better than he has. His parents (Ray Winstone, Tilda Swinton) seem happy and comfortable in their new home, and his mother is on the verge of delivering her third child. Then, shortly after the baby is born, Tom's world is turned upside down when he spies a covert sexual encounter between Jessie and his father. Tom confronts Jessie about the incident, but she denies it, accusing him of having an overactive imagination. He is not convinced, and sets out to learn the facts.Roth's direction is moody and austere--it emphasizes the simple details of domestic life and the ways in which families unwittingly collude to avoid the truth. He favors scenes that appear to be about nothing Mum talking on the phone in the background, while in the foreground Dad bounces the new baby. He lingers on these uneventful moments -- as if to imply that such a genial routine can provide a smoke screen. One of the lingering questions is whether Swinton's character knows what's going on.While Roth's direction and Alexander Stuart's screenplay are integral to the film's success, the consistently high level of acting is of paramount importance. Roth has assembled an amazing quartet of actors, two of whom have not had previous screen experience, Freddie Cunliffe and Lara Belmont. The strength of Ray Winstone's performance is that he makes his character into a far more complex individual than the typical child abuser. With the exception of one scene, he is shown to be a loving, caring father and husband.The final shot of the film looks like a framed painting, the siblings huddled together alone in a bunker, held long enough that the pain and damage done to these children is apparent to everyone. When the credits begin to roll, you are almost powerless to move. A father who loves his children, and wants the best for them -- but can't stop himself from destroying what he cherishes most. "},{"Title":"Authentic, graphic and prominent...","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" English actor and director Tim Roth's feature film debut which was written by British author and screenwriter Alexander Stuart, is an adaptation of a novel by Alexander Stuart from 1989. It premiered in the Premieres section at the 15th Sundance Film Festival in 1999, was screened in the Panorama section at the 49th Berlin International Film Festival in 1999, was shot on location in London and the county of North Devon in England and is a United Kingdom-Italy co-production which was produced by producers Sarah Radcliffe and Dixie Linder. It tells the story about a boy named Tom who moves from London, England to a remote house by the coast in Devon with his father, pregnant mother and older sister named Jessie. Finely and precisely directed by British filmmaker Tim Roth, this quietly paced fictional tale which is narrated from multiple viewpoints though mostly from the main character's point of view, draws a gripping and unsettling portrayal of a young man's relationship with his sister and how everything changes when he begins to suspect that their father is molesting her. While notable for it's naturalistic milieu depictions, sterling cinematography by Northern Irish cinematographer Seamus McGarvey and fine production design by Australian production designer Michael Carlin, this character-driven and dialog-driven coming-of-age story depicts a reflective study of character and contains an efficient score by composer Simone Boswell. This minimalistic, atmospheric and unsentimental psychological drama about incest which is set during a spring on the countryside in South West England in the late 20th century, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, subtle continuity and the understated and poignant acting performances by English actor Ray Winstone, English actress Tilda Swinton and British actress Lara Belmont and British actor Freddie Cunliffe in their debut feature film roles. An authentic, graphic and prominent directorial debut from the late 1990s which gained, among several other awards, the European Discovery Award Tim Roth at the 12th European Film Awards in 1999. "},{"Title":"A very different take on the book the movie is supposed to be based on","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Saw the movie first, then read the book. Usually its the other way around. In the extras to the book, the author describes his meetings with Tim Roth, how impressed he was by his charisma. What he didn't explain is why he allowed Tim Roth to completely change the characters personalities and distort his book and still film it under the same name. Not that the film was bad, just that they give two fundamentally opposed paradigms about many of the events.In the movie, she confronts the father about sexually abusing her, the implication during the hospital scene confirms our total hatred of the father and total sympathy for the two teen siblings.In the book Tom who's perspective we get almost exclusively, regularly talks to himself about how he is going to find the courage to get a knife and kill both his father and sister. His sister is portrayed as a girl of great beauty and in total control. The family visit the local bar where every guy in the place drools over her. She takes it in her stride. SHe is promiscious and strings along boyfriends dismissing them at leisure. SHe and Tom go into the big city where she initiates a threesome with them and one of her friends. Tom questions him about her relationship with her father, and she is either dismissive, or congruently indicates that she was not only the one who initiated their first incestuous liason but she often propositions the father for sex when she wants it and enjoys herself. After the revelations are made (her motorcycle riding BF drops by to accuse the father) we read a little after story, the mother won't let dad see the young girl. Mum won't talk to her daughter. Tom peacemaker in the middle. Finally Tom meets up with her at a Caribbean island and the book ends with him getting what he reveals he wanted all along, a chance to be with her sexually. "}{"Title":"An explosive war in the family","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like Gary Oldman, actor Tim Roth has made his first feature, and again, it's doesn't fail to disappoint. Who would of thought in his directing debut, the subject would set around incest. This is a tight solid drama, some of impossible situations. Winstone is having it off with the daughter, but she's not the only one. On their private trips to London another older woman joins them, hence making a threesome. One night the son spots the two in the bath from outside. He threatens to tell the mother if they do it again, which of course they will. This brings the violent streak out in the son. While rummaging through the sister's drawers he finds some naked photos. See, the son is too scared to confront the dad but when he does, it's WAR. Winstone brings a much lighter character to his one in Nil By Mouth, but near the end when he's spouting a string a f words, this kind of resembles him in that movies with virtually some of the same lines. Tilda Swinton (always fantastic) the mother character who has fallen pregnant, of course is oblivious to this. When she has the baby, Winstone already started on it. See, Winstone's got a real problem. The War Zone treads dangerous waters, going places a lot of other movie don't want to go, one scene has the father leant over the daughter, in their private hideaway, the daughter telling him, Why do you always have to do it like that?. I guess Winstone is courteous, and almost human in that sense, but the real reason is, he can't, is he so's guilt stricken inside, where he would see the mother's face instead. That's my analogy anyhow. I felt sorry for the son who suffers the most in the movie. He so wants to tell the mother, but this is about the worst time. He disclose it near the end which causes the explosive confrontation scene between father and son near the end, a heavy scene with Winstone heavily denying it, and again, the son saying only very few words. Both teen actors in this weren't previously trained and works better for them in the natural performances they give. The War Zone is not for all tastes, but for the others, it's compulsive viewing. performances the give. "},{"Title":"A visual treat","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So this film was recommended to me after watching The Piano Teacher and I had never heard of it before but was intrigued by it's themes and that it was the first and so far only film directed by Tim Roth. It instantly draws parallels with Gary Oldman's Nil By Mouth not least because it also stars Ray Winstone in the father role.The first thing I feel I should mention is just how good this film looked. The setting was perfect, a sleepy seaside village in Devon directly conflicting with the events unfolding on screen whilst at the same time complementing them with the dreary, bleak backgrounds. Indeed, many scenes just show Tom on the beach or very little happening, but they look great as it segues from one scene to another.I thought the cast was perfect for the film. Of course Ray Winstone in this sort of role is often reason to watch, but I also think that Freddie Cunliffe was marvellous in the main role and I was surprised he has not done anything else of note off the back of this.I honestly do not think the content of this film is as bad as it's Wikipedia page suggests, though that does not mean I recommend it to most people. If you like the sound of the description on Wikipedia you will most likely enjoy this film on some level, otherwise you should not bother because you will hate it.Then there is that scene. One of the most uncomfortable, uncompromising sex scenes you are likely to see in a full length picture.I am surprised Tim Roth has still not directed another film but I would definitely be up for watching them even if the story is not as bleak as this one because the direction and casting is spot on.Overall, I recommend this to people who like this sort of film. However I feel it is not quite on par with Nil By Mouth because that film made me shed a tear and this one did not.Recommended for fans of Nil By Mouth, Straw Dogs, Bad Lieutenant, Once Were Warriors and films by Ken Loach. A must for anybody who likes to see Ray Winstone in this sort of role. "},{"Title":"A powerful Greek tragedy set against turbulent Devon in winter","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's a fascinating contrast in The War Zone between the drab, down-at-heel existence of a post-modern British nuclear family and the huge force of the wrong that is being done beneath the surface. Life in the lonely farmhouse on a Devon clifftop is so shabby and downbeat it resembles a documentary. Nothing much happens, people drift about, mumbling at each other --- until something brutally does a horrifying car-crash that triggers the action. It's impossible to examine and celebrate the action without spoiling the film (although it's bad enough that its subject is blazoned over most comments even though they do not announce spoilers; strictly speaking they should be removed and all the commentators blocked). Suffice to say that the theme is eternal and earth-shattering, wielding the power of an Oedipus Rex, the ancient Greek drama. The opening calm by the end has become a scene of utter ruination, with lives blown to pieces. In between, the phlegmatic English characters, ex-Londoners to boot, worn down by urban alienation, gradually come to grips with the primal situation they are in. It unleashes moments of awesome dramatic power that raise this picture to the level of Sophocles and Aeschylus. Hats off to Tim Roth for creating this tour de force, which packs more power into a few underpaid and under-financed minutes than any fat Hollywood blockbuster. It's an incredibly provocative examination of the core of human society that will set you and your fellow viewers thinking and talking into the night. Don't miss this rough gem! "},{"Title":"Powerful and intelligent film","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've noticed that some of the comments people have made totally miss the point Tim Roth was trying to make.  For those people, either buy or rent the DVD version of the film.  In it you will find the director's comments and a featurette that just might explain a few things that would help you understand Tim's reasons for making the film the way he did. Yes, it is indeed a difficult film to watch, but then incest is a difficult subject to deal with.Personally, I think Tim has done an excellent job depicting the issue of incest in a more realistic light.  There is no easy way to do a film with this type of subject matter.  I can tell that he had done some research prior to doing this project.Incest can be, and frequently is, a silent monster that quietly devastates afflicted families.  Many times this type of abuse gets passed down from parent to child.  The cycle is difficult to break.  In the scene where Tom witnesses his father and sister involved in an incestuous act through the bathroom window, he goes into a state of shock.  Many people wonder why he didn't simply blow the whistle his dad at that time.  Also, many wonder why Jesse seems content to endure this abuse.  Unless you have experienced sexual abuse as child, you cannot completely get into the mind of the child being abused.  Blowing the whistle seems to be an obvious solution to the problem, but sexual abuse is not the only type of abuse present.  Other less noticeable forms of abuse (i.e. emotional abuse), plays a role in how the abused deals with the matter at hand.  Silence and complacency on the part of the abused is often the case.  Some victims are unable to vocalize what is going on and then continue to bear the pain of the abuse.I highly recommend this film.  It is not for everyone, nor is it appropriate for young children without parental guidance.  But this film truly hits home on what incest/abuse is really about.  I wouldn't be surprised if most people have friends who have experienced or is going through an abusive situation, and these people aren't even aware of the pain and fear their friends are going through.  Don't compare this film to others with similar story lines or subject matter.  Look at the film itself and take it at face value.  To Tim Roth, well done!!   I can't wait for his next directorial project! "},{"Title":"Amazing directorial debut!","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The War Zone is one of the heaviest, most traumatic dramas i have ever seen. The extent of the graphic situations when it comes to the details of the family secret seem so real and so close to home you will want to cry. This movie is not for the weak hearted.  This movie is not for the weak minded.  This movie is for those who are intrigued by the movie makers that love to take things one step further.  The War Zone keeps you close to home and makes you a part of this family.  It sucks you in and gets you involved. Excellent performances from every actor, not to mention an outstanding directorial debut.  Just buy it and see for yourself.  This is a review of the Unrated version on DVD. "},{"Title":"The Unbearable Bleakness of Being","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This bleak, disturbing movie leaves many unanswered and unresolved threads, and viewers who like to be spoonfed in the traditional Hollywood style won't appreciate it.  It leaves many issues to be played out in the viewer's mind's-eye.It deals with incest, and the drama is played out in the bleak Winter of North Devon. Against this bleak countryside, beautifully filmed scenes of the roiling seas driving against angular tectonic plates leave us with no doubt that something unpleasant is about to unfold.Other reviewers have covered the plot line, so I won't rehash it.  I will, however, offer the comment that it deals with this unpleasant subject with great taste.  Still, I found the one graphic scene of incest difficult to watch.It reminds me of The Piano in many ways - the visual bleakness, the distorted power relationships between the main protagonists, and in the haunting soundtrack.   9.5/10 "},{"Title":"It was a pretty hard movie with a lot of violent feelings","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was a pretty hard movie with a lot of violent feelings In fact it is not my favorite movie genre but I admit that it was very good in many aspects. The actors were very convincing. The movie itself was made in a manner that we feel it is very real. Everything in it like photography and music strengthened the impressions of reality. My big problem was that I don't like such a kind of family tragedies!  "},{"Title":"A surreal experience","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this picture last September at a little film festival, starting at midnight, the movie they should have been showing was an anvant-premiere of The Blair Witch Project. But they couldn't get the print in time.Therefore we had an other film THE WAR ZONE. The theater was almost sold out and at the end there was just 10% of the people watching. It had no subtitles yet and this was not the subject that people were suspecting. As I sat there, with a friend, who had never in his life seen an arthouse film, we were astonished by this wonderful film. It was a surreal experience, first people who thought it was the wrong film stood up then the ones who couldn't understand the English accents without subtitles then the ones who couldn't stand the subject of rape and incest in the middle of the night. And me and my friend watched it and loved it. A few years ago he thought the greatest movie ever was Jumpin' Jack Flash. And as for me, I think it was just a brilliant film from one of the greatest actors of the '90s Tim Roth. It's a movie that will be forever in my memory. "},{"Title":"A devastating movie reminiscent of Secrets and Lies","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the best movies in recent memory. The cast is universally stellar, and the actors never waiver even while dealing with such difficult material. The cinematography is outstanding and the film will stay with you for quite some time after leaving the theater. Highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth's 1st of Hopefully many films","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The great actor Tim Roth has made a film that is shocking, artistic, atmospheric, and original.  This is his 1st directing effort.  I was surprised reading reviews from February as it just opened here.Anyway, the film is a stark haunting film about incest, and is focused on the victim's brother and what is happening in his adolescent head.  On the isolated coast of Devon lives a family who's father is one sick pup.  I heard of people walking out during the film and some did at the showing I attended.  A lot of the ones remaining were in tears.  Tim Roth's purpose I think is to shock audiences, but at the same time lay down an artistic vision of British moodiness.  This is a highly internalized film, as the real action happens in the characters minds, as in all truly significant films.  Another aspect it pays attention to is what goes on in the viewer's mind, though much of the film is unexplained and open-ended; so refreshing a contrast this to the Spielbergisms of Hollywood (i.e. explain everything so the dumbest audience member gets it all).  The dialogue is minimal and as such gives the film higher intensity, and more ambiguity. Tom, the protagonist, does a great job acting as the mod teenager.  A good study in realism, though the evil depicted is too blatant.This is one flaw of the film;  it's too blatant.  A similar film should be done with more subtle forms of evil as it's focus.  I'm awaiting Roth's next film, which hopefully he himself will act in.  His compulsion to shock I think will diminish and he'll devote more to his true artistic vision. "}{"Title":"Dazzling filmmaking","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Simply Should be mandatory viewing for all the critics who called American Beauty a powerful masterpiece.  The intelligence and detail of Roth's film eclipses, in its study of family dynamics, virtually every other film released in 1999.  "},{"Title":"dark.........","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie was dark.....the acting was great...the way the subject matter of incest was played out on the screen was the most honest i have ever seen. i liked the movie, but as i walked out of the movie i felt there was no hope. the only other movie i can remember feeling this way about was, `your friends and neighbors...   "},{"Title":"The strength of teenagers and the brilliant Tim Roth!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a remarkable achievement for Tim Roth !! The thoughtful representation of the passions of teenagers and their troubles and more important their ability to be victorious in the middle of the most confusing of psychological turmoil is beautiful!! The treatment of the relationship between the father and the children was not exagerated or diminished. The subtle crisis that can take place in people's mind when unable to handle the reality of their confusions was shown in the development of each of the characters and their relationships. Many things are not said in this family but the elephant in the room is allowed to come into view methodically as the viewers are allowed to see the brother's fight for his sister. The relationships were real and the love and spirit between all of them was palpable. The hysteria that usually surrounds the topic of incest was not in this film. It more about brutal and emotional truth. This portrayal was incredibly reassuring and important for the public to see. I think it is a film that will help move humanity forward!! Congratulations Tim your brilliant!  "},{"Title":"Shocking and brutally honest.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Roth does a brilliant job of depicting a seemingly normal family that is just the opposite.  He shows us the monsters in our society that we never know are there. "},{"Title":"hopefully you can watch it.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is amazing.  Hopefully it will get onto a couple of screens despite the subject matter.  This movie is very hard to sit through as it should be.  Very realistic depictions of incest/rape.  The music and photography in this film are amazing and Tim Roth did a great job. "},{"Title":"SPOILER ALERT, but it is hard to spoil what is already putrid.","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wonder who votes for this sick stuff on IMDb ... I think many movies just have either fake votes for them, or the only people who see them are just weird or perverted.In the case of the War Zone this is supposed to be a serious dramatic look at incest and how painful it is ... such a sensitive look, with porno camera angles, and magnificently filmed scenes, and music, and of course to make it resolve, the evil abuser father is killed by the righteous son, meanwhile the audience has to watch all manner of sick sex.Face it, this movie is nothing but a surreptitious look at forbidden sex put right up on the silver screen with airs of self-righteousness. Tim Roth is one sick puppy to think he is doing anything but making it easier to show sicko sex, abuse and porn in the movies and purveying smut to the ticket buying public.That this piece of garbage would be a 7+ is a joke.I mean ... I don't know anyone who has been sexually abused, but I sure cannot imagine these people living in such a nice clean home, living such a normal life, with no sign of it to anyone. Read about this stuff and the signs are all over the place.Not to mention the sex scenes and the father raping his daughter and the daughter says nothing, I mean, how did this happen, and then it is all just fine because the son finds out and murders his father.Nothing is shown, nothing is taught, nothing is resolved, no character arc, no real background, nothing to get in the way of one low piece of garbage that someone took on just to get past the censors by pretense that it had something to do with something useful or socially responsible.Ha ... some joke. The people associated with his movie might learn something about abuse if they were put away in prison like they should be and had to endure a bit of it ... then their next movie might not be so seductively filmed. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth is also a great director","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The are a lot of reasons of what i think this is a very good film and for me a masterpiece.First i want to say that i haven't read the book so this comment is just about the film that i saw, and i say that because a lot of people think that this film was bad because the story is different of the book so i cant compare this story and the one of the book.About the War zone Art Work Is just amazing, i mean the photography is just beautiful and sometimes it looks like this film was filmed in black and white.The Cast i love it, is just great and very real. Ray Winstone plays the dad in a superb way and the young actors (Freddie Cunliffe and Lara Belmont) are more than excellent. Tim Roth knows how to make very real this performances.The storyIs about a middle class family that moves from London to Devon. In Devon Tom discover that his father is abusing his older sister so now he is very confused. Thats the main plot of the film so is a very difficult story for a lot of people so thats make this film not for everyone. Contains strong themes like sexual abuse and Tim Roth makes this film very real so thats why is a very strong story.The characters Very different from each other. The dad is always talking about his business, Tom is always bored and alone so he start to look into his own family, Jessie is also alone most of the time but she have Nick and the mom that i think is the unique happy character in the film until she knows the true about her husband and Jessie.The end is different of most of the common ends because you don't know what is going to happened and also the characters are very confused and it can be resume in the three questions that Tom ask to his sister is he dead?, how is mom? and what are we going to do?The director Tim Roth is one the my favorites actors of all time and maybe one the greatest actors in the last 15 years. He work whit Tarantino. Tornatore, Burton, Wim Wenders, Greenaway and recent whit Francis Coppola so for me that is amazing. And in this , his first film he confirm that he is also a great director and well i'm waiting to his second film.DVD well i don't know if this film was release in the cinemas of Mexico so is great to can watch this film 8 years later. I have this film in a special DVD whit 3 more film so there's not a lot of bonus material but still is great. "},{"Title":"R-version, Unrated and Collectors Edition","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Long back when this movie first came out I went to the web site for it, there I saw a scene, a video clip, not so disturbing at first until I fond out it was father and daughter. I had sort of forgotten about the movie until I saw Tim Roth's The legend of 1900 which I liked so I ordered the Unrated version. Just the other day I was looking at the IMDb site and went to the link to AMAZON. That is what reminded me of that clip. There is the highly disturbing scene at the sea side in some old WWII (I think ) bunker. While people have mentioned that this scene was not in the video edition, I just realized that the scene in the bath or bath house that caused the brother to challenge the sister early on and then video tape the scene at the bunker was missing ?? Maybe they left that one in the video and took it out of the DVD ?? "},{"Title":"A Good, Shocking Little Film","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Highly talented actor Tim Roth tried his hand at directing with this irregular little film, THE WAR ZONE. The presentation is what I would call flat; a frank, non-gloss view with no frills in sight. The story is a disturbing one, rendered more disturbing by the flat, passionless approach.An English family moves from the big city to a more rural town on the coast. The teenage son is unhappy. The mother is pregnant and the film opens with the family getting into an auto accident while trying to rush her to the hospital. The baby is alright but the family is not, in the whole relationship balance realm, anyway. The son begins to suspect that his older sister is having a tryst with their father when the two begin to spend more time together. Before long he finds out it's true. This tale is hardly pleasant and THE WAR ZONE could not be called entertainment. This is a shocking tale played out in a bleak landscape by almost inhuman characters.Harsh scenes are shown the viewer by an unflinching camera and the viewer soon finds himself unable to flinch as well. The images are accepted, just as flatly as they are presented, though they could never be approved of. What Roth has delivered is almost an experimental film, an art film, because it does not try at all to entertain. This may be boring to most viewers. It isn't a bad film, nor could it be called great, but it tells its story in all its mute grayness and doesn't pull any punches. I can guarantee one thing about THE WAR ZONE; you will not feel like speaking when it is over. "},{"Title":"Not Bad ****SPOILERS****SPOILERS****","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a fan of Tim Roth's work and I think he did a great job Directing this movie. I think the movie could have had more substance, but over all it was better than average. I found the sex scene a little disturbing, but I'm glad it was left in the movie. It really made me hate the father more. All in all it was good...great scenery, great actors and put together well even thought it was a bit predictable and a little slow. I don't know how things are in Europe, but I know that in America....brothers and sisters in their teens don't sit around and talk to each other naked (as in the movie)..well maybe in Arkansas. I gave it a 7 outta 10. "}{"Title":"Tim Roth outdoes most other directors!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie I kept asking myself why hadn't Tim Roth directed before. Being one of the best actors of all time, he should really direct alot more movies. The story is a very dark one, so I would not recommend it to everyone. Roth's presentation of the topic is done beautifully and without gloryfing anything, not even the ending when the boy does something about what is happening in his family.  Roth will have a hard time topping this one, that is if he ever directs another movie. The story is great! The ending is left to be interpreted by the viewer and this I loved because you are left thinking about it and wanting to do something about it. Which, I believe, was the purpose of the movie. A great movie to watch. I gave it a 10!! "},{"Title":"Ugly but powerful","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not a family movie. This is also not your average American child-abusers-bashing type of movie. Usually, in movies about incest, the father is a violent nothing-to-like-about-him type of guy. In The War Zone the father is actually a caring and loving father but with a twisted idea about acceptable sexual behaviors. The pace is very slow and nothing is totally black or totally white in this movie. The characters are really deep and twisted and the acting is top-class. The problem with this movie is that it is too good and because of its subject-matter it translates into an unpleasant experience. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A powerful, disturbing and moving film.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The subject matter of this film - incest - is a brave thing to tackle for a first time director, but Roth has proved more than up to the job. He has avoided all the potential tabloid pitfalls that could have lead to this film being a caricature or a cliche.The family are shown as quite normal. Ray Winstone appears as the supportive and loving father to a family (mother, son and daughter) trying to adjust to a move from the city to a remote Devon location. Then the rather sullen teenage son sees his father and sister in the bath together. When he confronts the sister with what he has seen, she denies anything is going on.Apart from a few scenes which don't quite come together, this is a skilfully handled and mature piece of film making. Roth thankfully does not go for glib answers, he just forces us to asks questions.A powerful, disturbing and moving film.   "},{"Title":"This movie is no Fun... but it's Excellent!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is excellent. The topic of this film is a hard one sexual abuse in the family. I believe that more films on this topic should be made as it is an interesting aspect of society. Be prepared for hard visual acts of sexual abuse. If you come to this movie prepared you may be able to stand the horrible acts you are seeing. However, even if you come prepared, you might go out of this movie, feeling that weird feeling in your stomach.Tim Roth in his debut, is fine director, I would really like to see making more films.9 of 10. "},{"Title":"Totally agree with FlickJunkie-2","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot add much else  to the sensitive and insightful comments of FlickJunkie-2, except to say that that assessment is the most intelligent review I have seen on this board about The War Zone (which mostly have not got past the shock of the incest).  And to say that I thought that this film was one of the best I have seen recently. "},{"Title":"An understated, underrated masterpiece","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I couldn't sleep the other night and consequently ended up watching The War Zone.  It was one of the most thought provoking films I have ever seen.  I was awake for most of the night just thinking about the themes, the cinematography, the general mise-en-scene.  I don't think that Tim Roth did half-bad for his first time at directing.Some people complain that this film leaves unanswered questions and is therefore incomplete.  I would respond to this by saying that it is generally time that filmmakers would start respecting their audience and not spelling out the abc's for them.  As an audience, we have our own minds and can assume, or choose not to assume, what we fill these supposed 'gaps' with.  Personally (and this is only my humble opinion) this is the only film when I have seen Ray Winston excel himself.  The two younger actors were fantastic and I can't believe that Freddie Cunliffe has not been offered subsequent acting work.I found myself semi-hiding under the duvet in the scene between Lara Belmont and Ray Winston, but we are guided into being voyeurs by the cunning Tim Roth and so watch, yet be compelled to turn away.  I don't think that this film was exploitative in the slightest, if you want exploitation of sensitive subjects, turn to Eastenders.As for the inconsistency between the book and the film, I would say that the two are different things.  If you look at films supposedly based on 'true stories' you'd realise that a very small proportion is actually based on fact.  Therefore, to the novel purists, I'd say that Tim Roth adapted in the way he thought best.  After all, that's all anyone can ever do - their best, and I think Tim Roth has surpassed himself with this film. "},{"Title":"Heart breaking film,but a fact of life.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Roths directorial debut proves to be more daring and alot harder to bare with than people might have expected.The subject of the brother having to deal with and witness the sexual abuse in the family.It starts off with the four of the family in Devon (where I live myself)after they have just moved from London.On the drive to the hospital in the beginning after the mothers water breaks,the car crashes leaving them injured and the baby is delivered in the car.Shortly afterwards Tom (the son in the family)spots his dad and jessie (older sister) in the bathtub.Tom isn't quite sure of what he see's until he tries investigating further on into the matter and discovers a horrifying truth that eventually destroys the family emotionally.The war zone is a controversial look into the world of incest and sexual abuse and portrays the graphic detail of how it effects family life and the troubled victims of the abuse.I watched this movie over a year ago.I had just rented it and went to see Scary movie the same evening before I saw it.After seeing Scary Movie and coming home that night I was still thinking of the scenes and laughing.I watched the war zone and the laughter went and by the end of the film it depressed me.But afterwards I was impressed with the work of Tim Roths creation of a bleak atmosphere.Ray Winstone starred in Nil by mouth playing a thief junkie running a dysfunctional family in London.Nil by mouth from the beginning of the movie you can tell what it's all about.If you were to watch The war zone on the television not reading the sypnosis you would have the shock of your life.I reccomend it,but only see it if you know what you are watching.Maybe it'll send the message out to the abusers and the abused themselves. "},{"Title":"A film directing masterpiece","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie deals with the incestual relationship between a father and his daughter, and how it impacts the son when he discovers this. I could not find the slightest fault with the movie. Casting, acting, editing, film-sets, photography, and costumes were all perfect. The portrayal of the daughter by Lara Belmont should have received some award for such an excellent acting job in a very difficult role. I wish that Tim Roth would put his acting and directing talent in more movies. "},{"Title":"Sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Freddie Cunliffe plays the most miserable (for a reason) teenager ever - the dramatic facial expression (or lack of it) of this actor in his screen debut is breathtaking.Good old Tim Roth in his directorial debut surpasses recent horrifiers such as Dancer in the Dark  and Requiem for a Dream. I sat through both of those but this got me closer to leaving than any other film.The acting is great. Faultless.The direction Superb, with lots of emphasis on the value of the pause and the silence.Cinematography Really rather good.Everything bodes well for this filmBUTbefore you see it MAKE SURE that you are aware that there is a molestation scene in this (not technically a spoiler as it is stated in the MPAA rating) and it is not molestation of the nice kind.8 out of 10but be warned. "},{"Title":"morbid,depressive,incestuous,all questions,no answers","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wish I could rattle off a totally positive review of this film, the photography was superb, the cast well chosen and acted (except maybe for the father), excellent balance of music to context, difficult subject handled sensitively. On the other side of the coin I found the audio mostly either too loud or subdued beyond level of understanding (and I'm from England!). As in the movie Boys Dont Cry the story content was thin, the pace slow and the movie progression dotted by awkward silent pauses in the indecipherable dialog. I thought the 'peeping tom' segment and other sexual depictions uncomplimentary to the audience and more aimed at voyeurs than serious social comment. The movie constantly posed questions without answers right to the finale when a slammed bunker door(a metaphor for what?,,, you choose) ended the movie.  Not a classic but certainly a movie of merit. "}{"Title":"Amateur","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching the War Zone and must say that I was not very impressed. Before I go into what I don't like about the movie let me say that the acting by all involved was excellent. Okay. The plot how many times are we going to have to sit through movies about the outwardly happy family that is really about to burst apart at the seams due to some terrible secret? Yawn. We all know by now that there is a dark side to life. Some of us may have even experienced it. And if we haven't, we certainly encountered it in film long before Tim Roth decided to tell us about it. And how abut a nice respectable father figure for once? Or is that too square? The directing How many times are we going to see the evocative lonely house on the prairie shot? Ever so symbolic and mysterious. It really grabs one's attention, doesn't it? Just what is going on in that mysterious house, we think to ourselves. Puh-leeeez. The worst part about this film experience for me is knowing what critical acclaim this film has received. It is on the low side of average AT BEST.  "},{"Title":"Like a British version of The Waltons","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh what fun this movie is.  It recounts the adventures of a present day English family who have just moved from the big smoke (London) to the idyllic countryside of Devon.  We get to see all the jolly japes the various members of the family get up to.  The father (Ray Winstone) is a loveable rogue who wouldn't harm a fly.This movie reminds me of the UK TV series The Darling Buds of May in it's celebration of a mythical golden age in the English countryside, except this does not feature Catherine Zeta Jones.  The War Zone is an enjoyable feelgood movie for all the family.I do like IMDB's If you like this title, we also recommend... The Railway Children.  Brilliant suggestion there, IMDB.  These two would make a great double bill for a pleasant evening's viewing.  Both are about the escapades of kids in the English countryside but, for some reason, The Railway Children does not include a scene which shows a father sodomizing his daughter.   "},{"Title":"A true work of art","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First off, do not go to see The War Zone if you want to be entertained. There is nothing the least bit entertaining about this film. But if you believe that cinema has the potential to be an art form, and that one of the things that art should do is tell the truth, then you must see it. All of the performances are outstanding, particularly the newcomers who play Tom and Jess. As for the graphic nature of some of the scenes, I have to say that they were painful to watch, particularly the rape scene, which was horrifying. But incest is horrifying. The War Zone makes you feel the pain it causes, and this is one only film I can ever remember that actually made me cry. If you can feel anything, this film will make you angry that so much of this thing goes on in our society. This film deserves your attention. "},{"Title":"Great results from first time director, Tim Roth","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very powerful film that does not pull any punches. Great acting from all the principles, especially Lara Belmont. Try to read a review before you go to see this one, the subject matter is very sensitive, the tone of the film reminded me of Breaking the Waves. The actors all bare their characters souls in ways that make this a very unique film "},{"Title":"And I thought Nil By Mouth was brutal","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film last night at Toronto Film Festival and am still in shock. Absolutely incredible film, wonderfully real performances and the best handling of incest I have ever seen. An incredibly difficult subject to do without insulting people. Unfortunately not everyone will be able to have Tim Roths Q&A afterwards, but trust me, he made it for the right reasons. "},{"Title":"An excellent first effort","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to see the movie and have the chance to ask Tim Roth questions after it.  He did a Q & A after a preview screening here in London.It was obvious that people allowed their revulsion at the subject matter to obscure their critique of the film.  Many in the audience accused Roth of sensationalizing the incest and being graphic for the sake of being graphic. I, on the other hand think that in showing things the way he did, he successfully achieved his goal of making the audience shocked at what they saw - by highlighting the dichotomy in the mind sets of the abuser and the abused - and to make the audience feel uneasy at the 'human face' worn by Ray Winstone's character.There is no question that this is a difficult movie to watch, but Roth is attacking a difficult subject.  The actors play their characters extremely well, showing the confusion, desperation and the repression of the feelings, which are slowly, and quietly tearing their family and their lives apart.There are some things Roth should work on (some of his establishment shots were too long and the overall rhythm of the film was a little slow), but on the whole this is an excellent first effort  "},{"Title":"The power of the content is not matched by its form","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Roth's directorial debut bleakly portrays the break-up of a family due to incest. Set in Devon, a location so grim it actually does justice to its subject matter. Roth attempts to portray the gritty realism of such a touchy subject but fails to deliver through the way he handles his actors. The deadpan acting-style of the family members appears contrived and is banal.Nearly all of the characters seemed resigned to the current state of affairs. Tom, the brother who becomes aware of his father's incest with his sister, remains passive and the spectator gets the impression that he is indifferent vis-a-vis the incest. Ray Winstone is convincing as the ostensibly 'good' father who is really the most sinister character in the film. Tilda Swinton plays her role well as the mother who is too caught-up with her new-born baby that she fails to realise what is transpiring around her. But the character with whom I most identified was Jessie, the victim of her father's incest. One gets the impression that she is willing to suffer her father's abuse for the well-being of the family. I would have liked the film to have been more melodramatic, thereby involving the spectator more in action. But considering this, a subject such as incest is not one which is openly dealt with in everyday life. In this regard, I think Roth's directorial debut is powerful in what it acheives. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"THE best movie I've ever watched ...","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is THE best movie I've seen. There are no words to describe the movie, the performances and the work of the crew.I am an incest survivor myself. If anything, I know this much about the movie it realistically captures how life goes on in such a setting. I mean I know too well about how it went on for me. The discomfort, the seeming ignorance/blind eye, the curiosity, the guilt, feelings of manipulation, the pain, the urge to punish oneself, the love, the conflict - all are real and are brought out very realistically. Contrary to what some have commented, the movie is not manipulative! The other day I was talking to my friend about this movie and somehow Philadelphia (Tom Hanks et al) came up. Now a movie like that is a manipulative movie (probably deliberately done so, just as this movie is deliberately left totally non-manipulative!). Also people have complained that there has been no investigation into the rationale behind the actions of the characters. Any attempt to rationalize these actions would trivialize them. There are no cookie-cutter solutions for problems like this. I am glad and thankful that Tim Roth has responsibly avoided baby-feeding us notions and whats worse, stereotypes, about incest, in the name of rationales. Even after twenty-some years of dealing with it (I'm still dealing with it even though the incestuous actions have stopped for a long time now.), I don't think I have any answers myself. If you expected answers in a 90-something-minutes movie, you probably aren't going to get it. Besides if anyone ever promises an answer in a 90-something-minutes movie (or even otherwise), I'd be wary of what they have to say!I really wish I could see the movie when it was released in one of the film festivals or something. I really wish this movie gets watched by many people in the world! Movies such as these make all the difference in people's lives because they get people to think. They force people to be responsible and sensitive. In my case, I had to watch it from 2 am to 345 am at my home when everyone else was asleep. Goes to show how much we are even ready to face the issues, let alone try to understand and come up with some sort of answers!10/10!!! "},{"Title":"Powerful film, great performances, well handled, but not for all tastes","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like fellow Britpack member Gary Oldman, actor Tim Roth chooses a difficult and emotionally disturbing subject for his directorial debut, in this case, an adaption of Alexander Stuart's 1989 novel dealing with incest. Indeed, this does for child abuse what Oldman's Nil By Mouth did for alcoholism, with both films featuring Ray Winstone in the role as the destructive father unknowingly tearing his family apart and both films ending with a loving dedication to the directors own father. However, this film is by far the more intense of the two. In Nil By Mouth, Winstone's character is openly sadistic and nasty from the outset, but in The War Zone, he seems at first like a loving and devoted father. Indeed, he could easily be the perfect father, and that's exactly how his son Tom (played by newcomer Freddie Cunliffe) and his wife (Tilda Swinton) see him. His daughter Jessie (Lara Belmont, another debut performance) on the other hand knows only too well the hideous and unthinkable truth about him. Keeping the film perfectly within the perspective of the children's view of events, Winstone and Swinton's characters are simply referred to throughout as Mum and Dad. We never find out their real names and that's how they are listed on the credits.Stuart and Roth were motivated by examining the emotional bonds between parents and their children and the consequences of what happens when that bond is broken. Although in the original novel Winstone's character eventually confesses to his crimes, in the film version he continually denies ever harming his siblings, and takes to lashing out at Tom, threatening him with physical abuse. It's an extremely disturbing film, bleak in outlook and in it's depiction of it's surroundings, but undeniably moving and unforgettable, forcing it's audience to not only accept that this form of abuse happens, but also asking us to re-examine our values towards our children.The casting is unorthodox but exceptional. Ray Winstone is an actor of exceptional talent. In this film, he starts off cuddly and amusing as the caring father, but turns into an unbelievably evil monster, causing an unsettlingly tumultuous emotion in the audience. Tilda Swinton also strikes gold as the mother, though given little to do, her character is nevertheless believable and she manages to flesh her out into something three-dimensional. Newcomers Freddie Cunliffe and Lara Belmont were picked from over 2,000 young hopefuls who responded to an advert placed in England's Guardian newspaper which read young actors wanted to audition for film to be directed by Honey Bunneys favourite Pumpkin, a reference to Roth's cockney thief who appears in Tarantino's hit movie Pulp Fiction. Belmont was spotted shopping in London's Portobello Road while Cunliffe was actually with a friend who initially went to the audition. Both young actors had no experience whatsoever, so it's quite amazing and a testament to Roth as director that both give such intense, emotional performances that are sometimes in danger of upstaging the older, experienced cast members. Given the highly sensitive nature of the material, Cunliffe and Belmont are superb throughout, never going over-the-top and exceptional in the film's hectic final scenes.There will be those who will argue that The War Zone is simply not entertainment. The depressing locations, the content, the bad language and frequent nudity (which some have wrongly interpreted as the film giving off the message that casual attitudes to nudity in families can lead to incest) may have leave some cold. Roth isn't giving us a bourgeois family drama from jolly old middle-class England to appease Hollywood distributors. There isn't a happy ending and indeed the film leaves Tom and Jessie in an unsure, precarious situation.The War Zone is a powerful, emotionally charged film, but to be approached only with due caution. Roth has pointed out in interviews that even victims of abuse may find some moments unsettling, but he made it for them. Himself a victim of abuse (though not by his father), Roth has made a devastating and impressive film which is bound to stir debates and provoke a strong audience reaction for many years to come. Surely the sign of a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Powerful and shocking","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The War Zone is not a great movie. It's a good film about incest in an apparently normal family. Tim Roth's directorial debut is just one of the most shocking films I've ever seen maybe this is the real reason why I haven't adore it, it is a film hard to be seen another time. Roth chose a slow style to illustrate his story there are few dialogues and long shots that creates a frightening and cold atmosphere. The acting is on the top especially the young and beautiful new comer Lara Belmont and the weird Freddie Cuntlife. You have to see this film at least one time in your life I guarantee you that you will be shocked and changed, because some scenes are hard to be watched.** out of ****  "}{"Title":"A gut-wrenching, brilliant drama","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd heard about this movie that it was really good, and I'd gotten very curious about it. Of course it hasn't been released here, coz they rather release brainless movies to make major bucks. And since I saw no sign of it being released here anytime soon I decided to rent the import version, which means watching it without subtitles and, trust me, I don't like that. It very much depends on the movie of course and in quite some cases it doesn't matter, but sometimes it does.Anyway, I decided to watch this movie, which I knew absolutely nothing about. The movie is set in England. The scenery looks grey and drab. You can almost touch the isolation... I myself would feel totally miserable there. There is an instant compelling atmosphere in the movie. The scenery, though drab, looks gorgeous and the music's beautiful. As soon as the first conversation starts I know I'm gonna miss my subtitles very much. Especially the heavy British accent from Ray Winstone is barely intelligible, for me that is. So it was kind of a waste to watch the movie this way and I was thinking of stopping it. But... I couldn't find a moment to do so, coz the movie was too spellbinding to break up...Well, I won't say more about the plot, coz I'd advice anyone to see it without any knowledge in advance. I can tell y'all though that this movie was one of the most horrifying and gut-wrenching movies I've ever seen. It's directed by Tim 'Pulp Fiction' Roth and it's a brilliant debut. It's a drama that works on all levels. It's a very uncomfortable movie which is hard to watch and features some of the most disturbing scenes I've seen. It's an excellent movie though that got me emotionally very involved. The performances are superb too. Especially Lara Belmont, in a debut performance (!), was amazing. She gives the runner up best performance by a female of last year (Hilary Swank being number 1). There's one scene in which she's crying which is so devastating, it's unbelievable someone is capable of showing such emotions. This girl has some talent, I tell ya.The language problem I mentioned was no problem in the end. Of course I missed some lines here and there, but this movie features images that tell more than a thousand words.I give this movie an 9.0 and add it to my Top 10 movies for 1999, a truly incredible year for movies, this movie being one of its most memorable ones. "},{"Title":"The Destruction of a Family, in a Sad, Depressive and Powerful Drama About Incest in the Debut of Tim Roth as Director","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Devon, the fifteen years old teenager Tom (Freddie Cunliffe) is very upset for leaving his friends in London. His middle-class family, composed by his mother (Tilda Swinton), his father (Ray Winston) and his eighteen years old sister Jessie (Lara Belmont) has just moved from London to an isolated house nearby the coast. After the delivery of his newborn sister Alice, Tom realizes that his father is sexually abusing of his sister through anal intercourse. Tom becomes emotionally disturbed with the situation, hating his father, being in conflict with his sister and wishing to tell the truth to his mother, who believes that Tom is only missing London for such a weird behavior at home. This sad, depressive and powerful drama about incest and destruction of a family is a magnificent debut of Tim Roth as director. The story is slowly constructed and the situation is disclosed to the viewer in right doses, without being aggressive. Although being an excellent movie, I would not dare to recommend it to very sensitive persons, who may be disturbed with the theme and with the violent scene of the sexual molestation of Dad in the shelter. The gray and rainy weather of Devon fits very well with such dark story. Just as a curiosity, the now famous Colin Farrell has a minor and short participation in the film, performing the role of Nick. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `Zona de Conflito' (`Conflict Zone')   "},{"Title":"Intense exploration of family secrets","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What an incredible movie. This is not a feel-good movie, rather it is a very horrific glimpse into a family hoarding an awful secret - sexual abuse. Most movies on this subject are so blatant, they're pathetic. They either portray the mother as someone who is completely blind when the tell-tale signs are obvious, cries for days when she finds out and leaves the father. Or, refuses to believe her child and remains with the husband. Let's not forget about the 'concerned' school teacher who pays the family a visit because Johnny started flunking English. These movies are so cut and dry that they do not give voice to the 'real' victims of sexual abuse.The most interesting portrayal of War Zone was the father. He seemed very loving and caring towards his family - whether or not his wife was present. You almost like his character, until you find out he was molesting his daughter.Tom(son) seemed to be the oddball - staring at his mother's breasts, talking to his sister while she undressed, staring at his parents, etc. He seemed very creepy - however, his actions can be dismissed as those of a teenage boy going through puberty.The family dynamics were very odd indeed - it was more like the naked family. People walking around in the buff that the mother did not suspect anything when the daughter and father got out of the bathroom.This movie was an excellent view of child abuse because it makes the audience question their perceptions - in the movie and everyday life. It goes beyond the norm and forces people to question their actions or lack there-of.Surprised noone has mentioned this, but during the movie the daughter was so caught up in her own dilemma that she could not think about the impact on her baby sister.**SPOILER** Anyone realize what was in the baby's diaper? Why was she sick?If you had witnessed the father's reaction after his son confronted him, would be believe him?After his daughter admitted it to him, he still denied it and accused Tom of putting thoughts in her head. Was he so twisted that he actually believed he did nothing wrong?What was the significance of Tom tossing the camcorder? Maybe, the proof did not need to be seen in order to be taken seriously.** END SPOILER**There are so many good points to this movie, that I could write forever. After reading the comments, it's understandable why people reacted the way they did - you either love it or you hate it. If you have not seen this movie, watch it and judge for yourself.Some people loved 'Trainspotting' (I did), others think 'Four weddings And A Funeral' was a masterpiece.Definitely love to see more movies like this one. Please post some recommendations.Thanks.  "},{"Title":"Prepare to be deeply affected","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `The War Zone' is a brilliant and sordid character study of a dysfunctional family plagued by incest.  This is Tim Roth's directorial debut and he clearly decided he was not going to play it safe.  The film is a raw portrayal of the complex family dynamics that result from sex and sexual desire between family members.With the help of cinematographer Seamus Mc Garvey, Roth takes an art house approach to story telling, with masterfully bleak cinematography and inspired use of the camera.  Especially effective is his use of silence, increasing the discomforting tone of the entire film.  His unabashed presentation of the stark depravity and the raw emotion wields the impact of a cold slap in the face, simultaneously stinging and holding our undivided attention.  The character study of Jessie (Lara Belmont) and Tom (Freddie Cunliffe) is excellent, but leaves one of the most important questions nebulous.  Roth flirts with the siblings' incestuous desire for one another, but leaves it implied, which I thought was inconsistent with his otherwise forthright style of storytelling.  Was Tom motivated by love for his sister or by jealousy of his father's sexual competition?  Was he his sister's protector or his father's rival?  Both elements seem to be there, but Roth doesn't clarify.  Although I have not read Alexander Stuart's book (upon which the screenplay is based), I understand that Tom's sexual jealousy was an important part of the story, so I don't understand why Roth danced around it.  The story also could have benefited by a closer look into Jessie's feelings about her father.  Was it strictly revulsion for repeated violations, or was she a willing participant?  Again, both seem to be present, but we never really know.  Moreover, the final scene fails to bring closure to the film, a closure that the viewer desperately needs after being juiced in an emotional blender.  Yet, even with these flaws, this is exceptional work for a first time director (or any director for that matter).The acting is phenomenal, especially when one considers that this is the film debut for both Belmont and Cunliffe.  Lara Belmont presents a young woman being torn asunder by an emotional tornado, trying to appear as if nothing is amiss especially in front of her mother.  Belmont's performance is provocative and gut wrenching.  Freddie Cunliffe captures the desperation of Tom's dilemma with a sullen rage that emanates from his placid exterior.  Given their ages and experience, both actors give unbelievably mature performances.This dark and unsettling film is skillfully directed and compellingly acted.  I rated it a 9/10.  It requires a courageous and intelligent viewer with a thick skin.  It is decidedly not for the viewer who is put off by frank depictions of sex and incest.  For the rest, prepare to be deeply affected. "},{"Title":"Bleak, boring, not worth renting","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found the movie lacking substance; the paucity of conversation, the long forlorn looks at the bleak countryside seemed hollow to me.  Perhaps I am somewhat of a Philistine, but I like a little more flesh to a movie.  I think it could have easily been a much more interesting film had it dealt with the aftermath of the final scene. "},{"Title":"tries too hard to shock","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'The War Zone' had an important point to make, about the nature of incest within what looks on the surface to be a loving family, but made one mistake - the central issue was brought home far too graphically. I'm not denying the film is powerful, and well acted, particularly by Lara Belmont as Jessie, Ray Winstone and Tilda Swinton as Dad and Mum, and Freddie Cunliffe as Tom, but what's there is empty, alienating, and takes too long to bring to resolution. Like Gary Oldman's study in family violence and alcohol abuse, 'Nil By Mouth', Tim Roth's The War Zone takes chances and doesn't pull any punches.  I just think that it doesn't quite make it and that, by the end, 'The War Zone' has left its viewers with nothing.  "},{"Title":"This has got to be the best first date movie ever.","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tim Roth, didn't know you had it in you. I have to wonder. This was one of those beautiful train wrecks, that the Brits do so well. Wait. Not a train wreck, more of a major city leveled by atomic terrorism. It does so well with that British slowness that I hated as a child but now appreciate in such a huge way. A truly horrible brilliant movie.Of course there will be people who wonder why this movie was made, and I'm one of them. Yet, I have a feeling that unlike the recent Batman movie, this one will be something I cannot get out of my head. Unlike Batman, the characters and story are seared into my memory. Powerful performances by all. I don't even want to single out one actor because it was all flawless. "},{"Title":"A disturbing film, period.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Roth's, The War Zone is a highly disturbing film that makes you look at society today and how corrupt it really is.  I had read about this movie before I watched it, so I kind of knew what to expect.  However, this movie went far beyond my what I had expected.The movie starts with the birth of a baby girl into the family which is made up of the two parents, a girl, a boy, and then the baby.  As the movie moves on, it becomes more disturbing.  Oddly enough, the family is slightly weird considering everyone seems to walk around the house naked and nobody cares. I don't think that is what happens in a normal household.  At the climax of the film, the girl (Jessie) is raped and molested by her father, and her brother catches it with his own eyes and on tape.  Yes, this is a graphic scene and I don't recommend you watch this unless you can handle it.Overall, the movie is quite a scary site to see because of how true it is in society.  Don't watch this unless you really know what you are getting into. It is a said and disturbing movie to watch. "},{"Title":"A Travesty of a Great Novel.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Warningplot spoiler)  I don't know what Tim Roth and Alexander Stuart were doing when they made this film but they made a mess of adapting the book, in fact it didn't look as though they tried. The reason people are puzzled by the plot and character motivation is because VERY important details were left out or changed. This is not really a story about child abuse, the father is not a child molester and certainly not a rapist. Jessica, as is revealed in the book, had WANTED to 'have' her father for a long time and when the baby was born she took her chance. As she says, (only in the book), 'I knew what I was doing - I wanted what Mum had.' She was the instigator. She also commits incest with her brother Tom in the book, again, she wants it to happen and manipulates other people to get what she wants.If anyone is the monster in this story, she is. If Tim Roth thought he couldn't do these things on film he shouldn't have called it 'The War Zone' and he and Alexander Stuart should have come up with an original screenplay. As it is they made a film that is good to look at but is totally unintelligible to anyone who hasn't read the book. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth does what most fear to do","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The War Zone is magnificent. There are things in films, as an audience, we do not want to see or need to see. In this film Tim Roth relentlessly strips away the veneer and shows us everything. It is because of this stark realism that The War Zone works so well.I did not know what to expect from this film and Tim Roth, but was surprised by the tenacity in which the images were placed before us. Roth shows us everything and makes us accept them. Intellectually and emotionally, we are challenged time and again to come to our own answers about these horrific instances. There is never any decisions made for us because the images are presented clinically and without being tainted by the desire to have the audience see what should be seen, or feel what should be felt.The only detraction from the experience was a woman sitting behind me in the theater whose most enriching comment of the night was, What a waste of time. I knew we shouldn't have come to this movie. No, you shouldn't have!As a viewer you are asked to make up your own mind and to make your own conclusions. This is the most enriching part of an experience like The War Zone. If this is the type of movie you enjoy, I suggest you go see it...immediately. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a remarkable study of a subject that few films dare approach in a direct manner.  While incest is occasionally addressed in movies, it is often depicted in a somewhat exploitative fashion.  Such depictions may serve to shed light into dark regions of human behavior, but do so only peripherally and are of little worth in and of themselves. This is not the case in The War Zone.Already considered an actor of prodigious skills, Roth has now proven himself to be fully capable as a director.  He has coaxed this a brilliant cast to deliver of themselves with a subtle fury building to madness.  Each character is living with a horrible secret that is slowly consuming them, striving to find a way to wish it away or confront it head on.  In the end, with all of their illusions wiped away, the essence of their personas remain for the audience to consider.  Only with an  actor as director, I believe, could such a vision be brought to life.The writers, cast and crew of this film should be applauded for the honesty and bravery of their effort. "},{"Title":"Too Much Emotional Manipulation, Too Little Real Investigation","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  War Zone, Tim Roth's 1999 directorial debut, is based on the celebrated novel by Alexander Stuart, which tells a disturbing tale of incest.  The film features undeniably powerful performances (by seasoned actors Ray Winstone and Tilda Swinton, and newcomers Lara Belmont and Freddie Cuniff), the dramatic scenery of the windswept Devon countryside, and a perfectly melancholy score by Simon Boswell.  However, it lacks the most important element of any piece of art a raison d'être.When young Tom (Cuniff) discovers that his father (Winstone) is having sex with his older sister (Belmont), he threatens to tell their mother (Swinton).  The story evolves around how this information is played out in their contemporary middle-class British home.  The theme of the incest is a difficult one, and certainly one of the most challenging for any director. While Roth's patience with the drama lends the film a mighty edge-of-your-seat experience, he fails in actually delving beneath the surface of the topic's horror.  The topic is a complex one, and Roth withholds from any real exploration.  He merely presents a family bereft of any emotional connection, and gives none of the characters any true depth. The monster of any incest story is the parent (in this case, the father), but the development of Winstone's character remains too insubstantial to gain any level of understanding from the viewer.  He is shown either as a balanced, caring family man, or as a carnal barbarian.  In the end, there is no genuine investigation of incest's genesis or ultimate objective.It is a bold decision to make a movie about incest, but it is ultimately safe, especially for the novice director.  There are not many movies concerning the topic, and since the topic is almost always draws profound feeling from people, the topic alone can carry the film.  Therefore, the topic itself almost secures Roth's reception as the creator of a great movie.  By subject matter alone, there are not many films that are stacked up against War Zone, so Roth can enjoy being outside the difficult barometer of comparison.  On the other hand, if he had chosen a gangster flick, or a movie about a drunken-yet-artistic social misfit, his directorial debut would have to go through the often disappointing process of comparison to so many other, and most likely, better films.  While he should receive commendation for taking on such a complex and difficult topic (he has even joined forces with the Rape, Abuse, and Incest National Network), that alone does not a good movie make.Because the subject matter is so disturbing, many viewers will leave the film emotionally distraught.  However, they will equate the power of the topic with the power of the film.  This effect is a direct result of emotional manipulation on the part of Roth, who seems to know nothing, ultimately, of his film's topic.  What we get is the feeling that incest is shocking, deplorable, and tragic.  But this we know.  What we don't get is why this movie was made in the first place.  What is the story of this family, and why should we care?  What is it about this man that he could do such a thing?  What is it about the daughter who would let this continue? Roth fails to examine any background of his characters, skipping around a thoughtful investigation of the nature of incest.  The difficult psychology behind all of this is left by the wayside as Roth breezily lets the strength of the subject matter and the fine acting take us through the flimsy story. It's easy to get applause when dealing with a topic that has engendered so much human sympathy; that's just a cheap device.  It's harder to make a story equal the weight of the topic with which it deals.  This tale may as well have been about any family dealing with incest.  But why this contemporary, middle-class British one?  How can their particular story elucidate such a perplexing and alarming topic?  The reason that you'll never know the answers is because Roth doesn't know either.  "},{"Title":"Compelling view of a family in almost irreparable disorder.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's hard to explain exactly why this slice-of-life look inside a deeply disturbed family is so easy to watch. Part of the reason must be the film's elegant photographic composition displayed before us are moody, deeply-hued shorelines whose rocks, crags and pounding waves are an appropriate metaphor for the inner turmoil of a family embroiled in a cycle of abuse and self-destruction.The secret shame of these characters is a network of incestuous relationships, some merely suppressed feelings, some actually carried out on family members. Of the latter type, the principal victims, an adolescent boy and his older sister, see themselves becoming willing participants in the very crime that haunts them their own fascination with the taboo, caused by years of negative conditioning, has convinced them that they are doomed to continue the cycle, forswearing any hope of a conventional love life.The sordid nature of the above outline hardly seems as if it could lend itself to a film that is such a comfortable experience to watch. The paradox of family members being drawn emotionally into relationships that, at the same time, repel them, creates a solidarity among child, sibling, and parent which looks deceptively cozy to the objective onlooker. I'm reminded of the bond between the two brothers in Pinter's The Caretaker an invisible, yet always present membrane, defying the efforts of any third character to position himself between them. In The War Zone, motivation does arrive, in the form of a still-innocent baby sister named Alice, for the youngsters to want to break with the father, who is ostensibly the principal villain, having been caught already in a graphic episode with the older daughter. The choices they make are evocative of those in certain Greek tragedies, and the consequences we may presume just as arguable for generations yet unborn.  The cameraman's visual artistry, and the strong sense of ensemble at the core of the four principals' acting performances, are further assisted by the film's moody, strategically placed musical scoring and sound effects. The smoothness with which these elements are integrated almost belies the art house status assigned to this picture, but viewers will no doubt agree that its attractiveness is more an asset than a liability.The unprecedented lengths, or should one say depths, to which this film goes in exploring a distasteful subject makes it unlikely to be deemed suitable for all mindsets; nevertheless the underlying truths revealed in the portrayal of these unhappy characters will have a cleansing, cathartic effect on those who dare embrace it. "},{"Title":"A devastating movie reminiscent of Secrets and Lies","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the best movies in recent memory. The cast is universally stellar, and the actors never waiver even while dealing with such difficult material. The cinematography is outstanding and the film will stay with you for quite some time after leaving the theater. Highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"Well acted, but ...","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The War Zone was primarily interesting for the rather idiosyncratic acting, especially by Lara Belmont and Freddie Cunliffe as a pair of dysfunctional siblings, one of whom is being sexually molested by her father.  The problem is, it always seems that the acting is a couple of steps ahead of the story, which explains why the seemingly withdrawn characters are remarkably verbal about their difficulties.As daring as the War Zone may seem to be, I can't help but feel it hasn't ever REALLY departed from certain Hollywood formulas.  For example, notice how very Hitchcockian Tim Roth's approach to the relationship between the father and daughter is.  Instead of dealing with the abuse head-on, Roth (and scriptwriter Stuart) shows everything from the detached perspective of the brother, virtually eliminating the chance for the audience to try to understand the father's insane behavior better.  Really, the layering of suspense really achieves the same hazy, erotic effect as Hitchcock's Vertigo, which I find rather innappropriate given the subject matter. When Cunliffe follows and spies upong his sister around the British seaside, it is virtually no different from Jimmy Stewart stalking Kim Novak through the streets of San Franciso.  In other words, the audience is so on the edge of the seat about what happens next that they never get a chance to settle down and examine this film as a work of art.Even the ending, which is supposedly very open-ended, has a Hollywood feeling of conclusion.  The crashing waves and the booming score indicate a style far more similar to Spielberg and Coppola than true neo-realists like Cassavetes or Rosselini.  Speaking of which, if you really want to seen an intense, opaque filmgoing experience, rent A Woman Under the Influence or Killing of a Chinese Bookie.  Those films are REALLY challengingly and truly make you squirm, not simply because of the taboo sexual matter, but because of their overwhelming profundity.  Something, which, unfortunately, the War Zone is lacking. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth's directorial debut exceeds all expectations","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As far as I'm concerned Tim Roth is one of the world's finest actors (Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, The Hit, Four Rooms, and many more). I heard that, for a while now, he had wanted to try his hand at directing, but couldn't find the right material. Then he read the book, upon which the film is based (I forget the author), and new that he had to make it.The film is shot in an isolated part of England and with a gritty realism that can make it hard to watch.Possible spoilers, but not big onesRay Winstone is perfect as the incestuous father and the actor's playing his two children (both unknowns) are superb. Tim Roth brings home the harshness of the film's setting as well as the subject matter and, for me, has produced one of the year's finest films (others being Go, Human Traffic, In Dreams, and Night Train).I have heard the criticism that the film offers no solutions, only describes the problem. For me, that summarises the strength of the film. It is in its accurate, detailed, brutal reality that it excels and, at the end of the day, is just a film - not an aide to anyone who may be involved in, or affected by, this sort of relationship.I would say that if you like this film you will also like Nil By Mouth.Let's hope Tim Roth goes on to direct many more films, preferably with him in them. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most devastating story ever committed to celluloid . . .","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tim Roth's The War Zone is not the type of movie you and your buddies rent on a boring Saturday night. It may well be the most powerful and brutal examination of a family ever put on film. It was certainly one of the most profound emotional experiences of my life; excuse me for being trite, but I would go so far as to say this movie changed my life.The setting is rural Devon, England, inhabited by crashing waves and ominous clouds. We meet a quaint, amiable newly-arrived family. Dad is gruff and lean and a little harried. Mum is loving and very pregnant. The eldest daughter, Jessie, is home for the summer and seems cold and aloof. And the son, Tom, desperately misses his old chums and spends his days riding his bike aimlessly bored.The War Zone is deceptive at first in seeming to be about something it is not really about. We think we're in for a happy movie after the family survives a nasty car crash on the way to the hospital to deliver the new baby. But the crash merely provides a foreshadow of what is to come . . . and it ain't pretty.I don't want to reveal too much about the film, but I will say that I've sat through Schindler's List, Black Hawk Down, and Elephant without batting an eye and this one really sickened me. There are a number of scenes that are disgusting in the traditional R-rated ways, but the scenes that really did it for me involved simple conversations about the heinous secrets lodged deep in the family. Roth spares us nothing; the film is excessive and pushes the boundary, and for that, I am convinced that no film will ever be as grossly impactful as The War Zone.There are too few superlatives to use for this film; the casting, the sets, the music, the cinematography, all perfect. The War Zone is a flawless motion picture that's difficult to say you love, but one that is so brave and beautiful, it's unnerving. 10/10 "},{"Title":"As well as the storyline....","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes - other's have commented on the incest storyline, so lets not dwell on that. Sit and watch this film once again and concentrate on the other side of Tim Roth's skill - his directing and whole input into this film from the production crew.The War Zone is dark, it's grim, it's everything Tim Roth starred in during his early days playing 'Trevor' when scenes were lit with just a single bulb - watching this film made me think back to the early career of Roth and those who produced and directed him.Again, look at the set - it's bare - the family have just moved into the Devon cottage and it's a dump - but that's what makes the set stand out - especially the old clifftop battery and the sea below - I don't think any better locations could be found for the cold feeling they give when viewing and the scenes filmed within them.Add all of this brilliance to the storyline and hopefully you can see why I'm desperate to see this film once more.  "},{"Title":"slow moving development with sudden dramatic ending","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was disappointed after reading so many reviews describing this film a masterpiece.  Frankly it was rather slow moving, and only towards the end does the tension wind up.  I also thought the ending was somewhat overdone, and that there wasn't enough development of the son's character to make this really credible for me.  Having said that, the cinematography is superb, and the choice of location as an almost constantly rain-soaked bleak Devon coastline in SW England provided the ideal backdrop to this dark story.  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Debut from Tim Roth","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a dark and depressing debut from Tim Roth but never the less Brilliant. The War Zone is about a family who move to Devon from London, things are going well until the son discovers His sister is a victim of an incestual relationship with his father. Considering this is Tim Roth's debut as a director he has created himself a big problem and that is how is he ever going to better this?He does not cut corners when it comes to how graphic the film is which for some people might be to hard take but only adds to the film for me. Not only is the is the direction brilliant but the acting is out of this world especially from Lara Belmont and as per usual from Ray Winstone.If you need cheering up then The War Zone is not for you if you just want to watch a super piece of movie making then this is the film to watch. 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Underdeveloped","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sure this film was not designed as a popcorn movie, but i found The War Zone to be completely unengaging.  Although containing many disturbing scenes, the characters were seriously underdeveloped.  Why did the father start the relationship with his daughter?, did the daughter at any stage enjoy it? What was Tom's true feelings for his sister Jesse?  The feelings & motives of the characters are not explored in the depth that they should have been.There are better films dealing with domestic abuse than this one 5/10. "},{"Title":"Another actor directs, with mixed results.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wanted to love this film, but it's like Tim Roth is daring us to, and I got tired and gave up. It's long, there's not much dialogue, and the acting is kind of one note. I liked the camera work though. It was beautifully filmed, whoever the camera man is should get a lot of work.But overall I was sad that I didn't love it. It was okay, but not enough to recommend to anyone. I think we've all had enough of the tough guy movies for a while, haven't we?    "},{"Title":"A no man's land","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The family lives in isolation.Only the daughter's boyfriend appears for a brief sequence.The movie focuses on Tom a young boy whose face a smile never lightens.He had to become an adult,but an adult with no future.He does not want to marry or have babies,he'll probably become a sexually repressed guy on account on what he saw in his home.The incest father/daughter is shown uncompromisingly and the scene by the sea will certainly be too much for some people.The long final tracking out increases (if it's possible) the loneliness of the two youngsters.What are we gonna do? is one of their last lines.Tim Roth's main influence is Kenneth Loach ,but a more desperate Loach.At least ,in Kes the young boy met a sympathetic teacher who helped him for a while and the heroine of ladybird ladybird perhaps began to see light at the end of tunnel.here it seems that the family's plight has only begun and worst follows.  "},{"Title":"awful, awful, awful, awful","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  a movie that attempts to show the worst of human nature but only shows the worst of movie making.  as far as i can tell, this movie doesn't attempt to entertain, inform or even make you think. it attempts to irritate, and is incredibly successful. it is also extremely predictable. the only reason to watch this movie is if you are a big fan of screaming, crying babies. i am a fan of tim roth as an actor, let's hope he sticks to acting. "},{"Title":"Challenging, thought-provoking, disturbing and lacking!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *MAJOR SPOILERS MAJOR SPOILERS*Tim Roth's 'The War Zone' is extremely hard to watch, and the film is constructed in a semi-realistic manner in its style. It is also quite confusing at times, as there seems to be hints and innuendoes surrounding the key characters! I don't think 'The War Zone' is simply about abuse from a father upon a daughter as some reviewers here seem to believe! There are sexual undertones within the whole context of the story! 'The War Zone' is a frustrating and confusing film to watch because of this! I also think this is what makes 'The War Zone' so disturbing as well! For instance, the Dad is portrayed as loving and he seems to get along with Jessie in the beginning! Jessie doesn't seem afraid of him, but she is also disgusted at herself! Also, Tom is disgusted at her, and his father but seems confused throughout the story! But, what is also insinuated is that Tom and Jessie are also committing incestuous acts as well! Jessie seems jealous at the beginning when Tom is being pampered by another girl! When Tom confronts Jessie on two occasions about their father, there seems to be an underlying something going on between them as well! Now, this cannot be just passed off as casual attitudes towards nudity in the family, especially when Tom and Jessie are naked under the sheets when Tom confronts her the second time! Not only that, add Tom's constant following of Jessie in a obsessive manner and Jessie's interruption when Carol and Tom are together! There is definitely, in my opinion, something more darker to this family than simply just a brother must save his sister from sexual abuse story! The dramatic ending should also indicate this! Also, I'm wondering what version some reviewers have seen! There is a key scene that nobody seems to bring up! In fact, it's the most disturbing scene in the film in my opinion! It's the scene where Tom hints to his Mum about his father, which eventually leads to the climax! This is where Tom says keep him away from the baby when the infant was sick! There is a shot in that scene that makes you shudder completely!  Along with the other voyeuristic bunker scene, 'The War Zone' is quite disturbing and haunting!Tim Roth, like his counterpart Gary Oldman, makes his directorial debut with a hard-hitting subject matter- and ironically 'The War Zone' also has Ray Winstone! Except, in my opinion, 'Nil By Mouth' is the better film! Roth manages to create a realistic premise, and compelling story. But it's equally frustrating to watch, and tedious in it's pacing! Characters are introduced but serve no purpose, notably the character who seems to like Tom in the beginning! Also, the audio is horrid- where the baby's screams seem louder than the conversation. I struggled several times to hear lines, even without the semi-realistic packed dining room with a baby! At times, Roth relies on silence and lingering shots rather than compelling dialogue! The character of Tom is also very subdued in his emotional expressions for a protagonist, and that's why I partly believe something else is hinted at! Only in the climatic scene, does Freddie Cunliffe manage to shine with his character!The positive aspects of 'The War Zone' is the drama is compelling! The acting is sensational from Kate Ashfield in a difficult role! Also, Ray Winstone shines as well as the father! Another positive aspect of 'The War Zone' is that it generates discussion, and has a challenging but disturbing subject matter! Also the cinematography was superb and equally haunting. I disagree with the reviewer that stated that the cinematography should not be beautiful when dealing with this subject matter! The cinematography represented a haunting beauty and stillness appropriate to the story! Beyond the beautiful, lonely and dark English landscapes is an evil abuse. A paradox of life! It suited the tone of the film well, making it eerie!My main issue is character development and lack of clear representation of them! Jessie is the most developed character, and the father is a pure monster. We can all agree, in the context of the story, he got what he deserved! The mother is the least developed character in the film, while Tom doesn't act how a normal brother would act in my opinion! I haven't read the book, but I have read reviews on here of people who have! It's clear to me that the book validates how I initially interpreted 'The War Zone'- that there is unanswered questions raised from the films handling of the subject matter! For me, it is the nature of Tom and Jessie's relationship, as there was many indicators in the film that this is not a normal brother and sister relationship. Jessie seems intent on punishing herself throughout the film, and is deeply disturbed by her involvement in her father's abuse. It's a complicated story that raises many unanswered questions, but leaves you thinking, disturbed and ultimately saddened as well! In closing, this is a daring directorial debut from a masterful actor in Tim Roth! It is compelling to watch- even when it's hard at times! I would recommend 'The War Zone' to anyone who is interested in realistic dramas with challenging subject matters! In general, I don't think Roth handled the topic in an exploitive or simple manner, but I also don't think he quite managed to get the impact he was hoping for- as many differing opinions are rampant on here! 'The War Zone' leaves you saddened and confused, but doesn't give you the insight into the systematic abuse within a family sphere, or the topic of incest within the family- and how it affects each member! Watch it for yourself and interpret the meaning of 'The War Zone'! ***1/2 out *****! "},{"Title":"Bleak, innit?","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wintry, monosyllabic, art-conscious treatment of incest in a remote British village. It's quite a shock that the actor Tim Roth, in his first time as a director, has wanted to, much less managed, such a thoroughgoing homage to the images (and pacing) of Tarkovsky and Bergman, but the affectingness of THE WAR ZONE probably depends on your enthusiasm for those filmmakers in the first place. The chapped, English, inexpressive faces and the preponderance of athlete's-footish green light carry most of the qualities of late Soviet cinema; so does the climactic incest-sex scene staged in a bunker that looks like a primordial cave from STAR TREK. After the self-serious treatment of this topic in MAGNOLIA and THE WAR ZONE, can't somebody somewhere--John Waters, or maybe the South Park guys--come up with a really good incest comedy? "},{"Title":"An excellent film but underdone.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mum, Dad, teenage brother and sister, and a newborn. This is the mix of an ordinary but slightly eccentric family of Brits who we watch trudging laconically from day to day with incest burning at their core. The film does a good job of revealing the central issue and telling its story. However, the stoic nature of the film and its characters keeps us from understanding the deep emotional trauma lurking below the surface as the principals become aware of the family's malignant secret. Some are likely to find this dreary drama tedious while others will find it compelling.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Find NOT - It'll put you to sleep.","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The very first thing you need to know about The War Zone is that the big secret involved Father-Daughter sex. What's the point of hiding this? The movie was a flop, whereas Kathryn Harrison's book on this subject, The Kiss, was a multi-week best seller --- and twenty times better than this lame and ineffectual movie.First off, almost nothing happens for the first 70 minutes of this 90 minute movie. There's a family living in Devon (a beautiful place by the sea) but pretty dull, and some long for a return to the active life of London. Everyone (I mean everybody) simply mopes about and mumbles. Even at times like a car crash or the birth of a child it's all mope and all mumbles. So when the story finally gets started, it finishes up in 20 minutes flat. The War Zone offers absolutely nothing new on incest, the acting is next to zero -- what with the entire cast required to mumble all their lines, the cinematography just wasted.Roget Ebert said this was the best film at the Sundance Festival. But he also said he and Siskel have an obligation to give rave reviews to films that advance liberal causes and philosophy. One can only guess what he was thinking on this one. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a very long 97 minutes of tedium & boring & confused story telling.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was expecting a better film than I saw.  The acting is first rate, BUT the screenplay is muddled & incomplete.Tim Roth may be a great actor but his directorial skills are lacking. Apparently this story of incest was entirely different in the book than is shown here. If you were expect to be emotionally involved,You will be disappointed. The film just drags along & by the time the inconclusive ending occurs you may be falling asleepmy rating is a low   **1/2 as always Jay Harris "},{"Title":"Starts off slow and then is passed by a snail","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Terribly boring piece of drivel. Dark and moody with no real plot. There's almost some intelligent dialog in a few places, but that gets made up for with long shots of people ambling across the country side and views of a WWII shore cannon bunker.  A movie you definitely will want to miss.  "}{"Title":"Too much vagueness","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film isn't pleasant viewing but as its about incest, you wouldn't expect or want it to be. I wanted to see this film because I am a big fan of Tim Roth and wanted to see his directing style otherwise I would not have watched this film as its not an appealing subject. Its a very explosive and emotionally disturbing and graphic story set against a grim Devon backdrop. Seen through 15 year old Tom's eyes, it documents onefamily's experience of ultimate betrayal - incest. After watching this film, as a viewer, I am left with a lot of questions unanswered. It is never made clear why the family moved there from London, we do not know what the parents do for a living but there is suggestion that the father deals in antiques, there is too much unnecessary nudity, which is puzzling beyondbelief, there is no suggestion as to how long the incest has been going on for or why Dad is the way he is and moreover, the film stops at a point where youneed to know if the family can recover from this awful situation but you are left wondering what happens to them. "},{"Title":"boring, just boring, nothing more, nothing less","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you have seen how many comments are saying The best movie of the 90's (and such) and how many are sayingThis is a dull/boring story you can begin to thinking Wow, this should be a great film! How many controversy about it. But it is wrong, the movie is not controversy, just boring.Well, for me was difficult to concentrate on the story, I confess. It is very straight forward one, I was just wondering what should be happening even more in the next 50, 30, 10 minutes. You just know what happens on the end from the very beginning. A classical Oedipus story, but told on a very miserable way. You know at every moment what'll follow, I have read here Sudden end. Oh, really? But the main drawback of the film is that it fails on logic and background of the characters. Why they are acting in such a way? It is not enough to say Hey, I am bad! but (s)he have to imply some secret, obscure menace. Nothing of it! The characters seem to be some harmless persons, OK, they could be somehow, too; but nevertheless they should not be not innocent at last.The dad delivers some very naive explanation for his outrages, rather freaky &#151; not implausible, but like some monotone reading from a psychological book.Actually the movie suggests that what happen doesn't really happen and it is just an imaginary world of the protagonists. Well, that could be interesting if it is made in a proper way. Instead, the movie is so poor directed that what happen is rather unimportant. The theme is difficult, no doubt, but it is difficult because it must be convincing.I think the debut of Tim Roth will remain his last movie as filmmaker and it should be the right answer of the disaster. "},{"Title":"whats happened to this film???","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i've seen about half this film and am desperate to see the rest to try and understand it, but wherever i look it shows signs of having been available recently but for some reason now is not. the majority of internet shops such as amazon and play.com have no record of it being up for sale but there are some sites such as dvdimport and the virginmegastores site that have it up but when you come to buy it a this product is currently unavailable comes up for goodness sake. on top of this amazons second hand sales have one copy up for around £50 claiming it is rare and deleted i'm not sure what all this means but it's very frustrating. "},{"Title":"An Irresponsibly Directed & Extremely Harrowing Film !!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This hauntingly shot but utterly bleak film graphically portrays the horrific physical and sexual abuse suffered by a teenage girl at the hands of her monstrous & unrelenting father (played by Ray Winstone).The audience rapidly becomes party to the appalling realities a seemingly unremarkable family of mother, father and a teenage son and daughter are forced to endure when the head of the household is revealed to be an inveterate paedophile.Then, when the wife/mother (played by Tilda Swinton) gives birth to a new baby girl we realise, with a growing sense of horror, that the depravity of Winstone's character knows no bounds.Some viewers may regard Roth's unflinching expose of the malignant underbelly concealed behind an outwardly prosaic facade as brave or gutsy film-making, but I would strongly contest this view.Roth chooses to show each stomach-churning episode of abuse (which *BE WARNED* includes a brutal anal rape & blood-stained nappies amongst it's number) in full, on-screen detail and he would have us believe that the undisguised, brutal clarity with which he depicts these incidents is intended to, in some way, force the viewer to confront the barbaric and horrific essence of incest or perhaps to promote awareness of the warning signs to look for if you suspect somebody is the victim of sexual or physical abuse - but - in my opinion - Roth's cinematic 'candour' is unsettling in a completely unintentional way.Roth's explicit depiction of the abuse makes the viewer begin to feel slightly complicit in watching, but not stopping, the terrible abuse the daughter is being subjected to - the viewer can be made to feel more like a voyeuristic Peeping Tom than a witness for the daughter's 'defence'.By opting for such a full-on and explicit approach, I believe Roth's credibility as a competent director can be seriously called into questionIn addition, there is practically NO attempt to show any depth to the main characters and/or provide even the slightest insight in to the early warning signs which may, in reality, eventually lead to abusers finding it less easy to remain undetected for so long. Possible catalysts which may trigger such severely deviant behaviour are not even touched upon.In my opinion - Roth's undeniable inability to treat such an emotive and difficult subject as incest/sexual abuse responsibly, is particularly highlighted when shortly after the unrepentant father is shown to be suddenly & fatally stabbed by one of the teenage children, the film ends and yet barely any dialogue is spoken by any of the characters between the stabbing the final credits beginning to roll !!This unimaginative & trite ending results in an enormously unbalanced film which devotes a hugely disproportional amount of screen time to showing graphic scenes of abusive sex (which one begins to suspect is included solely to elicit the maximum amount of discomfort from the audience without serving any actual purpose ?) and Roth then expects this same audience to find a trite and clichéd ending an appropriate and satisfactory conclusion to a deeply distressing and unsettling film ?!!?One begins to suspect that Roth might be displaying an unnerving eagerness to shock us and certain scenes purporting to be 'confrontational' or to show a 'brave' sense of direction might actually be intended to be seen as darkly titillating ?I think Roth ultimately reveals an air of disinterested complacency as the film progresses and the ending doesn't even begin to justify the harrowing footage which has gone before it !!In conclusion ..... 'The War Zone' COULD have been an excellent film .... A better director would almost certainly have capitalised on the 'box-officeability' associated with such respected and popular/well-known actors as Ray Winstone and Tilda Swinton and used their established familiarity to make a mainstream audience more aware of possible warning signs indicating possible abuse and in general, just more aware to the presence of a dark and carefully concealed evil lurking within our society .......... sadly - in my opinion - 'The War Zone' actually leaves an audience feeling like they can't wait to get under a hot shower and clean every trace of the film away....Irresponsible film-making in the extreme !! "},{"Title":"A truly horrible movie.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's hard to understand why anyone would want to make this film.  It fails to deliver any message (unless you happen to be a child sex abuser yourself) and does not offer any kind of cinematic experience other than discomfort and boredom and there is no intellectual challenge.  The characters say very little to each other, which isolates them from any way appearing as real characters.  There are a number of scenes designed purely to shock.  The plot line is too simple to maintain interest (several of the threads just disappear) and many scenes hang on the tension of not ending when they should. The cinematography is uninspired considering the location, and the music is dire.  The main actors have no prior acting experience and it shows. I hated every minute of this movie.  I have never ever walked out of a theater before the end of a movie, but this was the closest I've ever been. "},{"Title":"Pointless Trauma","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The thing about a real war zone is that not only do you not want to be there you don't even want to see what is there. There are things I don't need to see, I am quite capable of despising their existence without being shown them in technicolor surround sound.This is the most fucked up film I've seen in a long while and Colin Farrell's exceedingly brief appearance is nowhere near enough to make watching it worth my time.It is also really very hard to focus on writing a 1000 word essay on the science provision of a school when someone is being anally raped by their father on the television. It's one of those things I just don't get - the point of making these no-holds barred, hard-hitting, gritty, so-called realistic dramas. I can understand wanting to discuss the issues around it, but does that really justify including the actual scenes of rape or whatever? Or maybe it's watching them I don't get. I need a reason for watching something. Because it's fun, because it's beautiful, because it's exciting. Am I supposed to be learning a valuable lesson? Am I supposed to enjoy it? This film is without a doubt ugly and depressing and horrible and I just don't see the point of it.  "},{"Title":"A Film That Should Never Have Been Made","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film that should never have been made. Don't be fooled. Because a film has a difficult subject matter does not immediately make the film important or even worthy of watching. The film says nothing new about the difficult subject matter. Worse, it uses the subject as an excuse. It does not show the pain involved to aid the audience's understanding (no one would need any help to understand the victims are in extreme pain in this situation); instead, it portrays the acts in order to exploit the body of the young actress playing the part. This is not only a movie about exploitation, it is exploitation itself, and a of very disgusting variety. The only trick here is how director Roth tries to hide it. "},{"Title":"Incest is rife in this movie (SPOILERS)","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't help but feel that the praise given to this film has more to do with its willingness to confront a 'difficult subject' than its actual quality.The War Zone is a reasonably well made film with good performances, particularly from Freddie Cunliffe as the withdrawn, anguished teenage son, Tom.However, the film suffers from severely under-developed characters and an almost obsessive desire to shock and titillate. Instead of confronting a difficult subject like incest, Tim Roth and to a greater extent the writer, Alexander Stuart, seem intent on wallowing in it.I was very uncomfortable with the tone of this movie, especially within the bizarre, unconvincing relationship between Tom and his elder sister, Jessie- Jessie content to be completely naked whilst talking to her hormonal younger brother- Jessie getting a friend to seduce Tom- Jessie burning her nipples with a lighter and then asking Tom to do it to herWorst of all, the blatant suggestion that after confronting the horror of the sexual abuse that Jessie has suffered at the hands of her father, the two siblings seem content to engage in incest WITH EACH OTHER.So what is this film saying? That incest is natural and possibly even beautiful only if its done within the same generation???The War Zone is meant to be disturbing and it is but for all the wrong reasons.Incest is indeed disgusting but I feel similarly uneasy with a screenwriter who seems to get off on the thought of this type of abuse. "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was terrible.  Perhaps it was trying to say something, but I found it boring, grotesque and offensive (a strange combination, I know, but this is a miserable film).  Its characters are far too un-American to be accessible or interesting to most Americans.  Do not see it.  I mean it.  Roth has given us some good work as an actor and some bad work.  This is bad work here.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely disgusting film - Avoid at all costs.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is without doubt the worst film I have ever seen.  It fails in every respect.  It is slow and reminds me of nothing more than the classic '60s 'arty' French film where everyone spends ages in silence trying to give meaningful glances, pouting and looking 'emotional'.  I nearly turned the film off after the first half hour - nothing seemed to have happened.  In truth, I wish I had turned the film off.  The topic of anal intercourse between father and daughter is not one on which a film 'for entertainment' should be made.  It is absolutely disgusting and not for viewing by normal people, only those with a sick mentality.  I can watch horror films, psychological thrillers and the like with no problem, but this I found horrendous.  It deserves a rating so that it can only be watched by people over the age of 200 when accompanied by both parents.  It is the kind of film that might make a suitable discussion topic for a psychiatrists' convention, but I can see no other point in the film.  Avoid it all costs.  Minus 10/10. "}]