[{"Title":"CUTENESS! all the way","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is a really cute movie and a great one to watch around the holidays with your family.  It's not too cute though so that it becomes unlikable.  It was interesting to see Michael Keaton in the Dad role (I've never him as anything besides Batman) and I think he made a really good Dad. I liked the way they dealt with death, it had a very real sense about it. Which is strange, because you have the Dad come back as a SNOWMAN (hah) but once you get over that (it does take a little while, don't give up) it becomes really nice.  I like the ending - I guess I shouldn't give it away, but it was sweet without being corny.  There is a really thin line between cuteness and overkill, but this movie is still on the cute side.  (I gave it 9/10.) "},{"Title":"'Rocker' Keaton...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  What I thought was essentially a kids' movie turned out to be a much more pleasurable experience. I know, I may be biased a bit towards anything MK-related, however even my best friend (who was with me at the time when we saw it) liked it a lot, even if we saw it closer to Summer rather than Christmas (it came out in Malta, Europe - where I was still living at the time - like some 6 months after it came out in the US!). Anyway, Michael Keaton yet again gives a great performance as a 'snow'man trying quite desperately to make up for lost time. Kelly Preston is good too as his wife and the kid is ok-ish (we've seen much better kid actors, in my opinion). It's only Mark Addy who seems like a fish out of water and looks like he's only in it either because he's a friend of the director or something! He just doesn't seem to gel! All in all, a very cute and neat movie, with good work from Keaton and a rocking good soundtrack, with tracks from the boys Hanson, among others, and Keaton himself raunchily singing a couple of tracks penned by someone from Yes. Great for a night in with the family. "},{"Title":"Excellent family movie.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  My daughter and I saw this movie today, and I actually say that it could as well be rated G, and that the message has been very good, specially for those whom never stop for a moment to evaluate which is more important in life family, or work and finances. In real life we know it would be impossible to happen, however the motivation in this picture might wake some people up to reality, and more home dedication. Very well done.  "},{"Title":"A snowdad is better than no dad........","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Ok.. This movie seems to be getting a rash of negative reviews. 1).Bad special effects-this movie was NOT made to show-off special effects. I didn't go for the special effects 2).Lame story- why did you go to the movie in the first place when you knew it was about a deceased dad coming back as a snowman. I didn't go hoping for a realistic plot. 3) Bad acting- Did you actually expect to see an Oscar nominated performance from a talking snowman.Lay off the negative aspects and enjoy the movie for what it is.  I obviously had reservations about going to see this movie, but our 2 1/2 year old daughter wanted to go. She wanted to go to see Jack Frost, the snowman.Hey, a movie of a real live snowman - Is this what it really is about? This movie has a story to tell. And that is what makes this movie a little more special.  For those of you who overlook or can't see the meaning of the story, probably do the same with the 'magical' season it is intended to represent.*** out of *****  "},{"Title":"A great family film for Christmas time!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film definitely deserves higher marks, I don't know why anyone would give it a 1???  I was going to give it a 9, but decided on a 10 to bring up the percentage- help me out people!  There is something for everyone in this movie, fun snow action for the kids, lessons on being a good friend and sticking up for others, lessons on being a good father, and a great soundtrack including some pretty good blues tunes!  This movie also dealt with the death of a loved one in a very real way- not bad for a comedy/drama. I've always liked Michael Keaton and he doesn't disappoint me here. "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have been resenting this movie for the longest time.  But I should have seen it before today...but I shouldn't trash what I haven't seen, right?  Because it was a good movie.  I happened to catch it on HBO Plus today...it kind of dragged on a little bit, but other than that...ok, I have to admit it, it was kind of touching.  I think I saw one review trashing the special effects...come on, how low can you go?  I think the people that hate this movie had to have seen a LITTLE bit of something that they liked...it's a family movie that appeals to kids and adults, and that's what I think it did.  I will leave it as that.  A great Christmas movie. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"I admit it, I cried . . .","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Sorry everyone, but I liked this movie.  I even cried at the end.  My kids freaked when the snowman started to talk and move - one of them got scared by a guy in a teddy bear suit when she was about 3, and she hasn't got over it yet (2 yrs later).  They had loved the start of the movie, with the snowball fight and building the first snowman, but as soon as the second snowman came to life we had to turn the video off.I couldn't believe in Kelly Preston as the mother of an 11-yr-old boy, but in spite of that the casting was great.  And Michael Keaton with blond hair is such a hunk . . .Give it a go!  "},{"Title":"Great Family Fun!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Jack Frost is a happily married man, with a son. Until, one stormy night, Jack dies and a year later he is given the chance to come back as a snowman to visit his wife, Gabby and son, Charlie. Jack Frost is a really sad film but a great one, at that. Michael Keaton, Kelly Preston, Joseph Cross and Mark Addy are just some of the brilliant cast included in this great film, which also has some really great music. I give Jack Frost a well deserving 10/10. This film is a must-see for everyone. "},{"Title":"very heart-warming","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I will never understand why so many viewers dislike Jack Frost. It is a movie with heart warming and refreshing storyline. Michael Keaton stars as Jack Frost in this awesome movie about getting a second chance at being the world's greatest dad. Kelly Preston, Joseph Cross and Mark Addy co-star.I first noticed Joseph Cross, Charlie Frost, in the 100th episode of Touched By An Angel and since then I knew he was a talented young actor. Cross once again teamed with Keaton in Desperate Measures another awesome movie overlooked by the viewing audience.Jack Frost is the kind of movie that has heart-warming moments intertwined with comedic wit. Keaton and Cross seem to have a lot of fun making this movie together and it showed in their performances. Scenes like the one that had Jack Frost throwing snowballs at the school bully and his friends as well as the chase that followed made it all worthwhile to see because this is what makes movies so good.Watching this movie, it reminded me of Ghost because of its sweeping and heartwarming storyline.Chemistry is one of the elements I look for in a great movie. Jack Frost has this element and more. While an unusual but a brilliant pairing, Keaton and Preston bring chemistry to Jack Frost, a movie that seems to be better than others I've seen before.I think Michael Keaton is one of the best actors I've seen and his performance in Jack Frost is one of his best films to date so WATCH it.  "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Heartwarming Movie","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost, is a great holiday flick to watch around the Christmas season Michael Keaton played the role of the main character pretty well it was amazingly good. This story is about a musician whose trying to make it big in the music business and provide a good life for his wife Gabby (Preston) & their son Charlie (Cross). However he has a tiny problem keeping promises and missing out on important events. Things take an unexpected turn when Jack dies in a car accident before Christmas, one year passes and Charlie still misses him very much. After building a snowman something mysterious happens the snowman comes to life with the spirit of his father in it. Now Jack has the chance to make up for lost time and bond more with his child before disappearing forever. My favorite scene is when Charlie & his mom see Jack's spirit for the last time before saying goodbye that made me cry a bit.This movie is so wonderful and it has an important message it's never too late to spend more time with your family all in all it's a fantastic flick to watch with your family. "}{"Title":"Awesome Family Fun!!!","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a really good family film that takes place around Christmas. To me, it's not really a Christmas movie, but more of a family film that could be watched around Christmas time. (If that makes any sense.) A musician named Jack Frost spends too much time with his music, than with his son and smokin' hot wife. He gives his son, Charlie a harmonica that he says is magic. When Jack has to leave on Christmas Eve, his son gets mad and gives him back the harmonica. Jack changes his mind and decides to go back. While driving, he has a terrible accident and dies. A year later, we see how Charlie and his smokin' hot mom deal with the pain. It's actually quite sad to think about having no dad at Christmas time. Charlie builds a snowman just for the heck of it, and later plays his dad's harmonica. Jack comes back, but in the body of the snowman. Throughout the film, Charlie and Jack have fun and get into misadventures. Until it gets hot, Charlie tries to save his dad from the heat, but Jack knows that he only came back to temporarily for a 2nd chance. If you love comedy, Christmas, and your family, including dad, you'll love JACK FROST!!! "},{"Title":"It deserves more than a 4.7 you idiot!!","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" OK Seriously! I've only just saw this film on ITV2! And i'm stunned to see that the administrators gave this a 4.7 (0.1 under Troll in Central Park (1994)) sometimes i wish i made this film instead of Troy Miller, i know there's a dilemma in the effects that Jim Henson's Creature SHop designed but seriously, i'm giving this film an eight, because A, Michael Keaton is Magnificent and i love the way he talks, And B, It's as heartwarming as Land Before Time (1988) Love this film, i haven't got a problem with other people feeling uncanny over a little boy's father whom's a rockstar that died in a car accident one year ago, and i Absolutely don't care about the effects! Sorry if i'm being a bit tedious! "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I am glad to see there are movies that are being made that can spark imagination.  I myself like good action movies as much as the other man, but I like to watch movies that are focused around the family setting.  I am glad to see my son taking interest in other movies that don't have violence.  One of the things that I did like about this movie regardless of what the crtiques said, is that the theatre was extremely packed at all five showings!  (not that I went to all five) "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but perfect to take your kids to","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of those don't analyze the special effects and just enjoy it films. Don't get me wrong...the effects are good, but pretend you're ten years-old like your child and just let the film move you. Jack the Snowman is the dad we all wish we had.And when it's over...go make a snowman with the kids.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant and emotional film","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This film is a heart warming and a very deeply moving film which creates a tremendous sensational atmosphere.This film is about a father, Jack Frost (Michael Keating) who does not keep his promises, and then one Christmas morning he is driving and realizes that he he should be with his family on Christmas, he turns around and then starts to drive back home.Jack dies in an accident.His son Charlie Frost (Joseph Cross) plays his father's harmonica one year later before Christmas and the snowman that he built comes to life.Which is his father Jack.His father thinks that he is back as a human till he sees his face in the window reflection.This he cannot believe.He soon overcomes this and then realizes what he has to do, gain back his love from his son.He tries to speak to his son Joseph but he even cannot understand that his father is a snowman.But soon he manages to control himself and confronts the snowman.Jack the snowman tells Charlie that he is his father, Charlie then accepts and then takes Jack inside the house and tells him what has happened since he has been away.Later in the film he tries to tell his mother Gabby (Kelly Preston) that Jack is back as the snowman.Gabby does not believe him and thinks that he is sad that his father died the year before.Then his friends see him talking to the snowman and think that he is crazy.Charlie soon begins to re-love his father.But the ending is heart breaking.The winter season is ending and then snow is melting as well as himself.He risks his life to see his son play ice hockey for the first time.When the game finishes he sees his father slowly melting tries again to tell his mother that the snowman is his father but Gabby still does not believe him so he takes matters in his own hands.He takes his father on a truck which went up the mountain which was cold enough to keep Jack alive as a snowman.This last part is the happy and sad part,where Jack and Charlie jump off the truck and then go to a little home on the snow, where Jack tucks his son Charlie into bed and phones his wife Gabby and tells her that Charlie is safe.Gabby recognizes the voice and then the next day Gabby drives up the mountain to see her son.Charlie and Gabby then goes outside to see the snowman and then Gabby realizes that the snowman is her husband and then Jack tells them that he has to leave forever.Then a wind picks up around Jack and then the snowman, Jack then is seen as the human.Jack then says goodbye and then he vanishes.This is a very emotional film and I personally will think that anyone will find this film brilliant.Ten out of Ten.Written by Ian Lyons "},{"Title":"Better than average family movie with believable relationships","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My two boys (12 & 16) and my wife and I just watched this together over the holidays. This movie deserves better treatment than it's been given by the critics and by many reviewers on this site. The characters and the character development are really pretty good, and this drives the rest of the movie. There is the required (and implied) suspension of disbelief about a snowman coming to life, but all of this is tied into father/son, husband/wife and other relationships that I personally found believable enough to care about them. They take a little time to develop these before the fantasy part begins. There are some really nice moments here, and some layers in the relationships that matter for the story. It's not a perfect or hugely important movie - I just think it's hard to find good options like this one for the whole family and I think Jack Frost hits a really nice sweet spot. (Double entendre works here...) I found it very entertaining but also more emotional and real than I expected. Great soundtrack for a family Christmas movie, too.! I would say it's a great and safe option for kids of 6 or 7 and up, and the whole family can watch with them and not be bored. "},{"Title":"Jack Frost","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Truly bizarre WTF? plot aside, Jack Frost has a good cast willing to endure it for the sake of a family friendly experience for the right kind of audience who can look past the spirit of a musician/father entering the snowman outside in the yard of his wife and son. You get Michael Keaton doing voice work for the Frosty the Snowman look-a-like (there's even a funny moment where his son comes across the Frosty Christmas special on the tube much to Keaton's chagrin), but at least he had a chance to get in a good forty minutes work in his own skin as a dad struggling to get his Jack Frost Band (his name is actually, really Jack Frost!) a music deal after a lot of neglect to his boy. His son and wife have tolerated his missing the big goal in the little league hockey game and the snowball fights with the neighborhood bullies, so in the form of Frosty, Jack tries to make up for lost time. What does come out of the weird plot is the dad gets a second chance to be there for his son in a winter bonding missed while in human form and the leads do what they can to make it work. The snowball fight with the bullies as Jack comes to his son's aid, and the subsequent sledding escape from those snowboarding pricks could be perceived as highlights if they weren't so strange (I had a hard time suspending disbelief as Jack the Snowman uses his stick arms and muffin hands to hurl snowballs at an accelerating rate, and skinnied after squeezing between two close trees (and snowboarding when the sled splits in two for that matter)). When Jack and his son get away for one last adventure and Kelly Preston (as the mom) hears her husband's voice across the phone when he calls from their cabin, it is a really emotional moment that is actually poignant&#x85;give it to the cast to really take their parts seriously even though the plot is so ridiculously absurd. One scene has Jack the Snowman melting while watching his son playing hockey that, again, is kind of surreal but makes sense considering how the father was often absent when his boy wanted him there so badly. I think for many it will take a hell of a lot to shake the premise, but maybe if you can, then Jack Frost might just be an agreeable bit of whimsy that seems best watched during the Holidays. "},{"Title":"One of the saddest Christmas movies that was ever made.","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I mean seriously why the 4.9 rating?? I found nothing wrong with this movie. It had a nice story and the cast was great,I always liked Micheal Keaton from his Batman days and I thought he did a terrific job in this movie. The story is about a work-ethic musician named Jack Frost who dies of a car crash one winters night. So his son Charlie plays the harmonic that he gave him and he is magically reincarnated as a snowman. YES A SNOWMAN hilarious right?? So Jack in his new form spends the Christmas with Charlie and they spend some father/son time together.Yes its a bit stupid and silly in a way for having Micheal Keaton being reincarnated as a snowman and he should have been reincarnated as a human instead but still I loved the scenes that his son and himself spend together. John Travolta's wife Kelly Preston from The Last Song plays his wife who has had it with Jack and his band because he never spends the time with them. So why do I like this movie a lot. Well like I said the story was great and everything so why is it considered one of the most saddest movie of all time next to The Lion King and Marley & Me well you just have to watch the ending to find out. So grab those Kleenex Tissues and get your families together the next Christmas Season as you will be needing them.Im giving this movie an 8/10 because well I liked it and I still like this movie up to this very day. I must have seen it 20 times or more and it still makes me cry at the age of 22. "},{"Title":"Jack Frost","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" PLOT Charlie Frost feels as though his father Jack doesn't give him enough attention due to the fact that he keeps forgetting to be there when he needs to the most. When Jack dies in a car accident, he is brought back to life as a snowman after his son plays a magic harmonica he had given Charlie. Jack then gets a second chance to be the father he should have been... MY THOUGHTS This movie is a very heartwarming film to watch with family and especially during the holiday season (which is when it takes place). Its very entertaining and an all around good flick. If you nitpick however, you find the film to have various plot holes and to have a very strange premise. With that said however, it is still a very good watch.PROS/CONS There is a lot of comedy in this film and it does make you laugh. Michael Keaton is good as always and his voice provided for the snowman and how he plays it is very entertaining. The film does has various story problems and the idea of it is very strange, but doesn't hold it back whatsoever.RATING 8/10 "},{"Title":"Jack Frost","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Charlie's father who passed away one year prior comes back to life as a snowman in 'Jack Frost'. Michael Keaton plays Jack Frost who is a talented musician that most of the time puts his career ahead of his wife and son. One stormy night as he races to get home for Christmas, his car skids off the road and he passes away leaving his son Charlie and wife Gabby devastated. A year passes, and it is clear that Charlie is still deeply affected by his father's death. He decides to make a snowman one evening, and dresses him in Jack's clothes. Playing his father's old harmonica magically brings the snowman to life! The snowman has Jack's voice and his personality/memories. Charlie is at first terrified of the talking snowman (for obvious reasons), but eventually realizes that his dad's spirit is inside of it. The only problem is that the weather is getting warmer, and we all know what that means for snowmen...I am really shocked at how low rated Jack Frost is on here. It wasn't the best Christmas movie ever made, but it's not a below average one either. I really thought that Jack Frost has a lot of heart. It can be very sad at times knowing that Jack was dead, but then they throw in some funny moments which really work. I think it was successful in pulling the audience's heartstrings. The acting was close to top-notch. Michael Keaton really only did voice overs in this film as the snowman, but that was well done. Kelly Preston as well as Mark Addy were convincing in their supporting roles, and Joseph Cross puts in a terrific performance as the young boy who lost his father.Jack Frost was a box office flop in 1998, but I honestly can't see why. It was a solid Christmas movie that throws a lot at it's viewers in terms of emotion. I know when I was a kid and I saw it in the theaters, I teared up! It may be a lot for a young child to take in (especially the sad ending), but in reality it's a good Christmas movie with good intentions and a very touching story to it.7/10 "}{"Title":"It's Not Perfect but I See No Need for the Hatred","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost (1998) *** (out of 4) Musician Jack Frost (Michael Keaton) has neglected his kid Charlie (Joseph Cross) for years and one day before Christmas he's killed in a car wreck. Flash forward a year when Charlie builds a snowman who is magically taken over by the spirit of his father and two begin to spend some quality time together. You can read just about any review out there for this film and words such as disgusting, creepy, ugly, rude and traumatizing are going to be used. I must admit that there are times when I watch movies and I just can't see what people see in them and there are times when I view a movie where I can't see why people hate them so much. Look, I agree that this kids film has a rather ugly subject in regards to a kid losing his father but for the life of me I can't figure out why there's so much hatred thrown at this film. I thought the film was very sweet, featured some good performances and I think its heart is in the right place. I really don't understand why some are taking such a strong moral clause with this film and throwing a judgment on it as to what damage it might do to kids. Really? Countless Disney films have scared young children yet no one says a word about them. E.T. scared me to death as a child but no one bashes that film. Is JACK FROST in their level? Not even close but no matter the quality I don't see the need for the moral police. Again, I thought the film was innocent enough and had a good heart. I thought Keaton did a very good job early in the film when we actually see him and I thought his vocal work as the snowman was terrific. I found him to be fun to watch and I thought the relationship between him and the son was quite good. Is JACK FROST the next IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE? Of course not but I don't see the need for calling this movie child abuse. "},{"Title":"You the snowman....","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost is a singer who's on the road most of the time so he can't spend a lot of time with his son Charlie, although they love each other very much.When Jack dies in a car accident, Charlie becomes a very sad young man, until... Jack returns as a snowman! Now they can do all the things they've missed when Jack was human, but what will people think when they see Charlie talking to a snowman And what will happen when the weather gets warmer?..Yes, it's a really daft concept, and it shouldn't work, but somehow, and this is thanks to Keaton, it does in a way.It mostly works because there is a lot of chemistry in the family before the unfortunate event.You can really tell that Jack is sad for his son, so when he comes back, it makes it easier to watch.Obviously there is an element of predictability to it, the bad kid who becomes nice at the end, the family not believing the son, and as always, there is always one character in the film who sees the titular character and goes a bit mad. For the comedy.Forgive all this and the poor, poor script, its essentially a good movie, which delivers it's sugary message with glee, and keeps the kids entertained.As always, there is a little bit of innuendo for the adults, but it really doesn't work.Worth watching, but you will be thinking about other things... "},{"Title":"Family story of love and snow.","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Where to begin on this Jack Frost, you all know how I feel about the scary horror movie JACK FROST, but this is a magical family movie full of love and laughs. Michael Keaton plays Jack and he does do a great job. Of course some parents may object to the fact that Jack dies in the movie to become the snowman and some smaller children around five or six might have issues with that too. But older kids eight and up will shouldn't have a problem with Jack Frost. The effects are very impressive, it looks like the snowman is really alive and with new next Snowman technology is FROSTY THE SNOWMAN live version that far behind? That's the skinny on Jack Frost the family classic and I give it...9 STARS. "},{"Title":"This is a warm film with a message","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Originally written 15 February 1999; account moved.I thought it was OK, but I saw this film with three women, all of whom loved this film. That made me wonder why and ask questions. Well, it emphasized the importance of loving those around us and not being lost in pursuit of a dollar. It stressed that real people only get one shot a being someone's parent. It endorsed the old fashioned concept that a man and a woman could really love each other and be happy with that. Michael Keaton was appropriately warm and sensitive in the way many women wish their men really were (just a tinge of bad boy is more than enough). Kelly Preston was lovely and lovable in just the right way (made me envy John ...). The kids were all believable as, well, kids. All in all, not a bad way to spend a couple of hours. People who try to over-intellectualize these things are missing more than the point, they're probably missing out on just a bit of life as well.  "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'm a 21 year old kid that liked this movie. I didn't care about the not too great special effects. Maybe the story is lame to many, but the movie gave me a good feeling and that's what it is all about, no? 8/10 "},{"Title":"Too Sentimental","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I would give this movie a 10/10 but I didnt because the movie was just too sentimentle. The acting is great but the main problem is the fact it deals with death in an upsetting way, which my affect youngsters. I was young when I saw this movie and I was upset when I first saw it. If you like weepie movies this one is definately for you!. "},{"Title":"A great family movie for the holiday","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie for the family, especially at Christmas time. I think people had high expectations for this relatively simple Frosty the Snowman spinoff. The special effects have moments that are very good and other moments when they are horrible (i.e. the snow chase scene.)The movie's biggest problem was that they tried to add elements for the adults too.  The snow boobs and the big balls, big butt comments may make you chuckle but don't really add anything.  There is an awkwardness that holds this movie back.The acting is fine, nothing spectacular.  Michael Keaton is sort of lost in this flic, but the other actors pull their weight.  I rather enjoy the neurotic Henry Rollins character.  How many catch the line on the radio broadcast digging at Sid's admission about seeing a talking snowman.My kids could watch the 'snowman coming to life scene' over and over again while my wife gets misty  from the Stevie Nicks song.  It was fun and fine to watch a couple of times, especially at Christmas. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Give it a 2 Thumbs up!!!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Jack Frost was a great movie. How could any of you give it a 1? it deserves a definate 10! The story is about a father and a son who are extremaly close. Jack Frost(Keaton) dies in a car accident and comes back as a snow-man because his son, Charlie(Cross) plays a magic harmonica. They have a great time catching up on things. As you know snow-men cannot live forever, eventually Jack has to leave but is never forgotten. It's a great family film, the actors are terrific. Joseph Cross is a major hottie!! Enjoy the show, what's a movie without a little magic? Also check out for the soundtrack, great music! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Contains a snowball spoiler","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"   My mother died a few years ago, I occasionally wish I could visit with her. For me, it is this sentiment that affords itself to the tender theme of Jack Frost. However, emotionally touching scenes are weakened by rudimental plot contrivances. Given the opportunity to return from the dead, Keaton instructs his son on a hockey move, fixes a long broken sink, and then disappears into swirling magic vapors. Talk about  underachievement, I would have preferred Keaton to given more important life lessons and refrain from innuendo about cold balls. Also, Henry Rollins' minor character could have been omitted from the story. Slamming to `Black Flag` twenty years ago, I had no idea that he would become the Nat Pendleton of the nineties. English actor Mark Addy manifests a natural pleasantness to his part. I subscribe to the theory that women become more attractive with age. Kelly Preston validates this statement. I saw Mischief and Spacecamp during there initial theatrical release, and don't recall finding her very alluring. Now, some fifteen years, she is remarkably beautiful and talented in this film. I will definitely review For the Love of the Game. -lucky Travolta- As far as Keaton, he was adequately charming. I wonder when he declined anymore Batman movies, if he had an inclination he would be undertaking a computer generated snowman. My Life is a better Keaton film addressing life and death issues. Also, I enjoyed the inclusion of a Lucinda Williams tune on the soundtrack. 2.5 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A family movie that is sure to impress","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Jack Frost is the type of feel good movie that will take the viewer on a ride for two hours and come back refreshed. Michael Keaton stars as Jack Frost in this awesome movie about getting a second chance at being the world's greatest dad. Kelly Preston, Joseph Cross and Mark Addy co-star.I first noticed Joseph Cross, Charlie Frost, in the 100th episode of Touched By An Angel and since then I knew he was a talented young actor. Cross once again teamed with Keaton in Desperate Measures another awesome movie I think was overlooked by the viewing audience.Jack Frost is the kind of movie that has heart-warming moments intertwined with comedy that is witty. Keaton and Cross seem to have a lot of fun making this movie together and it showed in their performances. Scenes like the one that had Jack Frost throwing snowballs at the school bully and his friends as well as the chase that followed made it all worthwhile to see because this is what makes movies so good.Watching this movie, it reminded me of Ghost because of its sweeping and heartwarming storyline.One of the things I look for in a good movie is chemistry and this movie didn't let me down. While an unusual but a brilliant pairing, Keaton and Preston bring chemistry to Jack Frost, a movie that seems to be better than others I've seen before.I think Michael Keaton is one of the best actors I've seen and his performance in Jack Frost is one of his best films to date so WATCH it. "}{"Title":"Sweet and touching movie -- a 7 out of 10","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Okay.  I know this film is sappy.  And the first 5 minutes are painfully slow.  But if you can handle some sap, this is a well-made movie that effectively explores the topic of what it's like to have to deal with loss in this case, the loss of one's father and to a lesser extent one's husband.Michael Keaton is Jack Frost, a loving husband and father who, one fateful Christmas day, loses control of his car and dies. He returns the next year in the form of a snowman to get another chance to be with his son.This is most definitely not a comedy, and to the filmmaker's credit they don't go for silliness with the snowman stuff. Yes there are moments of humor (some failed), but the movie's main strength is in its relationship between Frost and his son and also Frost and his wife (a luminous Kelly Preston).These movies walk a fine line for me if they are sappy and don't move me, I hate them.  But if they do strike an emotional chord, then I forgive all flaws and recommend the movie. So whether or not you will enjoy it is based strictly on your tolerance for sentimentality. For me, it worked. "},{"Title":"I know it sounds hokey, but this was really a touching movie...","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  To quote an old cliche, this is a movie for all ages.  But this is one of those movies where it's really true.  There were some really cute moments and some childish ones as well, and surprisingly, some honestly touching moments.  This is a movie I'd recommend for the kids, and most adults won't mind watching it as well.  I know I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"If you have a loved one, don't wait to tell them you love them, now is the best time, because you may not get a chance.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I believe that Jack Frost is a family oriented film.  It has very good material, although it seemed to be a little slow throughout the entire movie, it is worth it at the end. It was sort of emotional, but worth every tear.   "},{"Title":"Why is this movie so bad?","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  For me (being 14 yo), the worst part of the movie was the fact that I was alone in the theatre with a bunch of little kids.  I liked the movie, with some exceptions.  It wasn't as bad as the critics say.  The only part I didn't like was the part where the dad dies...it sorta seems to go on for a while (its a part that stands out to me as being long, 6 months after I saw it).  But comon...ITS NOT AS BAD AS PEOPLE SAY IT IS. "},{"Title":"This is a warm film with a message","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I thought it was OK, but I saw this film with three women, all of whom loved this film. That made me wonder why and ask questions. Well, it emphasized the importance of loving those around us and not being lost in pursuit of a dollar. It stressed that real people only get one shot a being someone's parent. It endorsed the old fashioned concept that a man and a woman could really love each other and be happy with that. Michael Keaton was appropriately warm and sensitive in the way many women wish their men really were (just a tinge of bad boy is more than enough). Kelly Preston was lovely and lovable in just the right way (made me envy John ...). The kids were all believable as, well, kids. All in all, not a bad way to spend a couple of hours. People who try to over-intellectualize these things are missing more than the point, they're probably missing out on just a bit of life as well. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  It makes me laugh, it makes me cry. It's one of the best movies I have every watched. The acting is wonderful, especially Joseph Cross (Charlie), he is so natural. I give this movie two thumbs up!10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this movie, it is excellent!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  How can a Michael Keaton movie be bad?  It can't.  He does a wonderful job as butt dad and as the snowman.  His sense of humor for the snowman is hilarious. I think that was perfect casting. Joseph Cross as butt boy, did an awesome job as did Kelly Preston.  This is a sweet, funny, tear jerker that you should not miss. I personally think you should give it a chance. By the way, to understand (butt dad, and butt boy) you should see the movie.  "},{"Title":"what is the song?","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Well i wanted to know what was the song called at the end of the movie where Jack & Charlie are saying bye to each other then the mom comes & tells Jack to sing a song & he sings it what is that song called..?I was thinking it was called cry a little but i would search it but it didn't come out & also i want 2 know who sang it? cause i need to find out who sings it & what is it called?i was thinking the person who sang it was Tim McGraw but it didn't say anything about him singing it & i have been searching for this song like this whole day & i can't seem to find it.Please help me find it...Because if i don't find it then i don't know what i'll do i need to find this song. "},{"Title":"Awesome heart warming film","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I will never understand why so many viewers dislike Jack Frost. It is a movie with heart warming and refreshing storyline. Michael Keaton stars as Jack Frost in this awesome movie about getting a second chance at being the world's greatest dad. Kelly Preston, Joseph Cross and Mark Addy co-star.I first noticed Joseph Cross, Charlie Frost, in the 100th episode of Touched By An Angel and since then I knew he was a talented young actor. Cross once again teamed with Keaton in Desperate Measures another awesome movie overlooked by the viewing audience.Jack Frost is the kind of movie that has heart-warming moments intertwined with comedic wit. Keaton and Cross seem to have a lot of fun making this movie together and it showed in their performances. Scenes like the one that had Jack Frost throwing snowballs at the school bully and his friends as well as the chase that followed made it all worthwhile to see because this is what makes movies so good.Watching this movie, it reminded me of Ghost because of its sweeping and heartwarming storyline.Chemistry is one of the elements I look for in a great movie. Jack Frost has this element and more. While an unusual but a brilliant pairing, Keaton and Preston bring chemistry to Jack Frost, a movie that seems to be better than others I've seen before.I think Michael Keaton is one of the best actors I've seen and his performance in Jack Frost is one of his best films to date so WATCH it.  "},{"Title":"I agree with Wayne","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Wayne is right.  I love this movie!  And am I the only one who noticed that Michael Keaton was actually singing in this one?  Seriously...Buy the sound-track!  Check it out for yourself!  The blues are great and boy can he sing!  Very impressive!  I watch this one all year round.  Can't get enough! "}{"Title":"What was the point?","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I love Michael Keaton, and I thought the woman who played opposite of him was great.  In fact, all the casting was good.  I loved the setting ... But, why make a movie like that?  I cried through 75% of the movie, and not a good cry either.  It was sad and pointless.  Not even kind of entertaining, and a stupid premise for a movie.Don't we have enough parents who abandon their children in real life?  I have news for people, if you suck as a parent, you don't get to come back as a snowman and make it all better. "},{"Title":"Jackass Frost.","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost (1998) Dir Troy Miller / Cast Michael Keaton, Joseph Cross, Kelly Preston, Mark Addy, Henry Rollins Depressing family film with a character given the title name. What kind of nit-pick bullshit is that? Could they not give him a name of more normal presentation? It just sounds like cruel parenting. The concept fails because the magic harmonica is never explained and just sounds like a dumb plot device. Instead it gets reduced to formula that becomes as much fun as a snow covered rock to the head. Michael Keaton plays Jack Frost, a musician who spends less time with his family. A nasty storm sends his car off the road and he is pronounced dead. His son plays the magic harmonica and the result is a talking snowman. We know that he will attempt to conceal him from his mother, and he will eventually melt giving an ending of all the quality of yellow snow. Director Troy Miller has fun with the visuals but that is pretty much all the film has going for it. Keaton is a likable comic actor but this is far beneath his talent. In flat supporting roles are Joseph Cross as his son. Kelly Preston is cardboard as his wife. Mark Addy has the thankless role as best friend who sticks around after the accident. One could say that he stuck around too long if he had any hint that this sh*t storm would be good. The snowman doesn't melt nearly as fast as the screenplay. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"a snow dad and sons magical frosty Xmas adventure experience","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" there was no snowmen injured in this movie he is the coolest dad in the world and lets go to prove this in this under rated tear jerker from h1998 at 1hr 37mins I gave it 7/10 Michael Keaton wrote songs for the film as well as singing with the band jack frost at the shiver festival so he is rock and role who gets his chance of a lifetime to prove ice guys finish first in this fantasy adventure with frosty and blizzard special effects he realizes as he chases his dream he is missing family time with his wife (Kelly Preston) his son Charlie but as he goes on the road to get his dream he turns back and life changes on mountain road a yr later a magical harmonica resurrects a snowman from Charlie. Charlie cant believe a live snowman is alive as Charlie is a ice hockey player his father nearly taught him the j shot but as father and son embark on a riotous snow fight to beat the bullies a snowboard cruising quest show but as the snow melts its time to go h high up to the cabin after a night of fun as rings his wife for a chat this film is magical for Xmas "},{"Title":"Underrated Christmas movie.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost is about a father who gets killed on his way home and comes back as a snow man and i know you might think this is a hilarious joke or that this movie deserves the 5.2 rating but it doesn't because this film is underrated and great first of all Michael Keaton which i love since Batman & Batman Returns kills it in this movie also Kelly Preston was great and the little kid too. It's an emotional and funny ride threw a relationship of a father and son who try to spend more time in Christmas and i think many people cried in the end. Jack Frost is definitely one of my favorite Christmas movies ever made and i will definitely see it again soon. "},{"Title":"Jack Frost An Appreciation","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When I was a kid, nothing got me and my friends more hyped up in anticipation than snow. Yep, glorious white snow. To us there were few other activities as fun as playing in the snow. One major problem however; I grew up in a country in which we only get about 3-4 days a year of significant snowfall, in which it would actually settle on the ground. So when there was a significant level of snowfall, we would make the utmost use of it. Snowball fights, sledding, making snow angels, and of course making a snowman.Snowmen were a subject of my childhood fascination. Why? I'm not quite sure. They just have a certain magical appeal. Whenever I would see one in someone else's garden, I would always have to point it out, Look, a snowman!. So when myself and my friends heard about the movie Jack Frost, in which a snowman comes to life, we were psyched to see it. Although there already existed the 1982 animated short The Snowman which had a similar premise, I believe Jack Frost appealed to us more for several reasons-It was a movie more of our generation. -It was live action and the snowman looks just like a real snowman we could have created ourselves. -But most importantly, the movie was called Jack Frost. When I was younger, whenever there was a frosty night, we would always say that Jack Frost is out tonight.So one weekend myself and one of my friends rented Jack Frost on video, and we thought it was an absolute blast. However even at that age we thought there were some stupid moments, such as when Charlie is hanging over a wall of snow and he's supposed to be in danger, yet the drop itself is tiny; or during the sledge chase sequence when two kids just happen to have a snowball the size of a boulder on standby to stop Charlie and Jack. However the one aspect of the film we found to be the most unbelievable was in how Charlie had not got over his father's death one year on. The reason for this is that a friend of ours had recently lost his father to an illness, yet was back in school one week later, acting as he normally would. To us, Charlie isolating himself from his friends due to his father's death one year on seemed far fetched. Several years later, I saw Jack Frost again on TV one weekend, and the following Monday in school, it seems half the class also watched it, and were all raving about how much we loved it; discussing our favourite moments, talking about the scenes we found to be the funniest. Even my teacher had watched it over the weekend and called it, and I quote, a wonderful film. Of course when the advent of the internet age come upon us, I found out Jack Frost is considered a terrible film and the critics trashed it. One of the biggest criticisms I hear against the movie being that the snowman is creepy, which even to this day I've never thought so. I think he looks cute, and looks just like a snowman the average kid would make.I'm probably the only person in the world who will give this film a serious appraisal, but when I was younger it did strike a chord with us kids. I watched Jack Frost again several years ago with a more mature perspective, and I still enjoyed it, with a pool of happy nostalgic memories coming flooding back. Rock on Jack Frost! Snow dad is better than no dad! "},{"Title":"Highly under rated and heartwarming","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Watching this movie for the first time in years and it still makes me tear up! For a Christmas comedy film, it handles the subject of loss very well. It shows how hard it can be to move on especially in the circumstances but then allows the second chance for Jack to be a father and Charlie to spend an extra bit of time with his dad and get a chance to say goodbye.This movie has some good music which sticks with you after it has ended especially Landslide by Fleetwood Mac always makes me think of Charlie out in building the snowman.I looked this movie up as I watched it and was so surprised of the low score it had received across the internet! Think that it deserves higher and would recommend this movie to anyone looking for a good, heartwarming Christmas movie for all the family. "},{"Title":"Not so much Jack Frost as jack sh-- well, you get the idea","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" 'Jack Frost' is the kind of movie that probably started out as an idea that could have worked with the right mixture of charm and magic and lightness of touch and spirit of the season, but has bypassed all that and ended up as a misconceived Christmas pudding with a supposedly endearing central character who wouldn't look out of place in a horror film.The movie stars Michael Keaton (who deserves better, as is often the case with his filmography) as a would-be musician who's preoccupied with his career and neglects his son so stereotypically that he misses an important sports game. One Christmas his car is run off the road, right at the point where the movie could still win us over. But then we zip forward to a year later, when Keaton is reincarnated as a talking snowman who learns to take the time to teach his kid how to deal with life's little problems, like school bullies, before he melts away.This could, I guess, have been heart-warming stuff (as a cartoon, possibly), but the snowman is brought to life using a combination of CGI and animatronics, with lip synching that's terrible either way - and it's an horrific freak, an abomination with Keaton's eyebrows that looks like it'd be more at home stalking holiday makers with a knife than bonding with a small boy. Nothing this thing does is entertaining in the slightest, and Keaton is utterly wasted in a movie that studiously avoids giving him anything to say that might be funny or of any interest at all.There's no poignancy on show here, just the writers' alarming lack of imagination. They've taken a talking, reincarnated snowman and welded it to a story so banal that they have to keep the damn thing talking and sledging and talking and throwing snowballs and talking and talking in the hope that we won't notice how clichd the whole thing is. Which you may not, if you're occupied, as I was, trying to gouge your eyes out with your own shoe.Keaton just doesn't fit in this thing; I seem to remember that he refused to publicise it, so whether he had a major case of actor's remorse or the film went bizarrely wrong somewhere along the line, I don't know. But it's a film unworthy of his presence, a grotesque load of rubbish that's tacky and lumbering and genuinely off-putting whenever that snowman is on the screen. "},{"Title":"Jack!","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I just saw Nostlagia Critic review this movie.Like NC I will give him right that it was an alright movie.A man dies in a car accident, and comes back to visit his Family as a snowman.Some of the highlights are the snowman joining a snowball clash.At last the snowman must be taken up to the Mountains where he must say his goodbye to the Family.It's not any major Winter Holiday Classic, but worth a Watch anyway.The snowman is well made, and the locations are wonderful.There are thrills, drama and some laughs on the way.If you love drama and comedies from the 1990's go Watch this.So try your luck in Blockbuster or a flea market to find this movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"maybe, useful","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" a family film. not great ambitions, maybe absurd in many parts but nice. nice for its generous message. and for the manner to use the second chance theme. far to be memorable, it is a title and it is not really important if you hate it or enjoy it. a film about family and values. nothing new and almost fake - the lead character seems not really inspired - but so absurd than becomes touching. a film about a child and his father. and about a meeting who saves the errors of past. that is all. and, after you criticizes it, you discover than it is the best formula. not for Chistmas period but for the days when you needs a romantic movie without he and she and love stories in different nuances but only a demonstration about what is real important to be free by the past chain. "},{"Title":"'Jack Frost' will fill you with warmth.","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" 'Jack Frost' is a heartwarming Christmas story with a modern twist on a classic tale. Musician Jack Frost has repeatedly puts his career before his family, as the front man of his struggling band. Having cancelled a festive holiday in order to perform for a record company executive, Jack realises the error of his ways and races home to be with his family for Christmas. Losing control of his car, he perishes in the snow. His wife and son, Kelly and Charlie, are left to cope with their loss until a year later, when Jack manifests his spirit in a snowman that Charlie builds. Embracing this opportunity to atone for his misdeeds, Jack finally spends some valuable time with his son and together they help one another beat their demons.The film ticks all the right boxes for family fare, and touches well on its themes of redemption and loss. A young Joseph Cross performs well alongside Kelly Preston and Michael Keaton, engaging with the special effects and channelling his character's frustrations believably. The compatibility of the cast enhances the ability of the script to tug at the heartstrings, and at a time of year when families easily lose their temper with one another, it's emotion is suitable and the subject matter thought-provoking. While all the possibilities of having a snowman for a father aren't explored, this keeps the movie light-hearted by preventing the emergence of deeper concepts. 'Jack Frost' may stumble over stereotypes such as the school bully and the inadequate babysitter, but these are popular devices in children's entertainment that a younger audience is familiar with and can therefore respond to with ease. Set to a rousing soundtrack that quickens the pace, the movie is a pleasant hour and a half of fun that will leave you in the mood for Christmas. It may be cold outside, but 'Jack Frost' will fill you with warmth. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Starts off very promisingly, but it could have been better","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Now Jack Frost is neither a bad movie or a good movie. It is fine for the family, and it certainly starts off well with a very promising 20 minutes. I also liked the premise of the film, about a musician who dies in a car accident and comes back to life in the form of a snowman to spend time with his neglected son. The soundtrack is great, and the film is nice to look at. The performances are decent from Joseph Cross and Kelly Preston and Michael Keaten while he has been better does well. However, I was not sure what the movie was trying to accomplish. What I mean by that is that it seemed as though it was striving to be a poignant father and son type film and a film full of slapstick comedy. Unfortunately due to the weak script, the film doesn't really succeed at either. The pace is also rather uneven, being slow at times, and the ending is rather schmaltzy. Plus the special effects are in general substandard. All in all, not terrible, but it could have been better. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Cheesy But Very Cute","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" From what I've read, critics think this film does absolutely nothing for them and that it was waste of their time. I'm really surprised that this particular film made no headway in becoming a classic. Although people would say this film is nothing like it, why doesn't anyone see the correlation between this film and John Carpenter's Starman (1984)? The only main difference is really the setting (a snowy environment). A man is lost in a tragic accident and is incarnated once more to give hope to his family members. Is that not the same?One reason why people blame this film for being so bad is that it uses cheesy puns that are supposed to make you laugh out loud; this is false. This movie is not supposed to be a hardcore comedy. Its puns are made to create small chuckles and to appreciate the fact the man who was no more is back to set his problems right. Michael Keaton plays Jack Frost, a father who gets sidetracked from his real passion, watching his son (played by Joseph Cross) grow up because he is too focused on kick- starting his rock band. Sure so the name is clich, but that's what makes it cute. Even Michael Keaton himself mocks the name. When he is in his snowman form, he says to himself, Why me,...why a SNOWMAN? I mean, could the universe really be that unoriginal? That made me laugh. If the main character recognizes that the name of this movie is silly then it shouldn't be as bad as everyone says. I feel that the movie's screenwriter, Mark Steven Johnson did a really nice job. Later on, he would direct Ghost Rider (2007), who I was not totally pleased with because a character as serious as Ghost Rider, should not have been so cartoonish. But here, the story of Jack Frost works well.Another thing people bash this movie for is that it has a sappy screenplay. Like there haven't been sad movies before? This isn't new people. And how often does someone get a second chance to make up his or her life mistakes. Besides, it's not like this movie ends badly; Jack Frost rights his wrongs. It's not like he shows up just to make the audience cry. The alien who plays in Starman (1984) made audiences cry too; so what's all the hoot and holler about? As for the director of this movie, Troy Miller, I assume his career hasn't been promising when it comes to big screen movies. It's a shame some good things go nowhere.As for the music, much of it is inserted when it comes to sequences of reflection. The only time the score of the film comes out when the camera is focused on Jack Frost (when he is a snowman). The score was created by Trevor Rabin who did a nice job but it disappoints me that I was not able to find the entire score digitally. One other thing I did not know was that the Jack Frost snowman was made by the Jim Henson company. I knew it looked like a Muppet somehow! It's a (pardon the pun) cool design and to make a movie look that good with a snowman must have been an interesting task.As one of the very few films that are universally known by director Troy Miller, Jack Frost is a part of his better work. With screenwriter Mark Steven Johnson at his side, this film will capture the imagination with its cute story line. "},{"Title":"Jack frost is not only a bad movie but a bad character.","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The premise is one of the worst ever in movie history, a man dies then he comes back as a snowman to spend time with his son.How can they market this as a children's film when the snowman looks like a Frankenstein creation? What's next? he comes back as a bunny on easter? or he comes back as a pumpkin on Halloween? it is so ridiculous.The acting is horrible making it a pain to through.There's one scene when frost injures lots of innocent people, what did they ever do to him? At the end Frost turns back into a human but why couldn't he do that before? it just does not make any sense. "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Just saw the film on flight and was expecting a good entertaining film, unfortunately Jack Frost was neither of it. The definition of the characters was weak and the animation appalling. Why did Michael Keaton this movie? Did he need the money?I strongly recommend to avoid seeing this film to anyone it might ruin your holidays! "},{"Title":"what a good movie","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  i first seen this movie when i was flicking through the channels i came across jack frost on the movie channel so i watched it and thought wow it was very moving and i filled up everytime i watched it. i watch it all the time i love the way the actors spoke to the snow man i really love micheal keaton and i think kelly is sooo pretty and little joe is soo cute. words cant express how this movie made me feel it was trying to make u feel what it would be like to lose a loved one and i hope i dont have to go through something like they did. to top it all of jack frost has been the best movie and i will show it to my kids in time to come. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Trashed By Critics","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This harmless fantasy was unfairly maligned by the majority of critics upon its release, some of whom gave it no or one star in their rating.  There's nothing original here in terms of the themes or ideas and it borrows from plenty of other, better movies but on its own terms I enjoyed it enough for a 5 out of 10.  The performers were all very appealing (Kelly Preston is gorgeous!) and the snow-covered  settings and scenery were beautiful.  It's certainly not a one-star movie and most kids will like it, although some kids may grow impatient waiting for the snowman scenes to start.  "},{"Title":"Right down there with Mac and Me!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Probably the 2nd worst movie of all time (The worst being Mac and Me).  C'mon, Hollywood!  Do you really see us as the scum this movie would be marketed to?  I am embarrassed for Michael Keaton and Henry Rollins.  I'm sure you will not find this movie on their resumes. "},{"Title":"Dad and Son bonding, with a difference...","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Jack Frost is typical American schmaltz, and extremely sweet and sugary. Apple-pie, everything in America is rosy, Walton-mountain sanctimonious twaddle.  Yet despite all that - it works. Michael Keaton is a typical `yes I promise I'll be there, son' only to be held up at work and miss another promise. Then one Christmas he is killed in a car wreck. Exactly a year later and when the son plays a 'magic' harmonica that his dad gave him, back comes dad - given a second chance - but in the guise of a snowman. Remarkably dad and son bond in the few short days that a snowman has in a way they never achieved before. Fabulous special effects, bags of adventure and enough one-liners to ensure that all family members will be satisfied. It will amuse the kids while some teens and adults may just find the whole thing a little to American twee. Nevertheless on the entertainment scale, it almost drops off the top end. "},{"Title":"You see he dies, and then he comes back....as a snowman! Get it?","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I would gladly have paid my entire yearly cable bill just to sit in the meeting where this movie was green lighted. One of the classic bad movie warning signs I failed to heed was multiple writers listed in the opening credits. My young nephew, Lonny, has been having nightmares about this flick. So will you. "},{"Title":"Who butchered this film?","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I rented this film based on the trailers that I have seen. I thought this film might be a cute family film.  Not.  This film lacks the genuine warmth similar films of this genre have.  I  could not feel anything for this kid or his mother. The director fails to capture the audience and make us feel something.  The kids father dies and I just didn't care.  When he came back as a snowman, the son is more flabbergasted than happy.  This film needed a major rewrite before production began.  I wouldn't waste my time again.  "}{"Title":"Lifeless snowman movie","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost (Michael Keaton) is a struggling musician and often-absent father. His band is about to get a big break but he dies driving on a snowy road. He leaves behind his loving wife Gabby (Kelly Preston) and son Charlie (Joseph Cross). A year later, Charlie is angry and depressed. Jack's best friend Mac MacArthur (Mark Addy) tries to help out. Charlie builds a snowman to resemble his father and plays Jack's harmonica. The magical harmonica brings the snowman to life with Jack Frost's spirit.It's probably wrong to kill the father in the movie. The movie could have started right after his death. It's not like a snowman Michael Keaton is particularly funny. The snowman slapstick doesn't work very well and Keaton isn't doing any funny voice work. The problem is that he started as a normal guy dad and can't go wild with the voice afterward as a snowman. The kid is limited. The jokes are lame. This snowman movie is lifeless. It's not good enough even for the kids. "},{"Title":"Song When Be Builds Snowman","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Does anyone happen to no that song name when Charlie is making the snowmen and starts putting his dads hat and scarf on it and the jack frost band buttons on, then when he plays the harmonica?i would really like to know what that song is i've had it in my head for SO long loll I really liked that part too where Charlie was building the snowman i would really love to know what song it is ; so i can download it and listen to it for hours ha ha then i'll prob get it unstuck out of my head so its all good, its a really sad part though when he starts crying too i was like aww poor thing! but its a great movie! "},{"Title":"Jack Frost","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The trailer that I saw looked pretty good, and obviously I like the star of Beetle Juice and Batman, and seeing it a second time it isn't too bad. Basically Jack Frost (Michael Keaton) is a rock singer, and he hardly sees his wife Gabby (Kelly Preston) or son Charlie (Joseph Cross). One night he had a terrible car accident, and after a year, Charlie is still very upset by it. Before he died Jack gave his son a magic harmonica. One day, after building a snowman, and playing the harmonica, Jack's soul comes back, into the snowman! Now Charlie and his Dad are together and also trying to get to the top of a cold mountain before Jack melts. Also starring A Knight's Tale's Mark Addy as Mac MacArthur Michael Keaton and Bean's Andrew Lawrence as Tuck Gronic. It may have some cheesy moments, but the snowball fight, and the ending similar to that of Ghost are hard to forget. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Fun for the whole family...if your whole family is made up of 9-year olds","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can't believe there are people (all 5 of them) who actually like this cinematic lump of coal.  It's laughable and silly. The dumbest and most painfull part of the film is the first 5 minutes, when Michael Keaton sings Frosty the Snowman to an ecstatic group of rock fans(!?).  The snowman Keaton becomes is butt-ugly.  He looks like the Pillsbury doughboy after being exposed to Nuclear radiation.  To be fair, the film IS funny...unintentionally.  At the end of the movie, when the Snowman tucks his son into bed and kisses him, the snowman's lips look like they're munching on the kid's hair!  That scene made me burst into uncontrollable laughter. Also, the script seemed to be going nowhere.  The Dad dies, comes back as a snowman, helps his son, and then leaves. That's the basic plot!  Anyway, I don't know what's scarier the snowman, or Keaton's singing. It left me cold.          "},{"Title":"Thank God it's not Disney","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can picture what Disney would have done to this surprisingly charming and touching family film.  It would have been turned into the dreaded kids film that so many parents hate going to.  Along with PAULIE and BABE PIG IN THE CITY, we have three non-Disney family films that surprise with intelligence, wit, and real human elements.  Of course, that doesn't mean there's not enough for kids either.Don't confuse this with the schlocky horror film Jack Frost, one of the worst films I've ever seen.  That went straight to video.  This Jack Frost stars Michael Keaton and a very talented cast in a very good family film. While I admit that children may be bored for the first thirty minutes, since Mr. Snowman doesn't appear until then, parents will find security with the intelligent and thought-provoking issues that are raised.  This is not a Disney film in which the father is cruel and uncaring, only to be given a second chance and have a change of heart.  Instead, Keaton is a wonderfully loving father who can't seem to balance his job and his family life.  It's got a dark side, but so does a lot of great family movies.  Frankly, these are the kinds of movies I would love to have my kids watch (if I had any). They present real-life issues (well, under the muse of fantasy of course) and allow kids to deal with them.  I was extremely surprised at how well this film was done.  Go see it.  Let Warner Brothers have at least one hit this year. "},{"Title":"Your typical Dad-dies-and-comes-back-as-a-snowman flick","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Shades of My Mother, the Car in this Michael Keaton vehicle that spins its wheels trying to come off as that perfect family movie for the holidays. Kelly Mrs. John Travolta Preston thinks her son is going nuts talking to a snowman which must have seemed very funny to the writers.  The real question is why they felt the need to kill Keaton off--and remove the film's only sure-fire entertainer.  Better approach might have been to have had animated snowman under the spell of a mountain dwarf--or something--and goad a living Keaton into being a better dad. "},{"Title":"**~~JACK FROST IS THE CUTEST MOVIE EVER!!~~**","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I LOVED Jack Frost to pieces!!I thought it was a great movie with a few parts that could make you cry and laugh. Michael Keaton lights up the screen as the fun-loving snowdad that comes back to keep his promise that he made to his son Charlie on Christmas. He gives his son a magic harmonica that whenever Charlie plays it, Jack can hear it.After Jack dies, Charlie builds a snowman with all his fathers old hats, and pins, and plays the magic harmonica! Jack comes back and has a great time with Charlie! It so touching and loving! Give this movie a 10 today!Rent it! its great! "},{"Title":"Japanese nice guy!!!!","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie was the top movie of all movies. I even cried when I watched this movie. It's simply a great film for all ages. The music was beautiful and well suited to the movie. After I watched this movie, I want to become a snowman when I die. NO!!!!!!!! But I will melt&#133;. so I decided not to become a snowman. This movie is comedy and drama and fantasy. But I think this movie genre is Drama. Because this movie's last scene is very dramatic. Everyone must watch this movie. If you have not seen this movie, you are not cool and cute! Cool boy and cute girl have seen this movie at least once. (Sorry.) But this movie is very great movie. So watch this movie at least once. But it is a very old movie so DVD rental shop may not have Jack Frost. "},{"Title":"Could have been worse, but another film I don't think was worth seeing, or even hearing of","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I stated in my review of Snow Day that I saw it at an assembly one year during my intermediate school days, just before Christmas. Well, that was during my second year of intermediate school. The year before, at the same school, I got to see this movie at an assembly just before Christmas. I also stated that if it wasn't for the assembly the second year, I would have never heard of Snow Day, though since I wrote that, I have seen it mentioned on another site, which may have gone over my head if I hadn't seen the movie. Right now, I've still yet to come across any reference to Jack Frost without searching, so I can say the same that I did about Snow Day. I certainly can't say I'm overly grateful for these two assemblies, since neither film really means much to me.Jack Frost is a member of a rock band and is determined to become successful in the music business. He has a wife named Gabby and a son named Charlie, and sadly, his music career tends to interfere with his family life. At Christmas, his band is scheduled to play a gig that could really get them somewhere, but on their way, Jack calls it off so he can spend Christmas with his family at their mountain cabin. So, he then heads for the cabin, but sadly, on his way there, he gets caught in a snow storm and dies in a car accident. A year later, as Christmas Day draws near once again, Charlie grieves over the tragic death in the family that took place a year ago. He builds a snowman, then plays the harmonica that his father gave him before he died, which magically brings Jack back, in the form of Charlie's snowman! Now that he is back, he can spend some quality time with his son, making up for the time he missed while human, but how is he going to stay when the weather changes and snow melts?!Now, comparing Jack Frost and Snow Day is probably not something done very often. I think I've made it clear why I'm comparing them, but they're not quite the same kind of film. Snow Day is really nothing other than a cheesy comedy adventure for kids, whereas this film is a combination of comedy, drama, and fantasy. However, cheesy is still a common term used to describe this flick. Personally, I certainly can't give it much credit as a comedy, as I did find some parts amusing, such as Charlie seeing his snowman alive for the first time, and a man seeing Jack as a snowman on the road, but I didn't laugh much at all, and there's some weak physical humour while Jack (as a snowman) and Charlie fight a bully (which reminds me, the whole bullying part of the story isn't very well written). Also, the butt dad joke early in the film is a tad inappropriate for the moment. I would be lying if I said I never felt any tension throughout the entire film, but I don't think I was enjoying it. The story is supposed to be moving, but it isn't usually. Unlike Snow Day, I'm a little confused as to what my exact thoughts are on this movie. I'm not sure about my 5/10 rating, and feel I could give it a slightly higher (meaning just slightly above average) or lower (meaning just slightly below average) rating. However, one thing I can say is that I was not in a good mood at the end the last time I watched it, so I guess it wasn't worth it. If I hadn't been shown the movie at that school assembly, I guess I wouldn't have ever heard of it to this day, which I don't think would have been a bad thing. I've definitely seen better Christmas movies. So, I definitely disagree with those who think this movie is terrible, and maybe it's popular with kids (if so, it deserves some credit for that), but I can pretty much see why it's widely considered to be another cheesy family movie. "},{"Title":"Short comment","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Absolutely nothing else on TV that night, so I watched Jack Frost.  I won't watch it again because once was definitely enough for me as a middle-aged adult, and more importantly because I can't get past one particular scene. It was too annoying that the wife takes a pan that is catching water dripping from the pipe under the sink and then empties it right back into the sink that is leaking. Not for me.  "}{"Title":"Honestley","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I wouldnt ever watch a film like this, but there was nothing else to watch so i watched it, and i am soo glad that i did. This is a film that has a very dodgey plot, but it is held up by the supreme might and skill of the actors. The boy, Joseph Cross almost single handedly kept this film going with Keaton just giving it that little push that made it all fit together, and hey, everyone is saying that the animation sucked, but i thought that it was good, not brilliant, but good, and after all, there has been much worse, jaws three anyone? "},{"Title":"what the?","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I don't quite know what to make of this one. The snowman special effects aren't very convincing, and the whole movie seems extremely dull. Michael Keaton gave up Batman movies for the likes of this? Little kids should enjoy it, but the story is weak. It's not necessarily stupid, just really weird. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Great Film To 'Chill-out' to!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Ok it seems a little bit of a cliche - a father never has time for his kid and so he comes back as a snowman to make everything alright. But kids will love this movie. I loved it when I saw it when I was 16. There's something for everyone and it's a light-hearted, bright and colourful movie with lots going on to enjoy throughout. It is a film that really sets the Christmas mood and it's great film to chill out to! Everyone will find something funny in it. I really enjoyed it and gave it a 6 out of 10. Just relax and watch this incredibly fun and light-hearted movie. "},{"Title":"Michael Keaton's wrong role","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie was good, but the father needed to be played by someone like I don't know, not Michael Keaton, Batman-snowman, what's the connection? Kelly Preston was okay, she took this role pretty well. I  almost cried, honestly, but there were some lame exuses in this movie like a harmonica that contact the dead, impossible. I thought it was good though. I don't think this was a bad movie, I just thought it wasn't the right role for Keaton.  "},{"Title":"Derivative Christmas picture","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" You've seen the plot millions of times in other films, Jack Frost wins nothing in the originality category.The story set-up is typical, cliche, derivative etc etc. The son is letdown by his father; father dies; father comes back to earth as a snowman!!!! Oh, I forgot the ludricous bully.Snowman bit is original-ish. The film has no goals to achieve, there is nothing in the film, and by the end, you realise that the film shouldn't have been made. The screenplay was pretty bad, the characters had nothing to do, what was the point, Mr director?The performances saved the film from being an utter disaster. Kelly Preston was nice, so was Mark Addy. Shame they had nothing to get their teeth into. Keaton was okay, but he was so wasted.The film's technical wizardry worked sometimes, the cinematography was good, quite liked the sets, even though they looked like, er, sets.Bad screenplay, the entire film fell apart. I say it again, if the foundation is rocky, the rest will fall. "},{"Title":"This is NOT what Christmas was supposed to be about!!!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I wouldn't imagine it being much fun being the rhythm section of The Jack Frost Band - and not just because your founder is a dead snowman. Additionally, there are no speaking parts, no solos and not even much rhythm. But they are the ones who got off easy.After dying in a car-crash, Jack Frost (Michael Keaton) is reincarnated as a snowman, so to reconcile with his son. He saves him from a perilous snowball fight, but their newfound happiness is threatened when dad starts to melt. Yes. The premise is so idiotic, it's a wonder anybody had the know-how to write the title, let alone a whole script.JACK FROST is all about bad mechanics. The plot is derivative and contrived. You can see why the Frost Band are hot property (no pun intended). Anybody who can get rock crowds to dig Christmas jingles have definite mainstream potential.After the human J.F dies, a new, altogether uglier side to the film emerges. The snowman looks evil and sinister, but blood is thicker than water. The kid tells a bully, with pride `he is my father' and we're in bad movie heaven.    Has Michael Keaton lost touch with reality? Yes, much like Kelly Preston, who accepts a call from her dead husband with aplomb. Much like Mark (THE FULL MONTY) Addy, who cried when he saw the finished product - apparently because it hit a chord, not because it hurt.  "},{"Title":"The greatest premise for a movie ever!","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  At first look, this dead father turned snowman movie looked quite frightening. Instead, it is drop-dead hilarious! Especially when the mother cries hearing her ex-husband/snowman on the phone. This is some rich humor! If you want to see the original version, rent Jack Frost (1997). It's rated R, so it's not for the kiddies, but it's just as funny! This was the greatest premise for a movie ever! Who hasn't wanted their dead fathers to turn into snowmen? I wanted that every Christmas. Seriously, that's a frightening thought. "},{"Title":"Slushy","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie seems to be the same kind of theme for most movies of this genre. Kid loses one of his parents and is depressed (as to be expected). Then a magical thing happens and his fathers back. They have fun and catch up on things then he leaves. It's been done so many times. Good effort all round though. "},{"Title":"Okay for the kids.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Well the kids loved it! But I`m afraid I didn`t. The effects were simply awful, the jokes on the whole were`nt funny and it was just plain silly. I did find the end of the film very moving -it actually brought a tear to my eye - which boosted the film up from a four to a five in my book, but all in all not too good, but okay for the kids.  "},{"Title":"Jack Frost is a bad movie","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I don't need to say anything else, Jack Frost is a bad movie. It is not good, not interesting, not funny, not fun, its just not a good movie. Michael Keaton was great as Batman and Mr. MOM, but as a snowman he snowballs.I feel very sorry for the people who made this film, i'm sure they worked very hard, but what they have created is a big piece of a Bad movie (i wanted to use other words to express my feelings, but i am not allowed). "}{"Title":"More often than not, a waste of time. ** out of ****","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  After Jack Frost died in an auto mobile accident one year prior to this time, Charlie, his son, builds a snowman once again. Watching his own neighbors play in the snow with their fathers put a tear on his cheek.  As he piled the snowballs on top of each other, he made sure that the head wasn't too big, for he and his dad always used to fight about that issue. So when he was finally finished, he took the harmonica from his pocket that his father gave to him before he died, and put it into the snowman's mouth, that he named after his dad; Jack Frost.As the days went on, and got closer to Christmas, the snowman seemed to move closer and closer to Charlie's bedroom window. One day when he got up, Charlie found a harmonica next to his bed. It looked just like the one his dad gave to him, which is out on the snowman, right? When the boy went out to check, mysteriously, it was missing. He thought that the punk of the street was playing a cruel trick on him, but somewhere in his heart, he had a weird feeling about the relationship of this snowman and his father's death, which happened at Christmas time last year&#133; itPretty good story telling, isn't it. It's just too bad, in fact, that it really isn't what Jack Frost, the new film starring Michael Keaton, is all about. As a madder of fact, I made the above plot up right from the top of my head, which is much more intriguing than anything in this movie. Instead of implying, and leaving room for imagination, like my story  did, Jack Frost smacked the magical story in your face making this potentially great flick into some bizarre screwball comedy, that is completely uninspiring and non-relevant. Sad to say that I have a more creative imagination than these experienced film-writers.What the film is really about his a boy who misses his dad, who got into a car accident one year prior to this point, they got that part right. The boy's name is Charlie, and he builds a snowman out of snow, duh, that comes to life that same night and scare the @#;* out of Charlie. But the soon become good friends, and dodge school punk's (There is a scene involving a snow hill chase between Jack and Charlie, on a toboggan, and the punks on snow-boards, where the filmmakers try to make this into one of those exiting car chases in action movies. The punks throw snowballs instead of bullets. The scene is so stupid I laughed out loud, not because of funniness, because of stupidity.) along with avoiding his mother and friends, and melting temperatures.The snowman itself is really a piece of work. I liked the way his body could come apart and the way he could shoot snowballs from his hands and so on. But the problem is that this type of humor only entertains the audience for so long. In this case, about twenty minutes. By the end of the movie I wasn't sure whether I wanted to laugh or go outside and play in the snow. "},{"Title":"You're better off with the horror version","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can only hope that the makers of Jack Frost, the sometimes funny and very entertaining cheesy horror movie which used the title 2 years ago, can somehow sue the makers of this dull and lifeless film for copyright infringement.  Unless you're stuck with a 4-year-old who HAS to go to the movies and has already seen every other so-called family movie, then don't waste your time.The story in the new Jack Frost, in addition to being boring, contains nothing original (yes, even the person stuck in a snowman's body was ripped off directly from the original Jack Frost), and the effects of the living snowman are so dull by today's standards that they do nothing for sustaining any interest at all in older viewers (even younger viewers won't care that much, really).So, if you have no little kids relying on you for entertainment and you just have to see a living snowman, save yourself 3 or 4 bucks, support lesser-known and harder-working filmmakers, and just go rent the original Jack Frost.   "},{"Title":"THAT's suppose to be a snowman?!","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost is one of the most stupidest Christmas movies since Santa Claus Conquers the Martians and Home Alone 4. For the love of Nayru, this movie is so awkward that this makes the Scooby Doo movie look like Monty Python's Holy Grail! Let's find out what's wrong with this movie, shall we? First, the special effects. This movie has suffered the same problem as Wizards of Waverly Place having terrible and bland special effects. Second, the acting. Jiminy crickets, the acting is so bad I kept thinking that the cameraman left the camera on while the actors ramble on about something absolutely pointless. Third, I don't see how anyone can find some parts funny. An example of this is when Jack Frost and his kid are sliding down the hill and a bunch of kids are either falling to their deaths, or even get crushed, CRUSHED, by a snowball the size of the boulder from Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark! Jiminy Crickets! I'm surprised the director isn't charged with murder! This isn't Monty Python's Flying Circus, this is Jack Freaking Frost! Finally, the snowman. Oh, if only there is a Great Fairy Fountain so that a Great Fairy of Magic can give me the power of Din's Fire to melt that snowman! That snowman looks so hideous, so ugly, and so grotesque that he makes the Garbage Pail Kids and Howard the Duck look like the Muppets! Oh, should I mention that Jack Frost sings the idiotic rock and roll version of Frosty the Snowman? What's next, One Direction singing Holly Jolly Christmas or Justin Beiber singing Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer?! Bottom Line Terrible special effects, 1st degree murder, Kindergarten-like choreography, the ugly-ass snowman, and the vile rock and roll version of Frosty the Snowman are the biggest reasons why I hate Jack Frost with a passion! If you excuse me, I got to go find a Great Fairy Fountain. "},{"Title":"Overly sentimental, corny and superficial but my main issue is that it is misjudged and quite tasteless","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Jack Frost is a loving father and husband but his aspirations to be a rock star mean he spends much of his time focused on that rather than his family. Promises are broken and son Charlie is hurt too often. It is Christmas when Jack is rushing home to his family and killed in a car accident. One year later and Charlie's pain seems like it will never go away and all aspects of his life is suffering. When the spirit of his father returns that next Christmas, Charlie is perhaps understandably freaked out to find that he has taken the form of a snowman. This situation naturally has its own challenges but it is fair to say that a snow dad is better than no dad.Aside from the wonderfully bad tag line that I have just alluded to, I must admit that I had never seen this film for myself and had just accepted that it was bad based on what others had said. So in a combination of OCD and fair-play, I decided to check it out for myself. What I found was not so much terrible (although it is bad) but more terribly misjudged. I have no problem with emotions being delivered within a fantasy film and in fairness at its heart, Jack Frost could have been a moving and touching story about the importance of love, life and making the most of what is important. However it totally undercuts what could have been moving by being horribly cute and superficial in every regard.Death is sanitised, the humour is knockabout, the emotional content is sentimental and the characters are not even good enough to fit into a soap opera. All of these things combine to form a film that is never more than easy corn that will probably only move those that find the mass produced sentiment of greeting cards to be genuinely touching. It is a real shame but such is the way with mass produced melodramas such as these &#150; plenty of superficial family weepies clutter the daytime schedules so why is Jack Frost picked on? Well again it comes down to the judgement of the film and the way it deals with death and loss in such a cavalier fashion. But then again, it also doesn't help that the snowman is such a deeply disturbing character who looks more like he would be a thing of nightmares than a loving figure to warm the hearts of the audience.Providing the voice for this monster, Keaton can do little more than take his money and buy something nice for himself. His voicework sounds like a man with no idea of what to do and remote from any emotional content. That said he is not much better in person and can only churn out an obvious wannabe rocker character. Preston fawns or worries as the scene requires while Cross is a good example of why any good child performance in a film these days gets a mention &#150; ie he is cute and annoying without a hint of realism to his performance. Addy might have figured this film as his break into the US but he can do nothing with what is handed to him.Overall then an obvious, sentimental, corny and annoying family film that, in this regard, is not any worse than many similar films that clutter the daytime TV schedules. However what makes it feel worse is how tacky, cheap and misjudged it all feels, with the nightmarish snowman effect just being the most obvious example. "},{"Title":"Tries far too hard to be clever","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I watched this film thinking that it was the half-cooked horror flick of the same name about a serial killing snowman(yeah, I know, but it's one of those films where you just *have* to see it, just to find out if it's really as bad as it sounds). While it rather quickly became apparent to me that it wasn't, I decided to keep watching, thinking that it might be better... worth watching. I don't know if it's better, but I wouldn't say that it was worth watching. While there may be a scene or two early on that are somewhat interesting and/or entertaining, but once Jack turns frosty... well, the film really starts to go downhill. Scene after scene of forced sentimentality and 'moving' moments. I'm not against touching films; as I'm writing this, What Makes a Family is on TV, a film I consider to be excellent. I'm just against these phony attempts at providing touching moments. Nothing seems genuine or heart-felt in this film. It's set up to be and played as it, but it just doesn't work. The humor tries way too hard to be clever, and falls flat on its face. Gags and jokes are terribly overplayed. Plot is dull, however original it may be(I honestly haven't bothered to look into that). The pacing is poor, the film barely held my interest for more than a few minutes in a row. The acting is uninspired. The dialog and writing in general is insipid. The whole film is just not very memorable. I recommend it only to huge fans of Michael Keaton, and even those should consider if it's really worth it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Silly and strange frost","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" OK, this is the Keaton comedy-fantasy about a musician dad who gets killed in an automobile crash (that damn snow!) and comes back a year later (at Christmas time, don't you know) inside the snowman just built by his son in front of the house. Ugh, someone must have eaten the wrong mushrooms big time to concoct this vaguely surrealistic, creepy version of a family flic. Snowman-dad saves his kid from a snowball fight (a truly weird flipped-out sequence) and then teaches him the finer points of ice hockey, including the J shot. Huh? A silly, dopey film, almost made pointless except for Preston's nice turn as the mom. She is very attractive and can actually act the part. But she sure can't save this mess. WARNING watching this may make you forever wish to avoid contact with snow. "},{"Title":"It was lame and cheesy, but I think people are way to harsh on this film","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I watched Jack Frost last night and I had my doubts because of all the bad reviews on IMDb. But I didn't think it was that bad. Yeah, it is a little cheesy, and of course very unrealistic. Sometimes that's what you need for a feel good kind of a movie. Over all, the script and acting is a little silly and this a movie more for the family by yourself. But I wouldn't mind seeing this again. It's not really that terrible. I'm serious, just give the movie a shot. Like I said, people are a little too harsh on the film when they just can't admit it makes them feel good afterwards. So, give the movie a shot. Especially around the holidays if you feel like a scrooge.6/10 "},{"Title":"Average Flick","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Overall this movie is slightly below average 4/10Extra Points* Adorable/Sweet Kid... +1* Uplifting story with a good message... +1* Several crude references to Snowman's (Jack Frost's) balls... -1Total Movie Score = 5/10 stars "},{"Title":"Pathetically unconvincing holiday schlock","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I shake my head at the wealth of talent wasted on such a dismal, moronic movie idea. Jack Frost is among one of the most uninteresting holiday films I've ever seen, boasting a senseless premise about an overworked musician trying to juggle the possibility of breaking into the mainstream with songs equivalent to pre-programmed stock music and taking care of his ten year old son and long suffering wife. To start a kids film detailing how a father has neglect his homelife because of a demanding career is about as common as a holiday film opening with a Christmas song.Our title character and father is played by Michael Keaton of all people. If anyone could pull off the inherent but misplaced warmness of Jack Frost, I believe Keaton would be ideal, be he works best when handed a script baring sufficient ideas, which this film greatly lacks. His wife is Gabby (Kelly Preston) and their son is Charlie (Joseph Cross), who are left upset and vulnerable when Jack dies in a car accident on Christmas Day, returning home after he second-guesses his decision to try and meet guys from a record label in favor of family time.Even a year later, as Christmas approaches, young Charlie depressingly recalls his father's ways and longs for him to return. He erects a gigantic, perfectly proportioned snowman in his yard (I guess in memory and to try to keep spirits high) and witnesses the thing come to life after playing a harmonica his dad gave him. Charlie's snowman has now been embodied by his father's spirit, going to spend more time with him and be the father he never was.I've seen far too many movies to not be exposed to films that feature dialog that does nothing but assist in plot progression. But rarely have I seen a film with so much dull, witless, unimportant dialog that does nothing to service the plot or character development. It takes a good forty minutes before the snowman comes to life, and while in many other movies I'd commend it for taking time to develop characters, Jack Frost seems to stall for the sake of stalling, giving us long, tedious dialog between characters, mainly father and son, offering nothing more than tired clichs and draining, tiresome banter.And when we do get the snowman, my god if he's the most uncharismatic, hideous movie creature I've ever seen. For one, animating a snowman can not be an easy task on the special effects artists, and the job done here has proved sufficient. Shortly after coming to life, Jack Frost frequently stumbles, is dismembered by a snow-plow, and other unamusing, childish things that we as the unfortunate audience members are expected to laugh at.This is a loathsome holiday experience that shows nothing but how a third-rate script with a terribly unconvincing movie character can make an attempt to pass for schmaltzy children's fare. There's a wonderfully campy horror film that was released a year before this one with the same title of Jack Frost, centered around a mutant snowman that ran among in a sleepy Midwestern town and it was up to the town sheriff to take Jack down. I keenly remember the film for its unabashedly goofy premise, absurd humor, and persistent puns that always came from its snowman title character. It was fun stuff. Perhaps if Jack Frost took lessons from the killer Jack Frost on the studies of wit and silliness, we'd have a better film on our hands.Starring Michael Keaton (who also voices Jack Frost), Kelly Preston, Joseph Cross, and Mark Addy. Directed by Troy Miller. "},{"Title":"Fro-sty the Snow-man- Wrote a Ve-ry Bad Mo-vie","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Where Did Michael Keaton Go Wrong? First problem with this movie is that Michael Keaton could not sing, maybe he could, but the songs he tried to sing were awful. This comedy is one that falls very short of the lofty goal of a great holiday comedy. Michael Keaton plays a father long estranged from his son because his musical band is constantly on the road. He gets in a car accident and dies. He is reincarnated as a snowman. Well he uses the time to hang with his son in a way he never could before. The movie isn't horrible it just wasn't that good either. The movie is very sappy and really doesn't try to tell a joke really, kind of strange for a movie that claims to be a comedy. I guess that the whole novelty of a live snowman was supposed to be enough to make this movie entertaining but it really wasn't. Michael Keaton is an actor that has done a number of good parts, this is not one of them, I think this part was not good enough for an actor of his caliber. Mark Addy as a member of his band provides marginally good support but to no avail, and Keaton tries so hard to make this movie work, but he just can't. This is one overall to do without. "}{"Title":"This could use a bit of its namesake's snickering gore","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is awful family trash, but it makes for an interesting double bill with the campy 1997 horror film of the same title. Both movies are about Colorado residents named Jack Frost who are killed in auto accidents and then turned into walking, talking snowmen. One, though, is a doting dad while the other is a mass murderer. Someone has to edit these two pictures together into one steaming, gelatinous whole... "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A strained and obvious story isn't elevated at all in this dismal, utterly lifeless family comedy. Keaton is a successful singer who's so good at his job that he spends most of his time on tour, misses out on quality time with his wife, and fails to bond with his neglected young son. He's tragically killed one snowy winter night, and for inexplicable reasons is resurrected in the front yard a year later as his son's snowman. That's pretty much all the story there is in this odd, overblown fantasy as the rest of the film is padded with cheesy snow effects and lame comedy. Delivers a clichd message about family values and is only worth watching during a few lively musical numbers. * "},{"Title":"Easily the worst film of 1998","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Movies like this bad should be illegal.  Michael Keaton is Jack Frost, a small-town blues sensation who, after having died in a car accident, is reincarnated as a snowman, and attempts to reunite with his son.Poorly acted, Frost's son is astonishingly sedate when first he sees the re-incarnation of his father thawing on the porch.  The sight of an animate snowman is not apocryphal to this lad, but he is sceptical that the snowman is his father.  The movie fluctuates so distressfully between some futile reality and utter fantasy, you might find yourself laughing out of sheer boredom.  Henry Rollins represents the only iota of plausibility in this film; when he sees the talking snowman, he goes insane (with comical results).  It is not a spectacular role but the only one founded in reality, because I too would be scared of this snowman.  (It does look pretty sinister.)  Rollins performance is brief and what little entertainment it provides is not enough to salvage this film as tolerable.  This movie is dripping with corny moments, an excruciating snowboard sequence, and tired snow clichs like better snowdad, than NO dad!  Truly awful. "},{"Title":"A slushy mess.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Christmas movies are a little like the little girl with the curl in the nursery rhyme.  When they are good, they are VERY good (and I'm thinking about the original Grinch, A Christmas Story, Nightmare Before Christmas, and so on).  When they are bad, they're basically unwatchable. And not only is Jack Frost a bad Christmas movie, it has also got Jack in the title.  I have a theory that, between this and that unbelievably wrong-headed, practically traumatic Robin Williams movie, any movie named Jack is going to hurt.  Lots.I knew this was going to be a long, hard time the minute I heard Landslide on the soundtrack.  It's during the scene where the kid builds a snowman in his front yard.  In memory of his father.  His father (brace yourselves for a violent heart-string yanking) died on Christmas Eve.Ha ha ha! I practically heard the movie scream at me, are you crying yet?  How about now???Ow.But, no worries!  For dad's going to be brought back to life AS THE SNOWMAN!!!  Yup, the hero of this movie is a talking undead snowman.  I tell ya, the parody value of this movie is off the damn chart.I am going to leave Jack Frost now because I want to keep this review short and there are just too many things about this movie to make fun of.  I do want to know how in the hell Henry Rollins ended up being associated with this thing. "},{"Title":"Letting your child watch this is akin to child abuse","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Who authorized the making of this movie?! I assume that SOMEONE must have read the script and STILL thought the movie was worth making. But how? The movie is a completely depressing and stupid mess. I can't think of a less appealing holiday movie except for the terrible Grinch (2000).So here's the heart-warming (?) plot. A neglectful father is in a rock/blues band. FYI--Michael Keaton's singing was surprisingly good (though this does NOT make up for the rest of the movie). Anyway, he wants to make it big and gets the chance to do an important gig on Christmas Eve. While traveling there, he's in an accident and is killed. I felt it served him right because he was behaving like a selfish jerk but I'm sure that many children were traumatized when this occurred.Later, for no discernible reason, his son's wish to have his dad return results in Keaton being reincarnated as a really creepy looking snowman. This is the second opportunity to traumatize the kids, as he wasn't particularly cute or endearing--just plain creepy.Keaton and his son SOMEHOW manage to renew their love for each other and then Keaton melts---providing a third opportunity to induce childhood trauma in our kids.That's it. Nothing fun, nothing cuddly, and nothing worth wasting your time seeing. It's just depressing and banal. "},{"Title":"Frost-Bite.","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Michael Keaton stars as a struggling musician who spends more time with his band than with his family.  He dies in a car accident one winter evening and then returns one year later in the form of a snowman.  JACK FROST isn't really a terrible movie; it actually starts out as a good, touching family flick, right up to when the snowman comes to life.  That's when the film plunges downward, with weak special effects and a predictable story that does not allow the film to take off.  Kelly Preston is the film's only attraction; she gives a likeable performance and saves the film from being an utter mess.  Still a disappointment, though.2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Junk. Really.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  A snowman. Wow. Even a mobile one. He can talk and unplug his arms. I am impressed. I am sorry to say, but to see films of that kind go into production, I get very confident about selling a script myself one day. It does not seem to be that hard! Now I can understand why Michael Keaton does not give interviews on this film. (This is a rumour) Everybody who ever saw a real snowflake once will leave the theatre in panic after this. Foam Opera would be more appropriate here. And the other special effects are even worse! Really Save your money, don't see it! And kids Better try this at home!  "},{"Title":"A little confusion...","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I fear that most people are confusing this title with one that came out a couple years ago.  The one from years past is about a killer snowman, and the tape has one of those holographic covers that switches back and forth between happy and vicious snowmen.  This one is about a father(Keaton) who dies, but comes back as a snowman to have one last shot to make things right with his family.  I would hate to see this movie with Keaton and Mark Addy (Full Monty) to have its excellent acting pool missed because it was confused with a cheesy title that was straight to video. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Ridiculous","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  The main problem with Jack Frost is that it is a movie that revels in its own stupidity. The movie's script loves to make jokes about the fact that the main character has become, of all things, a snowman. Nobody in the movie thinks. Everyone is an idiot, and the myriad of idiotic comments (more stupider) just bear that fact out. It's not even entertaining - Jack Frost gets extremely tedious and boring soon after the transformation takes place (which is supposed to be where the fun starts, apparently).What's even worse is that the snowman here, which occupies a disturbingly large chunk of screen time, is not cute, or funny, or loaded with personality. This animatronic monstrosity is actually pretty creepy to look at. The sight of the snowman snowboarding (he is, like all the other 12-year old kids here, are capable of going down the slopes with skill worthy of the Winter Olympics), or playing hockey is enough to make one laugh out loud - but it's not because the situation is funny, or because the dialog is sharp. It's because the entire movie is so ludicrous to look at and watch.Everything about this movie just reeks of the word dumb. It has every cliche known to film. In fact, it's strange - this is a movie with a mildly interesting premise, but its execution is so devoid of imagination that it's not even funny. This is even more incredible when you realize that there were no less than FOUR writers working on the script.For a kid's movie, Jack Frost also has a surprising amount of  low-brow jokes, all of which are completely tacky and devoid of taste. It's hard to fathom exactly why the filmmakers decided to leave this stuff in, as it's not even funny. If they were trying to make it appeal to adults with a different layer of humor (like what Chicken Run did so well), they did, in fact, accomplish something completely different - they managed to turn  a dumb movie into one that is insulting at times (they wanted me to laugh at this?).In short, Jack Frost is a movie that is cliched, boring, unfunny, and just plain ridiculous - suspension of disbelief has no place here in Jack Frost, because words cannot express how dumb this movie ended up turning out. "}]