[{"Title":"Fantastic comedy","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. Even though I had never heard of any of the lead actors, except of course for William Shatner, I thought they did an incredible job of portraying their characters. Intellectual, devoted, neurotic, and erotic are just a few of the qualities they were asked to convey. And William Shatner is a revelation revealing that his hopes, dreams, and fears are closer to those of his committed fans than they could ever have imagined. Since I have seen most of the Star Trek episodes and movies and the other films alluded to by the characters, I was able to appreciate all the wonderful in-jokes. I highly recommend this hilarious film even if you are not a Star Trek fan, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Giddy, goofy fun","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Free Enterprise is so giddily goofy in its charm and appeal that you just can't help but love it.  The plotline concerns the trials and tribulations of two friends, bonded together by science fiction and Star Trek inparticular, having a chance meeting with their idol; William Shatner.  This chance meeting develops into a business relationship for one and a friendship for the other.  Eric McCormack (TV's Will and Grace) stars as Mark, the slightly older and far and away more mature of the two friends.  He will be 30 in a couple days and is having panicked Logan's Run flashbacks in his head as he wonders what his life had been worth so far.  Mr. McCormack plays this role so well, the I'm better than you attitude just drips off the screen. Rafer Weigel is Robert, the other half of this friendship tandem.  He is more damn the torpedoes and lives life by a thread.  Losing girlfriend after girlfriend because a rare collectible action figure is more important than rent or utilities, his character is constantly falling in and out of love.  Nice role here as well, played with almost maddening indifference. You get the impression that's the way this guy is in reality as well.  All that means of course, is that he really sold the part. William Shatner is himself, clearly poking holes in his Star Trek facade.  Shatner reveals himself to be a heavy drinking, porn reading but sincere guy.  He plans to do a musical production of Julius Caesar with himself playing all the parts.  The ending sequence concerns this,and has to be seen to be truly appreciated.Several faces from the past dot the background, Deborah Van Valkenburg (The Warriors, Too Close For Comfort), Ellie Cornell (Halloween 4 & 5).  Nice to see Ellie is still acting.  I liked her Halloween performances.Free Enterprise shows that indie films have a life beyond My Life As a Bar of Soap.  That indie filmmakers have a wonderful sense of humor and direction, and that they can churn out mass-pleasing films.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Clever, Funny and a Little Too Close to Home....","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had a different idea of what this movie was about when I chose to watch this.  I thought it would parody Star Trek, sci-fi, and William Shatner.  While it covered a vast amount of science fiction trivia, I think this is the kind of movie anybody could enjoy.In watching this, I can see my friends and I being like this as we hit our 30+ marks in a few years, and hey, it looks like the best is yet to come.  It goes to show that fan boys have real life problems and responsibilities just the same as anyone else.  Of course, there are a few more, er, dedicated to the cause than others....William Shatner was a lot of fun in this movie, and he deserves to get credit for this film.  He lives up to all of the Shatner stereotypes in being larger than life, but he also lets go and enjoys the ride.  I cheered Shatner just for being Shatner, and his Julius Caesar rap is as funny as can be without breaking the tone of the film and entering the camp zone. This is a movie that is more fun for those who get the majority  of the film references, but it doesn't require it.  I'd like to see what else these guys will put out.  For a first film, it's excellent.  "},{"Title":"A light romantic comedy that proves William Shatner can act","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I stumbled across this movie on TV today and was really blown away. Who would have thought of a romantic comedy about two Trekkies(or Trekkers, not sure what the term is these days)? The movie appears to be at least somewhat autobiographical, and the story rings true.Shatner comes through with the performance of a lifetime. His portrayal of himself is vulnerable and believable. His obsession with creating musical version of William Shakespeare's Julius Caeser is hilarious and it's really funny to see Shatner poking fun at himself.All in all, this movie is surprisingly good and although really aimed at sci-fi fans, it is accessible to anyone. I highly recommend this lighthearted film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good and satisfying!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When this movie was in theaters I thought I might watch it because I was a Star Trek Fan, but decided not to put much effort into it because it appeared to be about lonely geeks obsessed with Sci-Fi.I was wrong.  Free Enterprise is a remarkably funny film featuring interesting, respectable characters who are professionals, AND love Star Trek.This movie is for all those guys out there who have girlfriends, who don't dress as Mister Spock, or live in their parents' basement amid tons of old comic books, but are still Star Trek fans.But fans aside, this is a really well crafted comedy.  It's not for kids, but just about anyone else will be able to find something to like in it.  It's a very atypical screwball comedy with a lot of intelligence within it. Whether you're a Sci-Fi fan or a Sci-Fi detractor, it makes no difference.  This is a smart, funny film with something to love.  Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"If you don't get it ... you don't get it","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie spoke to me like no movie has since CLERKS or CHASING AMY. Filled with outright humorous usage of, reference to, and plenty of in-jokes surrounding the entire STAR TREK, STAR WARS, comicbook sub-culture, FREE ENTERPRISE also crafts a well-made movie of love, friendship and dreams coming true. FREE ENTERPRISE is probably not for the chick who'd rather see the latest Julia Roberts romance flick, but absolutely targets the Generation X crowd that is hitting that magical age of 30. FREE ENTERPRISE establishes the fact, and goes on to prove it in case there is any remaining doubt, that there is no one cooler in SF than Captain Kirk. Mark Altman and Robert Burnett, who obviously filled the script with personal experiences, go on to prove that even s/f comicbook movie geeks still have love in the hearts and, with sufficient help from assorted alcoholic beverages and the spiritual guidance of Captain Kirk himself, have the power to change the galaxy... or at least their own personal world. "},{"Title":"Shatner is brilliant, but the rest is just a tedious Nrrdboy fantasy","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Robert Meyer Burnett's `Free Enterprise' is several movies all at once-unfortunately only one of them is interesting.Film #1 The original and witty masterpiece. Two aspiring yet unsuccessful filmmakers run into William Shatner in a Hollywood bookstore. The two pop culture-obsesses slackers have both been Star Trek fanatics since birth and are appropriately awestruck by the realization of their dreams.  They soon find out, however, that the real William Shatner is a pathetic, wacked-out loser who befriends the pair only because he thinks they can help him get backing for his latest film project, a 5-hour musical version of William Shakespeare's `Julius Caesar' in which he will play every role. And, in a very clever plot twist, it is not Captain Kirk who helps the two Trekkie nerds get their lives together, but the other way around. Everyone eventually finds love and fulfillment, and it all ends with William Shatner performing a kickass rap version of Marc Anthony's soliloquy.Film #2 The painful movie. A tedious rip-off of `Swingers' in which two single guys and their friends experience the joys and anguish of dating, mating, growing up, and trying to hang onto their youth, yadda, yadda. ZZZZZZzzzzz.  The twist is that in this version the hip CocktailVegasMoneyBabyHoneyDaddy culture has been replaced with the PopCultureComicBookMovieNerdStarWarsStarTrek fanboy culture.  In fact, if not for this trading of Sinatra for Captain Kirk, the film would border on plagiarism.Film #3 The Fantasy. In which guys who hang out in comic book stores also date myriad gorgeous Hollywood actress-models.Unfortunately for those sucked in by the copy on the video and DVD packaging, the `Film #1' part of `Free Enterprise' only takes up about 10 or 12 total minutes of screen time.Apparently, the people who marketed this film on video and dvd were the only ones involved in this project smart enough to know that the Shatner subplot, `film #1,' was the move that `Free Enterprise' really should be.Obviously the majority of the film's storylines and amusing incidentals should have been relegated to subplots in support of `film #1'-ie, the relationship between the Nrrrds and William Shatner. An hour of Shatner, and maybe twenty minutes with the boys and their love problems, and we would have had a potentially fantastic movie.And I don't want to sound like everything non-Shatner in the film is bad-it's not. It is amusing in spurts, and much better acted than most ultra-low budget flicks. Some of the dialogue is witty, with lots of funny pop culture references for thirty-sumpthin's. There is much goodness for those with a quick remote control finger. But I also have to say that a lot of the dialogue-and I mean a LOT-is dull, repetitious, and amateurishly unnecessary (I mean, really-after the scene in which the boys meet the real William Shatner only to find out he's a pathetic wacko, do we really need to hear this kind of dialogue in the following scene `Hey, I get fired from my job, my girlfriend bails on me, I finally meet my childhood hero Captain Kirk, and he turns out to be a pathetic wacko! I can't believe my life!' This kind of sub-sitcom yak should have been left for the trailer.).  Then again, the sight and sound of the William Shatner rapping Shakespeare while a crew of homies gits jiggy wit it behind him honestly is the height of brilliance. A lot can be forgiven for the filmmakers who made that happen.So, someone in the biz needs to make Robert Meyer Burnett rich by purchasing the remake rights to `Free Enterprise' before William Shatner dies of old age. Maybe someone will even give Burnett the money to do it himself. But this time they need to go with `film # 1.'  "},{"Title":"Like 'High Fidelity' for SF guys and the people who love them.","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think the average viewer would be left cold by this movie, but forthose who have guys like this in their lives and perhaps have beenthe 'geek'y female in their circle it's pretty cute. Also, Shatner rules.As a chick who has spent part of the rent money on an original 12Boba Fett and spent adolescence keeping the one and onlyCaptain as her personal lord and savior, I totally recommend it. Itsplace in film lore perhaps best belongs on Comedy Central on arainy Sunday afternoon, but sometimes that's enough.I would have liked to seen more (or anything) done with the femalecounterparts of these types of guys - many are not model types likeClaire but are interesting people in their own right. We're out theresearching for these guys while these guys are searching formodels who have our brains and sensitivities. (A wry, ironic, LOLhere.)  "},{"Title":"Viewers are sharply divided, but film is dead-on funny.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Short reviewIt has been my experience that, when any film generates so much reaction and that reaction is so sharply polarized, you simply have to see it for yourself.Longer reviewThe details of this film have been covered elsewhere. But in examining this film, I feel there are still some areas upon which we might expand.1) Free Enterprise is as much about Los Angeles and a particular culture as it is about Star Trek and its fans. LA is simply full of guys just like Mark and Robert -- lower-to-middle level in the film industry, always hoping to get the chance to make the film they've always wanted to. They love film, but are struggling to maintain that affection in the face of the hard realities of the film biz (having seen far too many associates become jaded and bitter.) They hang out in cafes and all-night restaurants, and bars take the place of the living rooms they don't have because their apartments are too small. Most of them have unpublished manuscripts and screenplays, their conversation is dialogue, and they automatically pepper it with pop culture and film references new and old. In the case of Free Enterprise their focus is Star Trek and SF films, but it could just as easily be Hitchcock, James Bond or (for the coming generation) Kevin Smith. This film perfectly captures these guys, a dead-on representation of those living and working in the midst of The Dream Factory. Sure, the folks in the film are prettier than some might expect, but that's show biz -- movies are a glossed-up version of reality.2) Speaking of expectations, much of the reaction to this film seems to orbit around not the film itself, but rather around how folks think the film addresses the stereotype of the Star Trek fan. Which shows that everyone needs to take another look at that stereotype as they hold it. So, Mark and Robert are not the fanboy extremists given such colorful treatment in Trekkies (which came out about the same time as FE, got much wider release, and actually kept some people away from FE because they assumed it was more of the same.) Our boys don't wear Star Fleet uniforms (well, not as adults), they aren't unusually shaped, they date... So some people label the characters as unrealistic. I say, re-examine your own assumptions. Life is a continuum -- people do not always gravitate to extreme poles.3) I have several times seen Robert Burnett and Mark Altman perform in person, and I can assure you that the semi-autobiographical characters in the film are in no way an exaggeration -- they are just as witty off-the-cuff as their characters are in the script, just as reference-saturated, just as opinionated.  Think of the screenplay as excerpts drawn from a constantly-running tape recorder present when they are together with friends the greatest moments. Trust me, the characters in the film are dead on -- these guys talk like that.4) Far from being the poor example of indie production some have labeled it, I feel FE *very* successfully overcomes low-budget considerations. Excellent use of practical lighting, imaginative usage of sets (and re-dressing of sets), and the LA-is-our-whole-world feel all add up to a veritable handbook for the low-budget director. (The excellent commentary track supports how carefully thought out these elements were, especially the discussion of overcoming lens restrictions.)5) FE is also very successful for having overcome a very shaky release, to enjoy new life on DVD. Partly this is due to word-of-mouth, and partly it's due to the excellent usage the producers made of the DVD format. The alternate reference track is great fun, and the commentary track is one of the best out there. I think the longest break in the discussion is 8 seconds -- the rest of the time the guys are falling over each other to reveal details in the rich background they have created. It would be a crime to watch this film without also watching the commentary.6) Many have pointed at the love story as the weakest element in PE, and I must say I agree with reservations. Right off, I'll say that I often feel that love stories are spliced into films -- you can almost hear someone say It won't sell unless there's a love story in it. And there's a bit of that here. But the love story does serve to help us examine the bonds between the guys; their group unity is challenged, their stability threatened.-- POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD --Some folks feel that Claire is too pretty to be a comic book fan -- again, with the stereotypes! -- and that her character is unrealistic. The only main problem I have with the Robert-Claire relationship is when she takes him back, saying, I don't care about all your negatives, I love you because you will risk everything to achieve your dream! (This is the point where my wife and I always turn to each other and chorus, 'Fantasy Alert'!) Well, actually, Robert does not risk everything to achieve his dream of making a movie -- he in fact screws off and gives up and relies on the charity of his friends to keep him afloat, and no sensible Claire would dream of putting up with him. So this bit must be chalked up to Happy Hollywood Ending and the fact that this is Mark & Robert's movie and if they want to indulge in a bit of wish fulfillment then they can do so.My wife and I discovered this film for our friends, and have turned so many people on to it that we could fill a theater. Most folks have been *very* enthusiastic about it (their most common response Why haven't I seen this before?). We have watched it going on 2 dozen times, and it just keeps getting better for us. Partly because we know these guys, these types, know the LA settings and atmosphere. But mostly just because it is a very well made, heartfelt, and entertaining production.I have to say a word here about Shatner. Back to stereotypes, and assumptions... I have to admit that I, like much of the world, had come to believe that William Shatner was egocentric, vain, and condescending to his fans. And in my defense, a case can be made for each of those points. (See Meeting of Minds for some indication of how genuinely clueless he is regarding why his costars might resent him.) But Free Enterprise turned my (our) head around -- Shatner's willingness to lampoon himself shows a whole new side of the man. His admonition to tear me down! (view the commentary track) shows a sincere desire to examine the nature of hero worship and stardom (as does his appearance in the film in the first place), and his it was then I realized that I'm not Captain Kirk monologue is actually quite touching. One comes away with a new respect for the man as an actor, and as a man.I can see why some people might not find Free Enterprise to their taste. But for those who do frequent this kind of restaurant, it is mighty tasty indeed. "},{"Title":"an Absolutely, Positively Brilliant movie for Trekkies","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you aren't a hard core Trek/sci fi fan, you'll be bored to limbo by this film, so don't even bother reading on.  But if you are, there isn't a better fan movie for you than this.  Right from the beginning, the jokes and references fly so fast and furious (from young Mark's flying leg kick and no, I won't kill him! line, straight to the end) that you'll be kept on your toes all the way through.  The writing is very clever for the entire film, including Robert's set-up for the surprise at the end.  The interactions are witty and excellent. And even if you think the jokes get a bit repetitive at some point, that's not all this film has to offer.  You can look it also as a semi-serious autobiography (which it partly is) about two sci fi nerds very much like the rest of us with faults very much like our faults (though played to the extreme) trying to fulfill their dreams; Robert is a brash womanizer, but living too deeply in his fantasy world and irresponsible to the point where he leeches off friends more shamefully than any of us would dare (the scene where he meets Claire a prime example), and chooses to go without telephone or electricity so he can line his shelves with mucho expensive collectors' action figures.  Mark is responsible and loyal to his friends, yet his narcissus complex (he won't even talk to people in his office unless they're sitting down!) and fear prevents him from dating any woman he cares about. While the film is packed with our favorite geek humor, their problems are very real, as are their deeper interactions and how they are affected by them.  Free Enterprise is a wonderful story of friendship, struggle and ultimate achievement that people like us can all very strongly relate and aspire to, with important lessons underneath the jokes. "}{"Title":"LOVED IT","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes,its true,fans of the classicStar Trek will like this more than others and to those others,I'm sorry for you. William Shatner is no one without the series,and is really the issue of the movie.Yes the story revolves around coming of age and getting on with their life of 2 fanboys,but the Shatner hook is that realization and fluition. The scene that does the most for me was a table discussion that raises to the almost super insperational speech that Kirk gives on why there is an Enterprise and they sail aboard her. A truly great reminder of why we fans got hooked on that series so many light years ago. Yes it was a parady,but not all paradys are jokes and if you are into the movie you'll see the context was every bit as compelling as the episode scene it paradies. I am a fan for sure and so to me it was grand and I'm thankful I found this flick "},{"Title":"Shatner - Great; Everything Else - Garbage!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is truly two movies at once. About fifteen minutes of it involve a pair of sci-fi geeks' meetings with their idol William Shatner, who turns out to be quite the wacko indeed. These scenes are hilarious, with Shatner obsessively going on about his plans to produce a one-man musical version of 'Julius Caesar.' The rest of this overlong trudge through the would-be hippest backroads of L.A. is utter tripe. The two main characters are jabbering, rapid-fire bozos who banter endlessly about pop culture and sci-fi in a way no real human being ever has. They don't really have anything to say about any of it -- it's enough to simply say 'X-Men,' nod knowingly and high five one another. Their attempts to find girlfriends who'll put up with their nonsense makes up the bulk of this tiresome, unbearable film. Still, the Shatner stuff is top notch! A hilarious scene from his opus closes the flick on a note that's entirely too high to be justified by the tepid wallow we've just suffered through. Fans of Shat would do well to rent this, but for the love of all that is good, FAST FORWARD past every scene that doesn't feature Bill!!!! You've been warned. "},{"Title":"Very Kevin Smith...","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much when I started watching this movie, but within the first 10 minutes I was very amused.  The dialog was very reminiscent of a Kevin Smith movie with an abundance of inside jokes, pop-culture allusions, and enough quirky trivia to be part of a Dennis Miller routine. The romance angle was a mildly boring but sufferable.  The only thing that bothered me about this film was my own ability to recognize nearly every piece of memorabilia scattered around the background.  What's not to like about a movie that re-enacts a scene from Logan's Run and follows it up with a comment about how they are the only two people who remember the movie.  All-in-all I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to any sci-fi/comic book/pop culture fan. "},{"Title":"bad bad movie","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is a bad, bad movie. it's a geek's dream-land where the quintessential geek somehow becomes a swinging stud drowning in poor writing, poor dialogue and poor acting... the only enjoyable part of this film is william shatner. the man is actually entertaining, and it's almost worth watching this mess just to see his performance.i am amazed at how many people are praising this thing. apparently you can turn a smelly piece of c**p into a shining diamond just by sprinkling, rather, dousing it in quotes from star wars, star trek and any obscure science fiction movie ever made. And the comparison's to kevin smith? this movie is what happens when you try to imitate mr. smith's movies (to the point of finding similar actresses) and failing in a sad, sad way. "},{"Title":"Expect to be disappointed","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong here, I'm not some trek-bashing nerd-hater or whatever, in fact I'm a big movie fan who's a twenty something (supposedly the target audience of this film). Yes I like star trek and thought that this would be at least entertaining in a 'Clerks'-esque fashion. But it wasn't. This is quite possibly the worst movie I have seen. The acting was dreadful, everyone was presumably either miscast or just had no talent whatsoever. The plot had more holes than I cared to count, and yet followed an utterly predictable line that was more suited to some kind of awful kooky romantic comedy. The dialogue seemed utterly fake and was delivered in the most unconvincing style I have seen since an episode of baywatch. Worse still, the main players came across as utterly nasty, self-obsessed horrible people who I would cross to the other side of the street to avoid. Only a few disinterested and somewhat irrelevant scenes involving a totally unbelieveable relationship Bill Shatner strikes up with the 'stars' stopped me from turning off the TV. But those parts did not save the rest of the film which so wanted to be Clerks meets Annie Hall it was embarrassing! All the pop-culture references seemed chucked in at the last minute and never quite credibly fitted into the plastic dialogue. Since this was what the film was resting on I guess it's a monumentally tedious, trite, overlong failure. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Should've worked for me, but didn't...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All movies are good until proven bad.  That doesn't mean I go to see everything, just that I don't walk into something WANTING to hate it.  And I certainly approached 'Free Enterprise' with such optimism.  It seemed poised to fill a gap in my movie library, as well as being something I could identify with...Well, on paper, I should be giving this a 8-10 rating instead of the '3' that I did issue it, myself being one of the mysterious, not-quite-grown-up members of Generation X, but the execution rankled me so much that it became a chore to finish the movie.  And I nearly did finish it, but the rap sequence in the film's final minutes was so bizarrely out of place compared to what the film was apparently trying to be, and I hit FF to watch the credits instead.'Free Enterprise' suffers from inconsistent and sometimes downright hostile characters who I sensed weren't supposed to be thought of as unlikeable, scenes seemingly dropped in from the great void of the universe (and never followed up on), and the requisite pop-culture references that lack the originality and spark that a Kevin Smith, Doug Liman, or Quentin Tarantino brings to the table.  Witness this throwaway exchange that occurs midway in the filmCHAR 1 X-men is such a good comicCHAR 2 RogueCHAR 1 WolverineGenuine fans of this film, forgive me, but I'll stick with the Independent Contractors who died with the second Death Star scene in 'Clerks'.My feeling is that the filmmakers were so close to the source material, (the film is partly auto-biographical), that they just couldn't bear to trim or edit what really did need trimming and editing.  Chalk this one up as a missed opportunity, and the search continues for that elusive 'fanboy/girl' movie.  Maybe I'll slip on my 'Clerks' LD again...  "},{"Title":"Star Trek geeks who can't grow up, and who try our patience.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This hideously long and generally lame comedy/drama revolving around 2 about-to-be 30-somethings spends a lot of time on our two heroes complaining about their lives and obsessing about sci-fi.  Unfortunately, neither of these characters is well-written enough to engage our interest or sympathy, despite the fact that both lead actors are talented.  Eric McCormack plays a guy not too unlike his uptight, insecure but controlling character on Will & Grace (only he play straight here).  William Shatner plays himself and is a welcome sight in many of the scenes, but his Julius Caesar rap song at the end is more appalling than funny.  Talk about going where no man has gone before. "},{"Title":"A dismal failure","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a failure in every way a film can be a failure.  It is neither technically accomplished, well-written, artistic, entertaining in a mainstream sort of way, nor well-directed.It's excrement.  The direction is simply absurd.  Horrible shot choices, terrible lighting, nothing in focus, performances so miserable they ought to be enshrined in some kind of museum for people to study, and the overall pacing of a dead snail nailed to a brick.At nearly 2 hours, I don't think I've ever experienced a movie this bloated and unfunny.Look, I like Star Trek.  A lot.  In fact, I'm a Trekkie.  And I like sci-fi. But that doesn't make me some kind of indiscriminate moron willing to overlook the basic requirements of good filmmaking just because some self-indulgent director throws me a few sci-fi references.  "},{"Title":"I can't say it is the worst movie ever made, but it is the worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In an age of films with pop-culture references, one film stands out as a recipe of what not to do... that film is Free Enterprise.  First, take one part unlikable characters, add 10 cups of inappropriate pop-culture references, add two lengthy stories...mix together then serve. This movie failed on every level.  Not only was this movie poorly made (count the shots with the boom peeking in), but I have never seen such a cast of unlikable characters.  Every character was a carbon copy of each other.   Every one was a sci-fi loving, toy collecting, movie quoting, girl getting, too cool for you, stud.  I have yet to meet one of them let alone an entire cast! I think Free Enterprise was trying to be 'Swingers' meets 'Clerks', but where 'Swingers' were a group of dorky friends pretending to be cool, Free Enterprises cast was portrayed as so cool, everyone else must be dorks for not seeing it. Where as 'Clerks' had an air of a couple of guys hanging out at work talking like friends and for laughs a stranger could chime right on in, Free Enterprise was a place where everyone had the same frame of reference and no one was a stranger. This movie also suffered from being way too long.  I admit, I wasn't able to stay for the entire thing.  I was fed up after an hour, but waited for another 40 minutes just in case the story veered from the main character dating a girl so fake, she made Cameron Diaz in Something About Mary seem real, to the story I was expecting to see, namely Bill Shatner and his one man rendition of Julius Ceasar.(As Han Solo might say,No joke is worth this.) Maybe this movie works for the guys who made it and their 3 friends, but unfortunately this movie was released for public consumption.  With plot points so full of holes you could drive a tank through it(How sweet, you ditched work so we can have some fun...Now you need to grow up!), this movie comes across as a home video which should have been erased a long time ago... In closing I just have a quick question to the makers of Free Enterprise; what is it with so much screen time devoted to waitresses (utterly horrible).  I leave you now for I have already put more time into this than was put into Free Enterprise.  "},{"Title":"This movie is truly awful.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at the Tahoe International Film Festival (1999) after someone there told me to check it out. What a self-indulgent, long-winded piece of work this is. The dialogue tries so hard to be witty and all it does, save for a few very funny lines, is come of stale and unnatural. A perfect example is the scene where The boys sit around a bar and argue over which TV star from their childhood was the hottest babe. Gee, haven't seen that before. It felt like it was 3 hours long. I was shocked to read that it clocks in at about 1 hour 45 min. I have to admit that Shatner was pretty funny though I still wish he had said no to this project as they would then not have been able to make it. The producer/writer spoke afterwards and said that the film had picked up a distributor who was opening it this summer in L.A. and New York before rolling it out to more theaters. What distributor would put up a dime for this thing is beyond me even with Eric McCormack (Will and Grace) and Shatner's performances.  "}{"Title":"A triumph in crappy filmmaking!","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sorry to those who think this thing's an instant classic, but 'Free Enterprise' was terrible.   The only movie I've seen that was worse was 'Dogma.'   Even though William Shatner, like George Carlin in 'Dogma,' gives it a microgram of watchability, this flick was not funny, not interesting, not entertaining, and definitely not worth remembering.I dig Shatner and Star Trek/sci-fi and got most of the desperately hip references, but I just loathed virtually all of the characters.   I didn't care about anything in this movie!   'Master of Disguise' had better dialogue.   'The Ladies Man' had more believable relationships.   And what was with the film editing?   It was like watching a deck of cards being shuffled (badly)... hell, 'Memento' was easier to follow than this celluloid disaster. Not even Shatner's throwaway rap scene at the end could save the stinker that is 'Free Enterprise.'   I was half-hoping he'd grab a microphone and repeat his famous Get a life skit from SNL, instead saying Get a tub of cyanide and drink deeply.Shame, they took a good idea and drowned it in a bottomless pit of a screenplay.   I hope the kids that made 'Free Enterprise' grow up someday and make a real movie.   (I see they're making a sequel to this, 6 years later.   I guess they had nothing much else going on...)  "},{"Title":"Not great = not bad.  Shatner steals the show!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Over all this film is OK.  I wish it were better, but you can't always get what you wish for.PLOT  While there are various sub-plots running around inside this film, I think I can safely say the true main plot is your traditional  Boy Meets GirlI didn't have high hopes for Free Enterprise, so I was happily amused with it.  There were a few funny scenes and the ending is very entertaining.  Acting is over all fair to good, direction seems fine.  I'd say the main plot is the weakest point of this movie.  The high points by far are the Shatner scenes.If not for Shatner, this movie would stink.Writing & Plot 5/10    Acting & Direction 7/10    Shatner 10+/10 "},{"Title":"Great Stupid Movie","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film and would recommend it to anyone in the mood for a funny/stupid movie.  William Shatner was great as himself, a larger than life past middle aged self styled poet.  He is truly the Captain for the common man.There is not very much substance to the movie but I really enjoyed the wierdness and nerdiness of it.  It is a good laugh but nothing to take very seriously, except of course for Bill's one man performance of Ceasar, which I thought was just about as much Bill as any one can handle -) "},{"Title":"Movie reference mania - all movie geeks should see it","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I saw this one on cable. Free Enterprise is about a bunch of thirty year old movie geeks in L.A. If you can catch all the movie reference jokes, you are a Movie God. I think I caught most of them. My romantic life has been like a Fellini movie...8 1/2 weeks.  If that joke makes any sense to you, you need to see this flick. When the guys were hanging out and basking in their pop culture omnipotence, I had a good time. All the scenes with Shatner were great too. But there is a good portion of the flick taken up by relationship problems. The guys turn on each other when a fantasy girl drops from heaven, (she reads Sandman!), and steals one of the geeks away. Best friends analyze each other and explain why they're still single. Why can't you commit?! I was waiting for the guy with the glasses to charge his friend a bill for psychiatric services rendered. These scenes were annoying. But thankfully they don't take up a majority of the movie.This movie will be best appreciated by thirty year old sci-fi movie geeks. If you are in that category, you should check out this flick. "},{"Title":"The part of Me will be played by Thomas Gibson","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why I enjoyed this film so much. Perhaps that it just...oh I don't know...reminds me of ME! That's really it. I can take each character and assign them to one of my own friends and myself. Which is the point, I assume. It was made by fans of the whole popculturescifi genres for fans of said genres. And the film does not even fit into those genres' stereotypes. So all in all, I like it because I can relate to it and for William Shatner's overly-excellent performance as William Shatner. Definitely not for everyone but for who it's for it's perfect. "},{"Title":"The High Fidelity for the sci-fi set","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's no wonder this movie isn't more popular than it is. The title doesn't really say anything about the characters or plot, and the summary on the box may as well have been setting up a whole different movie. Remember the Bill Shatner who told Trekkies on SNL to Get a Life!? That's who's in this movie, only he really takes the self-parody to a new level with his idea for a one-man Julius Caesar. And don't turn it off when the credits start to roll or you'll miss some of the funniest bits in the film. "},{"Title":"Never cared for Bill Shatner until...","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a treat. Finally William Shatner does what everyone else has-lampoon and poke fun at himself. If you like his Priceline commercials and understand them, you will love Free Enterprise!  In my opinion, William Shatner comes of age in this movie. "},{"Title":"Wish Fulfillment for Real Geeks","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a geek, I've known geeks...and the guys in this movie are no geeks!  Enough Lloyd Bentsen Free Enterprise is...welll, okay. It's pretty much a standard romance, but it's presumably either some kind of wish fulfillment for the sad pathetic people (including me!) that are this obsessive about sci-fi, or it is filtered through your typical Hollywood execs' view so that the sci-fi fans are inevitably handsome leading-men and women types who have sex regularly.  Ummm, huh?  William Shatner is certainly funny parodying himself, there are a few sharp insights into sci-fi fandom, and there are bits of inspired humor (the childhood flashbacks, the whole idea of a Julius Caesar musical). But ultimately the movie bogs down on the lives of these two lovable loser/sf fans that are way too normal for most sf fans to identify with, and too monomanically obsessive with sf trivia for a regular audience to catch on to. "},{"Title":"Shatner rapping is worth the price of admission!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The title of this movie got me interested and then I saw William Shatner was in it.  I just had to see it.  The endless references to Star Trek and the appearance of Shatner himself are delightful to those of us who grew up with the series.  It is a romantic comedy as well as (apparently) a biopic of the two main characters.  Flavor it with the Hollywood scene and the Sci-fi backdrop and I was hooked.  The final scene includes a performance by Shatner you're not soon to forget!  Good to rent or own.  Love long and party! "},{"Title":"Swingers Recast with Trekkies","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film suggests Swingers if the characters in that film had been obsessed Star Trek fans. In fact there is actually a holdover from Swingers--Patrick Van Horn (who played Sue in that vastly superior movie). This film has a few big laughs in it, but in the final analysis it doesn't really work. It is overlong by about a half hour (total running time an astounding 116 min.), you never really buy the two leads as the losers they're supposed to be portraying, and the sci-fi references mostly come off as forced. William Shatner's presence is amusing, but why does he eventually become a burden on the two leads?! They worship him, but they erase his answering machine messages! It isn't consistent. The actor who portrays Rob resembles a black-hair-dyed Kato Kaelin. The post-three-way sex scene was pretty damned disturbing and not quite the kind of experience many true Trekkies have ever experienced. Daniel Schweiger (Schweiger) is going to be a star. Mark my words. "}{"Title":"You gotta see this flick","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful blend of humor and sex.  Shatner's outrageous,hamming it up, spoofing himself...and loving it.  His rap at theend of the film NEEDS to be seen, heard, and studied by futuregenerations.  The in-jokes about Hollywood are top notch stufffrom longtime SciFi guru, and first-time writer/director, RobertMeyer Burnett.  Rumor has it, Tarantino saw the film at the '98Hawaii film fest, and cornered Burnett at a party, quoting backhis favorite lines from the movie...how bizarre, how biz "},{"Title":"Not a Gen-Xer but liked movie","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I discovered this movie on TV late at night, and wound up staying up later than I'd planned to watch the whole thing. Then I TiVo'ed it so I could watch it again.Now for the kicker -- I am a 58 yo female.I'm a trekker, who is old enough to have watched the original series when it aired for the first time. I'm a fan of a lot of sf movies, and of classic films. I'm also married, have kids (who I've turned on to ST, as well as British sf like Blake's 7, Red Dwarf, Dr. Who, and Hitchhiker's Guide -- the original TV series and the books), am a professional who is not involved in IT or any hard science.IOW, I am not in any demographic that should like Free Enterprise, but not only did I like it (and get it), but I plan to recommend it to others, including my kids. "},{"Title":"Shatner's at his best...","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Every time I ask someone if they've seen this movie, they say  ''Ah, it's a Star Trek/Shatner thing!'' But it's not! This movie is very good. It's the story of guys in their late 20's coming into their adulthood. Dealing with every day normal (or geeky normal) experiences we all go through. From a threesome (!?) to having no electricity because you have overdue payments, to finding the woman of your life and loosing her. Shatner is the added bonus to this wonderful flick. After is inflated-ego trip, he now learns to laugh at himself and makes us laugh in the process. This movie reconciled me with ''Bill''. An unforgettable performance by Will & Grace's Eric McCormak of a William Shatner's speech from Star Trek (or a mixed interpretation of one!) Top 10 on my list! Go see it now... "},{"Title":"Slightly Funny and Mildly Sexist","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Okay... Some funny bits. Some funny character stuff about the nature of being a non-stereotypical geek. The actors feel flat and there isn't much really going on in the movie....but please.Talk about sexist. You're telling me that guys like that who've spent their entire lives hanging in comic book shops, conventions, toys stores has NEVER ONCE RAN INTO ANOTHER FEMALE SCI FI GEEK! Oh! Until that magical day where he FINALLY DOES.Yeah, okay, we're not all supermodels and have obnoxious breathy voices like that chick did. But hey, all the males ain't as attractive as those dudes were....But please. A large majority of my friends are geeks exactly like those guys were and a large majority of them are females. You go to opening night of Ep3 you are going to find a lot of women there... and no some of us will not be there because our boyfriends make us.This movie just perpetuates the great myth. Women only care about shoes, they don't get Star Trek and comics OH! Except for one! Only one! But they never meet any others. "},{"Title":"Fun, Funny, but a little unrealistic","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie. It's quite funny ( my favorite actor being Eric McCormicks character of Mark...even though he seems to be playing a straight version of Will of Will and Grace), I do admit this film does have its problems. While the refrences are fun...they seemed very forced when the actors are saying it. They are saying the references, it doesn't seem like they really believe they are in to the crap we geeks are into. Next...Audie England. First, I like her in this movie. She was very likeable, realistic and she has a down to earth, real easy going feel to her. My problem with her character? There is NOOO WAY a girl that looks like here can be into the stuff she's into. If there is, I must find her...until then, she seems to be more like a geeks pipe dream girlfriend. Its a flawed movie, but for sci-fi, comic book, movie, star trek, star wars geeks....this is your romanitc comedy. "},{"Title":"Real, very real.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie had me cracking up from start. I get the feeling that the creators consider this more homage than parody. I certainly feel that way. Sure, it's satirical, but the fact that the satire hits so close to home is what makes this movie so good. "},{"Title":"William Shatner is Terrific","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A Look at the increasing phenomenon of the TV generation.  Young adults who as children watched so much TV that they now live their whole lives around their favorite old TV shows.  They act like their gospel and endlessly quote even the most trivial facts about them.  The main emphasis seems to be with the old STAR TREK show, which if you saw the documentary TREKKIES isn't that far from reality. Opens with a  funny scene where one of them is trying to pitch a really twisted, 70's nostalgia idea called The Brady Killers. Unfortunately after this it takes a turn for the worst becoming just another philosophical generation X movie. Filled with long talks about life, friendship, jobs, sex, and relationships. It almost completely collapses into a serious romantic flick  with a pretty sunset and soft Michael (SUMMER OF 42) Legrand like piano chords. Fortunately it manages to revive itself by having a nice wrap up.  Showing how although their obsession to TV pop culture can at times be a social impediment, it can also help them work thru (and get thru) life's obstacles and disappointments. The best thing about this picture though is William Shatner who is funny and engaging in absolutely every scene he's in.  Whether it's talking madly about making a musical version of Julius Ceaser with himself in every role or drunkinly stumbling over other patrons at a bar. He's fresh, fun, with just the right touch of self depreciating humor. He also allows for added insight by showing how celebrities, even 'idols' by some, must deal with the same problems as the 'ordinary' person.  Overall a OK 'feel good' movie despite a sluggish middle.  Be sure to read the credits at the end as they are interspersed with a lot of 'crazy credits'. "},{"Title":"A Must-See for any Star Trek Fan (or Fanatic)","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was lucky enough to stumble across this movie in my local video store. The VHS copy that I rented not only contained the movie but also a commercial spot, theatrical trailer, and interviews and other neat stuff. If you're a Sci-fi fan and/or a Star Trek fan (especially the original series) you absolutely must watch this movie. Bill Shatner is postively funny and a good sport at spoofing his persona as Capt Kirk. Read other reviews if you must but I highly recommend this flick if you enjoy the blending of Sci-fi and comedy. "},{"Title":"What is Shatner doing in this movie?","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off, it's too long. The thing goes on for two hours and yet there is no plot. It goes nowhere. These two nerds meet Shatner in a bookstore and...? And nothing. Nothing happens. Shatner practically disappears for the rest of the movie.And the dialogue is terrible. The characters don't talk to each other. They just spout monologues that aren't connected with anything. It's like they listed a bunch of pop-culture references, then tried to work them into the scene somehow regardless of relevance. But it really doesn't matter. They don't have original voices anyway. Every character is the same.It's like a self-indulgent student film. The main characters are irritating but portray themselves as cool and misunderstood. They refer to themselves as talented filmmakers. There are flashbacks to episodes in which they receive fellatio or verbally berate a woman and then callously prompt her for sex (wow - so cool). And the love story? The love interest is a beautiful babe who recites titles of unknown comic books. Very believable. And then the girl breaks up with the main character because he can't pay his bills. What?  	 This movie tries to be SWINGERS so badly (and I mean badly). But SWINGERS had interesting characters and interesting situations. There's nothing remotely interesting going on here at all. Plus, the acting is over-the-top. But it's hard not to be when you've got horribly written dialogue like this. All in all, one of the worst things I've ever sat through. Avoid this one like steamy dog doo. "},{"Title":"Real cool","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't even like Star Trek or Sci fi that much and I liked this movie. The characters in the movie aren't only obsessing with Star Trek they're also into cult movies and action figures and stuff. So while Star Trek is the main focus here it's not like it's the only thing that's mentioned. Pretty much everything adolescents are into is touched upon. Seeing a bunch of grown men go into Toys R Us to check out the new action figures in stock was awesome and I'm sure lots of adults who do things like that will enjoy that stuff.The actor who plays Robert reminded me a lot of Jason Lee's performances in the Kevin Smith films. Heck he was so much like him I thought I WAS watching Jason Lee for a minute. Eric McCormack's character was far less interesting he seemed to just whine too much about his age and problems and didn't garner much sympathy from me. All the girlfriends and ex girlfriends in the movie are all very beautiful. Makes you wonder though in real life would these geeks be able to get girls like that.William Shatner, have to mention him, he comes across as a bit of a nut obsessing about getting a project about Julius Ceaser off the ground. It's a good performance none the less though it was funny to see these guys all excited to meet their idol and after they met him he was annoying them too much and he wasn't what they were hoping he'd turn out to be.I'm not totally like the 2 main characters in the movie but I could definately relate to them on some level so anyone who's into sci fi,action figures or cult movies should check this out you'll like it a lot. Even if at the core it is dating/relationship type movie that part of the film is handled real well. I was surprised at how much of it interested me.     "}{"Title":"It's like Swingers for geeks, guest-starring William Shatner","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I got to see Free Enterprise back in the Spring of 1999, as part of the Ohio Sci-Fi Marathon (not even sure such an indie movie would've even played in Ohio). I was immediately a fan of both the film and William Shatner (and this was before I was a Trekkie). The story follows two wannabe filmmakers, both at different crossroads in their lives. Mark (Eric McCormack) is the neurotic magazine editor terrified of his approaching 30 birthday, and Robert the flaky b-movie editor with money problems. Both share intermittent success with women and an undying love for Star Trek. Life takes a drastic change for both after they accidentally bump into William Shatner, and immediately discover that he's not the stalwart Captain for which he's been idolized. Shatner's in the midst of fundraising for a one-man production of Julius Caesar, while also suffering the cold shoulder of women.That's pretty much what there is, in terms of plot. But the movie lives by its reference-laden dialogue and a terrific performance from Shatner himself. If the characters aren't discussing the idiosyncratic details of Star Trek, then they're doing the same for movies. Which was easy for me to appreciate, as I share the same passions (well, at least the movies; Star Trek to a lesser extent). And then there's the occasional reference to comics. It's pretty much a movie about characters obsessed with pop culture (and who can't relate with that?).But for anyone who's never been fond of Shatner, it's a thoroughly charming performance. He's self-deprecating enough to forget about any prior ego stigmas, and you can tell he's getting a kick out of trying to temper the expectations of two die-hard fans. And when he's not on the screen, there's the very cute Audie England. And I'm also of the mind that any movie featuring Phil Lamar is guaranteed to please. Best movie to star William Shatner since Wrath of Khan.7/10 "},{"Title":"The defining metaphor for anyone who's ever been obsessed.","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My husband and I came across this movie 10 years ago and have probably watched it 200 or more times in the last decade. We had no idea what it was about when we bought it and hubby said it couldn't be good since we'd never heard of it. Were we wrong.This movie is the defining metaphor for anyone who's ever been obsessed by anything. We are Trekkers, old movie fans, enjoyers of old-time sci-fi. This movie covered them all. References were thrown around ranging from the Godfather to Touch of Evil, from wine cooler commercials to Apocalypse Now. The stars spoke to each other in movie quotes--something my whole family does all the time--and long to meet the heroes of their childhood. In their case, the hero was Shatner. To say he was not quite what they expected would be an understatement. Shatner seemed to enjoy this self-parodying role, and I have to say I enjoyed the Orion slave girls and Shakespeare rap songs. There IS a plot, but it's the characters who drive this movie and they are real people -- with an element of magic. "},{"Title":"Amateurish garbage","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I new I was in for a treat when the filmmakers themselves announced that this was a cult classic in the opening Star Wars style scroll. Please. Cult classic usually means low quality crap liked by only the people it was directly made for and this mess is no different. The acting for the most part is ham handed and self conscious, the directing is kind of juvenile and the script is incoherent. This is obviously trying very hard to be a Kevin Smith rip off, using the same dialog style and supposed sly references only Trekkie geeks would get, sadly it's not even close to Smith's worst. It is also a blatant take on Swingers with the lovable loser theme and even uses one of the same actors. At points you think it may be getting better and there are even a few giggles here and there but untimely it fails. There is a scene in the diner near the middle that may be one of the worst written I have ever viewed. Also the amazingly real to life situation where poor average looking Star Trek geeks get laid every other day by a new model is just boring. The last scene with Shatner rapping is just ridiculous, in fact the whole self deprecating act he puts on through this snore fest is embarrassing and just like this movie, does not work. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, with caveat","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No doubt about it, this movie is hilarious fun. William Shatner's capacity to make fun of himself something I can't help but appreciate.While it has a lot going for it, it should be noted that at many moments it shows itself as clearly a dude flick. There are many romantic guy-girl scenes where the guy's line is something you can just imagine a real-life guy wishing he had said but not having the balls to. This is interesting in that viewers get a glimpse some male fantasies it's like seeing what guys might think but never say to women. These never-uttered-by-a-real-life-male lines are inevitable followed by scene cuts, so the fantasy female that he is speaking to is conveniently not seen responding. Whatever her response might be, it's definitely not part of the male fantasy being played out here. One example of many one of the heroes, who dates his ex-girlfriend for sex, is out to dinner listening to her droning complaints about her life and finally loses his patience. He bursts out with something like, shut up, stop your whining and let's just go to your apartment have sex. Scene cut.The other examples are similar. See if you can spot them. "},{"Title":"This movie is too cool for me?","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love the idea of this movie Two Star Trek fans/losers actually get into the film industry,sort of As Ancillary editors/aspiring movie directors-in short Half-baked.They live the life. They have hot sex or something. At least they think they do. Their weakness for all kinds of cheezy action-figure toys and comic books actually fills their lives with a kind of Bushido warrior ethic. Or something like that. Arrested development makes them both charming and utterly hopeless as dating/marriage prospects. They deserve to fail. And yet,they muddle through.Who woulda thunk it? They borrow the idea of a father-figure/ghost from Woody Allen's Play It Again Sam, by way of the fat, sad, and relentlessly self-reinventing William Shatner. Captain Bill is reading a porno-mag-the long way- when they literally stumble upon him. Our two young heroes somehow make it to the dreaded age3-0,with their childhood intact, and add a little bit of wisdom to their age.They actually take Bill Shatner under their wings,in his forlorn,shabby state, and re-introduce Bill into the world of romance. Bill finds love, as the flawed person/persona of James T. Kirk.To hate William Shatner is to love him. To love him,likewise. Shatner has escaped all the critics,adroitly.He has won,ultimately,the game of life.This movie is an ode to Bill Shatner,and a fairly good movie,made on the cheap,by two kids with a dream. "},{"Title":"A fun look at Fans and their quirks","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An interesting look into the minds of 2 Star Trek fans. This film shows that Bill Shatner Gets it. He understands the way fans can be and he just rolls along with it. It's hard to believe that there are fans out there who can recite episodes, dialog and air dates, but I've been there. I still remember where I was when I saw the Gorn for the first time, so I can relate to these guys.Audie England is a Dream Come True-type girl. She's also a fan, not crazy, not asexual/non-sexual and very beautiful. There are very few of those around, believe me. I've been here too, but I will keep that to myself. A treat from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"A really hip, charming and flat-out hilarious riot","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Feckless, laid-back and amiable Robert (the very likable Rafer Weigel) and his sarcastic, more grouchy and irritable best buddy Mark (the equally engaging Eric McCormack) are a couple of hardcore Star Trek fans who are both facing their 30th birthdays and the subsequent sense of maturity and responsibility turning 30 entails. Robert and Mark meet their longtime idol William Shatner, who turns out to be a complete flaky and pompous windbag. Moreover, Robert encounters and falls in love with spunky and luscious fellow science fiction buff Claire (the adorable Audie England). Director Robert Meyer Burnett, working from a bright, witty and inspired script he co-wrote with Mark A. Altman, whips up a highly charming, amusing and utterly delightful treat that's rife with knowing pop culture references (the Logan's Run gag is especially funny), snappy dialogue, and a lively, carefree, uplifting tone. Weigel and McCormack share a loose and appealing chemistry which makes the friendship between Robert and Mark both touching and credible. Shatner is an absolute hoot as he sends himself up with lip-smacking aplomb Bill is first seen in a book store checking out a dirty magazine, gets slabbed in the face when he drunkenly attempts to pick up the fetching Marlena (Deborah Van Valkenburgh of The Warriors) in a bar, and heartily belts out the funky rap tune No Tears for Caesar at Mark's gala 30th birthday bash. Nice supporting performances by Patrick Van Horn as the smooth, yet smarmy ladies' man Sean, Phil LaMarr as the moody Eric, Jonathan Slavin as the hopelessly geeky Dan, and Lori Lively as ravishing redhead Leila. Scott Spock's bubbly, frothy, catchy lounge score hits the spot. Charles L. Barbee's polished, sparkling cinematography likewise does the trick. Some of the picture's best and most gut-busting jokes appear in the sidesplitting ending credits. A total blast. "},{"Title":"Free Enterprise;  Referentially dense script, but very rewarding!","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My wife and I like to quote (paraphrase) young Mark in the film, Don't you understand? This is OUR movie! If you're a Trek fan (or just a film geek in general), this movie will have a lot more resonance. But, even for the 'norms' it's still a very perceptive comedy with truly engaging lead performers. It made William Shatner (so wonderfully self-deprecating) a comic star (ala Leslie Nielson). Written from the 'inside' of fandom, it is so dense with film/classic TV/literature references that the original release DVD had a subtitle track just to keep non-geeks clued in. And if you ARE truly one of us, one of us, then it is richly rewarding. Detractors might argue that it's too much of a 'secret handshake' film. That's not entirely invalid; but it could be argued that not every good film is meant to be instantly accessible (SOLARIS, ALPHAVILLE, etc.). Also, it is probably the best 'turning-30' film next to LOGAN'S RUN (which is referenced in a wickedly funny dream sequence). And to address those who complain about the film's use of 'pretty people' to play geeks, here's breaking news; some geeks ARE good looking! And it's a movie; MOST movies use good-looking people! And this cast happened to be very talented and easily conveyed the passion for geek culture that saturates the script (a deft blend of SWINGERS and TREKKIES, with a bit of MY FAVORITE YEAR tossed in). Also refreshing is an indie film that doesn't wallow in death, drugs or racial/sexual intolerance. The film's lighthearted tone is very infectious. And even in the darker scenes (Rob/Claire's breakup, Mark/Rob's 'lover's spat') the humor is always there. For the real film geeks (and if you're on this site, reading this, well...chances are good you KNOW the secret handshake), FREE ENTERPRISE is a like a great, sprawling party at the geek clubhouse; and (almost) everyone's invited. Oh, and the Shatner rap of JULIUS CAESAR has to be seen to be believed (consider yourself warned). Thanks to both real Mark and Rob (Altman and Meyer Burnett, respectively) and the ersatz Mark and Rob(Eric MacCormack and Rafer Weigel). The human(or, in this case, geek) adventure is just beginning! "},{"Title":"Smash Hit!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't mind admitting that I spend a lot of time watching Star Trek and surfing the Internet.  So, when I saw William Shatner's face on the front of this video I felt compelled to rent it out.  I wasn't disappointed.Let me say that this film was like looking into a mirror for 116 minutes. It's exactly like I imagine my life to be.  The characters are good-looking, successful and witty.  Traits which I often fantasise about having.The story revolves around these Star Trek fans and their quest for the ideal relationship, something that myself and millions like me have all imagined doing.  They've had their fare share of attractive girls but none share the passion that they do for Star Trek and comics.  This struck a cord with me because I too find it difficult to find a woman who is both sexually attractive and a big fan of Star Trek and comics.I won't be spoiling anything by saying that eventually they find their dream girls.  We've all imagined finding that one true soul-mate who enjoys Star Trek and yet is also comparable to the types of girls you'd see on the catwalk in Milan, in fact I've written many fan-fics based on that very subject.  Admittedly this film doesn't involve any of the female cast members of Star Trek or Star Trek The Next Generation, but the parallels are clearly there.The acting is superb.  Eric McCormack does an excellent job of portraying a heterosexual man.  Then of course, there's William Shatner.  What can I say? Without him the film would be devoid of the person who played Captain James T. Kirk in Star Trek.  His presence brings to the film a validity that raises this movie from mere fantasy to actual plausible fact.I give this film 2 out of 3 stars.  It would have got 3 stars if there were more references to Star Trek or Star Trek The Next Generation. "},{"Title":"A Niche Movie","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Free Enterprise is the story of a group of guys who are hitting 30 and trying to deal with life, work and relationships. Sounds like every other coming of age/rites of passage drama doesn't it - you're already yawning at the prospect right?Well you shouldn't if you like the Sci-Fi genre, especially Star Trek. The characters are obsessed by the show and constantly talk about it, quote it and collect everything to do with it. When they're not sure what to do in their relationships or jobs - they wonder how Captain Kirk would handle it. When it comes to choosing between paying the electricity bill or buying a classic action figure, they opt for the doll. Women leave them and they get fired - suffice it to say they're not happy with their lives.In the middle of all this, they meet Bill Shatner in a bookstore. To say that they're excited is an understatement and when he offers them the chance to help him with his new acting project, they readily accept. The Shatman is a Sci-Fi god - he can do no wrong, right?Well, it doesn't turn out quite like that. Along the way, everyone learns about themselves and some myths are shattered. Shatner isn't Kirk - action figures are not more important than electricity bills and sci-fi is a great hobby as long as it doesn't get out of control.Whether or not you'll enjoy this movie depends on your own life and experiences. I found it to be amazingly accurate in many of it's observations, but then I'm not too dissimilar to the characters. I'm 30, a Sci-Fi/Star Trek fan and see employment as an impediment to my leisure time. I don't feel that wearing a suit and being 'responsible' is something to aim for and have no desire to be corporately assimilated. I'm pretty much like the guys in the movie, although I'm nowhere near as obsessed (that's what they all say right?)They're living a parody of my life and the life of many others like me.As such, for me the movie was interesting and funny, even poignant sometimes, but I'm pretty certain it won't be the same for everyone.I found some of the points made in the plot were spot on, for exampleWhy is it that collecting every episode of Star Trek is 'boys with toys' but women can own fifty pairs of shoes? Isn't that just the same? If Sci-Fi is juvenile, isn't spending hours on makeup and clothes simply 'girls playing dressing up games?'What is the point of a $50,000 engagement ring - it has no use apart from to look pretty! To say it's a sign of love is crap - wouldn't some genuine care and affection be better? It's a sign of greed, not love - a cheaper ring could be just as beautiful.There are many more examples, and while watching it with my girlfriend there were more than a few knowing looks passed between us. Sure - I don't buy action figures and she doesn't own fifty pairs of shoes, but similar issues are often discussed. That very same day when I bought the Free Enterprise DVD, she was salivating over another pair of shoes and I almost bought the new Rollerball DVD...To sum up, Free Enterprise is funny and interesting, but if you don't like Sci-Fi it's mediocre and probably quite boring. The acting is passable but not brilliant and as everyone else has said, Shatner steals the show easily. It's a shame he doesn't get a lot more screen time (Maybe he finally realized that if he monopolizes the camera too much his colleagues will end up hating him....)If you like Star Trek and Sci-Fi - you have to get this movie. If you don't, i'd say give it a miss.=============================================================> Incidentally, there's a comedy show on TV in the UK called 'Spaced' that has lots of Horror/Sci-Fi fanboy film references. If you like Free Enterprise or enjoy British comedy and you get a chance to see it, check it out. "}{"Title":"A fun trip down sci-fi memory lane","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While not perfect, I found this movie to be hilarious and well written. Being a sci-fi and a Star Trek fan, I really enjoyed the constant references to many movies that I enjoyed from the 60's and 70's.  The Special Edition DVD is great...you will probably need the subtitles that explain most of the inside sci-fi jokes and references.  (I have to admit, I needed it and I'm a pretty big sci-fi geek).Bill Shatner does a great job playing himself as a normal guy full of foibles and  quirkiness.I particularly enjoyed Patrick Van Horn as Sean.  I've read about the constant references to Swingers so I went out and rented it.  While he plays a character in Free Enterprise pretty close to his swingers character, I really enjoyed his role in Free Enterprise much more.  Don't we all need a Trixie?I admit, if you're not into sci-fi and comic books, you may not enjoy this film that much, but give it a try and most of all...live long and party. "},{"Title":"Funny for those in the know","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an amusing film but I think much of the humor will be lost on those that don't have in-depth knowledge of Star Trek. No you don't need to be a Trekker but you should know some of the plotlines and many of the characters from the original series in order to pick up the references that pepper the dialogue. Also check a summary of Logan's Run. William Shatner is just great with tongue firmly in cheek playing himself.(His story requires no knowledge of SciFi) Be sure to watch the closing credits as they are full of more jokes and Trek references. "},{"Title":"A hoot for SF fans, just OK for everyone else","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To be certain, you have to be a hardcore sci-fi fan if you're hoping this movie is above 2 1/2 stars.  There are quite a few sci-fi/pop culture references that you must get for it to be truly funny.  However, if you're in that group, this is a great (not 4-star great, but fun) movie.William Shatner does a great job of poking fun at himself and even getting in a little life lesson for the two main characters.  (Not quite as direct as his Get a life, willya? skit from SNL, but it does the job.)  The movie does show more geekdom than I think most people have said here, just not as much in the two main characters.  (Dan  Perhaps you want to park at my moonbase sometime.)You can certainly draw the comparisons to Swingers in this, which I freely admit was the better film 3 1/2 stars as opposed to 3 stars for this. (Right down to Patrick Van Horn playing the same character, minus the gun incident.)  I think the Clerks reference is a bit off, though.  If you go by the fact the two main characters keep up a long dialogue throughout the whole movie with contrasting styles, you can say Swingers was the same way with Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn.Very few sci-fi comedies have been made, Galaxy Quest being the most famous. (and good, too).  But if you're looking for good sci-fi comedy, Free Enterprise will fill the bill for you.   "},{"Title":"Ultimate sci-fi fanboy flick","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard about this film when it was originally released, and through a former friend (who had absolutely no taste...he thought that D.A.R.Y.L. was the pinnacle of sci-fi--yikes!). He basically panned the film...so I didn't look for it until I found it recently on cable. How wrong I was to not seek out this film as the mecca that it is. Oh, some of the lesser known trivia references may not be appreciated by the uninitiated, but the hardcore sci-fi addicts will love the inside jokes and trivia. Performances are great; Shatner in one of his most endearing roles to date, Patrick Van Horn playing a Swinger-esque Sean (more than one person has already made the comparison...look at how swing exploded after Swingers--nudge nudge), and Rafer Weigel as a fanboy with a history of failed relationships who discovers that there are goddesses that can appreciate sci-fi as much as anyone else.Writers Altman and Burnett have turned a semi-autobiographical tale into a great story, with superb dialogue. This film proves that Capt Kirk's eulogies and monologues really can make you cry. Some of the best lines are self-depreciating comments made by the principle characters, which are based on Altman and Burnett. Plus, some of the reasoning behind shooting this film was to be able to cast their industry friends in cameo roles.I just got the Special Edition on DVD, and it has become the crown jewel of my burgeoning collection. Deleted Scenes rock. Check out the deleted scene with Shatner...wonderfully written, and superbly filmed.So seek it out, and enjoy with a fanboy. You'll like it.  "},{"Title":"Funny but not a landmark.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that I really enjoy. It's packed with funny lines and references to all kinds of nerdy films and series. If it weren't for the good acting, particularly from Eric McCormack and Patrick Van Horn, it wouldn't have worked; and it does sort of fizzle out in the end. Still, what a joy to see Bill Shatner parody himself. I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Greatest sci-fi comedy ever made!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is inspirational. The guys who made this movie basically parody themselves, and manage to include Shatner in the mix. If you've ever been into Star Trek, old sci-fi movies, new sci-fi movies, comic books, action figures, or anything else like that, you'll love this movie. If you're interested in the film industry, I suggest getting the DVD and watching all of the extra features... you'll get loads of cool facts about the movie.  "},{"Title":"A fanboys review","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First, I rented this movie in one of my `Bad Movie Night' moods, so I wasn't really expecting anything.  Second, I really knew nothing about the movie except for the fact it had William Shatners face on the front and the title of  `Free Enterprise' so I was expecting another `Trekkies' movie.  I was happily wrong; this is psychotically a movie I could truly relate with.This movie had characters, that if you are reaching 30, grew up watching to much cable re-run's of old sci-fi flicks and have a collections of comics and toys that your friends either say `MAN, I use to really want this!' or, `Your place looks like it belongs to a little boy' you could fully relate. This movie isn't for everyone, and if you don't fit into the above category, or you deny that you do, this movie isn't for you. But if you do, and you always felt a little out of place, just for the fact that you DO have a sex life, and you DON'T go around wearing XL black comic t-shirts like everyone else at the comic shop you keep your box at, this is the movie for you.I've found a new respect for William Shatner, he was actually able to make fun of himself and the whole Star Trek phenomenon, not by insulting the following Star Trek has, but instead, he destroys the myths that so many of his `followers' had about him and the James T. Kirk persona. Primarily Kirk was a character in a TV series.The two main characters where both excellent examples of Fanboys that turned their boyhood obsessions into careers, but at the same time not lose site of the fact that there is more out there than just sci-fi and comics. We also got to see stupid information that actually is useful in everyday life can be partially learned from comics and movies, just don't let others find out how you learned your info.This movie, truly isn't for everyone, I can understand why so many people who've seen this movie didn't like it. If you can't relate to the characters and the situations, this movie could seem really foreign to a person, but if you grew up a fanboy, maybe even still are a fanboy, but know better than to wear a Star Trek uniform, this movie is for you. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Witty, fun movie that anyone can relate to, but sci-fi nuts like myself will love.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Witty, fun movie that anyone can relate to, but sci-fi nuts like myself will love.  Full of characters that everyone has known in their life and dialogue that you wish you could have, if only the rest of the population was as crazy about sci-fi as you. "},{"Title":"THE guide to/for geeks, surprisingly good.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a geek. I guess. I love Star Trek, work in computers and knew almost every reference made in this movie. I too yelled 'Kaaaahhnn' at the screen, together with Kirk. So I'm probably easy audience for this movie, but I expected it to be a sort of joke/trash movie and it actually wasn't! It was pretty damn good! I loved almost everything about it, accept maybe, the fact that I probably would have liked it too if the movie was just a collection of scenes, instead of a scripted film. Anyway, I'll give it a 7.5 on a scale of 10. (I reserve 8 through 10 for the really good ones, so It's just above average in the end).p.s., I sure hope Bill is like that in 'the real world'... "},{"Title":"Fun film. Highly recommended for 30 year old fans of sci-fi.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What I enjoyed as much as the plot and characters were the sci-fi references.  Sci-fi fans around 30 years old will take pleasure in hearing/seeing references made to many a novel, toy, TV show or movie in the genre.  I'm proud to say that I 'got' every one, from quotations of 'Logan's Run' and 'The Lathe of Heaven' to an appearance of 'Mighty Isis' and a 'Re-Animator' T-shirt.  Naturally, most associations are made with 'Star Trek' (old and TNG). "}{"Title":"THE geek movie","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I consider myself a moderate geek. I'm a STAR TREK fan and a fan of many other science fiction and motion picture properties, and I have to say that FREE ENTERPRISE is quite possibly one of the greatest films I've ever seen. I love this movie. It's incredibly well-written with great characters you love to watch over and over again. I also recommend the DVD. "},{"Title":"Very Pleasant Surprise","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was reluctant about this one, but it is actually quite good. It has more obscure references per minute than a Dennis Miller special. There's a real Kevin Smith-y quality to it all, including the abrupt and overly-neat ending (my only complaint). With the exception of the kids who represent our protagonists as youths, the acting is fine. Just picking out the sources for dialogue would entertain any sci-fi scholar, but the whole thing is really funny, as well. "},{"Title":"A sci-fi/trek fan's delight...","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm hesitant to use the word fanboy in this review as I don't consider myself one, but if you are into science fiction or star trek particularly, you will enjoy this movie. Well, let me clarify that with the statement that you have to be able to laugh at yourself. All that aside, this film plays out like a Kevin Smith film without Jay and Silent Bob. The dialogue shows that the writer of this script is definitely a fan of scifi. Shatner brings in a wonderful performance. My personal take on this movie is that I could really relate to the two main characters because I saw some of my own personal qualities in them, good and bad ones. I could relate to them despite the fact that I am not a rabid collector of merchandise (I just watch the shows/movies) and I haven't stepped foot inside a comic book store in five years now.  If you are either of the above I would probably (and apologetically) call you a fanboy but then quickly state that you would find this movie uproariously hilarious. Anyway, it was very funny. I don't know what else to say. I hope this review will convince at least one person to see this movie. It was one of the funniest things I've seen in the last two years.  "},{"Title":"This movie is damn funny!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While it's typical of Hollywood to give hope to geeks that they can find a beautiful girlfriend, we all know that's not true.  This movie of course gives hope to the geeks again, but you have such a good time with the characters.  The only question is, will you be laughing with them or at them? "},{"Title":"A Funny and smart movie!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While I could quibble over the cardboard female characters, I cannot argue with the comic genius of Shatner or the likability of the two sci-fi geeks whom we follow from the angst of junior high to the angst of Hollywood (strikingly similar, by the way).They were people I know and love. And people I wouldn't mind going to a movie with.  "},{"Title":"Almost everything you need was in Star Trek -- Almost.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was there when Star Trek premiered.  While I'm not exactly a Trekkie/Trekker, I have 40 years of reading and watching sci-fi.  Yes, Free Enterprise is a flawed movie (too long, slow pacing) but strangely compelling.  Offers you a chance to see Eric McCormack before he become Will of Will & Grace, same shtick, only not gay.  Two almost 30-trekkers encounter Bill Shatner, and their lives are changed forever.  They grow up, finally.  Shatner is surprisingly good, playing himeself, playing himself.  If you're not familiar with sci-fi stuff in general, skip Free Enterprise; you won't get it at all.  If you are a sci-fi nut, you'll love it, even if it is too long. "},{"Title":"Spotty and thin in places, but great fun overall","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although the film's plot is shaky, and some of its scenes dubious, the good spirits of the writer-director team who are obviously drawing on personal experience (cf. the lead characters' names) raise this film several notches.  Add to this the wonderfully self-effacing performance of William Shatner and the bright, natural efforts on the part of the rest of the mostly little-known cast, and the entire film becomes a real pleasure to watch.  Not only for sci-fi fans or Trekkies, but for anyone who grew up with Star Trek, Logan's Run, and early-'70s sitcoms as part of their cultural landscape.  Be sure to read -- not just watch -- the closing credits! "},{"Title":"`&#145;Swingers' for geeks' is an accurate description","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  From reading the other user comments, it appears that people who saw this movie fall into two camps those who love it, and those who hate it. Furthermore, it seems that many of the people who hate it are sci-fi fans themselves. As a Trekkie and a sci-fi fan myself, I thought this movie was thoroughly enjoyable. `&#145;Swingers' for geeks' seems to be an accurate one-line summary of this movie, but I felt like the characters in Free Enterprise had more depth, despite their obsession with all things sci-fi. I also felt that this movie had a more positive message than Swingers, where most of the characters never got out of their rut.As many others have noted, the sci-fi in-jokes fly fast and furious, and very few will get them all, but that's half the fun! (Plus, the DVD provides a comprehensive glossary of terms for later perusal.) Though not quite as hard-core as the characters portrayed here (did  anyone really like Space 1999?), the dialogue seems pretty accurate. Oh, and William Shatner gives a great performance.As a quick side note, I wonder why so many people are so vehemently opposed to this film? While it definitely has its rough edges, it is hardly the terrible film that so many make it out to be. And strangely enough, it seems like the sci-fi fans are the most critical for some reason. Maybe they feel like it's trying to attract the Gen-X viewership by throwing out one-liners and pop-culture references, but I really believe that the writers accurately reflected their own dialogue and circle of friends (an opinion that is borne out by the DVD commentary track, by the way). You can tell that they really love their subject matter, really bought those laserdisc boxed sets, and really had those same debates. To me, it rings true. Oh, and to the guy who complains that real sci-fi fans don't get much action, I say Get a life! "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Funny and Touching Look at Sci-Fi Fans","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Free Enterprise is really two stories woven together.  One story is a romance about a couple of hard core sci-fi fan trying to find true love, despite the handicap their passion for sci-fi seems to be with most of the women they meet.  The other story is about the same two hard core sci-fi fans meeting their life-long idol, William Shatner.  This is a truly funny movie that also works very well on several other levels.  As viewers, we quickly are engaged by these fascinating, multi-faceted characters and the complexities of their lives.  There is a large cast of supporting characters and they are quirky and engaging, also.  The story is fairly predictable but the outstanding performances by all involved, especially Shatner, makes Free Enterprise thoroughly enjoyable.The DVD is a marvelous example of what the medium can do.  The video and audio are exemplary.  The video could only be improved by being presented in an anamorphic transfer.  What makes this DVD special, however, is the huge variety of extras.  The dialogue features a constant stream of pop culture references, most of them to sci-fi like Star Trek, Star Wars, and Logan's Run, though there is hardly a sci-fi movie not referenced at some point. Spotting these references adds a whole different level of entertainment for fans of sci-fi.  The DVD assists by providing a subtitle track that explains the references and a glossary of terms.  Other extras include a very informative making-of featurette with extensive interviews with the producer and director (who served as models for the two lead characters), an extensive selection of deleted scenes, screen tests, and the full music video of William Shatner and Rated R doing No Tears for Caesar.  The writer/director/editor (Robert Meyer Burnett) and the writer/producer (Mark A. Altman) provide a fascinating and informative audio commentary track. You will want to watch this movie at least three times, once by itself, once with the terminology subtitles turned on, and once with the commentary turned on.I highly recommend this DVD.  It is an affectionate but funny look at sci-fi fans, a highly entertaining movie, and a great DVD. "},{"Title":"Who would have thought geeks could be this entertaining?","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The main characters Mark and Robert are pop culture trivia nuts, science fiction fans, and in particular Star Trek fans. They're almost thirty, and spend much of their time watching old movies, collecting action figures and comic books, and (in a refreshing contrast to most movie geeks) attractive and bouncing between relationships with women. Mark's part of the story is a coming-of-age story, even though he's such a geek that his coming-of-age doesn't happen until he's about 30. Robert's part of the story is a romantic comedy that starts when he finds his ideal match.Mark is hard-working, financially well-off, but is afraid of commitment with women. His relationships are mostly with women he finds annoying, so he doesn't have to worry about falling hard enough to worry about commitment.Robert is a financial mess, putting his collecting ahead of basics like utilities and rent. Although he's more grown up in his relationships with women than Mark, he falls in love with women almost too quickly. They find him likeable, but are quickly driven off by his trivia obsession and financial irresponsibility. But finally he meets Claire, in a comic book store. She's just as beautiful as the other women Robert had been involved with, but she shares his pop culture interests. She's his perfect match, but still troubled by his money problems. In addition, his friends become jealous of the time he spends with her.The movie is loaded with pop culture references, which are amusing whether you get them or not. When I knew what they were talking about, I thought, what a geek I am to remember that stuff. When I didn't know what they were talking about, I could feel sympathy for the women characters who were baffled by their trivia-spouting.The title isn't a reference to business, but rather the Star Trek starship Enterprise. The main characters' hero is Star Trek captain Kirk, who always prevailed and always got the women. When presented with a dilemma, they often deal with it by asking themselves, What would captain Kirk do?William Shatner appears in the movie, mainly as himself. But in an introductory scene, Shatner appears as Kirk, when one of the main characters (as a boy, 19 years earlier) is being beaten up by a bully for going to school in a Star Trek uniform. Captain Kirk is the boy's imaginary friend, and inspires him (with words more in character with the Shatner caricature) to beat up the bully who had just beaten him nearly senseless.As himself, Shatner plays a caricature of his public image, somewhat self-absorbed, both annoyed and amused by those who confuse him with his characters, but also troubled by self-doubt. He wants to make a musical Julius Caesar where he plays all the characters except Calpurnia. His performance is excellent throughout. If he really was as egotistical as the movie caricature, he would never have agreed to the part.Mark is the first one of the main characters to turn thirty, and he's deeply troubled by that fact. Possible mild spoiler He has a nightmare inspired by the unintentionally corny 1976 movie Logan's Run, where people live in a utopia until they're euthanized at age 30. Even his nightmares are somewhat geeky. Near the end, the gang takes Mark to a screening of a Star Trek movie for his dreaded thirtieth birthday.How the movie arrives at its conclusion, which includes Shatner's advertised musical Julius Caesar performance, is too much a spoiler to include, even with a warning.I want to see this movie again. But not so many times that I can recite all the lines. "}{"Title":"Two fans of science fiction meet there idol and find themselves in the process.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film when it was in limited release.  If you are a Trek fan as I am, you will LOVE this movie, if you are looking for a good rental with all around great performances, rent this film.  Shatner is hilarious and Weigel is a true find.  Keep your eye out for that guy. "},{"Title":"Smart. Light-hearted. Something everyone, EVERYONE can enjoy.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I met Mark Altman and Robert Burnett, screenwriter and director of Free Enterprise and was amazed to find that the production of this movie (semi-autobiographical) was just as humorous as the actual movie itself. Free Enterprise delves into the world of Trekkies, surprisingly laced with sexual undertones. From green-alien women fetishes, to comics, to Brady-Killer, to threesomes this movie is a laugh riot. The real comedy begins as Robert and Mark bump into William Shatner at a bookstore, who is oggling at an adult magazine. Like most star-struck fans, they rather clumsily bump into him. They find out that the hot-shot cowboy of the NC-1701 is not in fact James T. Kirk. Bill (who's in between jobs and working on a musical for Shakespeare's Julius Caesar), is racked with just as many insecurities and odd little mannerisms as Robert and Mark are. They quickly become friends and struggle through the melee of life, relationships, and women. At the end everything works out (Shatner raps to Caesar's monologue). Oh, yeah, to all you Trekkies out there pay close attention to the credits at the very end. You'll get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"You must be a cult sci fi fan to enter","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great fun even if you only laugh at the Julius Caesar one man show idea, but don't even bother trying to get the whole idea unless you are a true sci fi lover.  For those of you who leave during the credits, you missed the best line in the whole movie.  When the credits are practically over, you see the line William Shatner will return in William Shatner vs. The World Crime League.  If you don't know what this means, dude, I'm not gonna tell you.  An explanation would ruin it. "},{"Title":"Will's Got the Vibe","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although the bulk of the movie is a journey into the lives of Robert and Mark (no relation to writers Robert Meyer Burnett and Mark A. Altman, OF COURSE), the highlight for me, the moment that will live forever in my mind is the sight of William Shatner rapping. Not only rapping, no Warren Beatty-wannabe rapping this, but rapping the story of Julius Caesar. For that alone, you must plunk down your 8 bucks.But there's more the wondrous Eric McCormack who does a spot-on Mark Altman impression and an amazing monologue which opens the film, the luminous Rafer Weigel (Chicago's own)...heck all of the actors are pretty darn good. The editing is first-rate. The sets are visually fascinating.The only possible downside is that it is deeply steeped in Star Trek lore, which detracts a bit if you don't know the references.Personally, I look forward to whatever this creative team has up their sleeve next. "},{"Title":"Glorious","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a male who hates Star Trek I was evidently dubious. Within 30 seconds I was hooked and it just didn't stop. A perfect movie one which sets out to achieve something and realises its aims and more. Hilarious, brilliantly acted and directed, this is straight into my top 10 of the year (and I am so choosy that sometimes I can't actually find 10). Outdoes most of the 'hip' movies and 'cult' directors of the last 5 years with room to spare. As soon as it finished I wanted to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Shatner isn't the only reason to see this film","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film.  I went in expecting Shatner to be funny, and he was hilarious (in a self-deprecating way).  His rap singing of Shakespeare's Julius Caesar at the end is a sight to behold.The advertising promoted Shatner's presence in the film, but there are reasons for non-SF fans (i.e. women) to attend.The two protagonists, who have memorized Star Trek episode air dates as well as titles and dialog, epitomize the two types of men women most like to complain about.One plunges headlong into relationships and loves deeply, but is so immature that he will buy a laserdisk of a Japanese release of Dawn of the Dead before he will pay his utilities.  When he gets the phone number of the girl of his dreams, he has to run down the street to a payphone to call her because his service has been cut off.The other is responsible and successful enough that he can cover his friend's financial shortfalls, but is so afraid of commitment that he is leery of even starting a relationship, preferring to wine and dine an old girlfriend in the hope of sex, but ensuring the evening won't turn into anything more.SF fans (mostly guys) will like the SF references while women will like how both Robert and Mark 'evolve' (God, I hate how women misuse that word). Both will like Shatner's scenes (he is very funny).  "},{"Title":"Why can't all independent films be written this well?","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, so it's autobiographical, so the dialogue is a sci-fi style war, and it's about uber-fans of Star Trek.  So why did I like it so much?  I think there are three reasons - script, script, and editing.  The script is SHARP. I could count the wasted words on one hand and have three fingers left over.  The dialogue flows easily from the actors' mouths, never laboured and sometimes brilliant. Damn, I wish I wrote it.From a sociological point of view, I just wonder where Robert Burnett's fascination (borderline obsession) with Canadian culture stems from. grinThe world is evil.......... "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Swingers-esque dialog.  Great scifi references.","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A well written movie with careful attention to dialog. Had the same truthful, slightly wicked, sense of humor as Swingers. Thoroughly enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Take a Trek fan and have fun","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a lot of fun for fans of Star Trek and/or William Shatner. It's a bit uneven, but a real hoot almost the whole time Shatner is onscreen. He gives a wonderful, even touching performance.  And although there were moments when I wanted to check my watch, there were also moments when I laughed harder than I remember laughing in a theater in a long time. Take a Trek fan with you and have a good time. "},{"Title":"comments on a hilarious movie","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two would-be filmmakers have let their obsession with the original Star Trek series ruin all of their relationships with women.  On the verge of turning thirty, they must now re-examine their lives when they finally meet their childhood idol, William Shatner, realizing that he's not nearly the man (Capt. Kirk) that they had imagined him to be.  Shatner displays a keen sense of humor in his self-depreciating and subdued performance. "}{"Title":"Future cult hit","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a glorious film -- if you grew up in a sci fi geek world (which I more or less did.) There are more inside references than a Dennis Miller rant. It *is* directed at a narrow audience, but I predict that that audience will adopt it as a mascot staple of midnight shows and home collection essentials. *Very* funny. "},{"Title":"Shatner's great but the movie ain't!","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'd read about this movie in magazines so I was excited to see it at our film festival. What a disappointment. Instead of being Swingers for geeks the movie feels like something made just for a Star Trek convention. Amateurish fan stuff. The Trekkie references are nonstop and way too inside. My date didn't have a clue what anyone was talking about. The Logans Run part bombed as bad as Logans Run. William Shatner doesn't disappoint though and spoofs his image perfectly. Shatner is so funny the movie goes completely flat when he's not on screen. It almost feels like his scenes were improvised or written by other people. They're witty and not depended on Star Trek knowledge. The song all the articles said Shatner performs comes at the end, but comes out of nowhere which is why it isn't funny. Its never explained why he suddenly becomes a rap artist. Mr. Tamborine Man is still Shatner's funniest song. I recommended Free Enterprise as a video rental as long as you use the fast forward button to get to all of Shatner's scenes quicker. The movie was edited by the director which is why it is way way too long! Some guy at the end of the movie does a five minute Shatner impression. Why be showing him when you've got the real thing?! "},{"Title":"Hard-core science fiction fans will find this movie a treat...","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Free Enterprise is a stew of science fiction references, ranging from oft-quoted Star Wars dialogue to the truly obscure (hey, how many people remember Logan's Run, anyway?).  Hard-core fans, Trekkers or otherwise, will immediately identify with the film's protagonists, two dedicated fanboys who one day come face to face with their idol, William Shatner. Shatner's performance is a hoot; he's perfectly willing to poke fun at himself, and the bizarre final scene, which puts a new twist on the Bard, is hilarious.  The movie is funny enough to be enjoyed by anyone, although at least half of the references will zoom miles over the heads of audience members not acquainted with Star Trek and other works of science fiction. "},{"Title":"I'm so glad I didn't pay to rent this.","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've noticed many comments here stating that one has to be a fan of Star Trek and sci-fi to appreciate how good this movie is. That couldn't be farther from the truth.I'm not bothered by the many, many references to Star Trek et al. In fact, I'm a big sci-fi fan... but this movie stinks of it's own accord.The idea is pretty good; even having Shatner play the role he did is fine, but the script, story and plot were awful! At some points I wasn't sure whether to groan or vomit. The only thing I am sure of is that I couldn't believe any of those characters were real for even a moment. I may have been able to be a bit more generous had they been high-school actors ad-libbing all the lines.The highlight of course is the rap scene. It honestly looked like someone couldn't figure out how to end the movie, but needed to fill the last five minutes. The positions, dancing, and expressions of the people involved in that scene were so dismally put together I would have to assume that there was no planning or direction at all.What astounds me the most is the comparison so many people have made to Kevin Smith movies. Kevin Smith movies, while a little campy once in a while, are intelligent, thought-provoking and humorous in a way that this movie could only dream of being. "},{"Title":"Absolutely great fun; can't wait for the sequel!","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite the majority of the cast being relative unknowns to the UK market (not including William Shatner), I thought that this film worked extremely well and everyone involved gelled together very well.Eric McCormack's impersonation of Captain Kirk whilst trying to get the delectable Audie England's character back together with her love interest is definitely one of the highlights of the film, along with Shatner's rather amusing yet entertaining Julius Caesar rap.Well written and exceptionally well researched with references back to many episodes of the original series of Star Trek, this is a great film that will be enjoyed by all and loved by both Sci-Fi geeks and Sci-Fi critics alike.Definitely one for the DVD collection and I can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"A delight!","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a love letter to Star Trek fans. It's charming, the dialog is snappy and funny and Shatner proves, brilliantly, that he gets the joke. Pretty funny even if you aren't a fan, but if you are, you'll feel like you've met some great friends in the filmmakers.While you might expect a film that embraces Star Trek and, very oddly, Logan's Run so lovingly, to grow its humor in a patch of its own kitsch, Free Enterprise works very hard to be much more urbane. The two leads have a sort of lightening repartee that you could mistake for a screwball comedy were it not peppered with references to 60s and 70s Sci-Fi (I do NOT need to reminded of the plot line of Amok Time!) It's such a treat. "},{"Title":"It Has Its Moments","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has some laughs, but it's not put together well enough to be a good film.  There are subplots and characters that don't seem to contribute much to the plot.  The ending is almost nonsensical; you'd have to see it to know what I mean.  Shatner isn't involved as much as I expected in this movie; he doesn't seem to really guide the main characters to getting their lives on track as the descriptions promise.I found it sort of refreshing that the main characters were not the stereotypical Trekkies living in their parents's basement, but at the same time (like during the Toys R Us scene) it seemed like the filmmakers were trying too hard to establish the characters's credibility as sci-fi geeks.Because there are some good laughs (and some other good R-rated stuff) I'd recommend this for anyone who is or knows a Trekkie/comic book/sci-fi geek. Ultimately, though, this doesn't measure up to Kevin Smith's Clerks, Mallrats, or Chasing Amy.BTW, I thought the real title of this movie should have been Get a Life to tie it to Shatner's famous quote and the film's theme.  Maybe that was taken already. ;-) "},{"Title":"Ho God That Was Flat!","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Flat scenario, flat performances (...to really awful)..flat dialogues....just flatty flat things seen hundred of times done better. The movie is filled really really cheeeesy scenes down to mildly offensives scenes and mildly offensives dialogue that should have been done by a ten times deflated Kevin Smith. Hell, William Shatner is nice('cause he have natural charm), but he doesn't seem to really enjoy to impersonate that parody(hope it is...), of him that goes from a mildly funny to a sad character. His interventions are roughly tighted to the 'story'. Something could have pumped his performance from 'he's doing a good job' to 'Wow,he really enjoy doing this, it splatters all over the screen', but it goes not very faaaar or deeep, and plus he seems not really believe in what he's doing, he's just also in the MIDDLE.I thought that the Movie was supposed to revolve around him, but the all Movie just end up to a hard cliche 'love&friendship stories end always good' about two guys that are supposed to be geeks of comics and movie, but finally they doesn't look like 'the real thing', because they're not acting at all like ones in their everyday life, it is a little little depicted, despite the injected 'I know all Star Trek Titles' and the really little collection of things that just seems to be borrowed of the near local comic store we see in the bedroom of one of the Character...if you have crossed the real thing in anything collectable, it's just waaaaay more crazy, they're not just 'quoting' sometimes someting from their passions...THEY CAN'T TALK OF ANYTHING ELSE AT ALL...Soooo Shatner is just passing by and close the movie by a really really pff...really bad flat shameful synchronized sequence. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never really watch Star Trek. In fact, most of the time, i hate it. Icouldn't watch it. It was horrible! Mind you, that was TNG, Voyagerand DS9. When i got to see a tiny clip of the original series, ithought it was really good. While i barely know anything about ST, iloved Free Enterprise. It's basically about two ST fans who aretrying to get into the film business and meet William Shatner at anLA bookstore. There's really not much more to say about thismovie except that it's a hilarious movie, though i think the deletedscenes would have gave the film a lot more brilliance. FinalWords Get it(Especially the DVD, it's brilliant), you'll not bedissapointed. "},{"Title":"Talky-Indy rambles on too much but is top gut buster","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At last a Hollywood film I can actually relate to. This film is repetitive, over-stretched and overblown (not unlike Mr Shatner himself, in fact) but the script is genius. It's all the little details such as the wind blowing all over the cast in the restaurant before one delivers that priceless Shatner speech and the stuff about Logan's Run (has anyone else picked up on the gay love triangle angle of that film yet?) This next bit is true. When I was a kid I too looked up to Captain Kirk. He was handsome, got the girl and always seemed to make the right decision to get the ship out of trouble. He was the man you always wanted to be. When I finally got a girl into bed (nothing happened, we were drunk) I thought Wow, this girl must really be into me if she trusts me enough to crash out drunk with me, I must be the bomb. Suddenly she turned over in her sleep and sighed at the top of her voice Oh, Captain Kirk. That put things back into perspective. But it does at least prove, like this film says, that women are into this stuff too although they can't all be as gorgeous as the actress portrayed in it. The success with women angle was hard to swallow but it did examine the effect of pop culture on people's lives, which so many pundits say has no effect whatsoever, despite the fact advertising is designed to do exactly that.Shatner does not quite seem real playing himself which was probably appropriate but delivers the film's best line in a bar Why come over here for a drink when you can have one on your own at home?-No, that's called alcoholism. Personally, I thought he gave a strong performance in the original series, better than that bald headed guy in 'The Next Generation'. I refuse to watch it, it's bogus. Not that I'm anything like the geek in this film who watches films, can't hold a job, bums money off others and refuses to deal with reality. The room I live in is far too small for toys. "}{"Title":"A gem of a film","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ah, where to begin? I had no idea what to expect when I sat down and happened to come upon the beginning of Free Enterprise on a premium movie channel. It had William Shatner in it, I knew, and something to do with Star Trek, so what the heck, I thought, and stayed put.I'm glad I did. I rated Free Enterprise a 9, in part because it was an unexpected pleasure. It is true that this film will be more enjoyable for you if you grew up with Star Trek (the original series, because as one character says in annoyance, The Next Generation sucked! as I did, watching it with my dad. Without that background, the small moments that made me burst out laughing (i.e. when two kids, one in a Star Fleet uniform, get into a fight and the background music is a derivitive of the music used in an original episode of ST where Kirk fights for his life) will pass by unnoticed. But there are some larger lessons here, and perhaps the biggest one is, at what point do you move on with your life to make a commitment (in work or play)? Also, can a TV show really prepare you for life's challenges? And finally, is *anyone* as cool as William Shatner?This film took a subject -- Star Trek TOS -- and showed people who were at various points in their lives (including William Shatner, who we meet in a library looking at porn in a great scene) and how that common subject linked them together. The closest thing I have seen to Free Enterprise is Galaxy Quest (a hilarious movie) in that both films gently make fun of Trek while also admiring its humanity and ideals.Free Enterprise was nowhere near as flashy as Galaxy Quest. It was more about male friends and their paths through life. FE also wandered a bit near the end. I'm not even sure the end justified the means. But the means themselves were worth the time, and the pleasure of stumbling unexpectedly upon a funny and sometimes touching little film is priceless. "},{"Title":"A great cable flick","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  William Shatner is funnier than Leslie Nielson. Too bad the whole movie's not as funny as he is. The guy from WILL AND GRACE is in it too but is just okay. Not worth seeing in the theater for eight bucks but definitely worth checking out on cable. "},{"Title":"Avoid this chunk of tripe.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is a weak attempt to splice Kevin Smith films with Swingers, and come up with a winner. Something went wrong. The idea has merit, and actually having William Shatner makes this movie almost worth watching. However, the dialogue is awful, and even if the lines were funny, the actors spitting them out woulda flubbed it anyway. They're terrible. If the film is supposed to appeal to fanboys, the least they could have done is ask a couple of us about it. Then again, I'm not a fanboy who lives in Hollywood. Maybe the geeks out there sleep with model/actresses every night, and hang out in trendy clubs for all I know, but I highly doubt that.So that's my review. I'm telling you fanboys out there, this movie will provide you the same effects a spoonful of syrup of ipecac would. "},{"Title":"a disappointment; mostly, I cringed","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I fall right in the demographic this movie claims to be targeting, i.e., I'm old enough to remember Logan's Run but too young to be a baby boomer--I'm caught between the Xers and the Boomers.  That's me.  I'm also a Trekkie from way back (back before anyone insisted on being called a Trekker), and I was a big Star Wars fan as a kid.So this movie should have been enjoyable if not earth-shatteringly great.  Well, it wasn't.I did slightly enjoy the fact that finally I was sitting through one of those pop culture one-upsmanship movies where I understood practically all of the references (yes, I got that the green liquor Shatner and his costars swill throughout the film is supposed to be Saurian brandy--ha ha).  But then again pop culture one-upsmanship is such a tired cliche at this point that it's really too late for me to consider this a plus.Shatner speaks his lines with little inflection or involvement, as if he can't wait to go home.  This can't have been much of a paycheck for him, so one wonders what his motivation is, since he seemed to have zero interest in being there.  The two yuppie-wannabe protagonists are 1) not funny at all, 2) way too hip to be Trekkies, and 3) drive suspiciously fancy cars and live in suspiciously upscale LA apartments (finished wood floors, big screen TVs, $100k in sci-fi memorabilia) to be the losers on the verge of bankruptcy they're portrayed as being.  Also, it doesn't help that the film rips off everything from dumb college frat films of the 80s to Woody Allen, while never allowing its own voice to show originality.  I would say the premise of the film was superb, the nostalgia for a lost generation tempting and the situations rife for comedy.  In short, there were just too many missed opportunities.It's a hit!  It's a hit!   Negative, negative--just impacted on the surface. "},{"Title":"He said that Han Solo was cooler than Captain Kirk.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes, this film would be a whole lot funnier if I was a 30-year-old whole cared more about Star Trek and Star Wars, hung out at comic book shops, cruised Toys R' Us for the latest action figure, and really cared about William Shatner.Unfortunately, I am not one to mess up a perfectly good time with Lori Lively by getting into a discussion of shoes and engagement rings. Save that for later, dude. And, I am not going to mess up a relationship with Audie England because I would rather hang onto some laser-disks instead of paying the light bill.This is not a slacker movie, as there is really only one, but it is about guys with failed relationships and trying to get their stuff together. Mark A. Altman & Robert Meyer Burnett wrote a funny story, which Burnett also directed. It was certainly a much better job of writing than House of the Dead, Mark! The finale? William Shatner rapping Julius Ceasar with Rated R. Hmmm. "},{"Title":"Enter the Goofy World of Shatnerica","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A movie for Trekkers, made by Trekkers, about Trekkers, etc. Trekkers (oh, not 'Trekkies'-savvy?) are Star Trek fans, usually very obsessed fans. However, the 2 main characters here, despite fitting the standard Trekker profile of letting Trek dominate their lives, are well-rounded in other aspects one of 'em, despite never having any money and a loser sensibility, is pretty successful with girls & doesn't have problems 'getting some.' The other is successful career-wise, with normal interests, as well. The filmmakers obviously wanted to show Trekkers as more than just weird geeks. However, something doesn't jibe with this presentation the 2 guys come across as SO normal, it's hard to believe they've got every Trek episode memorized. That being said, this flic is a Trekker dream, filled with pop cultural references (for other Sci-Fi famous flics,too) and in-jokes that will probably baffle those not informed about Trek sayings & terminology (one scene is even filmed at a famous site from one of the classic episodes, but this was already done in Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey/1991). In the plot, the 2 guys, who both work in the film industry in L.A., happen to spot their idol, William Shatner, in a bookstore (Shatner, who portrayed Capt.Kirk in the classic Trek series and movies, is played by ...William Shatner). He doesn't live up to their expectations of a hero, even coming across as a bit of a loon, setting the stage for the re-evaluation of their lives. In all, the movie comes across as a bit silly and even pointless, with non-too-subtle moralizing about what's important in life, and apparent low-budget origins. But even non-Trekkers should find it mildly amusing. The DVD even has explanations of all the arcane Trek references, including optional subtitles. I'm still not sure what the title means (The Enterprise, of course, was the spaceship, er, starship in Trek, but so what?). "},{"Title":"Not great, but worth watching","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I could see where they were trying to go with this, but the delivery was just embarrassingly bad at times. I am assuming budgetary constraints stopped them from getting decent actors and prevented re-takes of scenes that screamed for it. I laughed out loud at times but mostly because I was trying so hard to like it.The acting was really awful. Exceptions were the leads McCormack, England, Weigel and Shatner (in that order). Everyone else was a D acting job.Worth watching only if you're an old Trek fan or McCormack fan. I have to say I was impressed after knowing him only from Will & Grace to see the range of his talent. Gotta love the Logan's Run references throughout the movie too!  "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  More Kirk, less moaning girl and geeks getting laid.  I liked Shatner, but the rest of it was hard to identify with.  It is like a sexy version of Clerks with Star Trek thrown in.  Course if Clerks is your thing you might be pleased, but I am a Baby Boomer, not a GenXer and this movie just didn't have enough to interest me. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This film is NOT for discerning viewers.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film with an open mind, being somewhat of a fanboy myself.  Man, was I disappointed.  Not only are the endless parade of sci-fi references SO specific as to be virtually unintelligible by the general population, the romantic-comedy aspect of the story is forced beyond belief and the performances are on par with that of junior high theatre members. Burnett's direction and editing are indulgent in the extreme and bely such massive ego that one wonders how he fit his bloated head through doors to the many inferior interior sets used in the film.  The fact that this film won ANY awards at ANY festivals is indicative of the dirth of good material on today's independent movie scene.  Truly a film to ignore and avoid AT ALL COST! "},{"Title":"Some good one liners but this film does lose it's way.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Free Enterprise is a mildly funny comedy about two guys who have everyday problems with women and money who live their lives in one big Star Trek metaphore. They are massive Sci Fi fans , especially Star Trek and one day they bump into William Shatner,their all time hero , reading a porn mag in a library. They build up the courage to go and talk to him an find he is not quite what they expect. He has the same problems in life as they do which is hard for them to get to grips with because he IS Captain Kirk. This film has some superb one liners such as The problem with women is they are always cold and I love a guy who's not afraid to have a Space 1999 lunch box . Having said that ,this film is short on Belly laughs and does get a little tedius. While watching the making off Free enterprise, William Shatner says that he turned the film down because the script was too embarrassing for him to do and after seeing this film i still think he should have turned it down . It does not do him any favours and does make him look a little stupid , especially in the last scene. I have decided to give this a 7 out of ten but it only just gets  a 7 because this film does lose it's way big time. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A tiny slice of L.A. life...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  L.A. is full of the characters seen in FREE ENTERPRISE--aging boychiks whose heads still whir, on a daily basis, with minutiae from STAR TREK and DAWN OF THE DEAD. (In my own slice of the city, substitute TAXI DRIVER and BAD LIEUTENANT for their sci-fi/fantasy equivalents.) Pop culture becomes a template for their lives--or what would be their lives, if they were living them. The writers Mark Altman and Robert Burnett had a bright idea in turning this into a slightly anxious romantic comedy a la ANNIE HALL/MANHATTAN-era Woody--though it's a little disconcerting to see the kind of geeks who hang around Full Moon Entertainment (depicted, roman-a-clefly, here) as good-looking, trim-getting, well-adjusted Normal Dudes. Trust me, they aren't. The other tasty element here is the appearance of William Shatner on the fringes of the two nebbish heroes' problems. You expect him to either save the day or reveal his clay feet; disappointingly, neither one really happens, but his climax--a rap version of the Big Speech from JULIUS CAESAR--is a delight. Mindfire Entertainment's second feature, THE SPECIALS, features a rhapsodic climactic dance by a dwarf. For all their Star Trek geekness, are these guys really set on bringing back the aesthetic of Stanley Donen? "}]