[{"Title":"conventional romance with a surprise brave ending","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Forces of Nature, Ben Affleck stars as Ben, a repressed, buttoned-up stuffed shirt writer who, through a series of natural and manmade mishaps, ends up spending the several days before his impending marriage in the company of a freespirited, totally spontaneous and liberated young woman named Sarah, played by Sandra Bullock.  For the vast majority of the film's running time, the screenplay follows the conventions of the opposites-attract scenario almost slavishly.  The script even provides Ben's fiancee with an overly-convenient replacement in the form of a now-hunky childhood friend she has not seen in years who rekindles sparks with her on the eve of the wedding.Thus, the stage is set for the predictable true love romantic finale.  But, damn, if the writers don't pull the rug out from under us and shatter the time-honored cliche.  This is particularly surprising because, up to now, the film has exhibited no trace of iconoclasm in either its plot or character development.  In fact, the screenplay is less a full-fledged narrative than a series of photographic montage sequences strung lazily together as Ben and Sarah engage in one cutesy situation and encounter after another.  Thus, the unconventionality of the resolution comes as an even more stunning surprise than it otherwise might.Affleck and Bullock are very appealing as two young people who complement each other's strengths and weaknesses and who learn to offer one another valuable life lessons.  Forces of Nature emerges as one of those rare films that is, perhaps bizarrely, actually better in retrospect than in the watching. "},{"Title":"Planes, Trains and&#133;very few laughs","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two days before his wedding, Ben's grandfather has a heart attack while dancing with a stripper.  Due to the delay Ben's fiancé, Bridget, flies ahead to Savannah to make the preparations.  Ben catches a plane later the day and meets free-spirit Sarah.  When the plane is in a minor crash the two join up to head to Savannah by any way other than road, leading to one `comic' delay after another.  Meanwhile the two become a little closer and Ben begins to doubt that marriage is for him.I first saw this in the cinema with my girlfriend (at the time) in a fit of trying to be seen to be giving and willing to watch silly films that she wants to see.  At the time I was particularly untaken by the whole film despite the odd amusing touch.  A few years on she bought it on video &#150; she likes the silly films she can watch with her friends &#150; and I gave it another go.  The film is sadly as poorly pitched as I remember it, it isn't light enough to be funny and it isn't well enough written to be an involving drama.  However, by trying to do both it fails to do either well.The light part is clearly indebted to `Planes, Trains & Automobiles' in it's make-up, with cross country japes and one mishap after another.  However to even compare the laughs in that film with the low number in this is, well, laughable.  The film tries to have some `hilarious' set pieces but none of them are more than amusing.  Even the support characters who wander in and out only ever manage a few good lines.  What makes this harder is the serious side to the film where Sarah has a child and an abusive husband and Ben gets nothing but advice not to marry.  This element is present all the way through and makes the film much more of a drama than a comedy, but, because it wants to be funny as well, the drama doesn't really work very well.Affleck is a non-character here and doesn't have the charisma to really involve the audience.  Bullock is normally good but this is outside of her normal character and she doesn't wear the difficult edges well.  The two have a reasonable chemistry that helps them through the rough patches but they don't fizz or spark together.  The support cast throws up a few interesting faces who give good performances including Ronny Cox, Zahn, Tierney and a few others.The film has been applauded for the realistic (low-key) ending which is certainly better on paper than the usual formulaic ending and on this I pretty much agree.  It doesn't spoil the film simply because the 30 minutes before this are so very serious and not funny.  On top of this the film also has some nice directorial touches in slow-mo rain and hail storms.  However the impact of the emotional climax in a swirling wind of flower petals is rather spoilt by the really poor back projection used to carry it off.Overall though this film is a bit of a letdown as it manages to only half work as a comedy and as a drama although it does have some nice touches that make it worth seeing as long as you know what to expect. "},{"Title":"amazing chick flick","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" last nyt i stayed up to watch a movie called forces of nature.. i read the info on my TV guide first. but instead of seeing it was yet another chick flick and just going to bed.. i stayed up and decided to give it a chance, and i am damn happy i did. ben affleck plays ben a man about to get married and is on his way to the ceremony that takes place in 2 days.. while on his trip he encounters numurous problems.. one of these problems is sandra bullock's character sarah.. instead of sarah being the typical, clumsy yet lovable, gorgeous yet geeky female we see in too many chick flicks.. she turns out to be an amazing complex character that made me fall in love with the film and her. Ben also encounters many people who discourage marriage, and after the has met the most amazing girl i have ever seen on the screen, will he get married or wont he?.. Amazing cinematography, a superb story line, and brilliant dialogue between characters, creates one of the best films i have seen in a while.. and i strongly advise you to watch this movie whenever u can.. or at least stay up when u see it on TVLeon Warner-Bradshaw (age 16 and male lol) "},{"Title":"Pretty darned good movie, better than we thought it would be!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a review of the DVD version of Forces of Nature.My wife and I rented this movie because we like Sandra Bullock, especially, and also Ben Affleck. We didn't have high expectations, except to be entertained. And we found it very entertaining and not particularly predictable. Affleck, the prospective groom, has to make his way to Savanna in two days after a plane problem, complicated by an arriving hurricane. He meets up with the ditsy Bullock, and both of them learn quite a bit about themselves. If you watch the special features on the DVD, Bullock explains how every one you meet, even short chance meetings, have some impact on you, and this is a large part of what the movie tries to convey. And it does it very well. There's good acting, lots of interesting developments, and a very good story in total. I give it 7 of 10. It is a much better movie than I expected.The DVD picture is very well done, and the sound track likewise, with appropriate use of the rear surround channels. My only complaint? Not enough bass rumble during the lightning and thunder scenes during the storms.July 2010 update Saw it again, a pretty entertaining movie with a good message. "},{"Title":"Surprising, better than I expected","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After reading the back of the video box about the whirlwind romance and the plot about Ben heading towards his wedding and meeting a free-spirited woman who teaches him how to have fun, I didn't have much interest in seeing it. It sounded extremely trite, and I'm not too interested in Bullock or Affleck either. I was very surprised at the sharp dialogue and humor. And even though every frame of this film looked like a jeans commercial, I *liked* the cinematography and hip, colorful locales. Of course the whole thing was totally unbelievable and the various events that occur are a bit overdone... but I liked it anyway. I am a sucker for road movies, so that was part of the appeal for me... traveling, different locations (the laundromat, the snack bar with the giant globe and the Big KMart at 2AM). I expected Ben's bride-to-be to be a crashing bore or uptight priss, so the audience would root for Sarah and Ben. But she was funny and sharp also, and you don't feel like the marriage would suck all the life out of Ben as it seemed to have for others in the film. All of the things Ben overhears about marriage sucking is pretty funny. I only post here about movies that make an impression on me, whether good or bad... and this one made an impression. I liked it. And no one is more surprised about that than me. "},{"Title":"confused collage of meaningless moments","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie seems as if someone had a cute idea for a movie, thought of two or three funny possibilities, hired a good cast, then turned the whole thing over to a really bad screenwriter and even worse director.  The director filmed a screwball romantic comedy as if it were a dark, artsy film---weird camera angles, blue filtered shots, lingering, close up looks at raindrops. Steve Zahn was good, as always.  Ben Affleck was charming, sweet, almost shy; he was perfect for a romantic comedy.  Sandra Bullock struggled along valiantly with a character who was supposed to be zany, but whose wackiness consisted of things like madly kissing a husband she hated, abandoning her child, going on carnival rides, offering to strip for money, and bumming a ride with a fellow airline passenger.  The script had very few funny lines; there was no physical comedy; it was boring.  It introduced potentially funny situations, then cut them off before they could develop.  To top it all off, the twist at the end was a slap in the face to anyone expecting a fun romantic comedy.  If you saw the trailer for the movie and liked it, as I did, my advice is don't go to the movie.  It will only spoil a nice trailer.  "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this movie","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Forces Of Nature got my attention from the start and didn't let up until the end. Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock star as airline passengers brought together by the forces of nature while Ben Affleck's character Ben Holmes is on his way to his wedding. Maura Tierney portrays his fiancée and she brought life to a character that was in the background. This is the perfect set up for Forces Of Nature because it seems when Ben and Sarah Lewis make progress; the forces of nature somehow get in the way.Maybe it's a sign that Ben is with wrong lady or maybe it's a way to let Ben think about the future. As I was viewing this film, I thought to myself Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock must have had fun making this film because it seemed that every time they were on screen together they were enjoying each other's company. One disaster after another occurred but Ben and Sarah made the best out of the situation and did a pretty good job.One outstanding performance came from the late David Strickland in his final film role. It was unfortunate to hear about Strickland's death because his role in this film showed the world that he can act well on the big screen. I was smiling every time he was on screen because I knew I would get something special from his performance.Forces of Nature is a well-written film that I found to have a lot of heart and dealt with many issues. I suggest that everyone check out Forces Of Nature because any and all of the Ben Affleck or Sandra Bullock fans out there will enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"An unexpected delight","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  spoilersOpting for a lazy Friday evening at home with a TV movie, I was mainly attracted to this title because of Affleck and Bullock, my two top favorites for the romance comedy genre (no, sorry, not Grant and Ryan). Not having even heard of this movie, and not being able to figure out why I haven't, I proceeded to discover a third reason for watching it Maura Tierney. It is she that makes the movie work.  Let me back up a little. The chance encounter and evolving relationship between the two principal characters follow a familiar track. Even then, cliché notwithstanding, the movie was terribly funny to watch. (Also remember that I had to watch it under the barbarous conditions of constant TV commercial interruption, and with no ability to pause it at the times I wanted to). The team of Affleck and Bullock (and particularly the latter) was the reason. The role fit Bullock like a glove, and we see her at her very best. In addition to the funny parts, the `showdown' scene in which they gave each other a piece of their minds, while again quite predictable, was well acted with a good mix of fire and poignancy. The ending, which I really like, while on the surface coming across as an unpredictable twist, was not entirely out of the blues, and here we come back to Tierney. This actress has so much unexplainable charm (at least in this movie) that subconsciously, we empathize a lot with her. But it's also Affleck and Bullock (credit to all three of them) that accomplish a delicate balance that lifts this movie a notch above its peers. The ending scene is simply beautiful. "},{"Title":"This movie is so quirky and offbeat that it's really good!","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why many people diss this movie because it's actually really good.  Who better to have than Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock?  They are perfect in their roles as Ben and Sarah.  But I have to say if Sandra Bullock wasn't in this movie, it wouldn't be as enjoyable as it is.  There are a lot of laughs but not so much that it goes over the top and there is a lot of drama in it too.  It's a perfect mix.  The camera angles make this movie very unique too.So the next time you're in blockbuster and you're contemplating on what to rent, you should rent Forces of Nature because it's the kind of film that will literally make you smile the whole way through.  4 Stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, I liked it","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I read the user comments and was reluctant to view this movie. Well I'm sure glad I went against the crowd. This is a good movie! What more could you ask for. (Sandy is great) The scene I adored is when Sarah is beckoning Ben to come and dance. If a women ever did that to me I would run to her. I really enjoyed the ending but I won't discuss that. There were enough laughs to keep it lite and enjoyable. The gay bar was a real hoot. Ben did a superb acting job doing his dance all be it Sandy does'st hurt the eyes. The one thing I liked is this movie is not a tear jerker. Most of Sandy's movies have me shedding tears like a water works. The story line surely shows that people live their lives in very different ways and that gives the movie credence. What's to not like? Easy to follow has Sandy in it what more could you want? One criticism, what did they use to put on sandy's eye makeup on a putty knife? "}{"Title":"I've seen better, but Sandra Bullock was good (SPOILER)","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After his grandfather gets too excited at Ben's bachelor party and ends up in the hospital, Ben has to board an airplane for Savannah to get married.  But he encounters one disaster after another.  Although he is afraid to fly, he ends up sitting next to a bubbleheaded former stewardess named Sarah who assures him there is nothing to worry about.  This does not turn out to be the case.Ben and Sarah end up traveling together with lots of misadventures.  Eventually, Sarah reveals her plan to sell a business her husband  invested in (and the fact that she has brains and knows how to be clever), but she needs a husband in order to close the deal.  Ben agrees to pose as her husband the doctor (and wouldn't you know it, Ben gets called on to save someone's life).  The two end up in such desperate financial condition that Ben has to strip for money at a gay bar.  One potential problem we have seen coming since the movie's start  a hurricane is headed for Savannah.During all this, Ben's future wife Bridget has her own problems, including staying with her mismatched parents and discovering that her former boyfriend still loves her.  We don't see a lot of scenes with Bridget, but it's just as well. This movie had a lot of funny moments and I had a good time, but it was nothing special.  Sandra Bullock was good as usual, alternating between ditzy and feisty at first, and later crafty.  She also showed a fragile side despite her tough exterior.  Most importantly, she was funny.SPOILER  You know exactly what will end up happening.  Or do you?  "},{"Title":"I don't know why people down this movie because I think its the best romance comdey I've seen ever!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes Ben what he is today. I think this is the best love story I've seen or liked. Ben and Sandra put together a great performce also the lady from ER, Maura Tierney. It made me realized that I'm like this and I could relate to it. I never liked Ben or Sandra untill I saw this movie. This movie is my favorite out of all Ben's and Sandra bullock's movies.I'll see about Ben Affleck in Daredevil! "},{"Title":"Lighthearted and comedy packed.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature isn't a very deep film. It isn't fluff, and it's isn't unimaginative either. Sandra Bullock in her role as Sara, who stars opposite Ben Affleck was aptly cast. I can't pick a better actress for the part, and the things that pop out of her mouth are unexpected and just plain funny. Yes, there's a little bit of drama involved, but overall, it's a comedy like Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. And you should watch it as a sort of free-wheeling comedy. Overall, not a bad film. I wouldn't consider it Bullock's best, but it's definitely not her worst either. If you're looking for a light-hearted, plot packed, rainy day movie to watch, then this is the movie for you. Overall, I give it a C+.  "},{"Title":"The 'Force' isn't with these two...","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ben Affleck, about to be married, is shaken up by a plane accident and gets involved with one of the other passengers (Sandra Bullock, forcing herself to act insane). Who is to blame for this inept, ugly morass? It is so badly edited, when I looked in the credits it wasn't to read the editor's name--it was to see if the person actually took the credit! Rife with clichés, contrivances, and Sandra Bullock in raccoon eye-makeup, the movie doesn't even concern itself with creating chemistry between the two main characters. Laughs are non-existent the scene in the gay bar with Affleck might have gotten a big laugh if it weren't so stupid (the bar patrons--a big rowdy bunch of them!--shout for Affleck to strip and start digging out their cash). It's not supposed to have any significance other than getting Ben to loosen up a little, but the direction of the whole scene is wrong-headed, and the outcome is unseen because the idiot editor cuts away...or was that all the film he had? It's a small moment but it's typical of this film, an amateurish piece of pop-goods that wants to be an edgy modern comedy but doesn't have any guts. It is tailor-made for the bottom shelf at your video store. * from **** "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, but not well narrated","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Looking at this film from the ending, I think that the intention was that this is mainly a story about Ben's cold feet before a wedding, with the moral that worrying to much if you are marrying the right person is not helpful (because you cannot know in advance).So, viewed this way, the film presents this as a kind of road movie to the wedding, with lots hurdles along the way, including Sarah, and also lots of people (including Sarah) telling Ben how bad marriage is. If narrated believably, this might have been a great film.Where the film fails is in actually showing that Ben loves his bride and also making it believable that he loves Sarah (I love Bullock, but I failed to see that a character like Ben was really attracted to Sarah enough to jeopardize his marriage). So just before the end, the situation presents itself as a decision between Ben marrying a woman without us knowing anything about their relationship, or leaving her at the altar for another woman for which he did not have believable romantic feelings. Not really a way to make us care for the result.Still, the ending made some kind of sense out of the story fragments that had been shown before and did a lot to reconcile me with this film. "},{"Title":"Sweet comedy with nice quirks","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS **Recap Ben Holmes (Affleck) is about to get married to Bridget (Tierny). He is to fly down from New York to Savannah for the wedding. There is one problem though, Ben has a fear of flying. And when the plane never makes it off the ground, but instead crashes on the runway, Ben decides to not fly, ever again. He teams up with Sarah (Bullock), who also needs to get to Savannah quick, and they start an eventful trip that will change both of them...Comment Sweet comedy with some nice remarks about love and marriage. Very good performance from Bullock as the very impulsive character Sarah, and Affleck is good as well as the calmer not so emotional Holmes. The story is good, coherent through all the twists and turns. Some of the quirks are very predictable, some more surprising. Most of them are more or less funny though, or at least sweet or cute. A good movie for a rainy afternoon...6/10 "},{"Title":"a comedy worth watching","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces Of Nature got my attention from the start and didn't let up until the end. Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock star as airline passengers brought together by the forces of nature while Ben Affleck's character Ben Holmes is on his way to his wedding. Maura Tierney portrays his fiancee and she brought life to a character that was in the background. This is the perfect set up for Forces Of Nature because it seems when Ben and Sarah Lewis make progress; the forces of nature somehow get in the way.Maybe it's a sign that Ben is with wrong lady or maybe it's a way to let Ben think about the future. As I was viewing this film, I thought to myself Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock must have had fun making this film because it seemed that every time they were on screen together they were enjoying each other's company. One disaster after another occurred but Ben and Sarah made the best out of the situation and did a pretty good job.One outstanding performance came from the late David Strickland in his final film role. It was unfortunate to hear about Strickland's death because his role in this film showed the world that he can act well on the big screen. I was smiling every time he was on screen because I knew I would get something special from his performance. Forces Of Nature was a film where Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock made what it is today; number one at the box office. I suggest to any Ben Affleck or Sandra Bullock fans out there  to check out Forces Of Nature. "},{"Title":"real fav. of mine!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Now this is a film I really enjoy watching now and again.  To me its a feel-good comfort-type film with its magic and visual effects.  Of course, Im a huge Sandra Bullock fan and saw nothing wrong with her role in the film.  Affleck, on the other hand, irritated me a bit.  He came across as weak, crap, and silly on most occassions.  A lot off pple say Sandy carried the entire film on her shoulders - I could agree.  Without the character 'Sara' the film would be lost, as I say most of the film suddenly revolves around her and her personality.  I also love Sara's make up style.  I would say because Sandy naturally has strong, bold features, she was able to carry it off, esp with brown eyes.....and it worked!  (Believe me, if I had similar features, I would be wearing the same..;)...).  But this is how I saw it  a guy going to get married, but we can see in his face hes dreading it, disaster strikes at airport, Sara was there and to me Sara saved him.....in a sense, as someone said here, she made him see how he had cold feet. Of course she has her own personal probs and the scene where she meets Karl, made me feel embarrassed for her, in how Karl said what he said. No-one likes to be made to look a baffoon in front of strangers.  And the two most likely had this physical attraction grow between them, but mentally were not suited to each other.Sara has a very quirky, funny, free-spirit, good-humoured type of personality......so as Ben is stuck with her he sees just how much she is different from Bridgette, and very attractive too!  Remember this is a film, I know so many pple out there want films to be very realistic, but sometimes the odd magical special-effects film where there is fun in a story of a journey can be a nice break and refreshing to watch!  And in films we can play around and create the non-realistic!  I applaud the makers and cast (except Affleck) on this film.........as its one I really really enjoy, mainly because of quirky Sara!  A huge 9 outta 10 from me! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen !","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting such a wonderful movie when I decided to go to the theatre. I thought that it would be a kind romantic film, but in fact, it's a great great movie. I love Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck too, and I like romances of screen. If you're like me, you'll adore this film. It's about the most important things (for me) in life  about love, finding love, realizing the love you have, choising, getting engaged and getting married. Bullock is cute, funny, moving. Affleck is fantastic as his character. This movie is a trip and you won't come back without sunshine in your heart. "},{"Title":"Great acting there!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows us how great Sandra Bullock has become. She shows a strong character with the comedy to go with it. Her acting has become stronger and makes the match between her and Ben Affleck makes the sparks really fly out. The chemistry is plain to see between the two characters making the viewers on edge for more. i really found this funny and enjoyable one to watch. "}{"Title":"Just do it!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay lets keep it short. Yes, it's a road movie; yes, it's a romantic comedy; yes it's got kooky Sandra Bullock in it. Even though I was dragged there under much duress from my good lady wife I was pleasantly surprised by the all round quality of this film from the casting, to the direction,SFX and acting.It gives you that feel good factor when you leave the cinema and I bet you won't be able to leave without holding your companion's hand(assuming it's your partner that is!?!). Simple as that really. Go see. "},{"Title":"See it with your girlfriend (or boyfriend)","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well this movie was less than what i expected . We kind  of knew  all the time what it would happen but it was funny . However be careful . It is not the funniest , or most romantic movie you  have ever seen . It is just another funny and romantic movie "},{"Title":"TRUE LOVE!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you can't find true love watch this movie. It will tell you where & how. This movie has a very nice story & lesson. I rate this 9½ because that's what I think it should have deserved! "},{"Title":"How can you not love Ben?","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was adorable, sweet, funny, and just plain lovable! I don't know how anyone could not love Forces of Nature! Ben Affleck played Ben (what a shocker) a nervous, clean cut, writer from New York. He falls in love with a beautiful woman on the way to his wedding! They have nothing in common, but he is completely infatuated, you can tell! They try Planes, Trains, and Automobiles to get to the Wedding. And everything possibly bad that could happen, happened to them! The only bad thing about this movie was the ending, but I won't spoil it for you!  "},{"Title":"Sometimes the people we meet change us forever.","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I cannot imagine anything that would be more fun than taking a road-trip with Sarah Lewis (Sandra Bullock). That is why I really think this film is worth watching. Ben Holmes (Ben Affleck) got something that very few of us ever get to experience - a couple of days with someone who will truly liberate us from our staid conventions and open our eyes to a world that we never knew even existed.Working with the developmentally disabled, I have to constantly remember that I cannot say they don't want to live or work or do something until I have exposed them to that opportunity and let them make an informed choice.How many times have we made choices without knowing all the opens - or even that there are options. Ben got the opportunity to make an informed choice. I am not saying I would have made his choice, but he knew what he was doing.Don't watch this movie looking for a comedy, even though it is funny; don't watch it looking for romance, even though there is plenty to see; but watch it to open your eyes to another world and ask yourself if your world is really what you want. "},{"Title":"Nice Enough","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck star in this romantic comedy. Ben (Affleck) gets stranded in New York when his plane skids out of control, the trouble is he is getting married in 2 days and his only way back seems to be a ride with a free-spirited traveller called Sarah (Bullock) The duo get into lots of trouble on their road trip and the results are pretty amusing. Affleck and Bullock both provide nice performances without ever excelling in the roles, the screenplay is nicely written and the direction is nice also.Basically it's a nice movie, with enough humour and charm to entertain, but it will never be a classic. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Amazing Cinematography by Elliot Davis","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Force of Nature(1999)contains an AMAZING and Stunning Cinematography by Elliot Davis(Out Of Sight),believe me is one of great cinematographer of last these years! These is one reason for see this great film,the others are,The story that is propaedeutic,the acting; Ben Affleck is here with a good performance(that's rare) but the film focused on the deep charm of Sandra Bullock... a great performance,great character great eyes!Also the use of music is perfect,songs by Faithless and Sarah McLachlan are great also the original Score by John Powell at the end give the right emphasis! A great film that absolutely worth be watch!! "},{"Title":"Deserves more credit than it has been given","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film really is one of those which deserves several viewings in order to be better appreciated ! From what I have read here, there seem to be a lot of negative comments about the film and I think this stems from an initial superficial viewing of the work which may leave a bad overall impression in one's mind. However I always try to view films thinking now what will they say about this in thirty years' time '  so to speak and I think that in that context the film will have acquired some historical value and stamp which seems to be lacking at present. I have already seen this phenomenon with certain films from the seventies and early eighties which are now considered with far more respect and awe than at the time they actually came out.I would not go so far as to say that the film is some great work of art and do have criticisms with regard to it, but several viewings of the work have brought me to re-assessing my initial reaction. The first thing we may say is that the sound track is MAGNIFICENT but I would hasten to add that it is a COMPLETE WASTE OF TIME buying the CD soundtrack as half the damned tracks are MISSING from the CD ! Why no-one complains about this sort of thing I will never understand ! A CD entitled sound track should contain all the music from the film, it's not as if we were talking about extracts only ........The beginning of the film does start out chatty, too fast, over noisy,flippant, and rather shallow, however when the film settles down to crusing speed,there are some genuinely romantic moments and my favorite passage of all is when our two protagonists are staying with the party of elderly people in a luxury motel and dancing to the beautiful music of Ruben Gonzales ( Siboney / Melodia del Río ), and of course they end up underwater in the swimming pool ! That is superb ! Other nice moments are when they are shopping in the K-Mart together, a very funny time in the gay night-club ( hilarious ) the scene where they are both talking together in the bushes just before Afleck goes off to his wedding in the hurricane and of course the bit at the end where Bullock finally meets up and is accepted by her little son. I could not remain untouched by these scenes.To go back to the dance scene with Ruben Gonzales, Bullock gives advice to Affleck about how to cope with his wife and married life in general. I was most touched by this scene ( the music surely helped me along ) and found the dialogue to be most authentic.The bad weather during the wedding scene causes some anguish but is well filmed, notably the slow-motion hailstones and normally you will notice that in films, weddings are filmed in sunny weather ( and funerals in the rain ) as sun is supposed to be a sign of optimism and rain, sadness ( but this can of course depend on the country where you live ). To see a wedding, or to be more precise, wedding preparations, in the rain and wind, then is surprising to say the least.In conclusion, then, the film without being a major work of art, has far more to commend it than to condemn it despite the initial twenty minutes or so being totally uninteresting and flippant. I think it WILL stand up to the test of time and will be far more appreciated in due course than at present. "},{"Title":"if a movie touches you","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" like this one, a 10 is all you can do. Ben Affleck is great, Sandra -the woman plays the woman's role like nobody else could have.....If I get tears in a movie, the movie is a m o v i e ........touching. Thank you folks who did it, the folks who wrote this wonderful story. Am I sentimental? Yess. And it feels good. Each turn of the story makes you wish, hope, and finally no violence in a movie. What a relief. If you watch this movie around x-mas, you probable get more sentimental than in a hot summer night, I don't know. It took me 12 years to get to see this movie. Heard so much and everything I heard was an understatement. Thank you Ben and Sandra, love you. "},{"Title":"Engaging Right From the Start","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" (Sorry for the double-entendre). This is my favorite Ben Affleck movie (though he may have done a better acting job in Bounce) and it is my favorite Sandra Bullock movie, although she was great in The Net. From start to finish, this is one of the freshest, most sincere, exciting, approachable and lighthearted romance films I have ever seen. The relationship between the two is never quite defined, and the dialogue and actions from almost everyone in the film puts their relationships under scrutiny.It does this in a considerate, intelligent way, though, and at the end, I was left with an appreciation of both new experiences and the social structure I depend on and will continue to.The end was brilliant, and the scene on top of the train (and when she is beckoning Ben to come up there), is one of my favorite of all time. Written from the ground up with a great deal of respect for the human condition, Forces of Nature is a classic. "}{"Title":"Much more than meets the eye","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" On one level, Forces of Nature falls squarely in what I will call the Murphy's Law tradition of cinema. In other words, whatever can go wrong, does go wrong. This tradition includes the likes of The Out-of-Towners and Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. In these movies - usually comedies - the principal characters are bedeviled by a series of obstacles which threaten to derail their plans; the obstacles range from human malfeasance to natural disasters. As the title strongly suggests, the primary obstacles in this movie are courtesy of Mother Nature. The probability of just one of the unfortunate events is extremely low. The probability of all of them occurring within the space of two days is nonexistent. (The antecedents of this tradition predate cinema by several thousand years, of course. Remember the trials of Job, and the plagues of the Old Testament. Indeed, at one point Ben says something about waiting for the locusts to come.) As Forces of Nature begins, Ben Holmes (Ben Affleck) and Bridget Cahill (Maury Tierney) are about to be married. Ben lives in New York; Sarah is from Savannah, Georgia, where the wedding is to take place. Everyone is on edge because a hurricane brewing in the Atlantic threatens to wreak havoc on the impending nuptials. Two days before the event, Ben boards a plane for the trip south. As luck would have it, a hapless seagull is sucked into one of the plane's engines, and it skids off the runway, resulting in minor injuries. One of the passengers is a young woman named Sarah Lewis (Sandra Bullock), who is en route to Florida to transact some business. Following the crash, she credits Ben with saving her life. Concerned about the possibility of another aviation mishap, they decide to share the cost of a rental car. There are no cars available, but they meet a man who already has one, and he agrees to drive them to their destinations. From this point on, the aforementioned Murphy's Law intervenes with a vengeance.If Forces of Nature were nothing but a succession of calamities, it would be funny, but nothing to write home about. On another level, however, it is an exceptional movie with a great deal of heart. There is a tradition for this type of movie, as well, and it includes It Happened One Night, which won an Oscar for Best Picture in 1934. The worst thing that can happen to anyone about to be married is to fall in love with someone else. Ben finds Sarah enchanting and unique, and soon he develops feelings for her. To make matters worse, nearly everyone he meets has a horror story about marriage. Before long, Ben's pre-wedding jitters turn into a panic, and he is in turmoil. The hurricane gaining strength off the coast of Georgia is nothing compared to the storm wreaking havoc on Ben's peace of mind. To paraphrase Hamlet, To wed or not to wed, that is the question.Ben Affleck is not an especially exciting actor (in my opinion), but in this movie he is very convincing as a man in the throes of indecision. Sandra Bullock is terrific as a free spirit who turns out to have more depth than you might expect. The supporting cast is entertaining, as well, and the dialogue is witty and intelligent. If you can forgive the director and writer for straining the limits of credulity with a preposterous plot, you should find this a very funny and poignant film. "},{"Title":"This world's gone topsy-turvy! Suspend your disbelief and enjoy...","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I take on board all the criticisms cited here about this film and I accept that most of them are justified, but I have to say that I had an enjoyable hour watching it (missed the first 20 minutes... cooking my tea). Yes, it is clichéd, the plot has been done many times before, the script is often disjointed and has more holes than a Swiss cheese, the characters are left half painted, the actors are playing to type (though that never hurt Bob Hope, Cary Grant, Carole Lombard, etc., etc) and elements of the story seem to be largely superfluous (the most egregious example being the climactic hurricane); but it is a romantic comedy... and I found it both romantic and gently funny in places. The weaknesses in the script and the editing can't be laid at the casts feet; and they perform really well. Sandra Bullock and Benn Affleck's romance isn't the most believable you'll come across, but they do work well together and have the chemistry needed to carry the heavily flawed plot. It also should be noted that very little in the story is believable; so much so that, at one point, Affleck and Bullock arrive at a bank where Ben Affleck is due to pick up some money that will enable them to get to Savannah, only to find the bank engulfed in flames. They turn to each other and laugh at the sheer improbability of it all; it's as if the characters are momentarily saying to the audience, yeah! we know that you know that it's all so fantastical and contrived... so don't worry, it's meant to be. Lazy script writing or a foray into the realm of magical realism? The former I suspect, but the film obviously set out to have a fairy tale quality about it, and it has enough charm, wit and warmth to compensate for the holes in the script. Sadly many of the comical shoots do seem to inexplicably wither before they get a chance to bear fruit, but the comedy is without exception well-played by the cast. It just needed tighter scripting.I can't believe it has such a poor rating on IMDb - it has many faults, but I was contented to spend an hour-and-a-half watching Sandra Bullock looking lovely and being charming and witty on screen. Compared to so much of the exploitative, clichéd, adolescent, emotionally empty, fantasy violence out there that gets higher ratings, 'Forces of Nature' is Palm D'Or material... maybe it's rather naff title hasn't helped it... "},{"Title":"Atypical rom-com. Not without its moments","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Forces of Nature is a very unusual romantic comedy. Unusual in that it seems determined to avoid all the natural conventions you would expect from the genre. In fact as I watch it, there's something about the film that places it just a little outside the mainstream. I don't mean it would be embraced by the indie crowd. Especially with stars like Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck at the helm. But it is not your standard rom-com.Forces of Nature is a film that borrows a few plot lines from the superb Planes, Trains & Automobiles. But instead of a businessman trying to get home for Thanksgiving saddled with an annoying travelling companion, instead we have a man trying to get to his wedding, and meets a free spirited woman along the way who might just be the girl of his dreams.Ben Holmes (Affleck) is an uptight publisher on his way to Savannah to be married to his fiancée Bridget. But the plane he's on never even gets off the ground when a pigeon gets sucked into the engine turbine. Seated next to him is Sarah (Bullock), one of these eccentrics you tend to meet on public transportation.Ben is unwilling to wait for another flight to Savannah, and since she's headed in the same direction, Sarah wants to help Ben get to his wedding on time. But of course, their journey proves to be anything but smooth, filled with detours, jail cells and all night K-Marts.Although Forces of Nature is slightly predictable, I do have a certain affection for the film. Perhaps because it is willing to take the whole romantic comedy genre in strange directions. Sandra Bullock, one of my favourite actresses, is no stranger to rom-coms. But in this film, she plays a slightly more edgier character than what I've seen of her previous work.Sarah is the complete opposite of Ben. Where he is a tense, uncertain man who has to think everything through, Sarah is an impulsive, free-thinking spirit who goes with the flow. But her willingness to be so spontaneous sometimes leads to problems. Like the scene when a train they're on stops in the middle of the track, and she actually climbs on top of one of the carriages and invites Ben up just to feel alive. But the carriages are uncoupled and they end up seriously sidetracked.Forces of Nature does have some unexpected depth. Granted the screenplay is a little contrived the way it keeps throwing up obstacles to prevent Ben from reaching his wedding. Its all designed to keep Ben and Sarah in each others company. But that comes with the territory. And we do find out some surprising things about Sarah over the course of the film.Naturally of course, the more time Ben and Sarah spend with each other, they begin to open up to each other, and a strange sort of attraction develops. But not exactly love. Sarah helps Ben to loosen up, and Ben begins to question whether or not marriage is such a good idea now. But FON raises some fascinating and unexpected left field turns.Ben believes he may be falling in love with Sarah, but she doesn't agree. After all, they've only known each other for inside of two days. How could he possibly love a complete stranger who only just walked into his life a short time ago? She helps Ben to reexamine his feelings for Bridget, and make the right choice in the end.FON is never as outright funny as it should be. But then maybe its not trying to be. It tries to ground the trappings of a romantic comedy in more serious surroundings. Its nowhere near as successful as the wonderful Lost in Translation, but FON does have some pleasant surprises in store. Bullock is terrific, and plays one of her most fascinating characters to date, and although Affleck is as stolid as ever, at least its in keeping with the character he's supposed to be playing.The ending is a little downbeat, especially for Sarah's character. I genuinely did feel real sadness for her in the end. Bullock does such a great job of fleshing out Sarah's character I was left with genuine concern over her future.Forces of Nature is no classic, but it does have some unexpected merits. It would be a shame if it faded into obscurity. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Morality","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think the song Love the One You're With, which played prominently in Forces of Nature, told the entire tale. Few Hollywood celebs take relationships and marriages seriously, and they seem to last only until the next casting comes along. I never saw a movie with so many negative remarks about marriage, and with Ben Affleck's romance record, he could have written the script all by himself. While the movie had its funny and oh, not again moments, there just seemed to be that underlying feeling that Ben's marriage may never happen and he has discovered that his buddies are right..Why tie yourself down to one woman when there are so many others out there interested in you. Even when Ben decided that he'd better do the right thing and marry his fiancée, he just didn't seem to make the decision with all his convictions. It's definitely art imitating life when it comes to love commitments in Hollywood. As far as all the symbolism many people have written about here, it's just hard to take any of it seriously in this love farce of a movie. The only symbolism that I took to heart was Stephen Stills' song of free love. So if you're down and confused (and just waiting for something to do) on commitment and marriage, and you think that Sandra Bullock is hot enough to break up a romance, then Forces of nature is the perfect movie for you. "},{"Title":"A Cold Front Meets A Warm Spell","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" More of a light drizzle than a hurricane, Forces of Nature follows the gathering storm as upright and slightly stuffy Ben Holmes (Ben Affleck) hooks up with Sarah Lewis (Sandra Bullock), one of those free-spirit chicks with attitude, as he tries to get to Savannah for his wedding to Bridget (Maura Tierney). Inevitably, Ben begins to question his decision to marry Bridget as he finds himself falling for Sarah.This is about the 736th reworking of an idea first filmed 65 years before in It Happened One Night, only with a few MTV interludes punctuating modern day sensibilities that would never have got past the censor back in the 30s. There's no wall of Jericho here, just a frosted glass window through which Affleck watches Bullock disrobe. Affleck, the world's most natural friend-of-the-hero supporting actor is once again unaccountably promoted to the part of leading man and finds himself out of his depth with even the shallow demands made on him by the film's character. He comes across as nice enough, but there's nothing memorable about him and notwithstanding this being an opposites attract flick, it's difficult to see what Sarah would see in such a buttoned-up character.While Forces of Nature would win few awards for originality, it manages to avoid becoming simply a series of mishaps filmed for comic effort. Stuff like that quickly becomes tiresome as the likelihood of serial misfortunes besetting one couple grows increasingly unbelievable, but here we at least have the occasional detour for reflections on marriage for its own sake versus being true to oneself. It's a hoary old topic to be sure, but it at least gives a little depth to what would otherwise be the lightest and most inconsequential of movies. And writer Marc Lawrence at least manages a neat reversal of viewer's expectations with an unexpected climax that nevertheless makes a mockery of everything that has gone before. "},{"Title":"I expected more, but still entertaining","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature, with sandra bullock and ben affleck, is cute with a few good funny parts. I expected more from Sandra Bullock ,but this is still and unpredictable fun romantic comedy. Bullock and Affleck are good together. This is a good movie to anyone who LOVES sandra or ben, or if they like comedies. If you like neither, then stay away. I enjoyed it, but not as much as I expected.My favorite part about this movie is that it was unpredictable. You thought you have it figured out, but then in the last 5 minutes, it changes.Average Romance. 3.5/5   "},{"Title":"Excellent Unoriginal Romantic Comedy","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Romantic Comedies. How long have they been around? I am sure since the dawn of cinema romance has been played out way too many times on film.  So many people complain they are unoriginal, that the formula is tired and lame. My question to those people is this, why the heck do you go see this type of movie in the first place? In Forces of Nature's case was it because Sandra Bullock looked damn hot in the preview or Ben Affleck looked like he was actually going to stretch his acting range? Why? I really do hate when people rag on this genre of film because honestly its dependable, you know what your gonna get, its comfort food for the soul.  I have seen my fair share of bad romantic comedies, but let me tell you Forces of Nature is one that has its head in a creative fast lane.   Not only is it great to look at, with slow motion sequences and imaginative special effects, but also the story is one that I didn't expect.  The story is present to show you the cold feet of Ben (Ben Affleck) and a woman, Sarah (Sandra Bullock), who makes him understand it. There trip from the airport, takes them through all kinds of over the top weather, but it is all part of a metaphoric journey of understanding love and marriage.  I admit some of the movie does dabble in some less than stellar scenes involving Ben's Fiancée Bridget (Maura Tierney) and her ex-boyfriend Steve (the late David Strickland), but it doesn't bring the overall story down.  While its true that the audience doesn't quite understand the relationship between engaged love birds Ben and Bridget, that is hardly something you can complain about since its not the point of the movie, the story is about Ben's journey and his ice cold feet. I enjoyed the movie for what it was instead of trying to imagine that it could be this uncliched masterpiece, because I find most romantic comedies are derivative to certain point anyway.  The title sequence by Kyle Cooper (the director of New Port South) does a brilliant job with colour and substance, which perfectly matches with the rest of the film. Cinematographer Elliot Davis, wow, does an amazing job here with coloured lenses.  Forces of Nature is a great film, full of rain, thunder and sunshine, which is exactly how love can feel at times. "},{"Title":"Alright Movie","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being 14, i thought this movie was a good movie for everyone, I first watched it when i was 12 and i loved it, i watched it over and over forever and i just watched it a few days ago with my best friend and we hated it. When we were 12 we watched it for the first time together and the last time together. Its an alright movie, most women would like it, not many guys though "},{"Title":"NOT your typical chick flick","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSThis movie has been under-rated.  It bears the shape of a romantic comedy, and yet has a very interesting twist to it.  If you are looking for a tried-and-true fluff movie, you may well be disappointed.  If you are looking for a fun movie that actually has some profound things to say about life, this is a good one.The plot is a simple one, and somewhat worn a man (Ben Affleck) is trying to get from New York to Savannah for his wedding, and everything in the universe seems to be conspiring to keep him from getting there, and to convince him not to get married.  Meanwhile, his fiancee is being wooed by her old boyfriend in Savannah while a hurricane is bearing down on the planned outdoor wedding.Along the way, Affleck finds himself traveling with a totally free spirit (Sandra Bullock,) while one disaster after another befalls them.  Affleck starts to fall for Bullock, of course, while every single person or thing in the universe is telling him that getting married is a bad idea -- including Bullock herself.  Each learns some things from the other, and eventually they get to the wedding and the movie's conclusion.If that were all there were to the movie, it would get a mediocre rating from me.  Neither Bullock nor Affleck really shine in this movie, although their chemistry is pretty good, and the plot is fairly stale. Fortunately, there is a lot more to be had there.All I will say about the ending is that it is not what you expect.  There is a theme throughout the movie, however, and that seems to be what holds it all together, and turns an okay movie into a very good one.The title of the movie says what this film is about.  It is about forces of nature -- things you cannot control, and can only live with, like hurricanes, seagulls, lightning strikes, hailstorms, etc.   What I thought was obvious -- but apparently is not -- is that Sandra Bullock's character Sarah is the principal force of nature the movie is about.Sarah is a living tornado, a dynamic, spinning, agent of chaos.  She is a very fun-loving person, but is suffering from the consequences of being that kind of person.  Being that way has a price you don't often see in the movies. She is not only a free spirit, she is in a great deal of pain as the result of her past free actions.  Ben's character (Ben) is a book cover blurb writer, who is in just as much pain from his dweebish lifestyle, except that he doesn't know it.We have a classic pairing of the free spirit with the anal retentive, letting each learn from the other, but what both have to learn is how to live with forces of nature.  Ben must learn how to go with the flow of the disasters life throws at him, to enjoy himself, and not to worry much about maintaining his balance.  Sarah must learn that she *is* a force of nature, that she causes wreck and ruin, but that she also has to learn to regain her balance after the ride to take responsibility for the consequences of her actions.The formula of this pairing is an ancient one, but this movie takes what they learn to a much more healthy conclusion than you normally find. Perhaps disappointing if you just want a romantic fluff movie, it has some very good things to say, and yet has enough fluff to be interesting to the I want fluff crowd.  "},{"Title":"Excellent film, suprising to the end.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a writer, I really enjoyed this movie.  Not only does it have individually entertaining moments, but that it did not have a formulated plot. This movie will keep you on the edge of your seat and in fits of laughter.  It is a must see. "}{"Title":"Are People Too Shallow to Appreciate this Movie?","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am stunned by how many people are disappointed by the ending of this movie, saying it is depressing, unexpected, unwelcome, dissatisfying, etc... I guess these folks think that being stood up on the day of one's wedding makes for a feel-good movie!!! The ending affirms the beauty and magic of real love, an emotion that is exalted and pure, and lies above fleeting whims and senseless, immature attractions. Ben realizes that Bridget is his one, true love. Yes, he was distracted by the human tornado that is Sarah, but upon seeing his fiancée once again, he remembers all the reasons he fell in love with her to begin with, and he recognizes that what Sarah said earlier was right all the things he found exotic about this stranger would one day be all the things he hated about her. He had no true bond with her, they could never sustain a life together, and he was smart enough to realize that before he threw away the best thing in his life. He comes full circle at the end Sarah tells him not to be polite, and to be honest, just like his fiancée did at the beginning of the movie. For him, honesty is admitting that Bridget is the only one for him. By the way, Maura Tierney is one of the greatest actresses of her generation. She deserves continued success. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie....","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I enjoy this movie every time I see it and I watch it nearly every time I can. The plot is very light hearted and sweet and in these times, who doesn't need a great way to escape from the stresses of the daunting world. The cinematography is unique, inventive, and beautiful! This movie has always given me a better perspective on marriage, love, lust, wondering minds, and people in general. This film's directorial vision is clear and is visually stunning. I absolutely love the imagination behind the actual filing. You will be hard pressed to find another movie that takes the same route of visual appeal. World class inventive use of overly saturated colors and stop motion videography.... "},{"Title":"Love The One You're With.","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The story of the mismatched couple who are forced to make a trip together and who gradually come to control their animadversions is a familiar one. Usually, not always, it's a man and woman. Frequently, one is stodgy and the other reckless.I mention, only in passing, Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, Something Wild, The Palm Beach Story, It Happened One Night, and all the Road To -- movies with Bing Crosby and Bob Hope. Maybe if we could suddenly discover all of Aristophanes' missing plays there'd be one about a mismatched couple trying to find their way to Cloud Cuckoo Land.So, is it possible to breathe ANY fresh life into this near-cadaver, shuddering, Cheyne-Stokes breathing setting in, boxcars ready to form, ready to be transfigured? Yes. Forces of Nature does a pretty good job of resuscitation. There are moments that are forced and silly -- jumping into a pool, standing on the roof of a passenger train and shouting life-accepting exclamations -- but for the most part it's funny.The stodgy character who is afraid of flying, of water, and of disrupting his wedding plans, is Ben Affleck. The liberating life force is Sandra Bullock. Each plays off the other and the supporting cast is unimpeachable. Maura Tierney as the impatient and ever more frightened bride-to-be is outstanding. The role combines comedy and pathos. Blythe Danner, Gwynneth Paltrow's mother, is 58 years old and delicious.It's competently directed by Bronwyn Hughes and the script by Marc Lawrence shows some keen wit. It may not end the way you think. "},{"Title":"I'd Like to Force the Nature of My Foot Upon This Film.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Forces of Nature (1999) Dir Bronwen Hughes / Cast Ben Affleck, Sandra Bullock, Maura Tierney, Steve Zahn, Blythe Danner It seems like a force of nature when studios continue to pump out these dreary romantic comedies. This one is about chance and romance. Ben Affleck as a bachelor who is engaged to Maura Tierney. He encounters Sandra Bullock on a plane but it crashes before it gets off the ground, much like the film. Affleck must be on time for his wedding, and Bullock must sell a bagel shop so that she can give the money to her son whom she has never met. Conclusion bares compliment due to a particular decision. Full bore full of lame situations just so to romantic link the leads. Its only grace is its concluding decision. Director Bronwen Hughes showed much promise with the fantastic kids film Harriet the Spy but he shows none of the same talent here. Bullock claims to have been married four times, which renders her a brainless gullible bimbo. Affleck should have called in sick for all the good he does. Tierney is required to sit home waiting for the phone to ring. Steve Zahn plays Affleck's trusted friend. Blythe Danner is also featured amongst the many useless wasted cameo appearances. There are a few complimenting elements regarding marriage but this is more or less a romantic tease in typical fashion with little substance and absolutely no force. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bullock And Affleck Make An Engaging Couple In Movie With Surprise Ending","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Plot In A Paragraph Ben Holmes (Ben Affleck) a professional book-jacket blurbologist, is trying to get to Savannah for his wedding. He just barely catches the last plane, but a seagull flies into the engine as the plane is taking off. So he is forced to hitch a ride with an attractive but eccentric woman named Sara (Sandra Bullock) Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock make an attractive romantic pairing, and have a certain amount of chemistry. Michael Fairrman Bridget Thurman, Moira Tierney, Steve Zahn, Ronny Cox and Richard Schiff are all good in supporting roles. The plot moves a long at a good pace, their are a few laughs to be had and the ending is a surprise too.I don't understand the hate that Affleck gets, as I usually enjoy his movies that vary in tone, style and subject matter drastically 'Company Men' or 'Armageddon' 'Argo' and 'Hollywoodland' or the (what I consider the under rated 'Jersey Girl' I enjoy him in all of them. As for Bullock, she remains one of the most talented and beautiful women in movies, and her ladylike sexiness is in rare supply. Any movie becomes promising just by having her name in it's cast. "},{"Title":"Funny Very Funny","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was funny and cool I thought it was going to be another crapy Romance story. But it proved me wrong very wrong. Sandra Bullock is very funny and sexy. Ben Affleck plays along side her very well in this film. Loved it to death. "},{"Title":"A Serious let down","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie expecting a light, romantic comedy, which is exactly what it was billed as. That's not however exactly what it is. While it is a romantic comedy, and parts of it are funny this movie just doesn't cut it in either the romance category or the drama category, instead it sort of floats along in the middle. Also it has what I consider a rotten ending, throughout the whole movie we are cheering for the main character to make the right choice and he does...only to change his mind in a seriously disappointing twist which leaves you thinking 'why on earth did I bother with that?'. "},{"Title":"Uh...yeah...","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie, luckily at a discount theater, strictly because Sandra Bullock looked pretty damn hot in the commercials. At first, while sitting through this movie, I thought that it was okay. We got the usual chick flick format guy wants to marry, saves hot chick on crashing plane,cant get away from her, yadda yadda yadda. Ben Affleck sucks, by the way. He can't even get out a joke properly, like on a train, Sandra calls out to God, or something, and Ben squeaks out some lame response. God, he sucks.I fell into the trap of liking the idea that Benny's character didn't go for Sandra the hottie. (Ben, you FOOL!!!) I even said to my mother that this movie was better than Moonstruck!!!!!! (She once said to me that crack is a bad thing. I should've listened.) I've wised up since then, and realized that it's a smoldering pile of chick flick dog crap!Sandra, dear Sandra, the greatest tease in Hollywood, do I still have to wait for that full frontal nudity, or will I have to rent Fire on the Amazon? "},{"Title":"Hello!!!!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the preview for this horrible movie, I kept thinking one thing, MADONNA! In 1987, Madonna starred as Nikki Finn in Who's That Girl?. The storyline is the same thing. A crazy girl with many personalities, seduces a soon o be married guy!! If you want to see a better and more crazy movie that Forces of Nature, watch Who's That Girl (1987) I give the movies Forces of Nature 2/10  Who's That Girl? 8/10 "},{"Title":"Insanely Beautiful","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is insanely beautiful. I sat there thinking this story is fabulous, but what the hey is going on? All I knew was Sandra Bullock was a super lovable wild woman, and Ben Affleck was falling for her. Actually, I got the movie entirely, but it is the most obscure movies I have ever seen. It is erotic, abstract, and stunning. 'Forces of Nature' leaves you with an unexplainable feeling that mulls in your head and heart for days after seeing it. Only the best movies can do that. "}{"Title":"Under-appreciated  *May Contain Spoiler*","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The main problem I think that people have with this film is that it is unbelievable.  I think that to appreciate this movie you have to look at it from more of a symbolic point of view, rather than a realistic point of view. Here is Ben Holmes (Affleck) who is about to be married, and suddenly all signs seem to be telling him not to tie the knot.  I love the scene with the couple on the train (how you think at first that they are a cute, married couple but actually are cheating on their spouses together), the man on the plane who complains about his wife, and Vick in the Volvo who also complains about his marriage. Affleck's character tries so hard to be a good guy, but here he is caught up in a whirlwind of strange events, all of which seem to be trying to keep him from ever reaching his wedding.  Everything goes wrong for this guy!! This is a good movie about a man's struggle with pre-marriage jitters and with his own conscience. I think the acting is great and you can't beat the ending! "},{"Title":"almost works (SPOILERS)","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree that the acting by Affleck and Bullock is below average, especially Affleck, at least Sandra Bullock is good at what she always does. I definitely agree that the supporting cast is quite good (I love Maura Tierney, and Steve Zahn is hilarious--They are just travel partners! And she's ugly!)  I think the biggest mistake the movie made was giving Sandra Bullock a life.  It could have been much more intriguing had she been only a Force of Nature and we didn't have to deal with the pointless scenes involving her husband and child. The scene towards the end with Affleck and Tierney at the wedding was absolutely wonderful, and should have been the end.  Tierney does a tremendous job of showing exactly why Ben was in love with her.  Her quick wit and pouty face, along with that low voice are absolutely irresistable.  See this movie for the visual effects and for Tierney.   "},{"Title":"Different!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never went to see this film at the cinema but got to watch it in the comfort of my own home.  I'd recorded it from the TV one day as I LOVE Ben Affleck and like to watch any film he is in!! (I also find Sandra Bullock quite good too) and when I saw this film it was so much different to what I expected!I put it on expecting it to be a typical predictable romantic comedy ending but it totally shocked me. I really did enjoy this film and found myself getting frustrated at the continuous chain of 'unlucky' events that kept unfolding but was comforted at the fact I thought I knew what the ending was going to be like! How wrong could I be!I was so disappointed at the ending as all the way through the film the story line had been leading me down a different path!I wanted the film to end how I thought it was going to end and when it didn't I could have screamed (as the rest of the film had been what I thought was predictable!)  Then I thought about the ending and realised how good it was to have a realistic ending in a film! I can't really say alot more about this film without giving away the ending!So I recommend this film just so people can see that romantic comedys don't all have to be predictable!This film is quite true to life (apart from the fact gorgeous men like Ben Affleck don't just appear from plane crashes! - actually the gorgeous men that do appear from from plane crashes are usually married (or gay!) so maybe it is true to life in that respect!) and it has a refreshing ending to it - even if it is slighlty frustrating!!! So go and see it - even if it is just for Ben Affleck, after all that was my reason for seeing it in the beggining!! "},{"Title":"watchable","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature is a good enjoyable movie, but which unfortunately lacks originality. Ben Affleck is a guy who's preparing to get married to Maura Tierney. Right before the wedding, Ben's plane crashes and he meets Sandra Bullock, who also plans to get to Savannah. They decide to go together and this is how 2 days of adventures and love start between them.The plot as i said lacks originality. Still there are some really funny scenes and good dialogue, and the acting is also good. I mostly enjoyed the final scene (spoilers ahead) , when Maura and Ben make up, he makes his vow and the director shows them talking, and all the storm and flying objects around them are presented in slow-motion. Good job.Vote 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Drawn out, ridiculous, and really quite awful","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I firmly believe Ben Affleck is a gifted actor. But this is no Dogma, no Good Will Hunting...hell, even his role in 200 Cigarettes is more memorable. Ben proves the age old theory that the best actor in the world does not a good film make. Basically, the story is horrid. The script is horrid. Add that to the fact that I can't stand Sandra Bullock (scrawny and one-dimensional) and that makes an awful film. The upside? Maura Tierney's really cute and I really like Steve Zahn. That's about it. The story is absolutely ridiculous; why do writers feel the need to overdo and over-dramatize *everything*. Excessively melodramatic (the shining light through the hurricane onto Affleck and Tierny made me gag) and excessively unbelievable. I hate it when 'everything goes wrong' films don't leave any room for reality. Every five minutes some new mishap or disaster happened, and they were usually awkward and eye-rolling. And when a little bit of story actually started to take place, it was interrupted by yet another misadventure... And the film was *way* too loooooooong!! Nearly two hours of non-stop schlock. Could've chopped an easy 20 minutes off of it. Overall, I'd recommend a pass on this one. There are some really cheezy sentimental films out there that are still enjoyable despite any excess or melodrama. This isn't one of them. If it didn't have a decent cast or one or two mildly amusing scenes I'd rate it even lower, but as is 4/10. "},{"Title":"different kind of romantic comedy that is a pleasant suprise","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoed this movie because it was different to most romantic comedies. Julia roberts the queen of these films are always rather predictable and rather shallow.  However I commend bullock and affleck for choosing to do this movie.  Many people were not happy with the ending but it was true to life and we don't always need an ending in a movie were the two lead walk of into the sunset arm in arm.  So basically I enjoyed it for its realistic approach to the end and because it chose to add fantasy to the other parts of the movie instead of maybe the end. "},{"Title":"hate this movie!(Spoiler)","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is the only Sandra Bullock movie that i absolutely despise! i liked the part where Ben is on the phone and Sarah flings herself on the glass. and when they are in the gay bar, but those are the only parts that i like. this movie was an utter waste of my time "},{"Title":"Deja vu?","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you thought that the plot was very familiar maybe its because you saw the movie It takes two (1988) with George Newburn (Adventures in Babysitting). The premise is the same, even small details in the characters personality traits, worst of all, the ending is the same.  I saw the whole movie just to find the coincidences.  Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Visual effects and originality, the strong points","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I rented this film I expected to meet a not-so-good, minor film, entirely based on Sandra's charm (which in fact was the main reason that I rented it). I found a very different movie, with an amazing visual conception, which at times assimilates it to a videoclip. This could be no strong point --I am tired of seeing movies that are nothing but an uninspired string of the usual original scenes-- but in this case those fragments really enhance the story and are an essential part of this film's magic.I won't talk about the ending, but I didn't like it. You decide if it suits your tastes. But the progression of the plot, including the psychological conflicts of both main characters, is intrinsically worth, and I found it deep enough to keep me watching.My final advice go see it.  "},{"Title":"Okay acting and holes in script large enough for hurricane","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The acting is all right, but the story just is too implausible. Ben and Sandra are fine and the rest of the cast is enjoyable. You have to sit back a few times during the movie and just say, It's just a movie, don't try to figure out why someone did what they did or why the sets are done the way they are. At least it ends well. "}{"Title":"Forces of Nature. Oh how true!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature does a great job capturing the uncertainty and unpredictable circumstances of life. Sandra Bullock as a free-spirited woman teaches groom-to-be Ben Affleck the importance of friendship, and that nature forces can have an impact on anybody's life that no matter what to expect you should expect the unexpected. When Ben reaches his destination of his wedding and a life of only true love it's only more gratifying, because he has experienced the life of Forces of Nature. I rate the film 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"God bless the supporting cast","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was probably the most improbable and incredible romance I have ever had the misfortune to sit through.  However, that is only in retrospect, I actually really enjoyed watching it.  This is not a credit to either of the lead characters, Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock, both of whom I usually love, came off trite and type-cast...  and despite their vain attempts to be tough they presented as so sugar sweet I couldn't eat chocolate for a week following.  No, I enjoyed this movie for one reason, the supporting cast.  Blythe Danner as mother of the bride is elegant, graceful, real, and lovely as always.  We see where her daughter gets her talent.  Steven Zahn is hilarious.  I never cease to be entertained by his sharp-wit and perfect timing.  But most of the credit for saving this film belongs to Maura Tierney.  Her scenes provide much welcome respites from the ridiculous antics of Affleck and Bullock.  Tierney is wry and funny, not to mention terribly appealing.  The audience finds itself rooting for her happiness and cursing Affleck's boneheaded attempt at a tryst.  Tierney's performance adds a much needed earth to a film that spends most of its time on the fringes of the clouds.  She grounds it gracefully, creating the center of mass around which all other insanities and adulteries and abnormalities can revolve, because she is sure of two things...  herself and her love for her fiance.  Maura Tierney makes it worth the rent, Blythe Danner and Steven Zahn help it breathe...  now all you have to do is ignore the stars of the film. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and talent","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Affleck and Bullock play mismatched travelers to Savannah, Georgia; he, to his wedding, and she, well, she has her reasons.  The two have zero chemistry together; Steve Martin and John Candy had a lot more in the similar-themed Planes, Trains, and Automobiles (1987), which was a lot funnier as well. Even a scene where Affleck dances in a gay bar, which has potential for laughs, falls flat.  At least Steve Zahn, as Affleck's best man, is funny.  A waste of time and talent. "},{"Title":"What a great movie.","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read other comments and their right  Forces of Nature was a breath of Fresh Air. It was funny and the cast acted well and were charming. I wish Ben and Sarah had ended up together in the end though but I didn't write the movie, but anyway I still give them credit because it was a fascinating movie because you never knew what was going to happen next.I give it 10/10 Well done people.You did very well. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Romantic comedies isn't really my thing. But since I don't like discriminating a particular film genre I keep on renting films like Forces of Nature. And I have enjoyed The Object of My Affection and Notting Hill and a few others. However, this film reminds me why I don't *usually* like romantic comedies. It's so packed with clichés that it's annoying and while some of the jokes were rather funny the film wasn't really entertaining. I found myself looking at my watch thinking the film must have gone on for 90 minutes or so&#133; well, about 40 minutes would have been a better guess. The idea behind the script doesn't last for longer and the story gets more and more ridiculous. And Sandra Bullock is the worst actress around. One of the worst at least. She lacks any credibility, she's almost as bad in Forces of Nature as in Demolition Man. It's all very sad really. And while Ben Affleck is an okay actor there's not much he can do with a script like this. Boring. "},{"Title":"Another sweet Sandra Bullock film","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While not as utterly charming as While You Were Sleeping, this is another really sweet romantic film from Bullock and friends. With the shortage of worthwhile romantic films in Hollywood this decade, Forces of Nature is definitely on the short list of films to hold-hands-with-your-sweetie with. "},{"Title":"Not very strong forces pulling me towards this movie","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie expecting it to be good.  I knew Sandra Bullok and Ben Afleck from previous works which i enjoyed to i expected them to be enjoyable in this picture as well.  I was saddened to discover that this movie was very unsatisfying.  I expected a resonably good chemestry to develop quickly between these too talented actors but no such chemistry developed.  I thought that this move was less that satisfactory not due to the acting talents of those involed but instead do to a poor script.  The chemistry did not develop because the actors were hindered by this horrible script.  I think if Sandra and Ben were given another chance with a script that was well written that they could really make some heads turn. "},{"Title":"this is the worst movie that i have ever seen","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature seemed to be a pretty cool movie. I thought that it was kinda cute and funny until I actually watched it. All the funny, good thoughts of the movie vanished from the start. I mean, the bachelor party was very disgusting and unneccesary for the whole movie. And the jerking camera- it was really hard to notice what was going on, was it really needed to have the camera go up and down and up and down? The story was also confusing-why did Ben go with Bridget instead of going with Sarah? It certainly did not seem as if he still loved her. Personally, I thought that this was a cheap imitation of Shakespeare in Love, which was way better than this movie mess. And the gay stripping was very grotesque that even I, who never forward a movie while watching it for the first time at home, had to forward it. I mean, give me a break! I felt as if I had wasted time and money on this mess. I extremely hated this movie. Anyone who is reading this, DON'T WATCH IT! I really hated it and I bet that you would also. Do not watch this movie mess. There are other movies that are better than this one, like Shakespeare in Love. Serious.  "},{"Title":"A Good Road Picture with a Romantic Touch","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After the last bunch of Julia Roberts/Meg Ryan formula romances, Forces of Nature was a refreshing change. This is first a road picture with almost as many pitfalls as Planes, Trains and Automobiles. So the relationship between Affleck and Bullock is more stormy than warm and there is a touch of reality that isn't covered up in the typical style of a romantic film.Forces of Nature cleverly juggles the road relationship between the stars with the wedding build up in Savannah Georgia. The surprisingly good special effects build on themes of life's unpredictability as well as creating some magical scenes. I especially liked the dry humor of the movie, because if you don't cry, what can you do except laugh. Also, there is a bit of light shed on the pressures of weddings and the problems of marriage mostly done in fun.Bullock has a tough role with a very wide range from wild to sympathetic. She pulls it off fairly well. While Affleck is not the greatest actor, he was believable enough. The chemistry between the two was slow to warm up but that goes along with the film's plot and then the sparks do begin to fly. Also, the many supporting character actors weren't too over the top which was a welcome change.There was little about Forces of Nature that I was unhappy with. It was a bit heavy for a romantic comedy but every love story doesn't need to end like Pretty Woman. Nature's message seems to be that sometimes all you can do for someone is wish them the best. This different type of romance really grew on me. I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant and vibrant, for something I did not expect to like","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard many bad things about this film.  I agree with many of the posted comments that Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock are not very good actors, but I enjoyed this film thoroughly nonetheless (I actually watched it twice in a row).  My husband watched it with me and said that Bridget was a b***h.  I disagreed, especially on the second watching.  I hadn't seen too many previews or reviews before watching it, and fully expected Ben and Sarah to end up together.  I actually teared up when he told Bridget how he had fallen in love when he first met her, and again when he saw her on the balcony.  Complete surprise for me.  Lovely ending to a sweet movie.  The special effects added so much to the story, especially in the final scene with the storm swirling around them.  Very romantic.  I also enjoyed the juxtaposition of scenes showing what was happening to each fiance as they were trying to get together. "}{"Title":"Very funny, beautifully acted and directed","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's interesting for me to see so many negative comments about this movie, because I thought it was totally charming, hilariously funny, and, in the end, quite honest.Those who don't think Sandra Bullock can act don't know what acting is. She is totally believable, able to say lines as if she's just making them up, and just comes across as a person you'd like to spend time with, which is one of the keys to being a star. Ben Affleck, who I wasn't a great fan of in the past, was equally real, also charming and funny--hard to do in a pretty wacky story like this.The two of them did not have great romantic chemistry, which was perfect, but they do have great personal chemistry--which was just right for the story.All the acting was right--especially Steve Zahn who has been great in everything I've seen him in.The direction was fast paced, with amazing cinematography, quite rare for a comedy, and wonderful, beautiful, magical effects that seemed both real and surreal.Maybe this movie was too subtle for some people (even though it's also broad at the same time). But I thoroughly enjoyed it, and my wife and I both thought that it had a feeling to a screwball 30's comedy like It Happened One Night.If you want some laughs, and also some thoughtful ideas, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A romp of a journey","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty good movie.  Ben Affleck goes through a long journey for his wedding.  He and Sandra Bullock after a near disastrous planecrash, hop it through train, bus, and automobile.  Along the way, he gets discouraging messages as people describe their married life.  And of course, this causes him to have doubts with going through his wedding.  Adding to the complication is his attraction to Sandra Bullock because she's unlike any girl he's ever met..  Besides, his fiance loves him very much.  The movie sort of reminds me of the film Planes, Trains and Automobiles since they go through a similar romp of a journey.  There's some amazing shots like the hailstorm scene and the hurricane wedding.  While the shot of the hurricane wedding scene is cool, it doesn't seem logical.  You can see the chaos going on as the winds destroy the wedding decorations, so why not postpone it without the smalltalk between Affleck and his bride?The verdict 3.5 of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Missed opportunities","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie much more than I actually did.   Both Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck are engaging actors.  Too bad their characters are so annoying and uninteresting.  What makes it worse is that there are some really funny moments in the film, cruelly holding out glimmers of hope--then the film plods on for another 15-20 minutes before the next good scene.This one could have been much better.  I could sense it wanted to be another Something Wild, but instead wound up something weary. "},{"Title":"Unnatural","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This light-weight romantic comedy is fairly pleasant. The main problem with the script is that the 'forces of nature' theme is ruined by a very unnatural ending. Neither Bullock nor Affleck has yet proven to be a strong romantic lead. Both are talented, but may find more power in other kinds of roles.  "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy?  Its wasn't very romantic, nor was it funny.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Need I say more?  This film was a solid disappointment.  Its attitude towards marriage is the most cynical I have heard in years. It was mundane and dreary.  The highlight was  the stars' joy at finding a K-Mart that was open twenty-four hours.  Next  time someone recommends a film like this, I think I'll go to the K-Mart instead.   "},{"Title":"Sandra and Ben - all the makings","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The chemistry between these two leads was a bit disappointing. Whereas Sandra (who I love) was made out to be the beautiful but dangerous woman and Affleck was made out to be the geek (perfect movie couple) I just didn't get the motif.  They didn't belong together in this film.Liar, Liar star Tierney (Bridgette) made a stellar performance as the bitch.  Her bitchiness was met with happiness, though - an atypical Hollywood ending.I wouldn't rent it again. My dish  4/10 - mostly because Sandra Bullock showed a lot of skin. "},{"Title":"An attractive movie with some repelling faults","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of Ben Holmes (Ben Affleck), a man with a heavy disposition but a relatively light load to carry, and Sarah Lewis (Sandra Bullock), a free spirit weighed down by very heavy burdens.  They meet after having survived the same plane crash.  Both are traveling from New York to Georgia - he to get married and she to resolve some personal loose ends.  Borrowing generously from the much more poignant and better written Plains, Trains and Automobiles, our hero and heroine journey many routes in order to meet their destiny.  In the attempt, each must separately and together brave the more obvious external forces of nature (rain, fire, windstorms and hurricanes) as well as the internal forces of human nature (lust, greed, envy, fear etc.).  The irony is that sometimes, the forces that attract two people are the very same ones that eventually repel them.  In the end, we are meant to marvel at the lengths to which human beings will go and the obstacles they must conquer, in order to express their love.  A cross between a music video and the black and white sequences from The Wizard Of Oz, this movie had a lot of potential, some clever plot twists and solid performances by all actors.  Unfortunately, the screenplay compromises with obvious and all too pat resolutions. "},{"Title":"Planes, Trains and Automobiles with a love story..","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Interesting movie. I love Sandra Bullock, and this one was a breath of fresh air. Something where she is completely different than everything she has ever played. Ben Affleck is a cutie as well! Reminded me of PT & A though. But that's ok, both are cool flicks. Some funny moments.  "},{"Title":"this movie suffers from a confusion of genres & intent","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Forces of Nature' is billed as romantic comedy, or, sometimes, screwball comedy.  This amounts to false advertising.  While the occasional finely-tuned screwball comedy puts across real emotional development (think 'The Philadelphia story), most of them hare off into fast-talking craziness (think 'His girl Friday' or 'The Big Lebowski'), and quite rightly too. True romantic comedies, like 'Moonlighting', are usually gentler creatures and even more firmly based in fantasy.  That's why we watch them.This movie's basic problem is that it wants to discuss real issues - marriage - in the context of a romantic setup.  The ending isn't a surprise, it's a cheat.  Affleck & Bullock work well together and even manage a small amount of zap, not a given in movies like this, and a movie about their accidental meeting etc would be fine.  So would a movie about someone struggling to cope with the demands of adulthood and marriage.  But this particular blend of the two goes gooey and sticky when it should be tough. The relationships are never quite believable, especially that of Ben and his fiancee, who's clearly been watching too much 'Friends' (did she remind anyone else of Rachel?)  'Forces of Nature' dithers in both directions, tells us too much and shows us too little, and in the end literally fails to satisfy. "},{"Title":"Great.. Romance.. Feelings..","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a great movie.. some people might find it boring saying why do i have to watch this nonsense.. however it's not.. think of Sandra Bullock and her feelings.. how she behaves is something natural for her.. not for others!!.. Love came so easily between two people who never thought they'd like each other.. i loved the way everything happened between them.. how they faced the different situations they went through.. the ending was a sad one.. very opposite of what u'd expect!!.. i cried a lot.. not because i'm romantic.. but coz the movie had strong feelings of motherhood and love.. both ended unsuccessful for Sandra.. i really like her!.. it's truly forces of nature!! "}{"Title":"I laughed, I hated the ending, I liked it nonetheless","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, first kudos goes to making Sandra Bullock totally likable.  Ben Affleck played his character well although the character is a bit of a square.There's one shot in a laundromat which the imagery is blatant but it just makes a perfect photograph which would have had me in the theater during first run (I saw it cheap at a second run theater yesterday) had it been used in the promotions.However, like all romantic comedies, I didn't like the ending.  This is a trend for most romantic comedies I've seen...Ok, so here's the deal--what gives with these kinds of movies always ending with the idea that it's best to (1) defy your heart, and (2) everything is best if you do what's expected of you.  Yaahhhhk!  Isn't the most rewarding part of living the growth we experience by pushing ourselves beyond the bounds of our personality?Ok, 'nuff said.  Overall I would recommend it as a rainy-day rental since it's quite enjoyable to watch and only a couple times do people do things which make you beg them to not be so dang stupid.  "},{"Title":"A chick-flick, but only in the most pejorative sense.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first ten minutes of this film were awful.  What's that crashing sound? Oh, it's the jokes missing their targets.  Then Sandra arrived and managed to lift the whole thing.My wife said that whilst Ben was very dishy, he couldn't act to save his life.  I didn't think he was that bad, but he won't last long unless he does better.  Sandra was excellent.(As far as it went - She could have probably phoned the part in.)  It was a shame there was nothing substantial to the character.  I was disappointed that the director went for the gratuitous bath scene which didn't actually titillate, let alone do anything else.A disappointing ending. I won't spoil it for you, but a straw poll demonstrates that whilst ladies seemed to like the ending, men didn't.Overall, a pleasant way to spend an afternoon, and certainly a good one for taking a date to (could provoke some interesting discussions on the value of marriage as an institution.)Actually, the more I think about this film, the more I realise it doesn't stand up to close examination.  Leave the higher parts of your brain at the box office. "},{"Title":"Did I say Forces of Boredom or Forces of the Pities","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is yet another stupid movie for Ben & Sandra. Totally, predictable, say, in an insulting way.  They both need a good agent, say Ovitz.Sandra, how old are you? 15 years older than you should be doing this role?!Just that you understand this is a movie about this nerd who's totally in love with his fiancee. When traveling to Savanna, Georgia, where the wedding is taking place, he is experiencing all sorts of transportation difficulties, in which he gets to know troubled passenger Bullock, a young abandoning mom, who's still facing coming of age problems. Hello! I'd think of Drew Barrymore 1500 times before Bullock.Affleck is all right but then again since Chasing Amy, I have not really seen him in a decent role. Together, Ben & Sandra master mediocrity and guarantee that you won't find a single true moment in this film, there just isn't.  "},{"Title":"Not a brilliant film, but it bounces along","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film presents a moral maze to Affleck's character, and centres around the debate over whether he should get married or not, with Sandra Bullock playing the maverick free spirit. I found the eventual outcome slightly disappointing. Very much a feel-good film, but without the impact it could have had. "},{"Title":"An OK film with fantastic cinematography","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was almost just another enjoyable romantic road movie, but it is elevated above the usual run of the mill Hollywood fare by some fantastic cinematography. The sunsets are beautiful, the rain falls like jewels from the sky and the scene where the two main characters run through a hail storm is just amazing; each hailstone shines like a diamond. Best of all is a scene close to the end where two people are surrounded by a hurricane yet are completely unaware of it, lost in their conversation whilst the wind twists and howls around them. Definitely a film worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A captivating tale, which will make you ponder life.... -)","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a captivating tale of two people who find from each other a new way for their life. Sandra Bullock protrays Sarah with stunning enthusiasm, and you cannot help but fall in love with her character. Ben Affleck plays Ben, a scared blurb writer  who doesn't really understand what life is all about before he meets Sarah. In a crazy, and not unlikely couple of days, both characters are forced to admit to themselves and each other their inadequacies and failing in life, and both see a way through to write the wrongs they have lived with. The ending of the tale goes the better of the two possible ways, and shows that Hollywood does sometimes come up with a script which doesn't follow the norms, and gives you something to really think about on the drive home. Definitely one to see. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A sweet story beautifully shot","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You basically know what you're getting with a film like this, a sweet romantic story with a lot of tension between the two main characters. And it really works, the script is excellent and Sandra Bullock works her usual engaging magic. What you don't know you're getting is one of the most beautiful examples of cinematography this year. Too often too little attention is paid to experimentation with the camera in films like this. People go just to see the story, what do they care for fancy angles and the like? I didn't expect to find myself catching my breath at the sheer magnificence of some of the scenes. Ben and Sandra run through a car lot as slow motion rain falls around them, and it might not sound like much but it's so awe inspiring. I had a quick check and what do you know the cinematographer, Elliot Davis, is also responsible for Out of Sight last year. Of course he is! This has the same empty, calm, soft feel as that film. It's all about slow movement through a wide space which leaves the hairs on the back of your neck standing up. Excellent on many levels, as a bit of standard fun and as a work of art. Rating out of five for people who like to see Sandra Bullock with lots of black eyeliner - 5, for everyone else - 3  "},{"Title":"Intelligent and fun","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Intelligent romantic comedies are different today. The selfish generations have these days shifted film way beyond the happily ever after plot lines our screen lovers often inhabited in previous generations.Now families and mortgages have given way to second or third marriages coupled enthusiastically with cynicism.The progressive destruction of the nuclear family has been well and truly reflected in popular entertainment.So could you expect Sandra Bullock (Speed, Time To Kill, The Net) and Ben Affleck (Good Will Hunting, Shakespeare In Love) to be romantic clean skins in Forces Of Nature?Well actually Ben (Affleck) is giving it a go. He's on his way from New York to be married in Savannah to Bridget (Maura Tierney). On the way he encounters a series of natural and unnatural forces which throw him together with the effervescent and much more worldly Sarah (Sandra Bullock).Will Ben throw over Bridget for Sarah and how funny will the process be? These after all are the questions we attend these films to answer.Well Forces Of Nature is very funny once or twice but it's real value is its knowing observations on the institution of marriage. Ben is repeatedly confronted by the failure of the unions he observes while he's on the road to his own marriage.The message isn't savage but it is persuasive. He meets an deliriously happy elderly couple who he then finds out are having an affair after years of misery with their previous partners. His parents squabble and Sarah is hardly an advertisement for happy unions.But Forces Of Nature isn't maudlin, it's often very humourous and it's lifted by the relationship between Ben and Sarah which I found charming and believable even as the Forces Of Nature affecting their relationship become increasingly bizarre. (There's even a hurricane!)It's been a long wait for a fetching film from Sandra Bullock. Speed was a huge success but her career has been largely a mess since then. But her Sarah is amusing and multifaceted, as is the more dour Ben from Ben Affleck.Forces Of Nature mixed the improbable with the likeable in an intelligent way and is well worth a visit. And for once it would seem that we have one up on American viewers of an American film.Apparently a great deal of license has been taken with one or two geographical locations in the film, a bit akin for Australians to setting a film in Melbourne and then transplanting the Sydney Harbour Bridge to Port Phillip Bay.This upset some Americans but we Aussies couldn't give a damn, could we. "},{"Title":"Mother nature wants Ben and Sandra to stay together.  Or does she?","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie won't be to everyone's taste, but I liked it a lot.  If you want it to be a screwball comedy, you'll be very disappointed.  There are a couple of discernible themes, one of which is the idea of Nature herself using all her formidable powers to throw the two main characters together and prevent the young man from marrying the wrong woman, the one he's trying to reach through fire, flood, hail, wind, you name it.  Some of the effects are enchanting, to use an old-fashioned word.  In the end, as fun as it was to imagine an all-powerful benevolent Force at work, you realize it was all just random coincidence -- beautiful, scary, sometimes hilarious, but with no mind or purpose driving it. The other theme is the theme of marriage, in particular the problem of finding just the right person, which also involves chance and luck. Take it, run with it, says the movie. "},{"Title":"People have said this movie is good... but it's not.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Most of the comments on this forum say that this movie is pretty good. But it's not. It's only got half an idea of what it wants to do and spins its wheels for the rest of the film.Sandra is as appealing as ever, but her schtick has such an air of desperation to it this time that it kind of sours the film. You can tell she doesn't want to do this kind of thing anymore. Anyone who saw her in Practical Magic can tell that she'd like to-- and should-- stretch into more challenging and mature parts. I like her a lot, and hope she finds something better to do. Ben is fine, but he actually gets less interesting as the film wears on. And the ending makes him come off as a self-absorbed, narcissistic cad.The problem with much of this film is that it doesn't have much of anything for the characters to DO. They just hang out for a lot of it, and their dialogue and chemistry needs to be a lot better in order to make that interesting.A lot of people have commented on the incredible special effects. Don't be fooled. There is ONE 15-second sequence involving slow digital hailstones, and it's too bad it was used here, because it could have been used quite magically in a better film. Other than that there are a few nice digital sunsets, and that's it. I myself was getting annoyed at all the OBVIOUSLY SUNNY DAYS that these supposedly horrific storms were happening on. Ugh. And guess what, guys, if you want a metaphor, figure out how to use one. The storms here have no thematic weight and simply provide a diversion from the other pointlessness.There is ONE good moment in this film. The kiss. Sadly the opportunity is not followed up with a convincing or compelling romance.This movie has a nice idea and could have been developed into a really very sweet movie. Too bad. Hold out for better work, Sandra. We'll stay with you.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "}{"Title":"Not what I expected...","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature wasn't exactly what I was expecting. Ben Affleck was good as usual with his delivery of thought provoking dialogue.. his character was good. Sandra Bullock was okay as a very misguided woman with a lot to straighten out in her life.The plot was more or less a romantic twist to the Steve Martin and John Candy film Planes Trains and Automobiles. The unlikely pair are thrown together by a string of even more unlikely circumstances. The film has its good moments and its bad moments and a few very clever moments... and one or two pleasant plot twists.It wouldn't be my first pick for a romantic comedy.. but individual tastes vary. "},{"Title":"Too bad the ending sucked!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature was an adventursome, fun, and grabbing movie...with one small problem, the ending.  For those of you who've seen it and feel the same way I do, then you know.  Ben Affleck is surely eye candy, but come on, people, face it, Forces of Nature, would have been sooo much better with a racier ending.  More spur of the moment, it was too limp and unrealistic.  Sorry, but I give it 71/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Love Story","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As love stories go, this is a very different one.  This movies struggles with the difference of two types of love. It's a comedy, with many laughs. The movie also speaks of the expression, If you love something you must be willing to let it go.  It left me with asking myself, What is love?  "},{"Title":"A great movie to go see!!!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie!! Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck were great together!!The movie is about a guy named Ben Holmes (Ben Affleck) who's about to get married, and he boards an airplane to get to Georgia where his fiance is waiting for him. He boards the plane, and there he meets Sara (Sandra Bullock). The plane has a crash before it even leaves the ground. Ben saves Sara's life. Sara is trying to get to Georgia to get $25,000, and Ben is trying to get there for his wedding. They begin a hilariously funny trip to get there before it's too late. What happens?? You'll just have to go see it and see!!It's rated PG-13 for some drug content (just 2 minutes or so of), some language, some sexual talk, and a striptease scene (nothing is showed). I'd say it's fine for someone who's 14 and up to see.  "},{"Title":"It could've been better, but it also could've been a lot worse!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this flic as a so-called Sneak-Preview, and otherwise I would not have bought a ticket for that flic anyway. So keep in mind, that I'm not a big fan of romantic comedies.However, in the end, I must admit, that I had a good time while watching. It had some good one-liners, and Sandra Bullock looked terrific.I guess if you're fond of this kind of movies, you'll certainly like it. Give it a try!Gul "},{"Title":"lifely - lovely","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock zoom up into the heaven of stars they play untypical roles sweet Sandy as a hippy who teases men and Ben as soft, un-arrogant beau (which he definitely is!) although  he says of his role that he could play himself - so if you are interested in what Ben is like at home, go watch this movie!But this is not the only reason!!!  "},{"Title":"Not sickening sweet, but just sweet enough","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature is a very refreshing and sort of different romantic comedy. First of all, it's the best movie that's been on in a couple of weeks and one of the only girl movies that is not a teen flick. It is very mature, but still a lot of fun. That's the key word here, FUN, that's what it is, so don't go and see it expecting to be deeply affected and get some sort of philosophical meaning out of it. Ben Affleck is great and so is Sandra Bullock, because they act so well without overacting. The ending is a little disappointing, but then you realize it was better off that way. I give it an 8.5 out of 10. See it on a rainy day, but hurry, it's going out of most theaters soon. "},{"Title":"complete time-waster","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My expectations were not high for this film, and it didn't disappoint. This story has been done and redone (boy meets inappropriate girl), and very lamely so in this sappy piece of Hollywood drivel.  appropriating plotlines from everything from Trains, Planes, and Automobiles to Seinfeld the story is predictable and unentertaining.  Sandra Bullock is completely over-the-top in her role as Sarah, an aimless, disillusioned twenty-something who has yet to accept any responsibility for her life. Ben Affleck is wasted here (although he looks fine) as a staid  NYC jacket copywriter on the way to his wedding in Savannah, GA. Not surprisingly, wacky hijinx ensue. Only the last scene of the movie offered any payoff, at all.  Recommendation don't waste your money OR your time. "},{"Title":"excellent movie!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of my favorites. If you like Ben Affleck or not you'll love this movie. The cinematography is superb and the acting is also quite enjoyable.. a must see "},{"Title":"Good movie with a few small flaws...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature is a good movie that has excellent cinematography and lighting. If that says something about why I enjoyed it, it might also explain why I liked it more than some others.One issue which was flawed in the movie were the portrayal of a couple of the characters.  Not enough time was spent getting to know the character's inner motivations, so it was hard to care for them or their fate at times.As well, the continuity could have been better between scenes so that there was more of a consistent flow of material.  I got the feeling that many of the scenes were distinct and didn't flow into the overall movie.The director has a good eye, and uses music to its potential.  Our family really likes his previous effort, Harriet the Spy, but it too had some of the same flaws.Still, I give it 8/10, and look forward to this director's next effort.  "}{"Title":"Cute...WAY too cute!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, Ben is cute, Sandra is cute, heck even the weather is cute!  And that's the problem...the whole movie is so damn cute and totally lacking any depth or logic.  The only thing that made this movie bearable is that Affleck and Bullock are extremely likable and manage to give two good performances despite the lousy script.  The whole thing was predictable from the beginning (except... ), and it really wasn't that funny (except for the strip tease which was way too timid--I wouldn't have minded seeing Affleck nude!).  There are other movies that are much worse than this, but it's frustrating that they have two great actors giving their all, stuck with such a cute, lame script.  Let's hope they get together again with something better.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think forces of nature was one of the best movies I have ever seen. Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck were wonderful, as well as the rest of the cast. It was a touching, hilarious movie that i will probably go see again. The ending was great and the hail part of the movie was beautiful. I would recommend this movie very much!! "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only good things about this movie was it had a pretty decent script and the acting was good.  Other than that everything else was terrible, the directing was awful.  The premise was way too far fetched.  But that didn't bother me.  What bothered me was that it was not very entertaining.A few funny moments though. My gradeC- "},{"Title":"Surprisingly decent telling of a potentially tiresome tale.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As I strolled into Forces of Nature, the usual thought crossed my jaded mind....Here we go go again, this time girl-next-door Sandra Bullock falls for sensitive Armageddon-type hunk.  I was very wrong.  Forces of Nature is a refreshing, original take on a story that we've seen far too many times.  We know Mr. Affleck is scared of spending his entire life with one woman and who serves as his temptress this time around? Madonna, Sharon Stone, Drew Barrymore? SURPRISE!  It's wholesome Sandra Bullock trying to boost Ben over the fence into the fields of infidelity.  In addition to Sandra Bullock's radical departure from the hum-drum plain jane role, we are also treated to a movie that show how funny Ben Affleck can be when he has a decent script to work with.  Unlike his last venture into space in Armageddon, Affleck can actually be heard to utter more intelligent lines than I LOVE YOU HARRY! (weep, weep)  The most impressive aspect of the film is the cinematography and the way it makes use of something as simple as a hailstorm and turns it into something ten times as menacing and thousands of times more beautiful to watch.  Definitely a surprise for anyone that has EVER waded through a Bullock vehicle....shame she's talking retirement just as she delivers her best role.  "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock create practical magic on screen","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie from start to finish since it starred two of the young stars in Hollywood today. Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock star as airline passengers brought together by the forces of nature while Ben Affleck's character Ben Holmes is on his way to his wedding. Maura Tierney portrays his fiancee and she brought life to a character that was in the background. This is the perfect set up for Forces Of Nature because it seems when Ben and Sarah Lewis make progress; the forces of nature somehow get in the way. Maybe it's a sign that Ben is with wrong lady or maybe it's a way to let Ben think about the future. As I was viewing this film, I thought to myself Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock must have had fun making this film because it seemed that every time they were on screen together they were enjoying each other's company. One disaster after another occurred but Ben and Sarah made the best out of the situation and did a pretty good job. There is a sad note that came out of this film; David Strickland who portrayed Steve, the ex-boyfriend of Ben's fiancee was found dead after he allegedly hung himself in a Las Vegas hotel room. It's a real shame that this happened because he gave a good performance especially when he sang; I was surprised that he had a great voice. Forces Of Nature was a film where Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock made what it is today; number one at the box office. I suggest to any Ben or Sandra fans out there and are reading this review to go see them at their very best.  "},{"Title":"Not too shabby","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Movie was decent.  Recommended, especially in the current lull of movies before Memorial Day.  I found Sandra Bullock to be the most Desirable ever in this movie. "},{"Title":"May the Forces Not Be With You","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is like a cute little puppy in the pet store window. It wags its tail and wriggles its way into your heart, only to piddle on the carpet ten minutes later. Forces of Nature, with an oh-so-forced performance by Sandra Bullock, tries far too hard to be lovable. The ending is completely fake (a cop-out, really) and little attempt was made to deal with the significant questions raised in the lives of the characters. The only fresh concept in the film is the ten-minute-long advertisement for Kmart in the middle of the picture. I have to admit, a shopping trip to a discount store is a great idea for a fun, cheap date--and a lot more rewarding than a date to go see Forces of Nature.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant main plot and characters, horrible subplot and characters","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature is one of those movies with an exceptional main plot and unique lead characters, but saddled with a dragging subplot and utterly annoying supporting characters. Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck charm in this romantic comedy that is topped off with a totally unexpected twist ending, despite its secondary failings. Affleck plays Ben, a soon to be wed bachelor heading from New York to Savannah for his wedding. The plot completely revolves around this trip, which turns out to be one disaster after another for Ben. Upon boarding his flight to Savannah, Ben meets Sarah (played by Bullock), a free-spirited type who ultimately tries to bring out the inhibitions in Ben.  But before the plane ever gets airborne, it is befelled by a stray bird which causes the plane to skid out of control and wreck. With airborne transportation no longer an option, they hitch a ride with a stranger who, unbeknownst to them, is hauling a trunkful of marijuana. After a night in jail, Ben and Sarah hop on a train, only to somehow wind up in Chicago. From there, they coerce a ride with an elderly group traveling to Savannah to look at condos.Intertwined with all of these mishaps is Ben's growing apprehension towards marriage and his eventual lust for Sarah.  Regrettably,  the severely lacking subplot is also stuffed into this, in which Ben's fiancee is wooed by an old flame. His rendition of Phil Collin's Against All Odds will tempt you to leave the theater screaming for the pain in your ears. Meanwhile, Ben and Sarah eventually fall on hard luck again in their quest for Savannah, causing Ben to have to strip in a gay bar for money. This is hands down the funniest scene in the movie. Unfortunately, it's cut a bit short, as you never see Ben go full monty, which would have brought down the house. Ultimately, they get to Savannah just as a hurricane does. This was a very comical movie, with a somewhat predictable twists until that last curve, which you'll either love or hate. If you liked Planes, Trains and Automobiles, this is very similar, but with the added spice of romance, and Sandra Bullock sans Steve Martin, which I don't think anyone will argue with. The humorous strip tease, a totally unique rain scene and the surprise ending overcome the drab subplot to make this an entertaining watch. This one is a strong 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"fun and romantic, you should see this movie.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  FON isn't the perfect movie, but I found it to be fun and romantic. I left the theatre with a smile on my face.  Affleck and Bullock have great chemistry and are both utterly charming.  "},{"Title":"Fun & Entertaining.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To tell the truth, Forces of Nature isn't much of anything.  The laughs are routine, the special effects are ordinary, the dialogue is only halfway decent.  But...something about the movie is just so darn fun to watch.  I didn't feel like I could get off my seat even if I wanted to.  Maybe it has something to do with the way Sandra and Ben make one of the cutest couples of the decade. "}{"Title":"Don't believe the nay-saying media critics.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A good showing from *all* the cast members, especially Bullock and Affleck. Though I had been encouraged by the previews shown in the theaters, I was disappointed and affected by  written reviews.  But, since it was PG-13 and my elderly mother would probably not croak from what she saw/heard on the screen, my husband and I took her to see Forces of Nature.The film was well-named--human nature, the potential drawbacks of travel and the heavens above.  The surprise ending had me expecting someone would be killed, but, in fact, it was not as surprising as it was satisfying. Go. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A club scene that is the funniest I can remember...","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature proved two things to me - Sandra Bullock's career is not dead and Ben Affleck can headline a mainstream movie.  That being said, this film certainly impressed me, particularly Affleck's now-familiar style of banter.  Midway through the movie, a certain scene in a night club marked the hardest I had laughed at a movie in some time.  Do not miss this scene, for it will leave you laughing long after the film's conclusion.  A must-see in 1999, already shaping up as a pretty funny year, and this is before the new Austin Powers movie! "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock rolls the dice","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Our beloved Sandy has made a career of playing goody two-shoes characters; she takes a huge leap with her portrayal of a badly wounded lady who hides her pain with off-the-wall behavior. My kudos to her for bringing the role to life. Ben Affleck is great as the straight-laced guy uncertain of his committment to Maura Tierney. It's a great date movie with an ending that might be surprising, but it was perfect to my mind. Forget those critics with the no-chemistry meandering story.   "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Will someone please explain to me why Sandra Bullock is a movie star? She is not pretty. She can't act. She has no personality. In this picture they have to cover her face with pounds of make-up especially eye shadow. Even when she comes out of a swimming pool her make-up is om tact. The so called famous strip tease Ben Affleck does is also overrated. He doesn't even take off his shirt. If you saw the trailer, you know the whole story. The parents are cliche'. It's supposed to be a romantic comedy. At least Affleck has the personality and charm to keep you from running out of the theater into the night. "},{"Title":"Not bad........","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was a classic All of the good parts are in the previews type of picture.  It was funny at times and the acting is all well done but at times the way it is filmed is just, well, dumb.  The scene where Ben and Sandra are running in the rain is a good try at a cool affect but it fails.  I did love the ending.  I thought the ending was very excellent (many people disagree with me on this one) "},{"Title":"This movie was BAD!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The three words that best describe this movie are Stink, Stank and Stunk!And as for the laughs, no one in the theater made a sound the entire movie. This on a Saturday night 900 showing in a crowded theater.  I am a Sandra Bullock fan, and hopefully she does better the next time around. "},{"Title":"Forces of Nausea","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Actually I can't comment on the entire film, as I walked out after 55 minutes of the flick.  This film may be great for Sandra Bullock lovers, but as far as an interesting story, it failed me.  But I'm sure anyone who wants to watch how cute Sandra Bullock is for as long as this movie lasts won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Old story with a new edge","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that although the story has been told a million times before I was pleased to see the filmmakers pushing the envelope a little with its casual acting style and clever editing. You can tell that Aflick needed cutting around whilst Bullock was charming and sassy. It's nice to see a project that obviously has had so so dailies be nursed properly through the post-production process. Keep on nursing guys! "},{"Title":"a romantic comedy with no comedy and no romance","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How many bad movies will Sandra Bullock make before people realize she can't act? And poor Ben Affleck. He needs a better agent. He got a nice part in the amazing Shakespeare in Love, but then saddled himself with this drivel.If you've ever suspected that Hollywood just can't come up with many good ideas, this film will set your doubts at rest. If you've seen the TV ad, you've seen the only good line.What a waste of celluloid! "},{"Title":"What Does It Really Mean To Follow Your Heart?","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If someone were to ask me one year from now, what the most memorable thing about Forces of Nature is, I would have to say the rain. I don't think I have ever seen rain filmed more exquisitely. There were a few scenes where the rain (or hail) is shown falling in slow motion, so you could see the specific form of each drop. It is beautiful! Normally rain in film is used as a motif to create a feeling of darkness. I'll use the example of Seven which a film that uses rain to make it more dark and gloomy. Forces of Nature does not do this. The rain suggests happiness and freedom and even brightness, if you will. The film seems to be saying that people should do what they feel is right in their heart. The rain seems to reinforce this in that it symbolizes a certain freedom. Rain is a force of nature which occurs quite freely. From here the film falls apart.Forces of Nature seems to contain a certain duality in that one can see it both as a good and bad film at the same time. I'll try and explain this. The film is about a man, Ben and a woman, Bridget who are planning to be married in Savanah. Ben is on his way to Savanah, but the plane in which he is on, crashes before takeoff so he ends up on a journey cross country with Sarah who he meets on the plane. Along the way, Ben encounters many people who tell him of the horrors of marriage. This in combination with his growing fondness of Sarah on the trip, who encourages him to lighten up and experience some thrills in life, makes him begin to question his getting married. Is it the right thing to do? Is his heart really in it? I had the feeling that it wasn't. The movie plays along with this idea that one should follow their heart, but then seems to cheat us at the end. At one point Ben asks his parents on the phone if they are happy with their marriage. They don't really answer him honestly, but later on they say that they only way to know if you're making the right decision (to get married) is by giving it a shot. In a way this seems to contradict the rest of the film, but also in a way it doesn't because perhaps the moral of the story that you should follow your heart, but eventually you have to make a decision, which may mean suppressing your free spirited will, or else you'll never know what you are turning away. I'm not sure if this is the intention the film has, or not. It really isn't clear.  "}{"Title":"Charming and Romantic","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a fun movie, that was not only humerous, but had some important life lessons as well. The acting talents of Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock shined through. It was a real treat! "},{"Title":"An adventurous film about the Dynamics of Love...","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature is a really enjoyable film.  Sandra Bullock's performance was very appealing but Ben Affleck's performance wasn't as complimentary. A telltale summary guideline on the perils of love, life, and marriage.  "},{"Title":"Slow Paced & Predictable","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock is a good Actress.  If it weren't for her name in the movie, it probably wouldn't have gotten off the ground. As far as the part of Ben Holmes...I couldn't help but think that David Schwimmer of Friends fame could've done a more convincing job in that role.The movie is slow paced and very predictable. There is this dancing scene that seemed to drag on way too long and the constant reminder of some HUGE threatening hurricane is just plain silly.There were some cute and funny moments but overall, it's the type of movie you can wait to see when it shows up on cable.On a scale of 1 to 4 stars, I give it 2 Stars!  "},{"Title":"I dont know WHAT this was supposed to be...","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It seems on the surface to be a romantic _planes, trains and automobiles_ but at times tried for something more, where it failed miserably. Some may like the nontraditional ending, but the attempts at deep insight into the world of marriage flopped around not really going anywhere.But if you were interested by the story, the movie tried other methods to distract you. The unnecessary special effects, of which the falling rain was the most obvious, served to do nothing but annoy. The camera-work is erratic at best.One note of caution, however. My movie experience as a whole was less than satisfying, sitting in the first row with a group of young'uns around...  "},{"Title":"Sandra's best since Speed.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie today, and it was way better than I expected.  I thought that this was a great romance/comedy, but bad luck must have been shining down on them the whole trip to Savannah I counted at least 6 bad things.  But Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock are great together.  It was actually touching, and sad at parts.  I give it a 10.  One of the best movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Use the Force","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `Forces Of Nature' Only once in a while, a film comes along that is so rich with charisma, so packed with charm, so full of fun, that you can forgive its feeble attempts at plot.  `Forces Of Nature' is just such a film.  While I know I might be alone on this, I couldn't help but be completely in love with this film and the delightful way the story unfolds.  For the last 8 years, I have resisted Sandra Bullock.  I could not stand her constantly annoying performances in such dreadful films like `While You Were Sleeping' and `Time To Kill'.  Then, last May, Bullock starred in `Hope Floats'.  It was in that film that I could see Bullock had a real talent, and she could act pretty well when she actually had to.While in `Forces' the old goofball Sandra shows up, she really won me over with a sharply emotional, and yet very funny performance. Her and proven comedic talent Ben Affleck make a very smart team.  They both share a grand sardonic sense of humor, and can easily bounce off each other without ever breaking the rhythm of a scene. I will state unequivocally right now that if you find either Bullock or Affleck too smarmy or unpleasant, stay away from this film.Director Bronwen Hughes impressed me 3 years ago with her upbeat and lovely `Harriet The Spy'. Ms. Hughes has a real visual gift, and she chooses some wonderful shots here, some maybe even a bit poetic.  I look forward to her next movie. The film is shot beautifully, and the director wisely chooses long lingering shots of supporting actress Maura Tierney's face, a face that is vastly entertaining.I will admit that this story of two strangers who fall in love isn't the most original thing ever, but the material works this time. It will always work when the strength of the talent is this strong. I recommend this film highly, and I defy anyone to predict the ending. What a shocker. ---------- 9  "},{"Title":"You've seen one like this, you've seen them all ...","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was by far one of the worst movies Sandra Bullock has starred in. Ben Affleck should stay behind the camera and continue writing scripts. This is definitely his forte and acting is not. I actually lasted 54 minutes into this movie before I was so bored with it I felt compelled to leave the theater. It's a bore from beginning to, well 54 minutes into the film anyway. The premise of Guess what happened to me on the way to the .... has been done over and over to death. Somehow there just doesn't seem to be anything funny, or romantic about people cheating on each other. Parents should be aware that this may not be a suitable film for your teenage children especially impressionable ones that may view Sandra as a hero. There is a scene where the writers/producers/directors thought it would be nice to show how acceptable it is to smoke a joint .... while driving .... and then have no consequences at all when caught. I'm no prude, and I smoked my share when I was younger but I guarantee you I won't take my teenagers to see it and they're solid A & B students. If you want to see a good Sandra Bullock movie, rent The Net or Hope Floats which I believe are two of her best works. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one great movie.  It's a love story that's so great that even adolescent males will enjoy the movie, not just say they did to make girls think they are cool. "},{"Title":"an offbeat sometimes funny sometimes passionate search for true love","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Forces Of Nature the night it opened.  The theater was nearly full and as I stay to read the credits I could both observe and hear people as they left the theater.  The film was very well received.  First and foremost the performances by Mr. Affleck and Ms. Bullock were very good and there was a chemistry between them.  The premise of if anything can go wrong it will is well scripted here.  There is also some interesting cinematography as well.  This is not an Oscar winning movie but it is good solid entertainment and well worth the cost of a ticket.  Three stars! "},{"Title":"Love's turbulence through the Storm","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dreamworks and the creative flair of Director Bronwen Hughes make this film a nonstop montage of glorious surprises.  The average guy, a remarkable woman, and a seemingly unhealthy dosage of Fate thrown in the mix--the result is an unparalleled level of reaching the audience and leaving them with absolutely no doubt on what the film is about essentially, the trials of love, the sacrifices each of us make in the pursuit of that same passion, what is lost along the way, what is relearned in every relationship that follows. Set within the context of one's inevitable doubt before professing the sacred wedding vows, this film traces the development and, more important, the discovery of the hopes and aspirations each of us holds in our heart for a life-long love in marriage. Dazzlingly appropriate special effects enforcing the role of Mother Nature and a variety of camera shots not seen since something out of the Truman show make this film part of every film aficionado's little black book.  If you're looking for a film that will amaze you, make you clutch your chest in pain from laughter and surprise you to no end, this is it.  Modern romance has never possessed such conviction of human virtue more, and its ability to convey meaning is presently unmatched. It's a turbulent ride, but when you brave the storm, you're allowed the freedom to exhale . . . and then all the pieces fall together, one realizes that the storm serves to temper unbridled human devotion through love. "}{"Title":"Surprise!  It's not that bad.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I admit that I'm a sap. I cried like a baby at Titanic. But I've never really gone for the 'romantic comedy' films that have been sprouting in Hollywood for the past several years like crabgrass (emphasis on the 'crab'). I was not expecting much from this Sandra Bullock / Ben Affleck starrer. I was wrong.The film has just enough originality of direction to keep the visuals from growing tedious and the sound design is surprisingly stong for this type of film. The writing is witty and in some cases pretty sharp. Sandra Bullock should see her star regain some of its luster and Ben Affleck proves to be deft at this sort of thing. The supporting cast members deliver solid and adequate performances that stay out of the two stars' way. A notable turn is provided by Steve Zahn.All in all, I'd say I got more than my money's worth. Of course, I got in for free ... "},{"Title":"A great adventure","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Forces of Nature' was great fun to watch.  Performances were terrific. Script was fun/clever.  Never a really dull moment. Ending was good - not an insult to audiences' intelligence. Go see it! "},{"Title":"A Must See, Hilarious Comedy!","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature is sure to be one of the most compelling and exciting new movies to hit the big screen in 1999. It has everything you need in a movie comedy, tears and a good plot to the story. Ben Affleck gives one of his best performances ever. Sandra Bullock also does a commenable job for her role. You will enjoy the story plot, and wanna see this movie over and over again.  "},{"Title":"A mediocre effort by the folks at Dreamworks","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is the kind of movie that annoys me. so ben afleck is a groom who only has a few days to get to a wedding in savanna georgia from new york city.  after a minor plane crash, he's afraid to fly to georgia.  ben pairs up with sandra bullock, (who was also passenger on the doomed plane) and they begin their trip down to savanna. along the way through a comedy of errors, bad luck, bad weather, etc which prolongs their trip even more than they imagined. ben becomes attracted to sandra and has doubts abut his upcoming marriage.i was annoyed because it's really hard to believe that any one person would have such bad luck.  i just wanted to yell, for godssake, just get on a plane!!!!i was perplexed by the Must-See TV casting -- and even more confused towards the end of the movie where it seemed to be a cross between TWISTER, THREE FOR THE ROAD, and a really bad version of MY BEST FRIENDS WEDDING. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullocks best movie in years","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a romance-comedy that is not short on laughs.  The basic plot is a lot like the movie planes, trains, and automobiles but with the main stars being, Ben Afflick and Sandra Bullock, there is also romance in this movie as well.    "},{"Title":"Very very disappointing but Bullock does her usual best with a poor story that humiliates her character","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Plenty of spoilers, be warned! But I was really annoyed with this movie. that said, Sandra Bullock was as always splendid. But ultimately, wasted.I give this 4 stars solely for Bullock's fine acting as always. She's always worth watching, but pity about the script and the lead male actor.Well I don't have to like the sickeningly annoying ending just because some think it's brave etc. Of course it depends what you like and when I read an ending is brave I immediately suspect that means I won't like it at all. And I didn't. On the other hand...... someone else may feel it was the right ending. After all the guy was supposed to be getting married, and after behaving like a jerk, he finally does.Once you see the ending, you realise what an annoying twerp the hero Affleck plays actually is. My extreme disappointment turned to Serves the pair of them right, him and his wife-to-be right, she'll regret that marriage. Fortunately I didn't much like the fiancée and I didn't think much of the hero either. He definitely led Bullock's character on, he was weak, and you can see this recurring later in his life with other women, especially if they are predatory which Bullock's character is not. She was far better without him so in that respect the ending is the right one, but the way it's achieved, and Bullock's resigned acceptance, these are so annoying.I imagine the point of the story was that the hero would waver but end up still true to his girl. This could have worked if he and his girl had been interesting and moving characters and Bullock had lost patience with him and told him to do the right thing and go back to her. But no, Bullock's character had to be humiliated.So I felt very let down because Bullock was led on by this guy and then he changed his mind and dumped her and she grieves over this jerk. One can imagine him doing the same to his wife in some later year and assuring himself it's not his fault.... I see a weak-minded serial adulterer there. Which is partly due to the actor's portrayal of the character, of course. It could have been so different if the actor had been better at his job.So as in some others of Bullock's movies, the leading male actor is a disappointment and the story isn't as good as it could have been. This could still have ended as it did without leaving a very sour taste in the mouth or having to call the ending brave to perhaps avoid having to say urk. "},{"Title":"Tepid rom-com","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Take two Hollywood performers at their peak, place them in a romantic comedy loosely inspired by the riotous Planes, Trains and Automobiles, and watch the fireworks FAIL to ignite. Ben Affleck is a rigid businessman who finds his efforts to make it home to Savannah in time for his nuptials with Maura Tierney constantly confounded by the weather, mechanical failures, coincidence and the temptations provided by wacky free spirit Sandra Bullock, who keeps getting thrown together with him.Singularly Bullock and Affleck can be very entertaining, but together they do not have much spark between them. They come off more as a brother/sister pairing than potential romantics. Part of the problem is certainly the writing. Affleck's character is written as such a stick and Bullock is stuck playing such an offbeat stock character that the audience is never allowed to warm up to them. The less said about Tierney as Affleck's colorless fiancée, the better. Their misadventures grow tedious fairly quickly and events are not helped by Bronwen Hughes' uneven direction. Hughes either concludes scenes before they have built up a head of steam or allows them to drag on forever. For instance, the events at the hotel where Affleck and Bullock really start to bond and then run into acquaintances of his runs on and on and on. Meanwhile, a potentially hilarious sequence where, to earn money, Affleck reluctantly has to do a strip tease at a gay bar abruptly concludes right when it was starting to hit its comic high point. And these are only two examples. Hughes does not seem to understand what works and what does not. As such, we get a romance that is not particularly romantic, and a comedy with some scattered laughs that dry up long before the film has reached the two-thirds mark. I would venture to say there is not a smile to be had anywhere in the final third of this film.Another issue that fails is the ending. It probably sounds very mature on paper and it is certainly a non-Hollywood climax, but it is incredibly dull and renders the majority of the preceding scenes pointless. In a romantic comedy, one should never introduce a female character that is more colorful and appealing than the woman with whom the leading man ends up with (and vice versa). That is exactly what the writers have done here. They manipulate two characters together for romance and then in the final moments of the film, they have Affleck do an abrupt about-face and declare his undying love for Tierney, while a wise-beyond-her-years Bullock slinks off alone into the sunset. Affleck needs to sell us wholesale that the sight of Tierney alone has made him fall back in love with her (after a scant moment before he was planning on breaking off their engagement) and it is beyond both the actor and the screenplay to convince the audience of this. Rather than making it seem like Affleck is a great guy, it makes him seem more than a tad fickle. The next time he is stuck away from his beloved Tierney for a day or so, is he going to have another crisis of love? Does Tierney need to be in his line of sight in order for him to maintain the love affair with her? The entire scenario is just plain foolish. Affleck and Bullock have been much better elsewhere, and fans would be advised to find those other efforts. "},{"Title":"Forces of Nature","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen that many good films starring Ben Affleck, hence I call him Ben Assface, but I was still going to give this comedy a go, even with it being two stars. Basically book writer Ben Holmes (Affleck) is soon to be married to his sweetheart and awaiting bride Bridget Cahill (Maura Tierney), and he is being delayed by so many mishaps. After an incident on his plane, he hitch a rental car ride, along with eccentric, attractive Sarah Lewis (Sandra Bullock). As they continue the journey, it is slowly becoming obvious that they may have a thing for each other, and Ben is wondering if everything he has been through are signs that he shouldn't get married at all. In the end, he does eventually make it to the wedding, and after one or two delays and glitches in the event, he and Bridget do marry, and Ben just remembers Sarah as an influence or something to him, and hopes she is happy in her own life, which I guess she was, she has a son. Also starring Steve Zahn as Alan, Meet the Parents' Blythe Danner as Virginia, Total Recall's Ronny Cox as Hadley, Michael Fairman as Richard Holmes, Janet Carroll as Barbara Holmes and Volcano's Richard Schiff as Joe. Affleck and Buloock have done romantic stuff before, but they are not exactly best suited in this really average comedy with small giggles and an okay story. It isn't absolutely terrible, it just could have had a little more to offer. Okay! "},{"Title":"Charming romantic comedy that will make you laugh and feel good","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" FORCES OF NATURE, in my opinion, is a charming romantic comedy that will make you laugh and feel good. Despite the fact that Ben (Ben Affleck) was engaged to marry Bridget (Maura Tierney), I believe that he and Sarah (Sandra Bullock) made a cute couple. If you ask me, the way the met was very unusual. It's a miracle they weren't hurt in the plane accident. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this charming romantic comedy that will make you laugh and feel good to any Ben Affleck or Sandra Bullock fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for lots of laughter, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"cleverer than its add campaign but not clever enough","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers within This is 'Planes Trains, and automobiles' meets Sandra Bullock. Ben Affleck plays a groom with cold feet who is being conspired against by the universe when in sweeps the delectable Sandra. At this point we are treated to the usual combinations of thin excuses and bizarre incidents that force our principles together anyone who has seen a romantic comedy or a buddy movie is familiar with this sort of thing. The twist and this is hard to catch, and from the reviews not catching it can lead to disappointment, is that Sandra is one of the forces of nature basically she is a love goddess. The clues are everyone she meets loves her (ben even mentions this), abusive husband aphrodite was in love with ares the jerk of Olympus, and her kid in the final scene is shown holding a bow and arrow which makes sense in no other context than he is eros. Viewed that way Sandra personifies fate getting these two together if you like a strong and blatant element of fate in your romantic comedy go with Joe vs the volcano or the wonderfully dark A life less ordinary. "}{"Title":"It Didn't Happen One Night","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The award winning Clark Gable/Claudette Colbert film seems to have been the inspiration for this film.  The Forces filmakers should have paid more attention.  While the movie had its good moments, it leaves the viewer unsatisfied and has a particularly weak ending.  Sandra Bullock is particularly engaging, though co-star Ben Affleck gives an uninspired performance.  The charismatic Steve Zahn is underused.  Final verdict  5.  For Sandra Bullock fans only.  Forces of Nature is way better than Hope Floats but falls far short of the delightful While You Were Sleeping. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some make it out to be","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature has been panned by most critics. I will say it deserves criticism for being somewhat disjointed and too reliant on plot contrivance. That said there are some good comic and dramatic moments in the film, especially the episode where Ben is passing himself off as a doctor and protesting the innocence of his relationship with the Sandra Bullock character. In fact there were enough moments for me to keep watching fairly attentively until the surprise ending. The ending was actually quite disappointing however since it greatly diminished the significance of much of the rest of the film in my opinion. Lastly I should say Bullock is in good chick flick form here and the much maligned Ben Affleck is up to par. This film keeps you marginally entertained for an hour and half though you probably won't remember any of it in a month or so, 6/10. "},{"Title":"You can like this one","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story of this movie is a mess. I had fun watching this one, but that was definitely not because of the story, although it gives us some good single scenes. The most problems I had with the ending which I will not reveal here of course. The problem is that I can't think of another ending, one that could have done it for me. Basically Ben (Ben Affleck) has to choose between his fiancé Bridget (Maura Tierney) and Sarah (Sandra Bullock). You know he will have to make that choice the minute Sandra Bullock appears on screen so I am not giving anything away. The mess that brings Affleck to the choice is the movie. Bridget and Sarah are both lovely characters, as we learn during the first half of the movie. Because we know the choice must be made in the end we also know that one of the lovely ladies gets hurt. As the watchers we do not want that so we like the movie less than we could have liked it. My Best Friend's Wedding with Julia Roberts had the same kind of choice but that movie had a good answer in the end. The difference was that in My Best Friend's Wedding the second woman was the best friend of the groom, not some total stranger like Sandra Bullock is here in the start.Sandra Bullock is very funny as Sarah, a woman who does whatever she wants. We learn that her life is not all joy and fun. Steve Zahn plays the best man of Affleck and has some funny scenes. Ben Affleck is okay, not great and Maura Tierney is very lovely. We have enough chemistry between the characters to like this film as a romantic comedy and like I said there are some nice laughs. If you can make yourself ignore the script you will like this film. "},{"Title":"First feel-good comedy of 1999","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Forces of Nature by far had to be the underdog favorite for Comedies back in 1999. The great thing about this movie was that it didn't resort to extreme crude humour or sexual jokes. It had a lot of funny moments (eg Ben stripping in a gay bar). Sandra & Ben showed a lot of good chemistry and poise as well as Sandra's interesting techniques which made the film amusing. If you're looking for a feel-good comedy, this is the BEST one I've seen by far "},{"Title":"Expected More....","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ben Holmes is a soon to be married man. On the way to his wedding, the plane Ben is on suffers a little accident, leaving Ben and the rest of the passengers having to get off and go on another flight. This is where Ben meets fellow passenger Sarah. Both Ben and Sarah of course want to get home, so they encounter on a little adventure of there own to get home, one being getting in a car with a crazy man and another pretending to be married couple, so they can stay in a hotel. The same hotel where Ben's best friend and his girlfriend, (Who just happens to be Ben's soon-to-be wife's best friend.) are staying. All this leaves Ben and Sarah finding out there true feelings for each-other and if Ben is really going to marry the right woman.Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock are a likeable pair and give okay performances here. I've seen them both do better movies though.Forces Of Nature is the type of movie, which you can't fully get into. It's not a terribly boring movie, but there are only a few minor exciting scenes here. I really did expect more. "},{"Title":"Ordinary unimaginative fluff from an over worked genre.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The makers of Forces of Nature wisely cast Affleck and Bullock in roles which don't require acting and then kept the spotlight on them so they wouldn't be upstaged by a supporting cast with some talent. This ho-hummer is just another mediocre romantic comedy which may have a few moments for die-hard couch potatoes who are easily entertained.  "},{"Title":"Worst Male Striptease Ever","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That's about the only comment I have for this seriously overdirected MTV video.  Ben Affleck does the most unattractive, unerotic male striptease I have ever seen.  The guys in 'Full Monty' have nothing to worry about.  And the fact that he gets paid $150, and that good-looking men are taunting him to do it is totally ludicrous.  He's hairy, flat-chested (no muscle-tone) and hasn't even got a butt.  The only people who would swoon over this act would be 80-year-old women.  I suspect Mr. Affleck has a seriously problem with homophobia (which is clearly apparent in his other films as well). "},{"Title":"Empty","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend made me watch this. In the beginning, I thought it was just the 8976e version of a Hollywood screwball comedy, just another routine with Afleck as Cary Grant and Bullock as Katharine Hepburn. After 30 minutes, I was sure it was a Doris Day & Rock Hudson film. No originality, no surprise, bad script, neutral acting, clichés just another boring Hollywood formula movie. But I think it's worst, for the values shown here  this is a very very conservative movie, as so many US film of the 1990's. Rich wealthy White American people (who, of course, don't smoke)are into such traditionnals values as marriage as a way of life. Everybody wants to be Pat Boone and Patti Page here, except Miss Bullock, the bad girl who had a divorce, don't live with her husband, ain't a good mother for her kid and, of course, by the end, she's punished because they man she loves decides to decide to marry Patti Page. By the way, my girlfriend enjoys this crap. Now I'm thinking of having another girl friend... "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I dont think this movie ever knew what it wanted to be. The whole plot contradicted with the message and the happy ending. The odd couple (crazy girl Sandra Bullock and conservative Ben Affleck) on the lam is kind of a tiring, unoriginal idea.One thing I liked was Brownen Hughes style. He used the colors blue and green with very cool effect. But his vision seemed very strange for a romantic comedy. I think it would have looked better in a sci-fi movie.Not to mention Sandra Bullock. Good lord, girl, you need another good movie after the first SPEED!I think she's stuck on doing a romantic comedy to translate into box office success, but here she's even trying to hide her girl next door image.And she's hot! She looks so good in dark mascara and tight, black clothing. But her character is a turn-off, as well as the movie. I think this movie had great talent Ben Affleck, Maura Tierney (who I kept feeling sorry for her underdeveloped character), and the always-funny Steve Zahn. But they were stuck with characters that you never really care about.If you are about to get married, DONT SEE THIS MOVIE!! At least not with your fiancee around. They use the many reasons not to get hitched as a bad joke here to shield the OUT-OF-TOWNERS ripoff plot, and they're not funny or significant as witnessed at the end. "},{"Title":"Why did they do this?","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When the Forces of Nature exhibition finished I started to think and until now I don't know the answer. Why did they do that movie? Maybe it had been made because Sandra Bullock was unemployed and she needed something that could give her easy money after Speed 2. Easy because it doesn't matter if it's good or no, in USA a romantic comedy always profit. But in fact, this movie is ridiculous. Ben Aflleck didn't actuate well, as ever. Both characters were silly and boring. Nothing happened in the movie and the end was what-was-missing for me to thing that this movie is really fool . For me, watching this or no, my life would be the same. If I were you I wouldn't spend my money on this. Wait until it be displayed in the TV and watch it eating a pop-corn. Don't worry if you need to go to the bathroom or to the kitchen. Doesn't matter the time you'll spend there, when you go back to the TV that will seen as Forces of Nature was waiting for you. Nothing happened. And you will forget all the film in two weekends even so. "}{"Title":"Trite","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ugh.  The plot had more holes than my ratty old t-shirt.  Even Maura Tierney couldn't save this movie.  Even with my disbelief suspended, I couldn't believe the premise.  If you want a funny series of mishaps while travelling which lead to a buddy relationship see Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. If you want romance, see something else.  Some of the special effects were lame (Ben & Sandra run through the rain, but don't get wet) some were good -- the final scene in the eye of the storm, but hokey. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Great cinematography; bad casting; predictable situations.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Proving once again that Ben Affleck cannot act, this predictable movie is otherwise a waste of time.  There is some great cinematography but very poor casting, poor dialogue, unbelievable situations and characters.  They even try to make you believe that Dulles Airport is really a NYC airport. I thought Sandra Bullock did a great job of keeping her sense of humor, keeping her chin up through some awfully directed scenes... I actually enjoyed watching her but not much else. "},{"Title":"A fun road-buddy flick","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Marriage is a lie and a prison, and Jesus is a truck on the way to God's wherehouse. These are some of the words of wisdom dispensed along the way in this road-buddy film.Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock get back to the kind of characters that originally made them so appealing -- vulnerable, sincere klutzes like they played in CHASING AMY and SPEED. It is an enjoyable ride, teaching them and us something about relationships, love, and life.It's worth the ticket to see how the forces of nature make us truly human, and the film has some surprises too.  "},{"Title":"Good movie... Although quite a deceiving ending","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, you read this, so you did not see it !! What are you waiting for? Go see it especially if you like prettier than ever Sandra or Ben Affleck's gentleman's look. Actors, especially Sandra, are really having a good time making us fall in love with their story... Good job guys! Anyway the movie is quite good even though the credibility of the movie doesn't justify such a sour ending!!!!Sorry Sandra!!! if you read this... You might want to write me to discuss that?? (Hahaha) I'd love that (dream on!!) P.S. My English is not really good because I'm French so please be indulgent. THANK YOU for reading this BYE!!!!   "},{"Title":"A Great Flick Falls Flat With An Ending Twist","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck, two of Hollywood's hottest commodities have incredible chemistry in this road trip comedy.  Ben Affleck plays a thirty-something about to walk down the aisle, but on the way to Savannah he runs into Sarah (Bullock)and he begins to wonder if he has made the right decision.  A great movie falls flat with a nicely done but disappointing ending, and I left the theater crying.  It just didn't make sense!! "},{"Title":"&#133; Destroy Everything&#133; (DVD)","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Like a natural cataclysm, those forces of nature leave nothing behind their way. This is a big surprise in regard of the big top Hollywood cast involved Bullock & Affleck...As always, a review is subjective and what I don't like may be the greatest thing on earth for anybody else, but I stay honest in my arguments and this is why I won't recommend this movie.1. I was born with the Technicolor time so I can't stand filtered colors in movie. You don't see reality any more, but an ersatz of it. Here, for the cold, steel airport of New York, you got blue; for the sweaty night, you got green, for the hot sunny day, yellow... Maybe the cinematographer is a beginner, because it's too evident here, or my TV is broken...2. Sure I am not tolerant enough, but stories against my core values are a pain for me Here, you got 120 minutes of anti-marriage stuff -it's a waste of time because you will divorce -you can't love only one person, you can't measure your love to check if it is the real one,..... My belief is that the wedding is the most beautiful act to prove your love... I can't relate with Affleck, because he ponders about the wedding, while in the same situation, I won't face any doubts if i marry, my love is strong and I am closed to temptations...But, the story offers 2 minutes of real pleasure at the end Affleck's father gives a tremendous speech about the value of wedding, that leaves his son & the audience without any doubts Wedding is a leap of faith it's a evidence that the honeymooners love each other, and their faith in this love which gives them straight to alienate a bit of their liberty... Nobody can say now it will work, but every one hopes & does what must be done ! Waiting all this time to find a excellent scene is a bit deceiving.So thanks me for giving you the best of it in two minutes & choose another movie ! "},{"Title":"Amazing visuals","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The great thing about this film is the photography. It's a generic comedy romance with your standard Ben Affleck and a quirky character from Sandra Bullock. The director, however, has not only done interesting camera shots, but has searched hard to find all the kitschy Americana he can. The visuals are fascinating and I kept stopping the tape to absorb them (which irritated my girlfriend to no end) but it was worth it to see a slice of 50's America. There are a few twists in the story and some good dialogue and funny situations. They scouted out some great locations and made a lot of magic.Not the greatest movie ever made but definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"This is why movie attendance keeps falling.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie simply doesn't work. It's as if the people making movies saidGet me that cute girl! Meg Ryan? No, the brunette! and then theytossed in poor Ben Affleck who still doesn't look like he understands aword he's saying, and this is the result. A big mess, with two hotyoung stars who couldn't have less chemistry together. The supportingroles are better cast than the leads! The plot is not worth repeating,but if you're brave enough to see this movie, see it as a double billwith Bounce, another bad Ben Affleck and airplanes movie. I guessPearl Harbor fits that bill too. Ben, stay away from the skies!   "},{"Title":"Waste of time and money","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion a movie should either make sense or be funny, ideally both. Forces of Nature fails on both accounts. I stayed on until the end hoping (in vain) to understand why Ben didn't just explain his predicaments to Bridget or his friend. Even after two thirds of the movie he would be able to do that in just one or two sentences. And what is funny about unbelievable things happening to people whose reactions are even more unbelievable?  "},{"Title":"Redefines the word 'sketchy'","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The comedy was not funny, the drama was not compelling and the acting was strange.  I liked Ben Affleck very much for a change - he really tried to show this man who lives by the rules he thinks are important. Enter Sandra Bullock's character, who gives him more than he bargained for when he helps her out the first time they meet.  They spend the rest of the movie together, inexplicably, and because the screenplay tells us, we find out they like each other.  There is no  evidence of them even remotely liking each other but since the rest of the movie depends on that happening, we are forced to endure coincidence after coincidence and cliche after cliche.  The finale was incredibly unsatisfying also but, like I said, so was the rest of it. There are several beautiful shots of the scenery and the sky and in that way the movie does succeed.  But if that were backed up with some real human interaction or real human understanding, it would have added to the story instead of replacing it. There is one scene that succeeds beautifully - Ben strips in a gay bar because they need the money (don't ask).  But the scene is energetic, funny and very well shot.  "}{"Title":"Stylish but pointless. ** out of ****.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  FORCES OF NATURE / (1999) **	Forces of Natures is a romantic comedy that gradually builds for a presumably happy conclusion, but completely disregards its momentum in the end, making this movie a hypocrite of itself. Although advancing through this story is sometimes amiable fun, the ending results are forgettable and pointless. 	The movie's entire story is a series of uncanny coincidences ranging from heart attacks and drug busts to robbery and fires. Book-jacket blurbologist Ben Holmes (Ben Affleck), is becoming married to his fiancée, Bridget (Maura Tierney), in two days. At his bachelor party in New York, a stripper excites his grandfather into cardiac arrest. Ben stays with his relative a little while then catches a flight back to Georgia where Bridget is waiting.	Ben meets a young woman making out with her romantic interest at the airport. This woman, the pretty Sarah Lewis (Sandra Bullock), later ends up sitting next to him on the plane. Ben is a very nervous flyer, and when his flight crashes before it leaves the ground he becomes even more profoundly afraid of flying. 	He and Sarah buddy-up with a man at the port hitching a ride to his wedding destination. This man turns out to be a criminal, however, and is busted with the unlikely pair in the car with him. Many more events occur keeping Ben away from his wedding location. Such circumstances include a train wreck, a striptease, and mistaken identity. His parents (Michael Fairman and Janet Carroll), are not happy with his findings or state of affairs. 	The film's conflict is getting Ben from New York to Savannah, Ga. to wed with his fiancée. No recent structure complicates its initial problem as clearly as Forces of Nature, imaginatively written by  Marc Lawrence. The gradual increase of passion between Ben and Sarah makes for rich romantic chemistry, although there is none developed between Bridget and Ben. Forces of Nature concentrates on creating chemistry with Sarah and Ben, but never with Bridget. I did not know what to believe. Is Ben in love with Sarah in which he has known for only a few days, or is his heart with his eagerly waiting to wed fiancée?	Lame conversations featuring Ben and Bridget on a bed videotaping themselves enhances what little character development present. Such lame dialogue present includes I'm scared and It's the rest of our lives.  Why doesn't the movie show us how the two characters feel about marriage instead of explaining it?	Forces of Nature contains an interesting style, consisting of neat camera effects, scenes cut short, believable cinematography and jaunty soundtrack numbers. Some of the film's style is over the top, however. There is a magical hailstorm sequence that plays like a music video on MTV. And most of the film's laughs come from witty one liners, not the many incidences of stylish film making.	 Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock are the right choices for Ben and Sarah. They bring forth effective performances thanks in part to stylish directing and cleverly written dialogue. Most of the final segments of the second act are spent on Ben making a decision between spending his life with Bridget or Sarah. Though the entire second act  is wasted anyway in the manner this movie concludes itself. 	Forces of Nature is a movie too silly for serious romantics and overly thought-provoking for audiences looking for a good laugh. Teenagers may identify with the film's glossy look. But for most viewers, this is just a music video with plot.   "},{"Title":"Forces of cinematography and directing save this fiasco","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Forces of Nature is competently acted and professionally delivered, but there is no spark of difference in storytelling or chemistry between its leads. Even after the first forty minutes of the film, when Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock haven't really drummed up anything remarkable, the film still heavily emphasizes both characters' qualities and their prime differences rather than ground them into reality like the film should. We still must be reminded that Sandra Bullock is different and free-spirited and Ben Affleck is straight-laced and getting married, but we don't get any more involved in these characters' personalities or their particular relationship other than it (a) is predicated off of the tired opposites attract philosophy and (b) that it really shouldn't be happening.Because of this, Ben Affleck's Ben Holmes and Sandra Bullock's Sarah Lewis feel like bland caricatures and not identifiable people. This is an issue when you have two characters that accentuate simple personality traits and those simple traits are the only methods of which we can define these characters. One is different, the other is a straight-shooter; these are very basic terms to describe people we've just spent one-hundred and six minutes with.Regarding the plot - as if I really need to - Ben is getting married and is on a flight home to Savannah, Georgia to attend the wedding. His plane suffers a crash before taking off and now, with his fear of flying even larger than it once was, must find another way back to Savannah. He meets Sarah, who must arrive to Savannah as soon as she can as well. Ben and Sarah decide to take an alternate method home together, which only results in more cockamamie circumstances happening to them over time. Ben, of course, being the cleaned-up fellow he is, hates when things detour from his original plan or intention, but Sarah, in the meantime, doesn't fret over small things. She loves flying by the seat of her pants, which may explain the problems she faces now with a custody battle.Affleck and Bullock, at this current point in time, didn't really need to establish their credibility in films. Affleck had already done both Chasing Amy and Good Will Hunting, two phenomenal films, with Sandra Bullock appearing in Speed, a fine example of a truly tense and exciting thriller. Both actors had experienced carrying their own portions in a film in some way, shape, or form, and on that note, you'd think that Affleck and Bullock would be able to concoct believable chemistry with one another. However, Marc Lawrence's writing doesn't leave much to be desired in terms of development in their chemistry.If there's a light in Forces of Nature's smothering sameness, it's the atypical direction Bronwen Hughes takes for conducting the romantic comedy. Hughes seems to have an appreciation for visuals, nature (maybe hinted in the titled?), and natural lighting, making Forces of Nature a surprising experience for the eyes. I recommend watching some portions of it on mute so you can appreciate the beautiful lighting and cinematography (done very nicely by Elliot Davis and David Stockton) and not the goofy dialog that Affleck and Bullock engage in.Starring Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock. Directed by Bronwen Hughes. "},{"Title":"Lots of viewers' nature is to love both Affleck and Bullock but this film is so-so and has a disappointing ending","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ben (Ben Affleck) is engaged to a beautiful woman with Southern roots, Bridget (Maura Tierney). It is the week before the wedding and poor Benjamin, who hates to fly, has to board a plane to Savannah. A book jacket writer, this handsome man tries to stay calm. However, the plane has problems and makes an emergency landing. Also on the aircraft, two seats away, was Sarah (Sandra Bullock), a free-spirit if there ever was one. As Ben doesn't want to fly and Sarah kind of takes a shine to him, they decide to hitch a ride with another man in a rental car. However, again, there are problems, as the man has pot in the auto and the three are hauled off to jail. And, so it goes. There is one mishap after another, with Ben calling Bridget at intervals to assure her that he is almost there. Her family is fuming, for they didn't like his Yankee heritage anyway. In fact, Bridget's father has invited a former flame to attend the pre-nupts and make moves on this engaged woman. As Bridget feels a slight pull in her ex's direction and Ben becomes more enamored with the unusual Sarah, will there end up being a wedding at all? This film is a fairly good romcom but not outstanding. Yes, its my nature, along with the rest of the world, to love Affleck and Bullock and they do their best, making the flick better than the script. Tierney, Steve Zahn, and all of the other supporting cast members are great, too. Also, the changing scenery from the various stops on Ben and Sarah's journey is nice, too while costumes are flattering. The nearly last scene, with an outside wedding being disturbed by strong winds, is quite wonderful. Therefore, its the tepid script and average direction that are to fault. Its another case of planes, trains, and automobiles mixed with mismatched mates, making viewers get a bit of deja vu all over again. So, dear romcom fans, you will probably enjoy this one but may feel desolate at the end, which, in my opinion, is not what is wanted or expected. "},{"Title":"love the one you're with","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An entertaining but very unrealistic romantic comedy with Sandra Bullock and Ben Affleck. They play their characters well with some comedy, and the supporting cast adds a nice touch. However, while Affleck and Bullock work well together, I didn't feel a lot of charisma between them. I'll choose to ignore this though, since their characters are quite a couple. The movie's theme is to love the one you're with.However, while the concept of the movie is really good as a romantic comedy, the delivery has some problems. The biggest problem is that there are plot holes that you can drive a truck through. It seems that many interesting situations and backstories in the movie were dropped without much explanation. I never spoil the endings of any movie, but this one, while unpredictable, made for a huge plot hole. Also, the movie's plot is very unrealistic, but in an entertaining sort of way.The most this movie has going for it is the characters and actors. This romantic comedy is at least adequate and worth watching, but it could have been better. If it were a TV movie, the problems with this movie would be more forgivable. "},{"Title":"Okay but...","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First the good thing the film is a quite well made road movie / quest story about a not so young man who needs ti find out what really is important for him. Another great thing is that the film does not get the soppy, cheesy ending you expect for a long time but ends on a rather serious note. Then, the film is also quite funny and entertaining. However, the whole idea of the film and indeed some of the gags and scenes seem to be lifted from the Steve Martin / John Candy vehicle Trains, planes and automobiles and you do feel reminded of Jonathan Demme's Something Wild. So all in all with a lot of scenes you just get the impression that you have all in seen it before. "},{"Title":"Sandra forces herself on Affleck","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A road pic (i.e.two people on the road) which pairs Bullock as a quirky female and Affleck as a straight-arrow type on his way to his own wedding. Their growing relationship is barely interesting and Bullock's character is a bit different from her usual 'sweet-girl' roles, but there's no real new ground broken here. The only reason I checked this out at all is that I'm a Bullock fan. Affleck is OK, too, even though I consider him an over-rated actor (in my opinion, his best role is still the creep he played in Dazed and Confused back in 1993). Interestingly, since this is a real-life drama, one expects no computer FX here, but apparently they're all over the place - in the rain, in the snow (all computer-generated). Is this good? Bad? Today's technicians play a hand in all manner of ways for fantastic effects - not just for the Sci-Fi / Horror / Fantasy / Thrillers, but for everyday 'normal life*' scenes, as well, in so-called slice-of-life dramas. One can no longer be sure of anything one sees; is it real? Or is it...fake? Is Affleck's stupid grin real ...or fake? Is Affleck real ...or fake? *normal life - is it real ..or fake? "},{"Title":"This movie was one of the worst ever.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I though that this movie was very disappointing.I love Sandra Bullock and hoped this movie would be good but i was really wrong.It was a good comedy but I though the wrong people ended up together.Sara (Bullock) and Ben (Affelck)should have ended up together all the signs were there I mean it was like My Best Friends Wedding all over again.All I can say is I hope they remake this movie. "},{"Title":"A feel-good with a point, despite itself","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie strives to draw an analogy between the tempest of love and dangerous weather conditions. Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock manage to convey a sense of charm in their mundane and unlovable characters, but there is precious little chemistry between the two, with Affleck's clueless affability and Bullock's girl-next-door quality wearing off after about ten minutes. The strength and endurance (well, the entire value) of marriage is discussed, dissected and examined in the most trivial circumstances as Affleck's character survives the elements (and Bullock's best intentions) to arrive exactly at the point where he started. The ultimate resolution finally saves the film, not because it rounds off logically the developed build-up but mainly because it manages to outlast the cynicism and world-weariness of its diverse protagonists. Hope springs eternal - a feel-good movie with an intelligent conclusion - go figure. "},{"Title":"Interesting characters and crazy visuals.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wonder if the director of this film thought that the story wasn't good enough, so then decided to shoot the film in extreme style. The characters in this film are interesting enough without all the fancy shots and film bravado. The style showed that the director has talent, but ultimately took the story away from me. Sometimes simple is alot better, especially in a story of two people falling in love and out again. "},{"Title":"Nature Calls, but the force forsakes us","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was doomed from the first line of an absolutely awful and evacuous script.  A reasonable good cast, sound track and direction could not save it from such a downward force.  Maura Tierney and Sandra Bullock were actually just fine by themselves if you blocked out the rest of this disaster. "}{"Title":"A romantic comedy that is neither funny nor really romantic","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film lacked all the elements which should be typical for the romance genre. There were some scenes that could make you smile but if you manage a hearty laugh, then I admire you. It's been a long long time, since I've seen such a superficial film claiming to be romantic not talking about funny! "},{"Title":"Bullock's best; Affleck's worst","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Someone finally gave Sandra Bullock a chance to play a challenging role, and she has come through with flying colors in her portrayal of a complex character in FORCES OF NATURE. That's the only risk the producers should have taken, however. A similar neck-stuck-out choice of having Ben Affleck play something other than a wise-cracking working-class stud is a dismal failure. The scene in the nightclub where Bullock has to coax Affleck through every move of his bump 'n' grind is a synecdoche of the whole movie. Unfortunately, even her masterful work can't bring Affleck out of his coma. He reminded me of what Adam Sandler would look like if someone had the monumental misjudgement to cast the latter in a dramatic lead.The movie, while artistically executed, is glacially paced, and there is no physical chemistry between the stars. With only a single, incredibly sterile sex scene, FORCES OF NATURE could probably play in a Tehran movie house without fear of censorship.The minor roles were especially well-handled. Particular kudos is in order for Steve Zahn as Ben's best man, and Ronny Cox as Bridget's father. "},{"Title":"This movie is about as amusing as a insurance seminar.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst Sandra Bullock movie since Speed 2 But not quite that bad. I really lost it with those out of the blue not so special effect. Guys, If you're an insomniac go with your girl to see this movie. I give it three sleepies! "},{"Title":"Thin plot, no chemistry, poor remake of M.B.F.W.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There were some decent moments in this film, and a couple of times where it was pretty funny.  However, this didn't make up for the fact that overall, this was a tremendously boring movie.  There was NO chemistry between Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock in this film, and I couldn't understand why he would consider even leaving his wife-to-be for this chick that he supposedly was knocked out by.  There was better chemistry between him and Liv Tyler in Armageddon.  Hell, there was better chemistry between Sly and Sandra in Demolition Man.There were several moments in the movie that just didn't need to be there and were excruciatingly slow moving.This was a poor remake of My Best Friends Wedding.  Wait until it's been out for a year and a half on video and rent it in the .49 cent bin if you've got nothing else to do on a rainy Sunday afternoon, and you can't think of any better movies to rent. "},{"Title":"THIS FILM IS A NATURAL DISASTER....","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Only Hollywood can make such a recipe for a BOMBTake a BLAND story concept, two BAD actors, the director of HARRIET THE SPY, add some ANNOYING computer generated effects and DISTRACTING camera work....put them in the BIG BUDGET MOVIE BLENDER and puree on HIGH for about an hour and forty  five minutes.This film IS a natural disaster. "},{"Title":"Doesn't cut it","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Both Ben Affleck and Sandra Bullock are extremely appealing, attractive people. The idea of an out-of-control wild woman and a straight-laced businessman (okay, jacket copywriter) getting together was a fun idea. But, sorry, that's about as far as the fun went.I felt every single emotion in this film was manipulated, either through heavy-handed music (the scene where Ben as Ben turns on the radio in the cheap hotel room and hears, but of course, Love the One You're With) or pound-over-the-head foreshadowing (Ben's fiancée's old boyfriend). We are asked to believe that Sandra and Ben are going to stand on top of a train and shout into the open wilderness, and then, when the train locks itself to the next section, that they don't go flying off into the river below to certain deaths.We are asked to believe that, when desperate for money, they just happen to walk into the one gay bar in the sleaziest part of town and that, of course, Ben will be forced to strip for money to buy a cheap car to take them back to their destination.We are asked to believe many things that are far too coincidental. So, most of the movie doesn't work.But the main problem is In the beginning of the movie when Ben and Sarah (Sandra) are on the plane which runs into trouble before it even takes off due to some retarded seagulls, everyone is roughed up a little and Ben accidentally smashes Sarah's head with his notebook computer. Later, after everyone has been safely evacuated, Ben is hauling Sarah over his arm, getting her to a doctor or stretcher, or whatever the hell he thought he was going to do.Then, when he calls his fiancée to let her know he is okay, Sarah rushes the phone booth (but three minutes before she had been on a stretcher) and tells him, You saved my life! and kisses him madly. I'm sorry, what did he do to save her life? Nothing. So, the inciting event of the movie fails.Also, the endless jokes about marriage being a prison, and loving one person is like wearing the same clothes for the next 25 years... they wear thin quickly.Yes, Sandra is funny. She is glittering and gorgeous and has a movie star face and knows how to deliver a punch line (and a good swift kick if needed); yes, Ben is cute and adorable and he always looks like everything that comes down the line is a surprise and that he'd rather be in an episode of Leave it to Beaver, but, oh well, he is thinking, This is life and I guess I better learn how to catch the curveballs!... but, that aside, who cares? The ending was absolutely unacceptable; I didn't buy his speech to his fiancée for one second, nor did I think all the endless babbling about meeting someone and loving someone at the end was necessary. I can't believe the test audiences did not all at once storm out of the theater when the big surprise is revealed at the end. I was extremely disappointed. Another thing that was truly upsetting was, couldn't they think of ANY other name for Ben Affleck's character except Ben? How pathetic. Yes, it was a clever idea to combine force of nature with natural disaster and with Sandy Bullock's big, fabulous personality and gorgeous glamor girl looks. But ultimately, this movie fails on almost every level. I'm really sorry to say so because I'm a big Sandy fan, and am beginning to appreciate Ben as well. Well, at least they're both pretty to look at. "},{"Title":"A Piece of Junk","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Forces of Nature is not just the beginning of the downfall of Ben Afflecks film career, but it also maybe his worst film. Afflecks Performance is even worse than the movie, and Sandra Bullocks isn't much better, the directions horrible, the screenplay is one of the worst ever, and the visuals aren't up to scratch, if not horrible. There is almost nothing worthwhile in Forces of Nature, so believe the feeling you feel when you hear the storyline, which I hope is a sense of repulsion.If you enjoyed Forces of Nature, you might like, Miss Congeniality, and the much better Pearl Harbor. "},{"Title":"This is why we go to movies.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  FORCES OF NATURE was like a breath of fresh air.  Not because of the leads Sandra is still stuck in her 'aren't I adorable/don't you just love me' mode, which will doom her to Norma Desmond status in just a few years, and poor Ben is as clueless as ever.  But this has such great casting otherwise and tremendous special effects, plus a script that is a lot more thoughtful than you'd expect in a movie like this.The premise is that Ben, a nervous air passenger at best, decides against flying when the plane he and Sandra are on has a run-in with a flock of birds and almost crashes before leaving the ground.  So that leaves him trying to get to Georgia in time for his wedding.Along the way they have many adventures which, granted, push the grounds of credibility.  But a big chunk of the movie deals with what would best be termed magical reality.  There's a hailstorm which provides for as magical a scene as I can remember in recent movies.  And he gets to Georgia at about the same time a hurricane does, and he and his intended bride and their families try to sort things out while the wind is tossing about umbrellas and table decorations.  The logical thing for these characters to do would have been to go inside to talk, but the special effects are so good that we don't realize that conversations in that chaos would be futile until long after the movie has ended.And FORCES OF NATURE presents further argument that there should be a category of Best Casting at the Academy Awards.  The casting in this movie, down to extras who have no dialog but contribute a valuable presence, is superb.  It is cast with people who look as if they belong in these places and have lives that would make good movies in and of themselves.  Along the way the confused groom-to-be questions couples he meets in his travels, and those encounters are excellent.  Best yet, the casting director isn't afraid to show us people of 'senior citizen' status who are still vital and living their lives at full tilt.  Given Hollywood's usual worship of youth and terror at showing people past the age of thirty on screen at all, this in and of itself is almost miraculous.Check out FORCES OF NATURE.  In fact, we may go see it again next weekend. It's so good that repeated viewings will probably be even more enjoyable.The PG-13 rating is for drug use (which could have been cut out with little loss) and one scene involving strong language, and in that scene the character uses the words that even the most genteel of people would have used under those circumstances.This story has some nice 'life lessons' in it, so take the kids, too.On a five scale, Pops gives FORCES OF NATURE 4 spinning umbrellas.  "},{"Title":"review","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i completely agree! the ending really did ruin it for me although seeing as it wasn't really a romantic comedy (although that was what it was supposed to be) in which anything can happen, the ending was the most typical, you don't chose your partner after two days. the ending was as if this were a real life event and it was the most sensible thing to do, marry your fiancé as apposed to stripping naked in a gay bar??? its a movie to watch if you are wanting to pass the time...and there is nothing else on. the angels of the camera are as if they are on a slope, if your looking for a romantic comedy there are many other perfectly good choices. don't waste your money on this. i hope this helped. "},{"Title":"THE ABSOLUTE WORST FILM OF 1999!!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A word of WARNING to all. A film called THE FORCES OF NATURE has recently come out on video to torture and bring pain to countless millions of more unsuspecting viewers who will be blinded by the sparkling faces of Sandra Bullock and Matt Affleck smiling at them from the floor to ceiling displays in their local video stores.  I too love these stars, but please to NOT be fooled by this picture.  This film is easily the WORST picture of 1999.  It is simply without merit and the dumbest screenplay ever written.  If crap like this can get made it gives hope to us all, that one day, we too will get a screenplay made into a major motion picture. "}{"Title":"an appalling tale of a confused idiot","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ben is a shmuck and Sandra is a skinny and hopeless actress, both playing terribly pretentious parts in one of the worst films of the decade.  If you ever did like either of these two, Forces of Nature will dissuade you from anything of the sort.  Don't see it, and...um....ya, right, don't see it ever.  Unless you fancy poorly written scripts and horrendous directing on such unoriginal subject matter, you will absolutely loathe this typically '90s hollywood production.   "},{"Title":"Simon Says - Two Paws Down","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was written by the same guy who wrote the horrible remake of The Out Of Towners, starring Goldie Hawn and Steve Martin.There is nothing interesting going on in this movie.  I really didn't care one bit about these characters, and didn't find much that was believable or funny.Every convenient and insipid plot development was easily predicted by my dog Simon.  I thought he was begging for food, but he was actually begging for me to turn the vcr off.Two paws down. "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the grand tradition of free-spirit-girl liberates tight-and-stuffy-guy in spite of his bourgeois values writ large, this movie is the Korean copy of the Japanese imitation of the American re- interpretation of the European re-make of the Enlightenment era original.Stay away. Really, far away.To say nothing of the K-mart capitalist bliss porn scenes where hanging out at K-mart is stated to be something approximating cool.The acting is flat. The characters don't breathe (well maybe the cardboard version of air), the actors look like they're recovering from root canals. Sandra Bullock is neither cute nor sultry, she's the Platonic ideal of average and pretty. It's just a horrid, horrid film. Both of these have done much, much better in other movies and should definitely have had their agents pull the bail clause. "}]