[{"Title":"Misunderstood - A Great Film","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Corrupter is beset by expectations of Yun-Fat Chow in another John Woo flick. This isn't a John Woo flick (and I mean the old John Woo pre-American Studio), but it does evoke moments that are very John Woo/Yun-Fat Chow esque ala The Killer and the blind girl.This film is a character study of Nick Chen and Danny Wallace (played very well by Mark Wahlberg) as cops that must make decisions that may compromise their professional and personal integrity, but the lines drawn are not as simple as that. The film really asks people under what circumstances is it okay to bend the rules in order to achieve results that otherwise would not be possible? Would it be okay to let one guilty person go in order to catch ten more in the future? Would it be okay to convict one innocent person in order to catch a thousand guilty in the future? Danny Wallace joins Nick Chen in the Chinatown task group. Danny is forced to ask himself whether the short term actions, and their moral implications, are worth the long term good of the force, himself, and his family. "},{"Title":"Solid crime thriller","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nick Chen is a tough as nails New York cop who works on both sides of the law. When a new rookie cop is assigned to his unit he sees how the local crime boss tries to corrupt him and Chen reconsiders his ethics. All the while a few twists and turns show who is really playing who.This is by no means a very original movie, especially for Chow Yun-Fat. His first American film, 'The Replacement Killers,' also was kind of a re-run, but what is there to say? He's good at this type of stuff.Just like 'The Replacement Killers' this film was also a flop at the box office and it is probably through its gritty and uncompromising tone. Yeah, there's action and intense shootouts, but it is not like 'Die Hard' or anything. Innocent people die, the ending isn't happy, but what matters is that the film isn't cheesy - it pulls no sucker punches or cheap thrills. It sticks to the characters while keeping the action secondary, but no less intense. The plot too is also pretty interesting and is a little more intricate than 'The Replacement Killers' or Chow Yun-Fat's cult hits from Hong Kong like 'Hard Boiled.' It is not quite a masterpiece of genre, but remains a solid crime thriller nonetheless. 8/10Rated R strong violence, and profanity "},{"Title":"East meets west in an interesting mix of styles","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a Hong Kong action flick with a distinct taste of the west.  The movie starts off with a bombing and small store shoot-out that is right out of John Woo's stylebook but then it under goes a change.  The story starts taking over and it is one of intrigue within intrigue.  There are great moments of action with two guns blazing and an unbelievable amount of bullets but the story becomes the main thing.  This works as glue that a lot of Hong Kong movies don't have.  There are long pauses of plot developments between double crossing bad guys that are a real change to what is a typical Hong Kong action flick.The director John Foley likes to place people in positions where they have to make critical decisions under pressure (At Close Range and Fear) and this is no exception.  A caring cop caught up in a situation of corruption is under constant pressure to decide what is right.  You are kept guessing as to his ultimate decision but the pressure is there under a dozen different situations.  The sub-plots add to the texture of this movie and add to its richness.  These side stories of the bad cop father in trouble, the interaction of rival Chinese gangs and his love of Asian culture are all parts of the puzzle that is Danny Wallace played by Mark Wahlberg.  Foley knows Wahlberg from the direction of his acting breakthrough in Fear and uses him at what he does best, the confused tough guy with the sensitive agenda. (His latest movie `The Yards' is an example of what I mean). Nick Chen the experienced street cop played by Chow Yun-Fat is the perfect slightly crazy hard-hitting loner, who has embedded himself in the struggle of rival gangs in New York's Chinatown.  There is no black and white here, only shades of gray, in a world of who is doing what to whom but like the cultural differences between East and West the relationships between individuals overcomes the hard facts of doing business on the street.A very good blend of the Hong Kong actions movie that was brought in by Chow Yun-Fat (if you hear the commentary that Foley never saw a Woo movie) and what Foley's image is for street life in New York.  Coming from New York and living and working in Asia gives me insight into the homework that went into the making of this movie and I will say they did a very good job.  "},{"Title":"good action, good acting and a deep plot","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wahlberg and Chow both perform very believably and work well on screen together. This partnership reminded me of Training Day (with Denzel Washington and Ethan Hawke). That is, the green cop being educated by the seasoned cop and we're not sure if the seasoned one is corrupt or not. I also thought it was shot well with good use of lighting. The action scenes were well directed and quite spectacular in some cases (eg. the car chase and several shoot-outs) without going too over the top. The plot was a little hard to follow at first, but I blame this on myself, not the storyline. It's commendable that so much thought was given to the script and plot so it didn't always seem we were just waiting for an action scene. The drama added intensity and suspense well, too. For example, the tension between Chen and Wallace. The thread with Wallace and his father added good depth to his character and the story, as did the fact that he and Chen retained their partnership in fighting even when the suspected worst was revealed about Chen. It was also notable the role music played in the film. For example you always knew when the Asian punks were about to show up due to the rap music. The subtle music in dramatic dialogue scenes gave the scenes a good atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"Chow Yun-Fat is back with a bang!!","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor is Chow Yun-Fat`s second American film. This is more like an explosive thriller, rather than his usual non-stop action-films.  There is a handful of actionscenes and a cool car chase, though. Chow Yun-Fat is Nick Chen, a cop in Chinatown, who is corrupt as you may have guessed. Mark Wahlberg is Danny Wallace, a white cop, who is transferred to Chinatown, and becomes Chen`s partner.  Danny soon discovers that not everything is quite how it should be with Chen, who has a lot of money & and overlooks many crimes in Chinatown.  The Corruptor is a movie about the releationship between Chen and Wallace.   I must say that I didn`t like Mark Wahlberg at all, because his performance is poor.   Chow Yun-Fat carries this movie by himself, and he has a lot more dialogue now than in The Replacement Killers.   If you like Chow Yun-Fat or actionflicks, you should consider watching this one night.  It has not got as much action as The Replacement Killers, but it has a far better story and better acting.  8/10   "},{"Title":"Seriously Underrated Slice of Action","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While not perfect, The Corrupter is far from lacking when it comes to delivering the action goods we've come to expect from a Chow Yun Fat movie. People who say it needs more action or character development must have watched the wrong movie. To add more of either would have had to resulted in a longer movie. From start to finish, no time is wasted in conveying the story or showing Hong Kong style gunplay that is above and beyond what American audiences are used to. Extremely violent and full of imaginative ways to kill people with a gun, I don't see how anyone who would even consider watching this would give it a low rating. Unlike today's action flicks who strive for their precious PG-13 rating, this movie takes it over the top and is full of gratuitous nudity, immoral activity, and point-blank head-exploding gunfire. If you're into any of the aforementioned goodness, then you more than likely won't be disappointed by this flick. The famous car chase scene is perhaps the most violent ever put to celluloid. Mark Wahlberg isn't the greatest actor but is believable nonetheless. Chow Yun Fat plays the role of desensitized Asian gang taskforce detective Nick Chen perfectly. This isn't a movie to watch with the kids as Chen's antics can sometimes leave one questioning his sanity. With a touching ending and adrenaline pumping action, The Corrupter delivers on all promises - so much so that I must wonder if some of the other reviewers here were even watching the same movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Everyone has a secret","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	They say everyone has a secret. The Corruptor is a prime example of this saying because everyone in Chinatown is hiding something in this movie. Detective Nick Chen, played by international star Chow Yun-Fat, heads the Asian Crime Unit in his precinct. Chen is a decorated hero with many years on the force. He is also in the back pocket of Uncle Benny, the leader of the old-line gang in the city. Because of this he is fighting even harder to take down the Fukienese Dragons, a gang of young Chinese recently arrived to America. Adding to his problems Chen has a new cop in his unit, Mark Wahlberg plays Danny Wallace. Wallace is a rookie with his own secrets including a father who owes the Italian mob a large sum of money. The Corruptor is fun! Any movie that starts off with an entire storefront exploding and the one `survivor' being gunned down as he comes out the door is bound to grab your attention. Many gunfights and chase scenes later you even realize there is a story here. Mark Wahlberg continues to improve as an actor though it is hard to think of him as anything other than `Marky Mark.' Chow Yun-Fat is the main reason to see this movie. He was a star in China for many years before we were lucky enough to catch a glimpse of him. His English has improved immensely from his first American movie, The Replacement Killers, and his charisma is at the level that it always has been. When Chow is on the screen it is hard to watch others and it will definitely be interesting to see him in the remake of The King and I with Jodie Foster. 	James Foley directed this movie. It's not for everyone but if movies like Hard-Boiled and The Killer entertained you then check out The Corruptor. It's worth it!  "},{"Title":"Chinatown","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" New York's Chinatown is the background for this story about cops assigned to the area who are pursuing the Chinese gangs that operate within the neighborhood. Nick Chen, is a much admired cop who understands the people and the underground. When a white cop arrives to Chen's precinct things get a bit tense. Nick Chen takes Wallace under his wing and shows him the ropes.The film starts with a big bang, as a Chinese gang has wired a corner restaurant and blows it in a big explosion. Danny Wallace, who is at first cautious, is able to overcome his awkwardness and gains Chen's support. When Danny is almost killed, he tells Chen he owes him his life. What Chen doesn't suspect is that Danny is doing his own undercover investigation about what goes on in Chinatown.When prostitutes begin appearing dead in empty trash bins, Wallace realizes there is much more going on in the area. All points out of Uncle Benny's doing, but also involved is the powerful Henry Lee, a man that has a lot of interests in Chinatown and has his hands into gambling, prostitution and illegal smuggling. Nick Chen might be involved in some of the corruption. Danny Wallace's father, also a cop, comes to his son for money to keep his habit, and finally is found in his son's apartment, where he has collapsed. Nick and Danny's friendship will be put through a test.James Foley, an otherwise good director, brings some good ideas, but clearly, this genre demands someone else with more experience. Mr. Foley produced a stylishly looking film with a superb cinematography by Juan Ruiz-Anchia who loves to photograph from the air. His take of the Chinatown location is one of the best things in the movie. Also, the moody music by Carter Burwell seems to go hand in hand with what we are watching. Robert Pucci's screen play is full of twists and complications.Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg show an easy chemistry in their work. These actors compliment one another and make their characters seem real. The terrific Ric Young is perfectly reptile as he develops his Henry Lee, a corrupt man. Brian Cox turns up briefly as Sean Wallace, Danny's father.Be prepared for a lot of action! "},{"Title":"One of the better crime thrillers.","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Corrupter is an amazing crime thriller that combines intense action and shocking twist that will have your jaw on the floor. The Corrupter stars Mark Wahlberg as Danny Wallace a rookie cop who works in the Asian Gang Unit, he works under and with Detective Lieutenant Nicholas Chen the head of the A.G.U. Wallace first case with Chen is to solve a bunch of brutal murders that are happening all over Chinatown, but as Wallace get's deeper and deeper into the case Wallace finds out something that bust the whole thing wide open. The Corrupter is one of those rare crime thrillers it keeps you guessing and thinking right up to the jaw dropping climax that will leave you breathe less. I highly recommended this amazing crime film. I hope my review helps~ C.R. Lopez. "},{"Title":"Chow Yun Fat is back in form","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fans of Chow Yun Fat can finally exhale; he has made a decent Hollywood movie at last.I went to see The Corruptor this past Saturday in HK. While it's not an especially good film, it's a solid piece of entertainment. Most importantly, it allows Chow Yun Fat to be Chow Yun Fat. Whereas he was stiff and tentative in The Replacement Killers, in The Corruptor Chow burns up the screen. From the very first few seconds of his appearance in the movie you can see that The Coolest Actor in the World is back in form.In fact, it's the acting that saves the movie. The story is a tired one, but Mark Wahlberg and especially Chow are charismatic and make their characters sympathetic. Chow also develops an onscreen chemistry w/ Wahlberg that was completely absent in his partnership w/ Mira Sorvino.Because of it's uninspiring storyline, however, The Corruptor will probably still not make Chow a household name in America. But it will win him lots of new fans. Let's hope this upward trend in Chow's career continues w/ Anna and the King.  "}{"Title":"Very Stylish Thriller","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  On the surface this is just an old fashioned tale of a slightly wet newbie cop teaming up with a hardened veteran , in short it`s a buddy movie that were very common in the late 80s/early 90s but what sets THE CORRUPTER apart from similar movies is just how stylish it all is . James Foley started his career by directing videos but with one brief exception this doesn`t really show too much with his action style being inspired by the likes of John Woo and Hong Kong action movies . There`s some superb technical aspects such as the editing and the cinematography is breath taking especially the scenes where light filters through windows and we see the spectrum imposed on the characters faces There are some flaws to the movie of course . One is Foley has cast actors whose native tongue is not English which does cause some unintentional sniggers namely when the characters mention the word  Fokkien  , yeah okay I know it`s set in Chinatown but as is common in movies no one will complain if the characters speak perfect English no matter their ethnic origin or upbringing . The script does get a bit confused and complicated in the final third which did spoil the movie slightly and some people will no doubt be put off by the sometimes over the top violence , but as a violent thriller I was entertained by this movie   "},{"Title":"Underrated With A Great Performance","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadYes, I know critics, it has Wahlberg but Foley has him on a leash here. If you notice, unlike The Departed, where he went wild and ran the movie over, here he has limited dialog which is a good thing. Everyone says Replacement Killers is better, I disagree, Fat gives a much more complex, multi-layered performance here. He portrays his mixed loyalties to Uncle Benny, the police department and his growing father like affection for Danny very well. The script itself is much more complex than Fuqua's action fest. I own that movie also but this one follows Danny into the ambivalencies of going undercover to check out Fat which is complicated by his growing friendship with him and his father's gambling debts which suck him into the grasp of the Tongs and Henry Lee, well played by Ric Young. This is a very intense well written piece of work that bombed frankly because Wahlberg has a bit of a negative reputation. Please, The Happening? where he tried to play a scientist? Whose idea was that? Here, he is very much subdued and under control; Foley wisely limits his dialog there are no long spiels where he displays the limitations of his acting range. The loyalties get all mixed up as Danny gets deeper and deeper plus Lee starts manipulating him by using his wish to help people as a oar to steer him into trouble with.Fat will shock you with how well he does here. I am one of the few people who loved his performance in Anna And The King. My favorite scene is after this cop flips him crap, he pops his mouth with his finger and displays it in a circle with a sneering smile. The man is such a gifted actor. Imagine the Curse Of The Golden Flower without him? The characters are drawn well full of dichotomous feelings, light and dark, like all human beings. As corrupt as Fat is, he still is helping a prostitute that Henry Lee has slaving for him. These are not all good or all bad cartoon characters like many action movies. I really cannot understand the low IMDb rating except for people who detest Wahlberg. It certainly cannot be Fat's performance which I consider to be his best in an American film. The film's intensity begins from the first frame with Bobby Vu, the leader of the Fuchinese Dragons, blowing up a store and shooting the poor burning guy coming out. As we discover as the movie progresses, Lee is doing a behind the scenes mission to usurp control over the Tong from aged Uncle Benny. Fat feeds him information hoping to keep him away from Danny but good luck, Lee wants a white cop inside the precinct. The movie builds to the showdown where Fat has to decide whether to kill Danny when Lee discovers he is internal affairs. I admired the lack of a clichéd story with the stupid, happy ending. Foley makes a very different film even Danny's father is corrupt. There are no pure good or evil characters only the complex people you find in real life. Do not believe the above rating, this is an excellent movie. I own some of Fat's Chinese performances but this was his best role in English. A Hidden Treasure. "},{"Title":"well conceived...","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *one minor spoiler*My thoughts on this one.... I liked this.  The Corruptor is a good blend of action and drama.  In this you may believe that gun-ninja, Chow Yun-Fat is to be a bad guy but you realize that he isn't.  He is actuall a corrupt, but good cop in what I can say is a contradictory role for Yun-Fat(in a different role from the one in Replacement Killers).  I liked how he went to extreme measures on his cases including one part where there was a rival officer on his case from the FBI.  In this with him is Mark Wahlberg as a rookie cop interested in the well being of the Chinese immigrants but also has a secret of his own.  The buddy role between Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg is pretty cool and the action in this film was well-done including one car chase that really stood out like a black sheep in a flock of white.  It can be confusing at times but sometimes to enjoy something you must suspend thought even though this was a decent story with heart and action.   "},{"Title":"Ain't that Bad...","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Corrupter is the second American film featuring the action legend Chow Yun-Fat. It's your standard issue cop thriller that is strongly influenced by Hong Kong films from Ringo Lam and John Woo with a little bit of William Friedkin, Michael Mann and Walter Hill added to the cocktail. It's no masterpiece but it's far better than anything released nowadays.Chow Yun-Fat does a fine job in this film. His English has improved since the Replacement Killers, which was a fine action film, but was slightly held back by his not so good English. But still his charisma and experience in this genre shines through his rough accent. Mark Wahlberg is kinda miscast as the rookie cop. He just feels slightly out of place in this film and I can't really point out why. Brian Cox appears doing a terrible American accent and his always a welcome sight. The rest of the cast do their job well - the villains are very villainous, the FBI guys are a-holes and so on.Like any other 90's cop film, The Corrupter uses real stunts, real fake blood and plenty of Asian nudity. The setting of Chinatown is a very nice change of pace from other cop films that mostly focuses on the white gangsters and cops. It's by no means unique, but the setting really adds some welcome changes into the 90's cop film formula. The director James Foley does a nice job directing the film. It looks nice and the action, for the most part, is shot well and you can see what's going on. It's always nice to see film directed by a man who is not afraid of showing nudity, bloody gunfights and bringing out good performances from the actors.The only downside is the fact that the script isn't any good. It's serviceable and that's about it. The plot is convoluted mess, characters are underwritten, subplots go nowhere and all your classic problems with these types of films. If you love violent R rated cop films with a heavy emphasis on action and gun play, then the script is the least problematic element.The Corrupter is pretty good for what it is. It manages to keep me interested and entertained, thanks to Chow Yun-Fat and Marky Mark shooting bad people and some R rated goodies. If you expect French Connection, To Live and Die in LA or Heat, you will be disappointed. It's more like Miami Vice and Dead Pool and I happen to like them. "},{"Title":"Chow Yun-Fat proves once more that he has an abundance of talent","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" People who are not aware of Chow Yun-Fat's legacy in Hong Kong consider him to be skilled in 'Kung-Fu', something they know from watching 'Bulletproof Monk and Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon'..This is a complete fallacy. Chow Yun-Fat is not trained in any sort of martial arts, he started his career doing Dramas and playing romantic roles which of course were tied in with the epic gun fights, that created an entire genre of film, now known as 'Bloodshed'.Therefore, it was natural that Chow Yun Fat would look to expand his portfolio by conquering Hollywood, sadly that has not happened, instead he has travelled back and forth from Hollywood to Hong Kong as a shadow of an actor he once was, simply because the roles are not being given to him....Yet, the Corrupter; I felt, displayed Chow Yun-Fat's talents as an dramatic actor capable of going toe to toe with America's finest; he's suave, smooth, sexy and more importantly cool.The Corrupter is about a cop named Chen, who is one of the best in China Town; unfortunately he is given a new partner, Wallace (Mark Wahlberg) who needs guidance and is a little too 'green' for his own good. Wallace soon realises that in order to find criminals in China Town, you have to go to bed with them...make back alley deals; give something in order to receive something. The acting is of the highest calibre, every one gives a brilliant performance, but Chow rises above them all, even out-shining Mark, the action scenes are again brilliant. "},{"Title":"An Above-Average but Violent Cops and Crime Lords Shoot'em Up","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chow Yun-Fat's second English language actioneer The Corrupter boasts a plot with greater narrative depth and stronger characterization than The Replacement Killers, Chow's top-grossing U.S. feature film debut. Nevertheless, Glengarry Glen Ross director James Foley's cops & robbers saga lacks the visceral music-video bravura of Anton Fuqua's mythical gangster mow down epic. While Fuqua blew out all stops with his ballistic homage to John Woo in The Replacement Killer, Foley adopts a 'reality-what-a-concept' focus a la Sidney (Serpico & Prince of the City) Lumet in his treatment of a dirty cops crime chronicle. Good acting by Chow and a first-rate cast make this blood-stained, cultural murder mystery, with its share of surprises and shoot-outs, worth a second look.The Corrupter concerns an uneasy alliance between veteran NYPD Detective Lieutenant Nick Chen (Chow Yun-Fat) and his new partner, rookie cop Danny Wallace (Mark Wahlberg of Renaissance Man). Wallace finds himself assigned to the Chinese dominated Asian Gang Unit after a turf war erupts between the Triads and the Fukienese Dragons in the Big Apple. Wallace and Chen investigate the Chinatown mob, headed by slippery, Janus-faced Oriental businessman Henry Lee (Ric Young of Nixon) who skillfully plays both cops against each other as well as against the mob. Meanwhile, the Fukienese Dragons, run by vicious Bobby Vu (Byron Mann of Catwoman), are the culprits behind the latest bombings and shootings. Lee uses the Dragons to ice his immediate superior Uncle Bennie (Kim Chan of Lethal Weapon IV), so that Lee can take over the rackets without upsetting the Hong Kong mob.Initially, Lt. Chen and Danny cannot tolerate each other. Chen doesn't want the idealistic white cop on his team, but they come to respect each other after a series of near-death confrontations with trigger-happy goons. The complications stack up when Wallace busts a drug-dealer who is an undercover FBI agent. FBI Chief Schabacker (Paul Ben-Victor of True Romance), stomps into their precinct with a take-no-prisoners attitude. He has always suspected that Lt. Chen was in deep with Uncle Benny, and he wants Wallace to expose Chen. Meanwhile, Danny's seedy, ex-cop father, Sean Wallace (Brian Cox of Rushmore), shows up and asks Danny for some dough to help pay off his Mafia gambling debts. Danny has nothing but contempt for his dad, but Sean becomes Danny's conscience before the gunsmoke clears.Freshman scenarist Robert Pucci exploits Chinatown in The Corrupter for both its territorial as well as metaphorical iconography. As the title implies subtly but unmistakably, the crime lords who pay off the cops don't qualify as The Corrupter but rather the setting that mires them in the corruption of life. Not even the villains can avoid their fate in Chinatown, as Pucci points out with moody bits of dialogue like You don't change Chinatown; Chinatown changes you. Pucci's screenplay covers familiar territory, but he enlivens it with several twists and turns punctuated by hair-raising shoot-outs.Director James Foley tries his hand at a Tarantino through-the-gun-barrel darkly plot and shows himself equal to the task. Audiences may have a tough time with The Corrupter. First, even if word-of-mouth propels this energetic buddy cop thriller beyond its meager opening day box office receipts, the tragic ending rules out any sequel. The Corrupter shares more in common with 1970s' cop movies like Hustle with Burt Reynolds. Second, while Pucci's screenplay stockpiles all the clichés and conventions of the police genre, Foley never lets action overshadow character. Forget the familiar bulletproof vest escape hatch or the miraculous recovery from multiple gunshot wounds a la Lethal Weapon 1 thru 4. Foley furnishes some sizzling action sequences, but he never lets us forget that today's hero can quickly degenerate into tomorrow's crook. Nobody escapes The Corrupter without paying his dues. The guns may make the killers look cool, but these dastards cannot escape their comeuppance.One of the assets of The Corrupter is its solid acting. Undeniably, Chow Yun-Fat delivers his best performance to date. Chow displays greater range of expression and character here than even in his legendary Hong Kong epics. John Woo never got as spirited and animated a performance as Foley draws from Chow in The Corrupter. As dapper Lt. Nick Chen, Chow reveals as much character with his body language as he does with his dialogue. Foley deliberately downplays Chow's signature gun-wielding antics when the superstar whirls while firing away with a pistol in each fist.Mark Wahlberg, last seen in The Big Hit, gives a tight-lipped performance that quietly but effectively contrasts with Chow's gregarious chops. Soft-spoken and bespectacled, Danny Wallace grows as a character from the moment that he teams up with Chen. Wahlberg avoids any flashy Mel Gibson heroics.The support cast excels, too. With his silky-voiced speech patterns, Ric Young is believably wicked as a double-crossing crime lord who tires to burn the candle at both ends without getting singed. Paul Ben-Victor is appropriately abrasive as an FBI honcho who wants Chen's head on a platter. Oddly enough, Kim Chan stars as elderly crime lord named Uncle Benny. Check out his death scene in The Corrupter. Last summer, Chan played a similar Chinatown (as in Los Angeles) crime king in Lethal Weapon 4. Foley's longtime lenser Juan Ruiz-Anchia's flashy, sharp-lensed photography thrusts audiences into the thick of the action. Foley and Ruiz-Anchia repeatedly provide awesome aerial night-time shots of the Big Apple.Altogether, The Corrupter rates as an above-average but violent cops and crime lords shoot'em up. No, the violence does not match John Woo's gory but stylist Hong Kong thrillers The Killer or Hard Boiled that both starred Chow, but The Corrupter contains an adequate amount of gunplay to satisfy genre fans. "},{"Title":"The under-belly of New York's China Town is gritty, difficult to watch and, at times, pure poetry in motion.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not a fan of films that are as explicit or as violent as The Corruptor is, as a general rule, but I bought The Corruptor because of Chow Yun-Fat's splendid performance as Nick Chen. I really like Nick Chen, despite, or perhaps because of his flaws. Beneath his cynical attitude toward the inevitability of corruption in ANY police department and in particular the Asian Crime Unit of New York, is an honest man.The way he tries to protect the prostitute he loves is touching and beautiful, especially the scene where he feeds her while she is in bed. Nick's motivations and his own entanglement in the shadow-world of human exploitation is always colored by a desire to correct the wrong and make things right. He takes pride in his being a policeman like his father was before him, and wants to be thought of as a good cop, which he really is.The famous plum scene is a gem.  Yun-Fat and his partner, Walberg (who is MUCH better in this role than I expected him to be), are strolling through the open market district of China Town and Yun-Fat  stops to purchase a plum and offers one to Walberg.  Walberg rejects the plum in favor of a peach. The way Yun-Fat talks about Frank Sinatra and his reference to his godfather who made me look good, and I LIKE it! is sad and joyful at the same time.  Beautiful scene.Others have covered the action in this film, so I won't go over the same ground.  The London-based Chinese actor who plays the role of the king-pin of the operation is outstanding.  He brings to the screen true deceit without apology.For me, the BEST part of the DVD is the director's commentary.  He explains the scenes and how they were accomplished.  There is also a documentary on How the film was made with Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Walberg talking about their roles.  This is fascinating.Because I like Nick Chen so much, the end of the film is tough for me to watch but it contains some of the best scenes in the film, for example  Nick in the men's room doing a Chinese breathing exercise to prepare himself for what he must do next.Not for the faint-of-heart or those who cannot look at evil without flinching.  If you can force yourself to look, The Corruptor is well worth the effort. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!! A dramatically under rated film.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The direction and cinematography for this film is excellent. I am without a doubt a film conaessiour and I find this film to be very satisfying. Chow-Yun Fat is incredible and plays his role to a T. He also completes some of the most amazing action sequences I have seen in any action film. Mark Wahlberg produces one of his best performances to date and teams up well with Chow Yun Fat. All in all this film is entertaining and has flashes of greatness with astonishing camera shots and an superb cast. ONE film you should give a chance, 8 out 10 rating.  "},{"Title":"A quality action / thriller movie","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented the DVD version of The Corruptor and was immediately drawn into the story most especially from the quality directing.From the onset in the opening sequence, we the audience realize that this isn't your usual kung fu good cop/bad cop action movie. Again the craftmanship of the film leads the way.  The use of color, lighting, and visual directing serves to only enhance the mystique and intrigue of characters - notably Chow Yun Fat's role.  The story may be nothing to all that original, but yet it still works.  The violence is fitting and justified -- it serves to make the movie seem that more real, rooted in the actual urban environment that is it's backdrop.I highly recommend this film to anyone who appreciates action movies which attempt to try and not to dumb it down, or play to the lowest common denominator. Stupid quips and hollow characters will not carry a movie no matter how elaborate the explosions and martial arts may be.The Corruptor B+/A-   "},{"Title":"Good Showcase For Both Actors","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor is a good film. The movie gives the two actors something it finally let's Yun-Fat talk more, let's him overact a little, just like the way he captured his audience in HK. The other thing this movie does is that it finally shows that Mark Wahlberg isn't Marky Mark anymore, he has grown up. Great movie, great action and good dialogue. "}{"Title":"Interesting character study/action","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie leaves alot of visuals in your head. In particular the basement scene of the porn makers. There is an excellent chemistry between Wahlberg and Yun Fat. Chow Yun Fat shows he can act even better than he fires guns. More than an action film it is a character study.  "},{"Title":"Wahlberg and Chow-Yun-Fat kick a**!!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ok, many people are dissing Mark Wahlberg for not giving a more expressive attitude in his movies....I beg to differ.  Every movie he's been in, I think his character required this, expressionless and non-amused type of look.  I think he does an amazing job in The Corruptor. Also, Chow Yun-Fat.  I think he's taken a step away from the whole action, killing type thing because of his upcoming role in Anna and the King....He had to get used to being more dramatic, and I think this movie was a perfect outlet for that.  The Corruptor was a great fusion of drama/action and I recommend it to everyone.  I give it an 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"chinatown","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i was very impressed with this one. i dind't know what too expect from chow yun fat i was most pleasantly surprised. i loved the opening sequence of the car getting blown up very effective, i loved the plot in this movie, chow's character Nick, gotta love him,, i didn't really know if Marky Mark could act,, too my amazement he can,, conggrats i might like you better as an actor than an 80's singer. this movie has a great plot too, Chineese Triads trying to bribe the cops,, lot's of shooting,, hookers getting killed, bad cops, good cops,, and of course you have to have an Uncle Benny, much like Lethal Weapon 4 , which this movie kinda reminds me of. look at all of those illegals in the boat during the movie. i have personally been in Chinatown in N.Y.C. before, about 3 years before this movie was filmed there, and it looks even better than when i was there, i remember going to eat at a Chinese restaurant and smelling all the garbage in the alley, because the city was on a trash strike,, gotta love New York, all in all i think that this was a great movie, with a lot too offer. It's a thrill ride for the action fan, and that is me. "},{"Title":"Corrupt me","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Corrupter rides high on style and action, some of it's action sequences are awesomely and coolly shot. Parts of that car chase were breathtakingly thrilling, I felt I was there. It's a huge surprise, considering the film is directed by James Foley who makes films I LIKE, he's best still being in my opinion, the very underrated, At Close Range. A second inning onto the American market, Chow Yun Fat, lives this film up. I agree, he is the coolest Asian actor, who can act. Speaking of actors, their all terrific. Wahlberg's solid as the young rookie, undercover cop, partnered with the shady head of the Asian task force, Fat, who thinks he can play on both sides of the law and still come out clean and cool, like his parading self. Ric Young who's the godfather of Chinatown, controlling the whole corrupt show, while buying a few cops, is so slick and slimy, in his role, he's lovable, a big paunchy China doll. Most impressive though as rising hood, climbing up the ladder, very quick before his time, is Byron Mann, as Bobby Vu, while too, I also liked Brian Cox, always solid, as Wahlberg's, bum of a gambling, ex cop, and weathered father, who always implores his son to get him out of his indebted messes. Too, The Corrupter has an darn interesting story, if sometimes confusing, and this I think could be it's fault, where to un confuse it, you might have to wrack your brain a bit. But it has more meat to it, than Chow's last simple storied, show and cool action piece, The short, sharp, and sweet actioner, The Replacement Killers. Also I liked Paul Ben Victor as the Head FBI chief, butting heads with Fat, a mutual and silent hate exchanged. Fat shows great emotion, especially in parts where he finds out, he's bitten off more than he can chew. Too, you will notice some faults in some action parts of The Corrupter, but Foley, has crafted a very slick action pic, the early scene with Fat shooting up a light store, had me underestimating the action side of it, when I saw it at the cinema in 99. From here, it was confirmed I was in for one hell of a ride. The movies cool from the word go, and I mean from the word Go the cool, deviously, and shady fitting music score by Carter Burwell as the opening credits fade in and out of The larger font movie Title was an impressive start, where an explosion in the first scene, is a great invitation, which you'll get here among a little bit of T and A, too that doesn't go astray, where Fat always looks after his partner. The action finale on that big ship, even though played out a bit, is climactic, involving and again, cool, if shockingly affecting, not just for one thing. Foley too, plays around with some beautifully overhead shots of the big Apple. Here's a film he should be proud of, despite a lot of negativity from a few real movie critics, towards it. I almost love this as much as ACR. One of the coolest films you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"The dark side of working in the police, and not everything is as it seems.","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am really annoyed as the Advertiser, our local newspaper, didn't give a review of the Corrupter this week it was released. They usually review all of the films released during the week and it seems that the Corrupter missed out, which is really annoying. Anyway, knowing that my tastes generally diverge greatly from those of reviewers, they would probably have given it a one star and labelled it as a pointless movie with lots of violence. This I would object to because Chow Yun Fat is an absolutely brilliant actor and most of the movies that I have seen that he has been in I really enjoy. Okay, Hard Boiled was little more than a huge gunfight through a hospital, but it was still a great movie.Chow Yun Fat is a highly decorated cop in New York's Chinatown. One day a white cop joins up, much to the annoyance of the other cops in the Asian vice squad as they are Asian and a white man does not know how Chinatown runs. It seems that this new cop is an eager and naïve boy who wants to change Chinatown, but as Fat says, you don't change Chinatown, Chinatown changes you. The new cop is portrayed through the movie as being the epitome of innocence caught in the middle of a dangerous a violent world that is Chinatown. The movie opens with a shop exploding and then the members of the Fookanese Dragons, a gang trying to take over from the ruling Tong gang, kill the owner of the store. This violence is contrasted with the almost innocent life of the white cop, who we then learn has a father who is in a lot of trouble with the mafia due to gambling debts.There are two themes that run through this movie, that of shattered hope and that of corruption even the most honoured and respected people have a corrupt side, while even the most corrupt can be capable of huge amounts of good. This is in contrast with Divorcing Jack where the corrupt are trying to create peace, only to have their corruption exposed and the peace being shattered. In the Corrupter, the corrupted are sought after, but even with the evidence to expose the corrupted, it is put aside for they are very much capable of performing great deeds.I thought that this movie was going to be predictable. It is not. As soon as you learn that the white cop is in internal affairs working to expose Fat's corruption, we expect then to turn on each other and begin to fight. The movie is not that shallow. As we remember from the quote made you don't change Chinatown, Chinatown changes you. The internal affairs officer has a purpose but the corruption then seeps into even his most resolute honour. The FBI are portrayed as rather nasty individuals, though they are simply obsessed with their job, and they hide themselves away behind desks, coming out only to claim fame for somebody else's bust.Internal affairs isn't much liked here, but we do sympathise for the white cop because he has experienced what it is like on the street and he is as affected by it as everybody else. He is there to collect evidence against Fat, but in reality he finds himself becoming more closer and loyal to him, when in the end Fat chooses not to shoot but to move to save his life. One cannot expect to move into Chinatown and change everything - rather they need to become a part of it, accepted by it so that the evil may be rooted out and destroyed.The main crime here is slavery. This is where the shattered hope theme comes in. Asians are illegally imported into New York for a price, and then the price is jacked up forcing them to work as prostitutes. Those who refuse are simply killed and dumped into trash cans. It makes one think about the whole idea of America being a better place. They come out to America (and Australia) expecting a better life but find themselves trapped on the streets with no money and having to degrade themselves by selling their bodies to people who simply want to abuse them. This is not the better life that they hoped for.We may all snarl and growl at criminals, but what many of us forget is that this is a harsh and uncaring world, and some people are thrown into situations which they do not know what they are doing and once they are there, they can never get out again. Drug use is the most common example, for they can find themselves without money and jobs and desperate for the drug and thus they must resort to violence to get it. In a way we should not be hating them and calling for them to be locked up in gaol. The true villains are really very few. Many of the criminals are foolish or simply caught up in something that they never expected to land up in. As such we should be helping them not causing them to be cast out.I have digressed from the movie, but we do see are very dark and miserable world here. A world where idealistic youths can't change. This is a real world with real problems that simply cannot be solved by locking people up or even by shooting them. "},{"Title":"Interesting flick","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I tuned into this because it starred Chow Yun-Fat, the excellent co-star of Jodie Foster's Anna and the King. I had never seen him before that, and was fascinated to see him in Sleeping Tiger Hidden Dragon. In The Corruptor, he is an Asian-American cop (Nick Chen) on the Chinatown beat. And he's been around for awhile. The precinct is surprised (and annoyed) to discover that a young Caucasian cop has been assigned to them, Danny Wallace. It starts out as a buddy movie, with Chen and Wallace getting to know each other, as Chen becomes the mentor for Wallace. There are a fair number of layers here this is not your average martial arts flick with lots of action and not much story (although it had its fair share of fast action). Chinatown itself is complex, and it impacts the various characters in different ways, forcing them to make philosophical and emotional choices along the way. Without giving away what the movie evolves into, I'll just recommend it to Chow Yun-Fat fans, as well as fans of twisty cop movies. Not a keeper for me, but definitely worth the first view. "},{"Title":"A times it hits the mark.....at times","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yun-Fat Chow and Mark Wahlberg star in the latest offerings in the genre of action police movies.Early on the scenes seem to jump like a cross between NYPD and a John Woo action flick.  This is extremely annoyong at takes some time to get into the swing of the movie as a whole.I am not a big fan of Mark Wahlberg whose character seems to be a little annoying for my liking.  Without giving the plot away, the ending is predictable and the development of the characters and the respect for each other, is not really convicing.The action in the movie is really frantic at times and so unrealistic it becomes detrimental to the movie.  If I see machine gun fired at close range into a car whilst missing the hero's one more time in a movie I'll scream.  Some gangsters couldn't hit the GoodYear Blimp at 5 feet.Maybe I am getting over the action movie, or maybe I have seen enough good ones to pick a bad one early on in the peace.See for yourself "},{"Title":"Predictable but with some redeeming features","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yun-Fat Chow is a remarkable actor in a less than remarkable movie. Lots of gun play punctuating a rather flat and predictable cops on the take but likeable screenplay. So many of the characters and plot devices are not fully developed, makes one wonder what happened in the cutting room or what happened to the screenplay after the producers finished hacking it. However, a movie you should rent and watch if you have any interest in the genre. Some unusual camera work and interesting social commentary both on the plight of illegals in the North America, and on the way justice works on the street. And to be fair, there are some good scenes with believable dialogue.Might make a good double bill if played first with Year of the Dragon as the main feature. "},{"Title":"Formulaic but interesting","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Marky Mark Wahlberg got top billing but this is really Chown Yun Fat's movie and he does a nice job carrying it.  Fat is an old-time Chinatown cop who long ago compromised himself for favors from the local crime boss, and Wahlberg is the new cop assigned to his area.  Fat's eccentricities enhance a fairly standard character-type (the essentially good cop who sold out his integrity -- most notably last seen in LA Confidential) and makes you want to see him pull out of this mess.Wahlberg got a lot of raves for his performance in Boogie Nights but he falls pretty flat here.  His character if fairly bland and even after more of his background is revealed to show that he's not necessarily the naive patsy he first comes off as, he's never very compelling.There's a few ultra-violent shoot-outs that seem a concession to Chow Yun Fat's work with John Woo but they don't always fit very well in the story.  These Hollywood movies always show America as some urban warzone where people are gunned down by the dozen off the street, I wonder what tourists must think!  The movie has a fairly predictable end but it's an above-average cop drama, if only for Chow Yun Fat's performance--this is certainly better than his first American movie, The Replacement Killers. "},{"Title":"Foley scores","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another great Foley film, the first decent US effort for Chow-Yun Fat.  An action film for those with half a brain. Wahlberg is restrained, perfect for the role. Infinitely better than the tiresome and ridiculous shoot-em-up Replacement Killers. "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this story about the gritty underworld of New York's chinatown, two police officers are matched in an unlikely paring to combat the rising chinese gangs. Primarily an action movie it incorporates a storyline of conflicting loyalties both personal and professional.I thoroughly enjoyed the DVD release of this movie. Chow Yun Fat is always an entertaining action star, and even Wahlberg does a nice job. The violence, while explicit, is characteristic of *REAL* gun violence. And the action scenes are well directed the car chase shootout is one of the best of the genre. Character development could be a bit deeper, but really isn't necessary for this film to work. Good audio and video transfer to disk. Substantial extra material including the un-rated, uncut footage of the car chase shootout.Loved this movie.-- The Punisher "},{"Title":"The best !","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is a lot of negativity about this movie, from the reviews. But the truth is it's one of the best in it's kind, it's not drama, or your action flick, it's a mix of both, and it think it was done quiet well.First we have the story, which is a bit complex, so you have to pay attention, it has a surprise element which i won't give out, but it will give it an edge. Overall it's a really good story. Then we have the action, which is again, done quite well. I would suggest getting this on DVD, which is what i did, it's quite nice. Anywho, this is better than all of the lethal weapon movies combined together.  "},{"Title":"Stress Buster","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor was an action-packed police drama set in New York's Chinatown. Chow Yun-Fat, despite his boyish demeanor, is a very violent policeman who gets results by disregarding the book.  The Chow Yun-Fat of The Corruptor is a far more entertaining one than the smooth, suave Chow Yun-Fat of The Replacement Killers.  Mark Wahlberg, surprisingly, is the seemingly naive corruptee, being corrupted by various sources including Chen (Yun-Fat), his partner.The violence perhaps was gratuitous, but I enjoyed it.  The car chase scene was the best that I have seen in years.  The end result of an action movie for me is to experience an adrenaline rush.  The Corruptor filled this tall order.My one criticism is that plot was hard to follow at times, particularly with simultaneous double crosses.  In the end, Chinese familial ties meant nothing.The sound track was good, and humorous as well as the Fookienese gangsters were blasting gangsta rap.  (Was it DMX?)9 Pts. out of 10 for The Corruptor.  Mark Wahlberg put on a good performance. "},{"Title":"FINALLY, Chow Yun-Fat gets a role with actual personality.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor, from start to finish, is Chow Yun-Fat's film--even though the slack-jawed and simian Wahlberg does what he can to bogart screen time. CYF seems to be making up for the one-note Replacement Killers  here, and he does a fine job of creating a character in whom the audience can make an emotional investment.  Nick Chen is easily the most believable and enjoyable character in The Corruptor, and it's too bloody bad there won't be a sequel.   "},{"Title":"A decent flick, Chow Yun Fat gets a better role","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie. Not a great one, not a terrible one. I was surprised by Chow Yun Fat in this one. My only previous exposure to him was The Replacement Killers, in which he played a very quiet and sullen character. Definitely a much livelier rold for him, and he seems to do well with it. The main downer on him is that his command of English is not the best. There were parts of the movie where I could not understand a word he was saying(I have nightmares of him doing a movie with Van Damme)Mark Wahlberg does a good job here, though not as good as previous roles. But he still goes on to prove that Marky Mark can act.Excellent casting or Ric Young as the bad guy. Though there was no evidence of it in the rold he played, he looks like a pervert. No mistaking him for anything other than evil.Might be worth a trip to the theater if you like shoot em ups, otherwise grab it when it comes to video "},{"Title":"Chow is awesome in brilliant Corruptor.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Predictable?  What Schwarzenegger film isn't?  The Corruptor plays within the slim confines of the action movie genre to make a (mostly) believable, gritty thriller that showcases Chow Yun Fat's wonderful acting.  The movie toys with the question of the characters' morality without hitting you over the head with it.  The action is brutal.  For the first time in a few years a director is NOT RIPPING OFF JOHN WOO!  There are no cool slow-motion shots.  No fawning hero shots.  Just a stripped down, full-speed thriller. And it rocks.  "},{"Title":"Chow Chow does it again","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing Chow Yun Fat in all his Hong Kong movies I couldn't wait till he came to America.  Then Replacement Killers came out, it was ok but nothing up to his standards.  Now this movie comes out, Oliver Stone is Ex. Producer )  This shows his acting abilities and his action abilities.  The movie overall was great.  The story good and some major twists near the end. It was an American film but made with Hong Kong ways such as ammo limitations(infinite), innocents killed (Always great) and great action stunts.  Go see this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"A step up for the great one!","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw the movie today finally. I must say Yun Fat's acting was way better in this movie compared to the Replacement Killers. The plot was a bit weak because most of it has been done before and it may not have been as violent as his other films but it was certainly dark.Walhberg was almost nothing to this movie. I was quite disappointed with his performance actually. Trust me if you liked him in Boogie Nights then don't bother with this movie, cause you'll hate it if you are just watching it for him.Overall this movie was worth seeing and I recommend it toanyone with a dark sense in movies and good acting from Chow Yun Fat.  "},{"Title":"A very solid second Hollywood effort from Chow Yun Fat","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor is an above average action/crime drama featuring Chow Yun Fat in his second American effort (the first being The Replacement Killers) as detective Nicholas Chen, a cop in New York's fifteenth precinct.  The film's basic plot is a typical cop versus mob yarn where Yun Fat is teamed with a young transfer (played by Mark Wahlberg) to battle a Chinese crime syndicate.  There are several layers and twists that propel the storyline above the standard cop thriller that are guaranteed to hold your interest throughout.  However, the real heroes of the film are the actors.Chow Yun Fat and Mark Wahlberg are electrifying actors who simply captivate us with their natural charisma.  With his character Nicholas Chen, Chow Yun Fat has the flexibility to display his infectious charm, whereas his first Hollywood performance as John Lee in the Replacement Killers had limited character boundaries.  Wahlberg again shows us why he is one the top young actors in Hollywood today by playing a very interesting character who must deal with multiple issues in order to overcome the obstacles he faces.  What must not be lost in the praise of the two lead actors, however, is the masterful performance of Ric Young as Henry Lee, the head of the Triads and chief antagonist in the film.As far as action goes, fans of John Woo/Chow Yun Fat collaborations will not be disappointed.  The car chase in the middle of the film is the best of recent memory, dwarfing the bordering on ridiculous so-called mother of all car chases in last summer's Ronin.Overall, The Corruptor is a nice rebound for Chow Yun Fat.  It's not the Killer or Hard-Boiled, but it's much more entertaining than any recent Lethal Weapon movie or summer blockbuster directed by Michael Bay.   "},{"Title":"A strong American cop thriller that *GASP* actually uses Chow Yun-Fat well!!","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With gang warfare in Chinatown growing by the day in it's frequency and bloodiness, the police draft in more man power to support Nick Chen's Chinatown squad.  However the new recruit is Danny Wallace, a white officer who requested the squad.  Wallace soon learns that he must stick close to Chen to survive in Chinatown and Chen both dislikes his new colleague and wants to protect him from the way the police must do their work.  However when Wallace is approached by Henry Lee with information, everything goes from black and white to grey.They say it is a sin to waste things, so Hollywood must be already condemned by an angry God for the useless ways they have used Chow Yun-Fat since he came from Hong Kong.  Out of all the American films he has done there are few that really get close to using him well &#150; this is the reason that I really enjoyed The Corrupter, he is really good here.The plot is, on the surface, a standard cop tale of right and wrong with the rookie cop battling between what works and what is right.  This works in it's own right and has enough little twists to deliver a solid thriller.  However beneath this is the strong relationship between Wallace and Chen.  Chow has been in plenty of films where two male leads have developed a strong, complex relationship to a background of violence (The Killer or A Better Tomorrow for example) and, although this isn't as good as those, it is in that tradition.  The dynamic between the two men and the silent battle for each other's soul is what makes this stronger than the plot synopsis would suggest.I saw this in the cinema years ago and it came across as an OK thriller.  When I watched it again last night I realised how much more there is to it and how much more involving it is than so many cop thrillers with similar plots.  After the Replacement Killers tried to keep Chow doing Woo-style action films, this film was much more standard fare.  The film is framed in Oriental flavour and we still have the traditional gun battles and two-handed gun play, however here they are a lot more sparingly used.  Also the action is unexpectedly violent &#150; not just choreographed but quite close to home with bystanders getting caught up.Although much of the strength comes from the script Chow is the perfect man to bring out the male relationship stuff and the complexity of the lead role.  His English here is excellent and he is riveting in the lead role.  He easily steals every scene he is in and brings so very much to his character.  Walberg is also pretty good &#150; keeping his character complex as well, however he is simply second best to Chow who is far and away the driving force behind every scene he is in.  The support cast all do well and are mostly recognisable faces playing the same sort of roles they usually do in this sort of film. In fact Kim Chan (who plays crime lord Uncle Benny here) may even be playing the same character he played in Lethal Weapon 4 (where he played crime lord Uncle Benny) were it not for a different surname!Overall this is a solid film.  Anyone hoping for a blazing action movie will be let down, but those looking for a good cop thriller that has emphasis on character would do well to watch this.  To my mind this is one of the very few American films that has actually used Chow well &#150; a favour he repays with a dominating performance in only his second American film. "}{"Title":"Corrupted from the very beginning","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a world of no rules (as the log line says), films like this are bound to happen.  Without a foundation from which to tell a story, corruption isn't just something that happens to be part of the title of this film, it's at the very core of why this film even exists.Very briefly, this film is about two cops who work in the middle of gangland Chinatown in New York.  One cop, Nick Chen (played by Chow Yun-Fat), knows that he has to break some rules to get to the bad guys.  The other cop, Don Wallace (Mark Wahlberg) is a rookie cop who seems to be as straight-laced as Jimmy Stewart.  So with this cliche all set, the film moves into a storyline of two gangs at war with each other and detectives Nick and Don dive in head first.After all of the set-up then, the rest of the film is a very bad attempt at being clever  The double- and triple-crosses aren't nearly as surprising as finding the morning paper on your doorstep every morning.  The action is gratuitous and lends nothing to the film, let alone the imagination.  The violence is unbearable and most alarmingly, goes towards glorifying gang warfare and not discouraging it.  The sex is... well, it's what it is in all movies these days unnecessary, uninvolving, brutal, irresponsible, and stupid.  The high-key lighting style of the cinematographer is completely out of place in this film since there's nothing to really be suspenseful about.  And this film  absolutely does not merit any comparison to the film-noir genre even though you get the sense (if being pounded over your head with something means sense) that the director tries for it.  For all of the black and white spaces created by using high-key lighting, the underpinning absence of a clear morality actually undermines this story instead of enhancing it.Usually, audiences assume that when you're a cop, you stand for all that is good.  Well, at least that's what people used to assume.  In any case, even in an absence of a clear line of good and bad, a strong story with good, strong characters will arise and tell a tale that makes people think about what is good and bad.  This film just makes you wonder if there are any good cops out there at all (I don't mean boy scouts).Why does everyone have to be so corrupted in movies these days?  Why does it have to be so dark?  I don't believe the line that says, It's dark because that's reality.  It's only a portion of reality and even then, it's only because certain people in this society think it's cool to have a smoking gun and a smoking piece of garbage in your mouth.  How dumb is that?Bottom line is, this film lacks a moral underpinning that makes all movies great.  Whether this morality is challenged, questioned, or turned upside-down makes no difference.  At least a morality exists.  In THE CORRUPTOR, there is no morality to do anything with.  That's why in this film, the violence is gratuitous, the sex uninteresting, the double- and triple-crosses obvious.  It's just a stupid movie.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good cop action with the strange pairing of Chow Yun Fat and Marky Mark","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Corrupter is a pretty good, but not great action packed thriller starring HK legend Chow Yun Fat. This is the second English language US production for Chow Yun Fat and he gives an excellent performance. He shows more range and depth than his Hollywood debut The Replacement Killers and easily compliments the complexities of the storyline and his character. As excellent as Chow Yun Fat is, his supporting cast does not perform at the same level. For the most part, the support cast is decent. The biggest problem here is the horribly miscast Mark Wahlberg, who opposite Chow Yun Fat was terrible. If Mark Wahlberg was to make this now, he would probably nail it. At the time he did not have the acting chops for a character as complex as this and is not rugged enough to convincingly play a NYC cop, rookie or not. His performance was wooden and looks silly when he tries to act tough. If he could refrain from sounding like Michael Jackson when he talks that would have been a step in the right direction. Flaws and criticisms aside, I enjoy the film. The film looks great and is packed with tons of gritty, bloody action with a stylish 90's rap score to boot. "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This could've been a great movie. It had everything going for it from good actors, to concept, and not a bad director. The one thing this suffers from the most is pacing. After a certain point it just kept going on, and on, and on, and on. Mark Wahlberg did great and so did most of the other actors. The idea was solid and it was entertaining for the first 45 minutes. Then it just grinded to a halt and I almost fell asleep while watching. Due to the character interactions that we've seen before, the same look of the rest of the film, and many other things it just failed to impress. There was no tension really built throughout the whole movie so it ended up having a payoff that was just tiresome by the end. All in all this wasn't BAD, but the final act really brought down its score. So I don't recommend this movie unless you want some good background noise to keep you company. "},{"Title":"Let A Thousand Explosions Bloom.","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It doesn't begin with much promise. After the credits, an unexplained fireball slams into the camera. Near the end, there is the climactic shoot out aboard a freighter smuggling Chinese illegals into the country. In between, photographed in lurid colors suggesting grindhouse, there is a car chase through the streets of New York's Chinatown that slaughters innocent bystanders. More ammunition is expended than during the entirety of World War II and a Chinese girl wearing no knickers licks Mark Wahlberg's naked back.The story itself has Wahlberg as an NYPD detective assigned to 15 precinct, Chinatown, and forced to work under the supervision of Chow Yun-Fat. It's a complicated narrative full of characters and twists and I don't think I'll describe it much further because there is a surprisingly successful element of suspense built into it.Initially, when Wahlberg shows up at the precinct, it begins to look like very familiar stuff. Wahlberg is the only white guy on the roster and the Chinese cops taunt him and ridicule him. When Wahlberg says he goes by the book, the others scoff. It appears to be still another story of the veteran showing the naive rookie how the cow at the cabbage.But then it gets into far more interesting stuff and in a way that involves the viewer. The crosses and double identities are so thick that I lost track of them at time but they gradually became clearer as the story unfolded.Both the principles do well by their roles and the director helps by avoiding contemporary clichés -- the zap of instant editing, the whirling camera held by the drunken photographer, the glitz and whams on the sound track. It's all done neatly, in classical style.You may find yourself getting into it, and the kids will enjoy the furious action sequences. "},{"Title":"Director James Foley Does His Best John Woo","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This One is Criminally Underrated, Director James Foley and Crew Deliver a Barrage of Action and Characters that are Stunning. We Not Only Remember the Violent Outbursts of Stylistic Violence, the Characters Stick in the Mind As Well. Certainly Chow Yun-Fat, Giving One of His Patenting Performances with Mannerisms and Controlled Mania, the FBI Agent, Brian Cox's Mess of a Father, the Chinese Gang Members, and Yes, Mark Wahlberg at His Most Restrained.The Car Chase is Simply one of the Most Complex and Violent as You're Likely to See, Not Afraid to Kill Innocent Bystanders at a Blistering Pace, In Fact the Whole Sequence is Alarming.The Movie has Everything Action Fans Could Want and More. The Cinematography is Excellent and the Film is Filled with Things that are Uncomfortable and Unique. Overall, it is One of the Best from James Foley, Wahlberg, and Can Hold its Own with Fat's Hong Kong Films. Yes, John Woo's The Killer (1989) and Hard Boiled (1992) are Better, but This One is No Slouch. "},{"Title":"Not Chow Yun Fat's best, but worth a watch","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I've seen better Hong Kong style action movies, but we must keep in mind that this was not meant to be a typical Hollywood or Hong Kong film. It seems to be a convoluted mixture of East and West.  If you want to see a classic CYF movie, this isn't it.  However, as much reservation as I had about Wahlberg, I think the overall product is worth a watch.  Go ahead and watch this movie, but keep in mind you're watching a Chow Yun Fat movie made in America.  It's kinda like drinking Coke from a fast food chain, too watered down and not enough of the real thing. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A surprisingly watchable action film. The story is not the typical Hollywood cliche. Chow Yun-Fat and Wahlberg play multi-faceted characters. While this film is better than the standard action film, it could have utilized the great Chow Yun-Fat better. John Woo and Ringo Lam where are you? "},{"Title":"Serpico meets the replacement killers? maybe,...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But I liked Serpico!  This was not a great movie, but it was a good movie, to my eyes.  A lot of people reviewing here despised it, or at best thought it was mediocre.  To make matters worse, the few people that did like it seem boneheaded next to a lot of the movie's detractors....  Not good for my self-image.The reviews posted for this movie are so varied, how can a person possibly tell what the movie's actually like?  People thought the acting ranged from feeble to excellent, and the same goes for every other aspect of the movie. Few people agreed about anything, except that a lot thought it was annoyingly edited and showed asians in a negative light.As much as i hate to add to the completely useless jumble of reviews posted, here's my two cents...This movie is an action-crime-drama.  It is not an action movie, because if it was, It would have been paced to revolve around the action.  The Replacement Killers was an action movie.  Hard- Boiled was definitely an action movie.  This is more like the classic crime drama Serpico (with Al Pacino), but with some action elements added to keep a modern audience's interest.It is the story of two very different police officers coming to grips with the corruption in the world around them (as personified by the movie's marvelously loathesome villain) and in themselves.  Despite some reviewers saying there was no clear morality in this movie whatsoever, the story does have a morally decisive conclusion.  Harsh justice is served on all sides, though in a way you might not expect...One thing mentioned repeatedly in the reviews was that this movie portrayed asians in a negative light.  While I agree that there was no truly positive asian role presented in the movie, the same can be said of white people. No one was safe from this movie's stings.  Also, ultimately it is an asian who is the hero of the movie.  I would not consider the movie racist unless it dehumanized the asian people, and i do not believe it did that.  For every corrupt and criminal asian, there was a dozen asian people just being human and trying to get along in a sick sad world.I do not believe the movie was racist, but i will say that it can be faulted as sexist.  Women were either soulless prostitute zombies, or weak little victims, through the entire movie.  If even one actress was given a chance to act in this movie, it would be improved.Also mentioned a lot in these reviews was mr. chow's command of english... Personally, I find bad english charming.  Even in this movie (though not as bad as in the Replacement Killers), I believe the filmmakers shied away from giving Chow Yun-fat the dialogue he deserved, because they felt uncomfortable with his accent.  Am I the only person in the world who thought Bruce Lee's accent in Enter the Dragon made him even more of a stud? I want to hear this guy's english, no matter how awful it is!  It will make his characters that much more charismatic.  (side note- why do all the hongkong women have excellent english, like Maggie Cheung and Gong Li and Michelle Yeoh, but the guys like Jacky Chan and Chow have to struggle so? makes you wonder...)Another common criticism- Marky Mark Wahlberg's acting.  While I'll agree he's no Tony Leung, I believe Mark Wahlberg performed nicely in this movie. Thanks to his interesting relationship with his father, he has plenty of opportunities for real acting here.I think the story was excellent on many many levels, but that it could have been better played as a straight crime drama (ignoring the action elements altogether).  But this is a minor gripe- I think it was a satisfying movie to watch, and will definitely add it to my collection.  I was severely disappointed with the Replacement Killers, and this movie finally dispelled my fears that one of my favorite actors would be type-cast as a tightlipped heartless action machine....(aside- someone said there was sexual tension between mira sorvino & chow yun-fat in the replacement killers... I kinda got the opposite impression. She almost seemed disgusted by him, whenever they were on the screen together.  That was one of the reasons i felt so bad for the guy after that movie came out...)Do you like Chow Yun-fat?  Are you used to the incongruous and bizarre world of Hong Kong's heroic bloodshed movies?  If so, you should have no problem digesting this movie.  I think it's an admirable attempt at showing the human side of selling one's soul, and give it three thumbs up (i had another surgically grafted to my hand for the occasion).  Have a nice day! "},{"Title":"What's all the negative buzz???","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading the comments on imdb, I rented this flick with more than a little trepidation.  I'm glad to say that I think 80% of the comments missed the point.  This was an action flick, first and foremost, but it tried to fog the genre's typical approach by developing characters and throwing the players' motivations into gray areas (well, except for the immigrant exploitation and the indiscriminate murdering).  I think the root of the problem was that this film was out of the box action; it didn't push heavy-handed social commentary (or parable) down our throats, but at the same time wanted to tell a compelling story without black and white cliches. The characters were believable, the situations awkward, and the responses appropriate (for an action flick) "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite work","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor is a movie that can't quite decide what it wants to be. For a long time I couldn't figure out why I didn't like this movie as much as some of Chow Yun-Fat's earlier work. Unlike many, I enjoyed The Replacement Killers, and I was looking forward to this one, his second American effort. Upon seeing it for a second time, I think I have it figured out.The classic Chow/Woo collaborations that came out of Hong Kong in the late '80s and early '90s worked so well because the storylines were fairly simple, and the emphasis was on mind-blowing action. Themes such as brotherhood, loyalty and redemption were strongly emphasized. In short, they were myths. And they worked exceptionally well.Then, when all the Asian stars came to Hollywood, starting with Jackie Chan and followed by Chow, Woo, Jet Li, etc. this classic formula was imitated, but American film makers just haven't got it right yet. The Replacement Killers tried, and I think succeeded in a limited sense. The action was good, but Chow's acting ability was not fully used. Still, it stayed successfully away from the American phenomenon. Too often, American film makers take successful film concepts, then throw a bunch of sex and profanity in, seemingly at random, to make it grittier, or more realistic. Unfortunately, this just makes a good concept confused and reduces its impact. The Replacement Killers remained focused on action at all times and thus succeeded to a point.Other times one genre is unsuccessfully grafted on to another. Thus we have The Corruptor. It takes the Hong Kong heroic bloodshed, format and for some reason tries to make it into L.A. Confidential. The excessive violence so popular in the HK films seems out of place and gratuitous here, because it is presented in the same context and the same world as where illegal immigrants are tortured and killed and corruption works its way throughout the NYPD. Somehow, both legitimate genres are denigrated as a result. The action seems anemic if you take the movie as heroic bloodshed, and if it's taken as film noir, the violence seems unrealistic and stupid. So it fails on both accounts.Still, its great to see Chow acting in an American movie, and he has an undeniable screen presence here, as always, while Wahlberg is competent enough and the supporting cast is pretty good.So, to summarize The story is a little too convoluted and remains somewhat unconvincing; the action, such as it is, is good, especially the chase scene, but doesn't work in context because it is presented in a framework of gritty realism. Finally, at the end of the movie, there seems to be no clear point to the film; unlike with the HK films, the viewer is left with no understanding of what the whole thing was really about. Add to that the rather unsympathetic main characters, who more often than not come across as pathetic losers than anti-heroes, and the movie really doesn't work.Rating 6.8/10, but it would be less if it didn't have Chow Yun-Fat, my favourite actor, who does his best to try and save the film. "}{"Title":"Chow Yun Fat, Excellent as Always","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With a much better command of the English language, Chow fills out this role much better than his first American effort, the Replacement Killers.  But even if the guy doesn't speak a word, he has 10 times the charisma of anyone else in films these days.That aside, I have read a number of the other reviews and I cannot understand how anyone can say that this movie doesn't have a plot.  It seems like the action fans don't think it has enough action and the film fans don't like the writing and direction.  You could call it the thinking man's action movie.  The film explores some very interesting moral questions and is a very interesting examination of how different people react to temptation.  The corruptor (not the Chowster as some other viewers have maintained) is a Chinese gangster played by Ric Young, who is excellent.  In summary, Chow hasn't yet gotten the right flick yet in his American career, but any Chow is better than 9/10s of the other stuff out there.   "},{"Title":"The Best Scenes were only the Action Scenes!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have finally watched this movie after all I have been waiting for. I have been waiting to see this ever since March 1999, because back in the days I couldn't spend that much money in the theaters, I was quite busy that time. This movie reminds me of the song Praise You by Fatboy Slim and eating Whoppers chocolate candies (not a sandwich).When I finally got a chance to see this motion-picture, Chow Yun-Fat was like in his cool and usual weapon skills, therefore he only uses small-sized powerful guns most of the time. But I really didn't like the tragedy or the other unexpected scenes. What I am saying is that I only liked all the action scenes, especially the car chase. Plus I have seen Chow Yun-Fat fight first time with his bare hands and his kicks. This is not like The Replacement Killers which I also like. The Corruptor is partly a great action-packed view. I usually expect the action. "},{"Title":"Wahlberg is Wonderful","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor was an excellent film.  It's a must for anyone interested in action and suspense film.  One of Mark Wahlberg's best films.  The chemistry between Chow Yun Fat and Mark Wahlberg is outstanding.  The Corruptor keeps you in suspense til the very end!!!! "},{"Title":"A great movie that is very under rated","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is certainly not your usual chow yun fat film,it has less gunplay and more story,it has its weak moments,but doesn't every movie. Some people might say it has flat characters,but the only person that would say that is someone who only likes animated hollywood type characters that have nothing but cheesy one liners. This film has realistic people,and realistic violence. "},{"Title":"Less story than Replacement Killers, but a better storyline.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to many other peoples opinions, I loved The Replacement Killers. I was really looking forward to seeing Chow Yun Fats 2nd Hollywood film and I wasn't disappointed. It concentrates on the storyline more than the action (like R.K), but that is cool as well. Chow Yun Fat is as cool as ever and seems to have a better grasp of the English language than in R.K too and has much more dialogue. Mark Wahlberg is decent too, but personally I think Chow blows him off the screen. Be warned though, there are some disturbing moments in this film, so if you are easily offended you may want to steer clear of it... "},{"Title":"It is a (Good Movie!)","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  despite the fact that there is too much blood, too much action. despite tha fact that it is an action film, but still we can find well-build characters. We can find an educated police officer, who cares about immigrants and who dislikes corruption and his father. during the film he discovered that his father had some good characteristics, and the corruptor (his colleague) had some good characteristics. and there are some other viewpoints he didn't know about before.  "},{"Title":"Complicated story, too much blood","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, to shorten thingsI do like Chow Yun Fat, and Mark Wahlberg also did a very good job, but both were trapped in the midst of a movie which plot wasn't good at all. I think, that this was obvious to the director, and so he decided to add more gore'n'blood.(Not a BAD movie, though!)Don't expect to be told about the meanings of life! In the end, it is all about friendship... "},{"Title":"Still a good flick with a charismatic Chow.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me start by saying I'm a Chow-Yun Fat fan. I have seen all of his best Hong Kong works and both The Replacement Killers and The Corruptor. And his last film is much more than your typical Hong Kong actioner rip-off.First of all the Corruptor has a much more complex story than the Replacement Killers. It involves a rookie white cop being partners with a hard-boiled and street smart Chinese cop (Chow). They start off making a good team, investigating gang crimes in Chinatown, New York. After working with Chen(Chow) a while, Wallace(Wahlberg) start to realize that his partner has underground ties with the local Triads. And that he's one of many pawns of The Corruptor. And at the same time, without giving anything away, Chen finds out something dark and secret about his partner as well.Action wise this movie definitely delivers the goods, it begins with Chen in a local Chinese store busting a group of gang members single handedly, pumping heat from both hands. Another part of the movie finds our heroes in close pursuit with two gangsters, one driving and one pouring lead back at our heroes from a uzi. The chase takes us through Chinatown, innocent bystanders gets mowed down, cars ram into buildings at high speeds, explosions goes off immediately after. This movie's definitely not for the squirmish. While the movies delivers high caliber action, it also powerfully portraits the villians and the outrageous and inhuman things they do, like explode a store and blast the only survivor, and keep Chinese women in dark basements for pornography purposes. There is only one thing I can say disturbing.The Corruptor is more than your average day actioner, but it's still got some holes in it's complex plot, never the less, Chow delivers an electrifying performance that's not to be passed up. So I recommend this flick to anyone who enjoys an entertaining shoot em-up with a serious plot. "},{"Title":"A sleepy try to make something special","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor tries very hard to be something it isn't. Neither Chow Yun Fat or Mark Wahlberg impresses when even the actor seems to think the movie is lame. You have to try very hard to not fall asleep on this one cause this movie ain´t worth to see... "},{"Title":"A good review of a good Fat Jai film!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent movie, Chow Yun Fat's performance just oozes charisma, superb drama and action makes The Corruptor a cut above most buddy cop pictures. "}{"Title":"great potential but the script is too weak. The pace is wrong and the actors are not used to their full potential.","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although the plot seems promising, neither the screenwriter nor the director were able to bring the film to life. Pucci just puts several scenes together that very often lack the direct link. The director is unable to exploit the talents of Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg (who proved himself as an action actor in 'The Big Hit'). Also, neither writer nor director are able to knit drama and action together as John Woo and Ringo Lam could. The film tries too hard to copy Hong Kong cinema and it just didn't succeed. Whereas 'The Replacement Killers' profited from Chow Yun-Fat's presence, this movie is unable to excitingly portray the gunfights. The fights are useless as no attempt is made to make them look graceful.Furthermore, the director relies too much on a weak script without even attempting to change it in order to improve it. Scenes are linked together with gratuitous shots of NYC and the camera angles used often make the scenes more boring than more exciting. The pace of the movie is abysmal too fast in the beginning and too slow in the end. The director is unable to pace the movie correctly and hence makes it worse than it is. 3 or 4 one-liners are used to give the audience a good laugh but that's it. They have got nothing to do with the story and they appear to being collected by the scriptwriter during his nights out.All in all, this movie is absolutely not worth watching and I've got no idea why Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg did get involved. It's a shame that Foley did not have enough vision to use the talents of the actors or to recognise the weaknesses in the screenplay. "},{"Title":"Could be better...much better.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've read through quite a few of the reviews and have noticed quite a diversity of opinions. First off I wasn't very impressed with the way Asian people are portrayed here. If you can't tell by my name, I am Asian but that is not a justification for my comments. Almost every aspect of the Asian culture that was portrayed was a negative one. Some true, some not but in most cases, the needless violent and senseless depictions are not always necessary. That's my spiel on the ethnic perspective.Now, the movie. I thought Walberg stole the picture. His performance was one of his best and will only get better with experience and age. I've been watching Chow Yun Fat do movies for almost 15 years now and I have seldom seen a poor performance and he does an admirable job in this film, with what he's given. His English has improved dramatically but I think the biggest problem with this movie is the direction. Even being Asian, I had a hard time following some of the dialogue. It was either spoken too fast or just poorly worded. Secondly, some of the scenes were shot with hand or mobile cameras resulting in scenes that were very 'bumpy'. I almost got car sick watching some of these scenes.The movie slowed down in quite a few spots and towards the end I couldn't wait for the movie to end. The story is basically about two cops who grow to trust each other in a world of lies and deceit. What is white is not always white and by the end of the movie, everything becomes clear but the ride is not an easy nor enjoyable one.Both Walberg and Fat could do much better with scripts that allow them to show a bigger range in acting and character development. Neither are acting rookies (especially Fat) they just need better scripts. Look for bigger and better things for them to come.Overall... 5/10 (passing grade mainly because of Walberg and Fat's acting) "},{"Title":"The Corruptor was great. Show some respect.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read the production notes before watching this movie. It's obvious that every negative reviewer here didn't bother with the notes, and just watched the movie for no reason. I'm writting because I just read an excellent review by a user here who said Thrilling Action, and Phylisophical Depth. Chow-Yun Fat is one of my favorite actors. He was great in this movie. He does a great job no matter what movie he's in. (I liked The Replacement Killers.) The way he acted as Nicholas Chen, he was so animated. He didn't take insults from people, and he was a real stand-up guy. I thought the story was real. It was a real cop story, and it had all the elements to back it up like how everything is gloomy looking, and nobody gets a kick out of their job, and how the only humor comes from Chow Yun-Fat. Mark Wahlberg as a rising actor did a good job in this movie. I thought it would be interesting to see him paired with Chow Yun-Fat. They made a good team. I liked the action scenes even though they weren't John Woo oriented. They came out of nowhere, so every action scene seemed to jump out and suprise you. I mean EVERY action scene. I really don't know what else to say, so I'm ending my review with saying how great this was, and that you all should be more thoughtful. Look for other Terry-32 reviews, and find my E-mail adress under movies like Drive.  "},{"Title":"kinda sucked","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great, just what we need, another Asian gang movie.  Why is it that Hollywood can only portray Asian males as punks, and Asian females as sex objects???  Chow Yun Fat was great as usual and Marky Mark was alright, but the screenplay was so bland and typical that this movie ended up being a big waste of my money. "},{"Title":"This is why Wahlberg was discovered","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wahlberg was meant to play this role, which may be his best yet. It will be a cop movie classic, esp. with the realistic portrayal of Chinatown (I have lived near there in San Francisco for 14 years). Brutal, but honest, it shows the ubiquitous racism of all races. The Chinese Triads still exist in sex and drug smuggling. The sweatshops are somewhat better now, but the simpleminded racism still exists on all sides. Despite the usual snooty superciliousness of most critics, I thought the characters were quite well developed building up to a human aspect that the audience identifies with. It is true in San Francisco that cops in my city surrender to the inevitability of street crime in the poorer sections of the city. "},{"Title":"Way Better Than You'd Expect!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I bought this movie when I was away from home and needed some entertainment. I found a close out bin of movies and remembered seeing Mark Wahlberg in The Truth About Charlie, another surprising movie, and gave it a shot. I was very glad that I did.Chow Yun-Fat plays a NYC policeman who is part of the Asian Crimes Division. Mark Wahlberg joins the team as a member against the wishes of Yun-Fat who doesn't think a white cop can be effective in China Town.Very soon we find Wahlberg being gently drawn into a world of corruption by the leaders of the Chinese underworld who are out to see to the safety of their operations. Wahlberg is fed info that enables him to crack a series of murders of unidentified illegal Chines immigrant women and becomes a decorated hero in the department. He also learns that the same corruptor who is steering him has his partner, Yun-Fat, in his pocket.As the movie builds, we learn that all is not as it seems as Wahlberg's character is in fact undercover to gain evidence on Yun-Fat for Internal Affairs. And despite the two men's budding friendship and the fact that they save each others life during the action; the movie does build to a head and a bitter-sweet climax.One of life's pleasant little surprises. Highly recommended to anyone who is not afraid of a little language and some adult situations. "},{"Title":"Yun-Fat Chow shines, Wahlberg doesn't","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I still wonder why Hollywood gives Mark Wahlberg any work.  His dramatic range is nil.  If it weren't for his aww shucks schtick he would have no schtick at all.  His performance in this movie is the single worst thing about the movie.  There are other things that aren't so good, but nothing else is nearly as bad.That being said I have nothing but good things to say about Yun-Fat Chow.  This is the kind of character he plays best.  Edgy, complex and dynamic, a tough cop and a bad cop that is at heart a good guy.The story is that Mark Wahlberg is sent into the chinatown precinct to fill a staffing shortage.  The lead detective in that precinct, played by chow, is corrupt and in the pay of the Tong.  Over the course of the movie Wahlberg's character is sucked into the corruption as well.  The story is pretty standard cop drama fare with a few twists, but nothing spectacular.  Really the best part of the movie is watching Chow, the worst is watching Wahlberg. "},{"Title":"This movie kicked ass","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some of the coolest gun fights You'll ever see are in this movie. I really liked how they teamed a corrupt cop w/ an internal affairs agent or teaming two cops of different backgrounds, This is why this movie had such a mesmerizing ending w/ the funeral scene.  I liked how it made me think that Chow Yun Fat's character might have been a corrupt cop but nonetheless he was a cop "},{"Title":"Good Police Drama/Thriller, But Bad Action Flick","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm bewildered after reading some of the bad reviews in IMDB for The Corruptor.  A lot of them berate this as a bad action film.  Perhaps therein lies their problem --- they sit down expecting this to be an action movie.  It's not.It's much more a police drama/thriller with a few action scenes peppered here and there.  If you judge this movie as an action flick it'll obviously fail.  There are very few extravagant action sequences in this movie.It is, however, a good police drama/thriller.  Chow Yun-Fat exubes coolness throughout the movie.  Mark Wahlberg does a decent job.  The rest of the cast is very good.  Dark lighting, eerie camera work, a grim storyline, and a good dose of bloody violence make this a fairly somber film.  There is an edginess to the movie, which is to be expected for an Oliver Stone-produced film.  The bad guys are sleazy and nasty, but never come close to being caricatures.The movie starts off with a bang, and it has an excellent intro scene.  The gun fight in the antique store was truly awesome.  After the big intro, the movie somewhat coasts the rest of the way.  Mind you --- it never gets boring; however it doesn't get your adrenaline pumping either.  It keenly holds your interest, but it doesn't put you on the edge of your seat. Midway through the film is the infamous car chase sequence.  It's the movie's crown jewel --- arguably one of the best car chases of the '90s.  Unfortunately, it also holds the distinction of being the bloodiest car chase in film history (or so I've read).  Anyway, there's quite a few genuinely surprising plot twists, but the movie ends in a somewhat cliched & predictable way.  I think this movie would've received the good ratings it deserved... if only they had reworked the last 15 minutes of the movie.  Regardless, overall I enjoyed The Corruptor very much.  It's a very grim, brooding film with a tone of sadness in every scene.  If you sit down expecting a typical Chow Yun-Fat action movie, you'll be disappointed.  Otherwise, you'll find this to be a good, thoughtful police drama.I'd rate it *** 1/2 out of ***** stars. "},{"Title":"Finally,a good U.S. starring vehicle for the talanted Chow Yun Fat.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After watching Chow struggle uncomfortably through his U.S. debut film The Replacement Killers I was pleased to see him back in form with this follow-up film The Corruptor.This time Chow is a Chinatown cop who is partnered with a white cop played by Mark Walhberg,an undercover from Internal Affairs investigating Chintown corruption.In the process of the investigation Walhberg confront his demons from the past and struggles between his loyality towards Chow (who turns out to be a corrupt cop) ,and his I.A. unit.This angle makes this film a cut above your standard action fare and a perfect vehicle for Chow's talent. "}{"Title":"Above average buddy action flick.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If there's one thing I hate the most, it is when people trash or ignore a movie that I like that no one else does, including the critics.  THE CORRUPTOR is a movie like that.  It isn't a masterpiece, to be sure, but neither was SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE.  It's about two New York City cops who become partners and go after some vicious Chinese gangs who have overrun Chinatown. The movie stars Chow Yun-Fat in his second American film role, and here he proves why he is so popular in Hong Kong  he can act, he has charisma, a sense of humor, and knows how kick butt when he needs to.  He comes off more like Mel Gibson here, not like Charles Bronson in THE REPLACEMENT KILLERS.  Mark Wahlberg plays his partner, the only white guy in the Chinatown precinct, so naturally the other cops don't like him.  the story is more or less standard, but it doesn't matter because of the way the film is made.  James Foley, the director, adds a lot of style and pizzazz to the action scenes and shootouts, especially in a car chase.  The film is similar in some ways to Michael Cimino's YEAR OF THE DRAGON, about another dedicated cop who wants to get the goods on Chinese gangsters.  This may be in part to Oliver Stone, who cowrote DRAGON and serves as executive producer on this film.  Despite what many viewers say, Wahlberg gives a good, honest performance in the picture.  He is convincing as a young cop out to prove himself, just as Wahlberg is gradually proving himself a solid actor.  He has some good, understated scenes with Brian Cox, who plays his debt-ridden father.  The only complaint I have with the film is that there are no major female characters.  Which is just as well, I suppose, because they would probably get in the way of the action. "},{"Title":"All That Was Needed Was Limehouse Blues","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If The Corrupter had been filmed back in the days of the studio system the only thing missing would have been Limehouse Blues on the soundtrack. Even given the fact that it was filmed on location right in New York City's Chinatown and I recognized a lot of the spots, it has the feel of one of those RKO noir type films with a couple of car chases thrown in. The location though really adds to the film.In The Corrupter the precinct of location is the fictitious 15th precinct which coincidentally enough is the one where Andy Sipowicz and the rest of those cops labored on NYPD Blue. Chinatown in Manhattan is actually in the NYPD Fifth precinct. A lot of police of Oriental ancestry get assigned there as a matter of course because of language skills. But Chow Yun Fat who heads the squad there does not need Mark Wahlberg assigned who's wet behind the ears. Additionally Wahlberg's dad was a former detective who got tossed out for a gambling problem that led to his downfall. The situation they've both got is a turf war going on in Chinatown between the old triads who like to run things with a minimum of headlines and a new crew of immigrants from China's Fukien province who are known as the Fukien Dragons. This is a really violent bunch who apparently just like to shoot things and people for enjoyment at times, make a lot of unnecessary noise.One thing I did like about The Corrupter was the fact that I've rarely seen films involving police chases where innocent bystanders get killed and injured. Here the collateral damage between the gangs and the police and the gangs is appalling. It couldn't be any other way because those narrow streets you see the police cars and the bad guys careening down are those in Chinatown.A few twists and turns in the plot give the film some added suspense. We only find out in the end who the real corrupt ones are. "},{"Title":"Two cops, both with deadly secrets.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Corruptor is a film about New Yorks China town and the special police department who are there to put a stop to the extortion and illegal goings on there.The Problem is the cops are just a mixed up in the dirty dealings as the criminals. This is not a bad film at all , it is very violent and the body toll mounts up by the second.Is New York really like that?? The acting is good too . the only thing that really lets this film down is the unsatisfactory script, the film never really gets to where sets out to go. But dont let that put you off to much because apart from that it is Watchable. 6 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Intense and Entertaining, but hard to see where it goes!","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Really intense action, entertaining! This movie shows some great action scenes, really intense sometimes, that makes you get deep attention to it, but this attention is primarily focused in most part of the movie trying to understand the why and where of all the events shown; in a good part of the film you see great actions scenes, but don't understand why are happening!. A great entertaining action films about one of the hardest challenges that a cop can face!ABOUT THE MOVIE In this movie, about an Asian cop that works cases on Chinatown - New York (Nick Chen - Chow Yun Fat), and a White Cop that strictly followed the academy instructions that is suddenly assigned to that jurisdiction (Danny Wallace - Mark Wahlberg); Chen didn't liked this new partner. They are somewhat close to the mafia of Chinatown leaded by Henry Lee (Ric Young) and Benny Wong (Kim Chan); while working,some police of internal affairs follow Nick and Danny to find corrupt relationship between them and the mafia, this cop unit is leaded by Schabacker (Paul Ven-Victor). The main objective of Nick is to take down a gang of young boys that is very violent and is terrifying the neighborhood, the Fukiense Dragons leaded by Bobby Vu (Byron Mann), Chen and Danny manages to infiltrate to this band trough Jack (Jon Kit Lee), a boy new in the gang and whose girlfriend was protected in change of information. Trough the mission, Danny has to face the shadow of his father Sean Wallace, who was a corrupt police officer (Brian Cox). In this movie you can get involve in one of the most hard works that a police officer can have, in a difficult and violent place, with intense racism (against people different from Asian race), violent gangs, illegal immigrants, drugs, guns, great drug dealers and bosses, prostitution, killings, and of course, the cancer of our century - corruption.6/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing if not exciting, entertaining action.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film is pretty standard cop stuff, cultural differences thrown in to throw a new spin on a well worn concept. The action sequences are acceptable, but nothing to write home about, though this movie does have a good crack at the record for the number of innocent bystanders shot. There certainly is no shortage of corruption throughout the film's characters, and thought the ending is a little tacky, it kept me guessing till the end.An very entertaining movie to watch, but no intellectual heavy-weight here. Good brain junk-food.  "},{"Title":"Strange, but stylish","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Visually, I think this movie is nice to look at.  Chow Yun-Fat has so much style.  Every time I watched him wave his hand, I was in awe.  And I liked Mark Wahlberg's casting as a soft-spoken but tough kind of guy (partly because it's rare).To me this makes up for the confusing plot and characters. "},{"Title":"Totally unbelievable","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who enjoyed this movie I would question what sort of twisted reality they live in.  This movie's main plot line was so unbelievable in an irritating sort of way - like they expect me to buy this character?  The other cliche of extended car scenes through the busiest streets of NYC, and it takes 20 minutes for the police to show up.  Yep... "},{"Title":"Disappointingly bad","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, there are bad Hong Kong action movies, and then there are*bad* Hollywood rip-offs of Hong Kong action movies.  Unfortunately, this one is the latter.Chow Yun Fat really doesn't shine in this film. I noted from thedirector's comments on the DVD version that James Foley reallyhad no clue about Chinatown. From his directing, it also seemshe has no clue about how to keep suspense up.By the end, we couldn't have cared less who shot each other,just that the movie put *us* out of our miseries with the leastamount of pain possible "},{"Title":"Looks nice but...","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm really a big fan of Chow Yun Fat's films. He's a great action hero and a very charismatic actor. This film looks great but is also kind of boring. I enjoyed watching Yun Fat alot, Wahlberg on the other hand seems stiff. The direction by James Foley has alot of style, the film just seems empty.  "},{"Title":"Mark Wahlberg...?","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What business does Mark Wahlberg have acting?He was dull and stupid with a blank expression on his face in THE BASKETBALL DIARIES.He was dull and stupid with a blank expression on his face in FEAR.He was dull and stupid with a blank expression on his face in BOOGIE NIGHTS.He was dull and stupid with a blank expression on his face in THE BIG HIT.He was dull and stupid with a blank expression on his face in THE CORRUPTOR.Someone stop him before he acts again! He's not even an actor! (Hell, he's a failed rap artist and TV talk show host whose main claim to fame are CK ads and wearing a fake penis in a movie.) "}{"Title":"I didn't think Chun yow-fat could make a movie worse than The Replacement Killers but here it is.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think Chun yow-fat could make a movie worse than The Replacement Killers but here it is. This is the first time this year that I left the theater wanting a refund. The only good thing about this movie is Mark Wahlberg's performance but that isn't good enough to save this movie. Rating 4   "},{"Title":"Just Shoot Me","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've never seen so much shooting, so if you like shootings, then it's a safe bet that you will like this movie. The acting wasn't bad at all, Mark Wahlberg is pretty good, as always, and makes a much better actor than musician. Also Yun-Fat Chow plays a believable part as well. I think the plot could have been more exciting though and had more of a story to it, rather than just raw violent action. "},{"Title":"It is a good movie, a B+.  But again, Asian men are...","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  stereotyped as violent, ugly, and gun-carrying thugs from China town. Chow-Yun Fat is good in this movie, and so is Mark Wahlberg.  But I rather they have not made this movie, with Chow playing in a different movie with better images for Asians, especially Asian men.  This is another American movie made by American directors, producers, and writers to degrade the Asian race, especially the Chinese.  Even in movies involving no Chinese characters, scenes involving Asian men that are totally unnecessary are often used to humiliate Asian men.  This movie is no exception.  The word Chinaman is commonly used in movies.  This trend to degrade and humiliate the Chinese is even seen in TV and politics !! "},{"Title":"* * (two stars)","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat is at it again in another mediocre movie. Let me begin by saying that Yun-Fat himself is an incredible action star. I have seen few actors that can be so believable in action scenes. Mark Wahlberg, on the other hand, is somewhat annoying throughout this movie.The film revolves around Nick Chen (Chow Yun-Fat), and Danny Wallace (Mark Wahlberg). Two cops in China town that become partners. Chen is the street smart, jaded cop and Wallace is the rookie. The script is hardly original, but some of the action sequences are exceptional. Overall, the movie is simply another cop film. Nothing especially new about it. However, it is worth seeing simply to see Chow Yun-Fat in action.* * - okay, hits and misses "},{"Title":"What was Chow-Yun Fat thinking?","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How could Chow ever sign on for a movie like this? It's basically an action movie without any action- except for a few short shootouts in the beginning and near the end. The rest of it is just badly done attempts at character development and suspense, none of which work, so the audience is forced to sit through most of the movie waiting for something, ANYTHING, to happen. Chow just isn't right for this part. No disrespect to the man, but there's a reason why Kenneth Branagh isn't knocking on his door asking him to do Shakespeare Chow's an action star, and that's where he belongs. How can he be asked to carry a movie with almost no action? And as for Mark Wahlberg, he's a good actor, but his character is so thinly drawn and badly written that he gets no opportunity to show his acting chops here like he did in movies like Boogie Nights. Both actors should have steered clear of this movie. Seeing this would normally have been the major disappointment of my day, but it was beaten out by Saving Private Ryan losing the Best Picture Oscar to Shakespeare in Love, which immediately became the major disappointment of the year for me. "},{"Title":"A disjointed hodgepodge","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a shame that Chow Yun Fat's second american effort got bogged down in a disjointed, hodgepodge direction/script. He has still not had the opportunity to truly showcase his many talents. This poor vehicle drew its premise from too many cliche movies, and overused lines. The action scenes had the feel of a hand held camera, jumpy and unsettling. The dialog was slow and plodding. Watching this film was actually physically draining, because every fifteen minutes, the plot stopped, changed directions haphazardly, and left you wondering what end point was it trying to eventually get to. The most interesting aspect of the whole film was Wahlberg's relationship to his father, and how the interplay of legality versus ethics balanced. I give it 1 1/2 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Good Action Flick...BUT","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a decent action movie, though the gunfights did tend to strain credulity more than usual. Although Mark Walberg and Chow Yun-Fat were both competent, I was never really drawn to the human drama. I think the main problem is that we've seen it all before. There was no real originality to the story. "},{"Title":"This movie is better than Rush Hour","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I Like this movie because this movie is better than Rush Hour. The Corruptor has good action sequences without any cheap jokes at all. I really like this film because of the violence and about a New York cop is corrupt because he's making lots of money.  It's about a corrupt cop and his new partner stopping the crime from a Chinese Gang making lots of money. This movie is cool and if you like Rush Hour, You'll like this film.   "},{"Title":"Movies like this are tired and overdone!","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not entirely sure what to make of The Corruptor. I couldn't help but feel that this film pokes fun at the Chinese or at least Chinese gangs throughout. On the one hand, I felt as if I was being shown how a Chinese gang operates, but on the other hand, it seemed as though all that was displayed was just based on our pre-conceived stereotypes. For instance, there is a well-staged car chase scene, where the gang members shoot down a bunch of bystanders, which to me seems like it is done as a way to spite those (the police) who are after them and oppose them. Is this based on fact, or is it a stereotype? I don't know, and the film doesn't seem to make this clear.The film also has a moral problem in terms of its making of a hero at the end. I don't want to give it away, but watch for yourself, and you'll see what I mean.The performances were fine. I like Chow Yun Fat, but he didn't seem to have the energy that he had in other films such as The Replacement Killers or The Killer. The Chinese movies that he made with director John Woo are amazing. The Corruptor doesn't have the same flair. Mark Wahlberg, as always just seems like Mark Wahlberg. The best role I have seen him in to date would have to be Boogie Nights.I have to mention the editing. I have never seen a movie with an editing style that has driven me more crazy. Did you notice that for almost every scene change, there was a transition edit with a loud metallic sound rushing from the back of the auditorium towards the front. It drove me insane. I know this may seem very minor to many viewers, but editing plays a large role in the production of meaning in the film, and when certain editing styles are forced with no particular reason, it takes away from the experience greatly.All in all, I found this film to be a dull action movie that tried to attach a moral message to it, but its the wrong moral message. In fact, I would think that it is immoral. As far as the stereotyping of the Chinese, I don't know if this is the case, but I couldn't help feeling that it was. It took away from my overall appreciation of the film anyway.  "},{"Title":"An ineffective attempt at creating a good crime drama movie.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It seemed like the director was going for a certain effect in his choice of music and editing. Most of the time his techniques seem to fall short of working. Also the story was uninteresting and just added to feeling of indifference that overwhelmed me while watching this movie. It wasn't up until the last 20 minutes did the movie become worth watching. A comparable movie is Jade, however, The Corruptor was not as disturbing. In essence, it was just an exercise in bad filmmaking. Chow Yun Fat and Marky Mark weren't bad at all it was just that were both stuck in a bad movie. "}{"Title":"Average Action Flick - 6 stars","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a mediocre action flick which becomes pretty confusing at times.  Mark Wahlberg gives a solid performance, much better than I expected (as usual). Yun-Fat Chow's performance is fair however at times I felt that he was unbelievable.  In a couple of places I felt that I was watching a horrible Nicholas Cage interpretation from Face Off performed by Chow.  (If you've seen Face Off you'll know what I am talking about).  The plot stuggles at times going in different directions. Surprises in the plot are totally unexpected but allow for the plot to come together by the end.  The best scene in the movie is an action scene, a pretty violent car chase, there should have been more scenes like that to help the plot along.If your a Yun-Fat Chow fan then you'll probable want to see this movie and I hope you wont be disappointed; however I recommend anyone else to wait till it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"This is a pretty good movie","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yuen Fat seems to be much more comfortable with doing an English speaking role this time around. Although I don't think he has reached his full potential yet, I can see an upward improvement trend and hopefully with the non-HK style movies that he will be involved in the coming months (The King's Ransom and Anna and the king with Jody Foster), the western audience will start to appreciate his acting talent.Although the movie is a little slow occasionally, my overall impression is that this is a well made movie and not just some shoot-them-up's. There is good chemistry between Chow and Mark Wahlberg. So I will recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys police-gang genre movies and to those who are curious about Chow Yuen Fat. "},{"Title":"Liked Replacement Killers Better","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fat makes a much better stiff as he did in Replacement Killers than he does here as an animated corruptible cop! The gun play  in that one was pure poetry! Plus the sexual energy between him  and Sorvino in that movie was electric. No such electricity here betweeen him and his wooden sidekick he risks his life to help!A much better ending would have been for him to fake his demise  and with his partner blow all China Town away before sailing to  China with May! Yeah, that would have been a great ending! This was a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Yawn....** out of ****","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Moving along like an MTV video, having action scenes (some of which were unique in their direction and very stylish) linked together by muddled dialogue, and having a plot that starts to drag....and drag...mid way along, I found it easy to lose interest in this variation on the buddy cop movie genre.Chow Yun Fat was semi believable as the Chinatown cop while Walhberg was really not so convincing.  The fact that the story takes place in China town is really irrelevant to the plot, as this story could have taken place in Wala Wala Washington and still not lost anything in the translation.The story Danny Wallace, played by Wahlberg, is transferred to precinct fifteen in Chinatown NY as part of a very secret internal affairs investigation.  At first he is rejected for being the white cop who is an outsider with no knowledge of Chinese customs or culture.  Of course, the male bonding rituals kick in and Nick Chen, played by Chow Yun, takes him under his wing. Danny later learns that Nick informed some Chinese mafia types of an undercover federal officer poking around Chinatown which eventually leads to the agents death.  However, Danny has his own problems with a father who is in debt to some italian gangsters and desperately needs cash.  When Danny cannot provide his dad with the money, the Chinese mafia steps in and pays his dad as a way of buying Danny off.  When the FBI threatens Danny to turn Nick Chen over to then, Nick counters by offering the FBI hard evidence related to a rival Chinese gangs crimes, and in doing so, deals out Danny from potential fbi trouble.  However, the FBI still wants Danny to rat out Chen.The little internal affairs plot twist (and a few others) are among the few saving graces this film has.  I haven't seen Chow Yun Fat in many other movies and wasn't sure what to expect (i.e. martial arts type guy, like Jackie Chan, or something different).  Well, there is zero (that I can recall) martial arts in this film, which of course isn't necessarily a bad thing.I'm not so sure what to make of this film in the end, the words awkward and clumbsy come to mind when thinking of the story, yet there were moments when the film did seem well acted and interesting.  Thus the ** stars.Interestingly, James Foley, who directed the great film Glengary glen ross directed this film.  I think James should stick to more dramatic films like Glengarry and leave the action to John Woo. "},{"Title":"Chow might be God, cause this film is hell...","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  `The Corruptor' Wow.  What a stinker.  I'm hard pressed to find anything noteworthy to talk about here.  I've been wary of director James Foley for some time now.  This man has given us such gems as `Fear' and `The Chamber'.  He is now officially a hack with this muddled and aimless thriller.  A film that wastes the opportunity to create something richly compelling.  With headliners Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Whalberg, you would think Foley could easily assemble a decent action film with the sparest of parts. I've rarely seen a motion picture that tries so hard, yet is completely lifeless.  Foley gets a workout on the zooms and other assorted camera tricks. He seems to be hiding the bizarrely incomprehensible script with this choice of camerawork.  When the film sits still for a couple of brief moments, the ugly reality that the movie isn't working shines right through.  Yun-Fat is a dashing leading man.  He's got real charm and grace.  Here, he reduced to overacting and a victim of too much looping, that dissolves the attempts he makes to create a character. He deserves better.  Whalberg proves what I have suspected for some time...  `Boogie Nights' was a fluke, ladies and gentlemen. He will never be able to attain that excellence again.  This whole movie is one big collection of overindulgence and sheer misjudgment.  Grade A junk. ----------- 0   "},{"Title":"Not Bad, Not Great","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off let me say this.  For the story that Chow Yun Fat was given he did a great job.When I saw The Corrupter this afternoon, I expected to see another Chow Yun Fat movie with a decent storyline, decent camera shooting, and incredible action.  What I got was a confusing storyline, one second attention span editing, and action scenes that burst out of nowhere.The Corrupter made little sense at the beginning and spanned the course of four or five days in the first ten minutes.Fans of Fat's previous work will be pleased but the directing style took away greatly from the well choreographed action scenes. 7.5 "},{"Title":"Palatable, but forgettable","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was ok, but only ok. The writing was excellent, with some very interesting twists.However, it was only ok. Fat seems out of his element in this film, and a few of his scenes seem awkward and forced. He seems to feel that American film is like HK films, where the absurd and the dramatic can be used in consecutive shots. However, his few moments of absurdity seriously undermine his character, and I was brought back into the reality of a great HK actor in an average American film.Overall, I felt the writing was good, but everything else was just on the verge of greatness, without exceeding the threshold.   "},{"Title":"Serpico meets...The Replacement Killers?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just about everything in this wannabe Hong Kong action movie, from Chow Yun Fat's smarmy grin to the thumping hiphop soundtrack to the thin Chinatown atmosphere, rings screamingly fake. The director, James Foley, once made a fine movie called AT CLOSE RANGE, but that was a long time ago--it's come to the point where he ends each scene with a punctuative gesture, a loud sound, and a cut to a dizzying helicopter shot for transition. Foley tries to juice up every scene in this mess, which alternates between unpersuasive Sidney Lumet-ish moral crises and grossly overwrought car chases. The most distinctive moment is an outdoor chase that leaves more innocent bystanders dead than the infamous crash through the town parade in FREEBIE AND THE BEAN; the once-impressive cinematographer Juan Ruiz Anchia spends the majority of the movie shaking the camera around in a way that suggests someone jumping out of a doorway and yelling Boo! With Mark Wahlberg, who tries to give an honest performance as if he were still working for an honest director, and Ric Young, who stands out as an unctuous, reassuring crimelord. The film was produced by Oliver Stone's Illusion Entertainment and was executive produced by Stone if he at some point thought this movie was a pale shade of his script for YEAR OF THE DRAGON, his taste is more cockeyed than it already seemed.  "},{"Title":"A dispairing action movie","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I left the theatre feeling very unsettled. Maybe it was because the guy to the left of me wheezed so loud everytime he breathed through his nose, I thought it was Darth Vader. I know people are excited about the prequels, but please!Anyways, the movie paints a dismal view of Chinatown by centering upon gangsters, thugs, and corrupt people (thus the title). As I watched the first hour, I kept wondering to myself what the redeeming quality of the protagonist, of anyone would be. And the answer, is that there are none. Repeated shots of gambling and carousings, the rancous sexual encounters, the glorified violent slayings, and the really bad racial jokes (mostly made by Chow's Chinese partner) were all too much and too little to make me want to care about these individuals.It wasn't until the end, where the main conflict reaches a climax that I cannot give away here, but suffice to say, it is was the only 'good' thing about this movie. But even then, I did not connect to, nor care about any of the characters.Perhaps that is the message of this film, I supposed I can't expect theories and themes in an action movie such as this, but listen up filmmakers! Without character connections you get frustrations from the audience, as you can read in the comments above this one. "},{"Title":"Hot, Action-packed thriller, with Marie Matiko as a surprise up and comer.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is definitely a seat-grabber with plenty of twists and turns to keep you hopping (if you like action and violence).  Chow's and Mark's chemistry is just enough at odds/out-of-sync such that this mismatch fits their characters' conflict as they question the asian-american subculture, humanity, and their and our own ethics and internal demons.  The surprise delight, although minimal exposure of Marie Matiko (May) throughout the film is enchanting as she gracefully, yet powerfully reveals a truly dynamic sensitivity and acting expertise.  For the real film buff, enjoy the action, but relish the glimpses of a young actress (Marie Matiko) in her first, although minor, breakthrough performance -- an opportunity to see an up and coming starlet revealing her young, yet obvious and broad talent, hypnotic tenderness, and romance with the camera. "}{"Title":"Pretty lame","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unlike The Replacement Killers, Chow-Yun Fat finally got a decent role, and a movie where they actually did more than shoot little guns all day, but it's still pretty boring.  It's also somewhat racist, having that generic negative portrayal of Chinatown and all, if anybody cares.  I'd just say skip this and go watch a real action flick like Rush Hour instead.  "},{"Title":"Chow Yun-Fat is great, but the rest.....","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The opening scenes with Chow were as action-packed as you could ask for, but the films direction and plot were uninspired.Good points Chow Yun-fat (his English is better and he smiles more in this film than I've ever seen), Rik Young's villain is decided creepy, and Jon Kit Lee was believeable as a young gang member.Bad points Visual shots (too many overheads of the city high rises), no chemistry between the stars, lack of intensity in the plot.As soon as Mark Whalberg's character was introduced, the plotline unfolded predictably.  The big moral/ ethical choice that was the pinnacle of the picture was never in doubt.  The pace of the action scenes was good, but the overall pace never seemed to build in the right places.Summary  I wouldn't pay to see it, and I won't buy it.  I just keep waiting for King's Ransom to see someone who can handle a class act like Chow. "},{"Title":"Rousing action thriller","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Foley's The Corruptor has brought Chow Yun-Fat to the screen in his second mainstream American film. His last action adventure was The Replacement Killers. In this rousing action thriller Yun-Fat is Mark Wahlberg's partner in the Chinatown precinct of New York City. The plot is complicated and the dialog often fast and mumbled, but the key here is the action and the acting. Yun-Fat and Wahlberg are excellent and believable as cops with growing respect and affection for one another.Foley has directed the film with New York/Chinatown acting as another character in this tale of revenge, double cross, betrayal and redemption. Short helicopter shots of Manhattan looking straight down punctuate each sequence effectively.The cinematography of Juan Ruiz Anchia is clear, bright and evocative of the hustle and bustle of NYC.There is a spectacular car chase at the film's center, somewhat recalling the classic action sequence in The French Connection. It's edge-of-your-seat stuff. Other action sequences tend to be very loud and fast cut. It's a little hard to tell who is who. However, in the end it is the characters who count and the two protagonists of this opus make you care about them, and you will have a lump in your throat at the finale.  "},{"Title":"Dumb and dumber.","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun Fatt would most probably feel that he's getting old. This a film most movie lovers would enjoy for its non-stop violence and funny accent of Chow. Poorly directed but Mark Wahlberg proves that he has great talent to rise to the occasion.  "},{"Title":"Just Like Any Other Chinese Movie","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not understand the hullabaloo surrounding Chow Yun Fat's new flick. No doubt, he has the charm and experience but in The Corruptor, he is just like most characters he plays in his previous Chinese movies. The title  The Coolest Actor in the World is definitely unsuitable.Comparisons with The Replacement Killers are inevitable, but then again any movie is better than TRK.His accent may have improved but it's still irritating to listen to mumbled words, especially the ones with lots of r and l.In summary, the film (and Chow) is mediocre and the room for improvement is too vast to be realised. "},{"Title":"Series of Gun Fights - That's it !","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the great example of gunfights series movie, but sometimes too much does not mean great ! Leading actors are nothing much to mentioned, the screenplay is poor - seem like try to achieve level of complexity but failed. If you expect for dramatic, and romantic subplots - sure it has, but you have to be extremely sensitive. If you like action movies, this should not be missed ! And when you leave thetheater, try to think about this movie again when you are going to buy a ticket for the next action movie. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable but uneven","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Those looking for a straight-forward Chow Yun-Fat shoot-'em-up will be disappointed in this film in which the violence is tagged on and is sensationalist and gory rather than the beautiful combat ballets of his John Woo films. Keep an open mind (and a tight stomach), endure the distracting editing and choppy first twenty minutes and there is much else here for a viewer. The story is surprisingly complicated, and plot twists are plentiful and are neither weak nor easily resolved for the characters. The characters themselves are interesting. Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg are both superb in their roles and easily transcend the buddy cop formula for which the movie seems to strive. The complexity of their performances gives real depth to this movie if viewed as a thoughtful and balanced study of corruption in the NYPD.Unfortunately, the violence is so bad (in every sense) that it's offensive. Clearly director James Foley thought that no one would see a Chow Yun-Fat movie which was not hyper-kinetically violent. It would be a shame if he were right because the tagged-on and thoughtless violence cheapens and ruins this otherwise astonishingly good film.In closing, consider yourself warned pure action fans will be bored by the character studies and possibly by the action as well, and non-action fans will be disgusted by the violence.  "},{"Title":"huge disappointment","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This flick is a downer! Everything about it is just sub-par!Mark Wahlberg and Chou-Yun Fat, two pretty good actors, are wasted in this snooze fest. They are two cops, who don't necessarily play by the rules and are asked to bring down some huge, Chinese drug kingpins. However, the close links in ChinaTown working with them are merely playing them. This results in back stabbings, constant profanity, drugs, prostitution, murders, boring gun fights, wasted talent, a car chase scene which shows gratuitous shots of innocent civilians getting gunned down ( that's just not right! ) and a real clunker of an ending which involves the death of Fat's character. The main problems are mainly the script and the directing. Director James Foley, despite making some acclaimed films, just isn't at his best. There are several scenes of the same thing (vulgar shouting, gun fights, etc.) happening over and over again to the point where it's completely old. I know it's a cop film, but it's not a well-executed one. The writers add some suspense to even it all up, but the film comes off as nowhere close to being thrilling.It's not a beyond bad film, but it's not really worth a viewing either. "},{"Title":"Corrupted.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Corrupter (1999) Dir James Foley / Cast Chow Yun-Fat, Mark Wahlberg, Brian Cox, Kim Chan, Ric Young Mindless action film about how honest people can become bad. It opens with Chow Yun-Fat holding off three Chinese thugs in a Chinatown antique store and he releases them with a warning. Mark Wahlberg enters as Yun-Fat's new partner. Yun-Fat handles the physical while Wahlberg is skilled at making arrests and eventually there is an undercover cop present during one of the arrests. He also discovers homeless people in a tunnel locked away, which can answer questions regarding dead women in dumpsters. There is much martial arts fighting with James Foley in fine tune as director. He previously made At Close Range and The Chamber but this is not exactly a step up despite his knack for pitching action scenes. Yun-Fat and Wahlberg have decent chemistry and their roles are broader than at first appears. They are complete opposites that test waters with each other until the big action ass kicking in the conclusion. Brian Cox, Ric Young and Kim Chan are flat in those typical cardboard supporting roles. This is really about the two leads in what appears to be typical buddy flick formula. Well made technically, purposed as an action film, but it could have been much more. Instead it corrupts viewers with its showcase and stupidity. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Average low-key cop drama.","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Corrupter is set in New York City where decorated veteran detective Nick Chen (Chow Yun-Fat) who operates in New York's Chinatown, trying to keep the peace & prevent a turf war between rival Chinese gangs. Rookie cop Danny Wallace (Mark Whalberg) is assigned to Chen's team, the only problem is that he is American, a white American. Chen is unhappy at first but decides to try & teach Wallace the way things go in Chinatown while trying to prevent Wallace getting himself killed. During a drugs bust they arrest an undercover FBI agent, then soon after the FBI agent is killed in a Chinatown hit. The FBI think there's a leak in Chen's department & Chen himself comes under pressure. With the violence escalating & gangs kill each other for all out control Chen & his team are caught in the middle of it...Directed by James Foley I thought The Corrupter was a really average cop drama thriller with very little to distinguish or recommend it, those look for some some decent gun-play & action in particular will be very disappointed. The script tends to go for slow burning drama rather than out & out action, there's an OK car chase & a few forgettable shoot-outs but nothing else. I also felt the script was too unfocused, there are various little subplots going on, the illegal immigrants, the prostitutes, Wallace's personal problems with his father, a gang war & struggle for power in Chinatown along with various office politics & red tape that ordinary cops have to deal with. It's all pretty dour stuff to be honest, nothing grabbed me or excited me or drew me in & I just ended up feeling pretty bored, at an hour & forty minutes long The Corrupter does take a fair bit of patience to sit through & I found I had lost mine way before the end credits started to roll. The character's are alright, as far as buddy buddy cop films go they are not typical though. Chen is written as a decent man who has to bend the rules to get things done & keep the peace while the fresh faced Wallace plays it strictly by the book at first but soon realises that life on the street has no rules, they are quite well fleshed out & drawn but they are stuck in such a bland cop drama that it's hard to care or get involved in their story. All in all I just didn't think The Corrupter added up to much, with an emphasis on drama rather than action this won't appeal to your average mainstream action fan.Even with a reasonable car chase about halfway through there was far less action in The Corrupter than I was expecting, even the shoot-outs & gun-play are dull. Filmed in New York & in Canada this looks nice enough with hat gritty, low colour documentary style cinematography that some may like while other's like me will find just bland & anonymous.Taking a paltry five million during it's opening weekend at the box-office The Corrupter is a hard sell, is it meant to appeal to those interested in drama? It's surely too shallow for that. Or is it meant to appeal to the action fan? Well, there's barely any action in it. I just can't see who would like this. The acting is alright, the performances are decent enough I suppose.The Corrupter is a film that I didn't like that much, sure it's well made & reasonably acted but with a bitty story & lack of action I was left distinctly underwhelmed. Average at best for what it is & nothing special. "}{"Title":"Out of the Tree of Life I Just Picked Me a Plum","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Muscular policeman Mark Wahlberg (as Daniel Danny Wallace) teams up with English language learner Chow Yun-Fat (as Nicholas Nick Chen) to fight crime in New York City's gang-infested Chinatown. The mixed ethnic (Caucasian-Asian) duo hits it off when Mr. Yun-Fat saves Mr. Wahlberg's life. They bust a prostitution ring, and enjoy the company of prostitutes. Their women are willing; they probably started as reluctant and underage, but why cares? The Corrupter is embodied in local Godfather Ric Young (as Henry Lee). Wahlberg and Yun-Fat find their partnership, integrity, and lives threatened by associating with the smarmy Mr. Young.The blood-splattering shoot-outs, fistfights, and chase scenes are fairly typical. The special bond formed between the officers grows into acceptable. Yun-Fat is convincing, if sometimes inarticulate (fortunately, he can act without speech). Wahlberg could have had a better Zen moment leading up to his almost sudden adoration for his partner; but, a gambling father (Brian Cox) provides him with very good characterization. Overall, the film isn't outstanding or original, but director James Foley and photographer Juan Ruiz-Anchía make stylish use of light and color. And, forlorn young informant Jon Kit Lee (as Jack) makes a good supporting impression.***** The Corrupter (2/11/99) James Foley ~ Mark Wahlberg, Chow Yun-Fat, Ric Young "},{"Title":"Uninteresting straight-forward, tough, hard, action movie.","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was surprising how brutal and straight-forward this movie actually was. It also at the same time made the movie a hard one to believe. I mean the Yun-Fat Chow character shoots criminals through the head at point blank for Christ sake and they give him medals for that! That's tough, even for a New York cop. It seems that they at all time try to aim for the head or heart, instead of just taking the criminal out by shooting in the leg or shoulder. And also innocent bystanders keep getting killed in the movie as if it means nothing. No way that this movie could had also still been made after 9/11.It's the sort of story that makes things unnecessarily hard on itself, by putting in too many twist and turns, characters and individual plot lines. After a while I simply just stopped carrying what the movie was all about. It was that uninteresting.Yun-Fat Chow and Mark Wahlberg really don't work well together. Normally this is good for a cop duo type of movie but however really not in this case, since it simply just not work out. Brian Cox also shows up in the movie. I love this guy but once you start thinking about it; is his role really necessary for the movie?The movie itself is fairly well made. With a different script the movie would had definitely been a better one. The directing is good and fast and feels right for this type of movie and some of the camera-work is also great, though it also becomes obviously in the movie that it didn't really had the highest budget thinkable.The action itself is fair. It's nothing too spectacular or memorable really. It features mostly the formulaic elements such as shoot-outs and one 'big' chase. It's forgettable, just like the rest of the movie.Not a completely terrible movie but a very forgettable one.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Disappointment.","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was looking forward to this movie, and finally saw it and it just does not keep you interested. The problem with this is the movie does not have much action or character development in here. Just to much dragging along. The only good thing in this movie is a stunning car chase scene. It's a high octane thrill ride. Just very well done. Up for best car chase scene since The French Connection, but that's it.The Last Word A disappointment. This movie could have been SO much better. This movie just drags too much. I do recommend watching this only for the car chase scene. I could watch that all day. Just the rest of the movie is rather boring. "},{"Title":"A waste of my time","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As far as buddy-buddy cop movies go, this is one of the worst that I have seen. This kind of film works only if the two leads work well together and you care for their relationship. Mark Wahlberg and Chow Yun-Fat did have good chemistry but the barriers placed in their way by the plot worked against them. After this film was over I felt empty, I had gained nothing from watching. However the film did keep my attention for the whole 110 minutes but only because I was waiting for something amazing to happen. Which didn't! Thankfully the two leads went on to do far better things for which I am more grateful for.4/10  "},{"Title":"* *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chow Yun-Fat stars as Nick Chen a police officer who with his new Danny Wallace take on a group of triads who's trade is gambling and prostitution in this disappointingly routine, yet compelling drama. Chow Yun-Fat has yet to make an American movie that's impressive, however that being said, this is far and away his best U.S film to date. It certainly is an improvement over The Replacement Killers. "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I might have liked this film if I could have understood any of it.  I'm not averse to shoot-em-up flicks, but either this one was far too messy or my brain had switched off due to lack of concern for the future of any of the characters.  I really can't see why Chow Yun Fat or Yun Chow Fat or Fat Yun Chow (I can never remember which way round) is so popular.  He's not attractive and never seems to act.Replacement Killers is far superior.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cardboard performances from the two leads (the naive Mark Wahlberg is oddly miscast as a detective and Chow Yun-Fat delivers his lines like he's reading them off the page), uninteresting plot, uninteresting characters, dull action sequences, a depressing tone.  Altogether, the feel-bad movie of the year.  I got absolutely nothing out of watching this film.  It's a shame, coming from the director of Glengarry Glen Ross and Fear (a film in which Wahlberg was perfectly cast).  My score  3 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"For a Chow Yun-Fat actioner, it's surprisingly sluggish.","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****I've said it before and I'll say it again, Chow Yun-Fat is Hong Kong's most effortlessly charismatic actor.  Even at his worst, he never fails to be less than engaging, and at his best, he's positively a delight to watch on-screen.  So it's even more disappointing that The Corruptor, his second American film, is a bland action thriller that tries to correct upon the mistakes of The Replacement Killers (his first English language film), but in attempting to do so, forgets to factor in the excitement.Yun-Fat is Nick Chen, a top immigrant cop in Chinatown whose job is to keep an all-out turf war from breaking out.  He's a little upset that he's got a new partner, an American named Danny Wallace (Mark Wahlberg), but after a rough start, the unlikely pair find themselves getting along.  But complications ensue when the criminals Chen should be cracking down have plans to bribe the two cops, an act which could destroy their trust and friendship.The Corruptor has a somewhat interesting premise, but the plot fails to engage.  To be fair, the first half of the film is passable entertainment.  There are numerous gunfights and a rollicking shootout/car chase, but it's the second half where the dragging cuts in.  The last hour focuses on the characters' temptations, but watching this is just plain boring, and there's only a (anti)climactic shootout to punctuate these moments. Is the cast's fault?  Not really, both Yun-Fat and Wahlberg deliver fine performances.  Is it director James Foley's fault?  Partially, given that he doesn't do a very good job of vacillating between the quiet, character-building moments and the action sequences.  But most importantly, blame should also be laid on the shoulders of screenwriter Robert Pucci, who doesn't have much of an ear for dialogue (You don't change Chinatown.  Chinatown changes you.)Urban action thrillers have never been my favorite subgenre, but at least The Replacement Killers knew how to pile on the fun, and did so with at least some style.  In attempting to develop genuine characters and true moral conflict, The Corruptor's intents are more admirable, but it's all for naught if I can't claim I was entertained, and in this case, I most certainly was not. "},{"Title":"High hopes wre shot down","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had high for The Corruptor , I thought a movie with Yun-Fat and Walhberg would be decent but I was wrong. The direction by James Foley is very slow paced and the action seqeunces are long and  drawn out. I say if you're a die hard fan of Yun-Fat check this out other wise avoid it. "},{"Title":"Pretty, dire  *1/2 0ut of five","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This starts off quite well on the way to a solid crime thriller but after a while I lost all interest it becomes irratatingly slow-moving and just who cares. And this leads to one the most pathetic, predictible endings in movie history. Looking back on this now.... nearly makes me want to vomit. The only thing that saves this from one star territory is the solid beggining. Wahlberg and Yun-Fat give good performences aswell. "}{"Title":"Two cool actors in a crap movie.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie tonight, and had to turn it off. I waited and waited for the movie to make sense. That just never happened. Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg are great actors... it's a damn shame they are in this awful movie with no direction.Have you ever watched a movie that never seemed to make any sense? That's this movie.Gets a big 3 out of 10 in my book.  "},{"Title":"weak action film","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sorry to say, `The Corruptor' is a ho hum, strictly by-the-numbers police procedural set in a precinct in the heart of New York City's Chinatown.  Chow-Yun Fat stars as the officer in charge of the district, a generally serious and dedicated cop whose corruptibility we see played out as he beds local prostitutes and makes cozy sweetheart deals with a racketeer in the neighborhood.  Then in walks Wallace as a neophyte cop, the first white man ever to work in this all-Asian department.  The question then becomes  is this new officer (Mark Wahlberg) as corrupt as Nick or is there a secret hidden behind his façade of `green' newcomer?Actually, the story of the film emerges as more interesting in cold print than it does in its final cinematic form. As written by Robert Pucci and directed by James Foley, the film, particularly in its early stages, verges practically on the incomprehensible.  This is partly due to the fact that the thick accents of virtually the entire cast render much of the dialogue indecipherable (and Wahlberg is not a heck of a lot better on that score in all honesty).  One almost wishes that the entire film (rather than just a few brief snippets) could have been translated with subtitles.  Adding to the incoherence is the astonishing profusion of characters hurled our way almost from the very beginning.  We spend much of the film just trying to figure out who is who, how each person is related to the others, exactly how many gangs are involved in the proceedings and what exactly it is they are all after.Luckily, about halfway into the film, the elements begin to jell a bit and the interest level increases ever so slightly as the two principal characters begin to discover truths about each other initially held back from both them and us.  Even here, though, the film actually treads over ground that was explored to far greater effectiveness in `Donnie Brasco' a few years back.  That earlier movie, however, was considerably more intrigued by the moral complexities of its situations and characters than `The Corruptor,' with its weak and uninspired screenplay, ever manages to be.   For the most part, this film is executed like a standard issue cops-and-robbers shoot-em-up, filled with mediocre car chases and poorly staged gun battles.  The filmmakers simply don't have the intellectual where-with-all to cope with the ethical issues they want so desperately to explore.It's highly unlikely that even the most die-hard action movie fan will be particularly impressed with this tepid genre entry.  The saddest aspect of the film is watching the talented Mark Wahlberg (who has scored most effectively in the past when appearing in more serious, non-blockbuster roles and films) as he continues his unsuccessful attempt to secure a place as a sure-fired draw at the movie box office.  The best advice to Wahlberg may be to simply stop trying to be a star and concentrate on being an actor. "},{"Title":"How did so much potential become such a mediocre movie?","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film really had a lot going for it good actors, a reasonable script, a decent budget.  Yet somehow they never come together into a particularly good film.  It was watchable, and I didn't hate myself for seeing it, but it never really engaged me.Chow Yun-Fat is a great actor, and he did as much as he could with this film.  Some of the dialogue he was given was truly lame, but he added a certain style to it that made it work.Wahlberg is a solid actor and turned an above average performance here.  I think that his role was much better written than Yun-Fat's and he was given a little more to work with.  Did a decent job.Nic Young was wonderfully sleazy as the second in command to the head bad-guy.  He looked like he had fun with the role of the oily schemer.  Almost worth watching again just to see him.The plot was complicated, but not particularly complex.  I was impressed with how clear the director managed to keep the various plot lines, even when they began to run over one another and change.  I had very little trouble following the plot, but it never really paid off.  At almost 2 hours, Foley really should have been able to develop the characters more fully and to establish their motivations.I don't really know what went wrong with this film, but it is probably worth watching for fans of the genre, or fans of the actors.  I don't regret seeing it, that's something.  "},{"Title":"Fairly mediocre","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to confess that I rented this movie to see Mark Wahlberg -- don't get me wrong, not because of anything he did in his Marky Mark/Calvin Klein days, but because I thought his performance as Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights was truly superb and I wanted to see the other work he had done as an actor.  Anyway, The Corruptor was a real disappointment, and not just because Wahlberg, playing naive or maybe not-so-naive rookie Danny Wallace, looked like he was on tranquilizers much of the time.The problem is with the movie itself.  It tries to be a shoot'em up, over-the-top action flick AND a gritty drama exploring issues of police ethics, corruption and conflicted loyalties, all at the same time.  Well, sometimes mixing two different genres can work really well.  In this case, it does not.  The action sequences weren't particularly well-made and detracted from any attempt to develop the serious side of the story -- even if some of the scenes between Chow Yun Fat as morally shady cop Nick Chen and Wahlberg as idealistic rookie Danny Wallace were good.  (If you want to see an excellent film that deals with many of the same issues The Corruptor ineptly tries to tackle, do yourself a favor and rent LA Confidential.)Chow-Yun Fat has real star quality and charisma, but he deserves a better screenplay and better direction.  So does Wahlberg, who CAN act despite some people's comments on IMDB.  (In fact, there were a few scenes in The Corruptor where he showed flashes of his ability to convey a complex range of emotions -- e.g., the scene where Danny teases Nick about how he loves him, or where he finds his dad injured on the floor, or that brief moment when the little Chinese boy touches his hand.)  Oh and what's with all the gratuitous shots of his chest and rear?  It's not that I don't appreciate the view <grin>, but this is precisely the kind of thing he ought to avoid if he wants to solidify his reputation as a real actor.  (Which he fortunately did in Three Kings.)Basically, this movie is a waste of the talent of two fine actors ... and of your time and money.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time!!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I was told about this movie, I expected it to be a lot like the excellent replacement killers but I was very disappointed. The movie didn't seem to be heading anywhere and Mark Wahlburg was annoying as ever. To sum this movie up in a briefly... action scenes are limited, nothing what you would expect from the title of the film and if you want to see a real action movie go see The Replacement Killers which also stars Chow Yun-Fat but in a better role. "},{"Title":"Could have been much better.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well this could have been better.  The shoot out where alright, but I'm more used to John Woo style gun fights when Chow Yun-Fat is involved.  Maybe this movie was trying to look more realistic.  I think that was trying to be accomplished usually by showing the immigrants being shipped then used for pleasure.  I was looking for more action and less story.  This movie did have a few good parts.  The gunfights were ok and the car chases was alright but there should have been more of that.My review 5.  "},{"Title":"Just your basic average action movie","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A guy goes under cover, to try and collect evidence on another guy. But in the end, he likes him too much to go through with it. That's it. If you've seen a lot of action movies, you must have seen plenty of this one. "},{"Title":"Plotless Violence * out of ****","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The opening credits to James Foley's new action picture The Corruptor are deliciously enticing. Chinese jazzy music drowns the soundtrack as the letters C-O-R-R-U-P-T-O-R, present themselves in the dark atmospheric background. I jot down Great opening credits in my personal notes, hoping this feeling of taunt would continue. Unfortunate, the film is all down hill from there.The plot, if you can call it that, is nothing new to the tradition  of action movies. In fact, we just saw it last summer in the sluggish Lethal Weapon 4, which compared to The Corruptor is a tour-de-france ride though Central Park in a limousine. The main characters are two cops who try their luck at fighting gang wars in Chinatown. One is a veteran Chinese undercover agent, who occasionally, yeah right, bends the laws to his own personal liking. The other is a young white newcomer, who has little experience, really big muscles, and a father who often comes running to him for money to pay of his gambling debuts.The film is called The Corruptor because nearly everyone in the movie is corrupt in one way or another. Take Danny, the novice played sarcastically by Mark Walhberg. He seems like a nice guy, that is until we see his attitude for his new partner who has saved his life in more ways then one. And when we see his involvement with the local hookers, and a massage scene that gets a little out of the ordinary, his true character is exposed Junk.Chow Yun Fat is no better. He too is involved with prostitutes, violence, corruption and theft. In one particular scene the character nearly drowns a Chinese crook in a cafeteria sink, the audience member sitting next to me utters That doesn't make sense, isn't he a cop? Yep, he certainly is a police officer.This is obviously a total rip off of other hard core Chinese action pictures like Supercop. They should have ripped off even more, as much as they could have. This is a dead zone of action. Don't Get me wrong, there is plenty of violence in the picture, but in my opinion there is a big difference between action and violence. Action is stylized excitement that follows a scene of suspense  to relieve tension. Examples of this include gun battles, car chases, hand to hand combat, or even literal war.In The Corruptor there is no momentum built up, no tension to relieve and no suspense to evolve. The characters aimlessly shoot at one another and blow each other's bodies open. Hand to hand battle is mostly nonexistent, and car chases are limited to a single sequence that ends as the partners get into an accident and are nearly killed. Explosions are also rare, but a few do accrue.The performances are laughable indeed. Chow Yun Fat, who was better in The Replacement Killers, also a bad film, performs as if he is reading his lines from cue cars a foot away. You almost can see his eyes move in a reading fashioned. Walhberg is no better. Last year he made The Big Hit, also a bad film. Please tell me he is going to give his Jackie Chan like self esteem a rest for the remainder of this year, or the remained of his life, how about.The Corruptor has no real story to it. If I were to appear on a reviewing show and was supposed to explain the movie's plot, I would say that I couldn't. Seriously. Why would someone make a movie where there is not a plot?  My guess The film was shot before it was sufficiently written.  "},{"Title":"Go for the car chase (or leave it)","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How good can a movie be where Mark Wahlberg is by far the best actor (of course, there is Brian Cox but he doesn't count - he never counts because he always quite flawless and his parts are always too small)? I mean what can you expect from a movie called The Corruptor starring Chow Yun-Fat?The answer is maybe little. And indeed, the movie is quite a bore. Screenwriter Pucci did a lot of research work trying to stuff the story with themes like loyalty and loneliness, but finally it's only, if you want, a portrait of brutal American streets. The biggest plus can be found on the technical layer The Corruptor has one of the best (or at least most authentic) car-chase scenes of the past few years.What else can I say? Oh, I think Chow's English has improved lately (unfortunately this does not apply for his acting), and the Chinese girls are really sexy (to the girls among you of course, there are some scenes where Marky Mark is shown stripped to the waist, just for the fun of it). Apart from these tiny little plusses the film is only interesting if you enjoy bang-bang films. "},{"Title":"Really NOT good","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Slow, too much character focused, not exciting or amazing reactions causing action movie. This is supposed to be action??? Yup!!!! It isn't, this is the kind of movie that is called an action movie, because an action star is in it, he fires a gun and there is some blood spilled. Bad acting, a worthless script, no action (not enough), no cool fighting scenes or car chases. Overdone stuff like meditating in the bathroom or all the civilians who are blown away during the car chase. Would have been a much better character movie if it had been approached as one. Yet i've seen much worse. DO NOT RENT THIS ONE.4 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Slow story, one-dimensional characters, and gratuitous violence","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The corruptor is really a story about loyalty. 2 cops in Chinatown who are loyal only to each other.  At this point the movie still has potential.  However, the movie mixes two genres unsuccessfully  action flick and social commentary/drama.  The action is ok... mostly gun-fighting and car chases.  However, the movie again and again treats us to disturbing visuals  hundreds (apparently six) civilians gunned down in a car chase, emaciated Chinese women packed in a rooms and kept as slaves for the pornography industry, illegal immigrants stuffed into the hull of a boat, etc.   I appreciate that the creators of this movie wanted to show their audience that the people who traffic drugs and porn are basically monsters.  Maybe it's just me, but absurdly unrealistic action doesn't mix well with disturbing reality.  I give this one 1/2 a star. "}]