[{"Title":"So underrated and unappreciated...","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"107 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In November of 1999, a very strange thing happened.  An intelligent action film filled with well-drawn characters, an unconventional plot structure, and a storyline that required you to pay attention.  Stranger still, it was a James Bond film, a series widely regarded by the mass public as `fluff' when Bond films have actually been among the prime example of properly done plot-motivated action pieces.  The highly underrated `The Living Daylights' comes to mind.But the strangest thing is the critical thrashing `The World Is Not Enough' received.  From Entertainment Weekly singling it out as a reason to overhaul the Bond franchise, to Internet critics (cough Harry Knowles cough) soundly trashing it in long, diatribe-filled electronic pieces.  The fact that Harry praised the previous entry `Tomorrow Never Dies' (or as a friend described it, 12 pages of script and 90 pages of storyboards) as the best entry since `The Spy Who Loved Me' only leads to my conclusion that the critics and movie-goers of today have firmly and finally `checked their brains at the door' so to speak.The range of critiques for TWINE is stunning.  I have read dismissals of the first fifteen minutes as nothing more than one action sequence after another, despite the fact that the opening teaser has direct relevance to the storyline and contains more complex plot structure than the aforementioned previous entry, TND.  Claims of it being `boring' and `dull' were often tossed about.  Even the fact that Bond actually expresses discomfort was singled out as a major flaw.  See my above `brain-checking' comment.  But I am not here to make TWINE look good exclusively in comparison to TND, so here goes.TWINE had me from the start, from Bond's instant realization of the money bomb.  I knew I was in good hands from that point on.  Indeed, in an era of clumsily handled twists and blindingly obvious revelations, the Electra King twist completely threw me.  I had my suspicions, just as James himself wisely did, but I didn't want to believe it.  Again, just like James.  I could go on for a good half-hour about M's shock when she sees exactly what she and MI6 have created in 007.  His cold-bloodedness has never been on bigger display in recent ventures, save a few select moments. (`For England James?  No.  For Me.')  Make no mistake about it.  Bond is first and foremost a trained killer in this outing, firmly focused on carrying out the will of MI6, even at the cost of.The action sequences serve the story for a change, and each carry emotional weight, resulting from character's needs beyond that of eliminating Mister Bond.  Two of the primary sequences are ploys by the main villain, blatant attempts to misdirect rather than outright kill for the sake of killing. Indeed, misdirection and misreading motivations are the primary plot movers. By the end, everything believed by our antagonist neatly shifts into reverse.  And thankfully, the `one-man army' Bond of late is greatly reduced here, pitting Bond against more realistic odds.The small moments count too.  The high-backed chairs at the MI6 briefing. Zukofsky's small moment of delight upon seeing Bond's new Beemer sliced in half.  The expertly placed shot toward Renard's head, blocked by safety glass.  Elektra's emotional breakdown when trapped inside the avalanche (but faked or not?)  And Zukofsy's silent communication to Bond to take care of business for him.  Reverence and respect is held for the series' past, even Bond's marriage is referenced as he dodges Electra's query as to whether he's ever lost someone that he loves.   Heck, these days even a lone `Universal Exports' reference would be considered gold, but the writers of TWINE have obviously done their studying.If TWINE has any weaknesses, the action sequences are not always staged at the series' prime.  Although the raid on Zukovsky's factory is executed beautifully and is a superb set piece for Bond, some clumsy editing and lensing weakens the ski sequence and the climactic fight on board the Victor II sub.  David Arnold's score is under-mixed; giving the movie a bit too much subtlety in moments the grandness should be spilling into the theater (commercial or home).  And of course, Denise Richards is just plainly miscast for the part of Christmas Jones, which screams for someone of greater maturity.  As someone on the Internet said `Bond girls should have class, not be late for it.'  Can't argue much there.In closing, I hope the producers choose to ignore the gnashing of hypocritical teeth and continue on a similar path for the next Bond film. Do not return to a one-set-piece-after-another film.  Have faith (however small) that the audience will wake up.  I know I for one will be there, hoping that the next film will live up to the lofty (if unappreciated) standards of 'The World Is Not Enough'.  "},{"Title":"I thought Christmas only comes once a year.","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"56 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The film opens with a formidable assassin who had recently posed as a banker's secretary&#133; She had given Bond a cigar, before killing her boss in the Swiss banker's office in Bilbao, Spain&#133; Now, when a bomb blew a hole in MI6's London headquarters, the super spy sped off in the Q boat, ignoring Q's plaintive cry, Stop Stop! It isn't finished! It was Q's fishing boat for his retirement&#133; There's a splendid boat chase along the River Thames between 007 and the stunning Maria Grazia Cucinotta, the Cigar Girl &#150; who worked as a barmaid at the village inn in Il Postino. Bond was eager to capture her for questioning&#133;When a bomb planted in a briefcase of money killing British oil tycoon Robert King, M was determined to bring the perpetrators to justice&#133; The prime suspect was Renard who had once kidnapped King's daughter, Elektra&#133; M (Judi Dench) believed Elektra was next on Renard's list and 007 was assigned to act as her shadow while she supervised the building of an oil pipeline in Azerbaijan&#133; Yet despite his powerful urge to protect her, there was something about this beautiful, cunning, willful woman that aroused his suspicions&#133; Bond flew to Azerbaijan, where King Industries was building an oil pipeline&#133; Elektra gave 007 a 'cold' reception, taking him up into the snowy peaks to the pass where the two ends of the pipeline would soon meet... It was then that unsocial 'visitors' struck&#133; Sophie Marceau plays the magnate's daughter Elecktra who had once escaped Renard's clutches all by herself&#133; Her favorite motto There's no point in living if you can't feel alive.Robert Carlyle plays Renard, the former KGB hit-man who had set up his own organization and demanded fanatical loyalty&#133; He was a murderer, a terrorist, and a kidnapper&#133; His only goal was chaos&#133; Subordinated who failed him killed themselves rather than face his wrath&#133; After Robert King came to see M, she sent 009 to kill Renard&#133; 009 caught up with him and put a bullet in his head&#133;The bullet was now killing off all his senses and was impervious to pain&#133; Renard was determined to pull off one last coup against the West&#133; But his motivations were motivated by blind hatred, or blind love? Goldie plays Bull, Zukovsky's shifty, gold-toothed bodyguard&#133; He was a menace to his boss and an important Renard spy&#133;Denise Richards plays Christmas Jones, the sexy atomic scientist overseeing the dismantling of the Kazakhstan nuclear test site&#133; Dr. Jones became an invaluable ally of 007's following Renard's theft of a nuclear bomb&#133; For The World Is Not Enough, Q equipped Bond with the faster car 007 had ever been entrusted with the MBW Z8, armed with a radar-guided missile system... Robbie Coltrane returns as the duplicitous Russian black marketeer Valentin Zukovsky whose ebony walking gun stick seemed a typically showy affection - but it had its uses... A final sad note The World Is Not Enough, marked the final appearance of the beloved Desmond Llewelyn, who acted from 1964 to 1995, except for Live and Let Die. A perfect foil to 007's lighthearted nature&#133; Q has been one of the series' most enduring character... "},{"Title":"Brosnans Best Bond Film","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"77 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Has there ever been a more beautiful baddie in a Bond film than Sophie Marceau? (maybe Luciana Paluzzi in 'Thunderball' to answer my own question) This woman is GORGEOUS and one of the series best characters. Pierce Brosnan gets better with each movie and out of his four this is probably the best. The pre-credit sequence, the longest in the films history is worth the entrance fee alone, an amazing chase along the river Thames it is simply stunning and should really only be viewed on a big screen. This sequence is what Bond is all about, outrageously over the top excitement that kicks the film off to a cracking start, in fact I'd go as far as saying this is the best pre-credit beginning of all the Bond films. The story actually makes sense as well for once - no real plot twists (except Electra) and all the action is there for a reason, not just as spectacle. Judi Dench gets her best outing in this, proving herself capable of getting out of tight situations and it's nice to see Robbie Coltrane again (the caviar factory scene being another highlight). The humour is kept in check and doesn't descend into parody like some in the series ('Diamonds Are Forever' for example) but when Bond says 'Q isn't going to like this' when his car gets sliced in half is one of the funniest moments in any of the films. Speaking of Q this is Desmond LLewelyns last Bond movie, he died shortly after and the film is dedicated to him. All in all this is as good as any of Connerys films and the best since 'The Spy Who Loved Me' with good all round performances from all involved although Denise Richards was obviously picked more for her looks than acting ability. A worthy addition to the series this is my 6th favourite 007 film. "},{"Title":"A return to form after the routine TND","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"57 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Top casting and exciting action make this one of the most entertaining Bond films for a while.Some may disagree, but I think Brosnan has the edge over Connery now. Sophie Marceau is fantastic as Electra, one of the most interesting characters to grace the series for a while. Carlyle, although shortlived, is a very believable and even sympathetic villain and Robbie Coltrane makes a meal of his second appearance as Valentin Zukovsky.The opening scene of TWINE is probably the best action scene ever in a Bond film and while the ones that follow cannot quite match up to it, they are still top class. Director Michael Apted shows that he has a real talent for dealing with these parts of the movie, and the excellent soundtrack can only improve them.I went to see this movie on consecutive days and bought the soundtrack (Garbage&David Arnold) the second time, this is the best recommendation that I can possibly give it. "},{"Title":"Third time lucky","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this in the cinema in '99, I remember actively disliking it - the first time I'd had that reaction to a new Bond release. I saw it a second time at the cinema, and disliked it less - but still wasn't keen. Now, in the dying days of 2002, and quaking with hatred for - and disappointment at - 'Die Another Day', I re-evaluated TWINE for a second time. And I have to say, compared to this year's farce, TWINE is bathed in a golden glow. In terms of character development, plausibility (always tenuous in Bond films, but still), acting, and script, TWINE is far and away and without a shadow of doubt superior to 'Die Another Day'. Above all, this is a Bond film that does occasionally treat its audience like they have brain cells, rather than a ghastly exercise in sci-fi pretensions with MTV production values.The opening sequence reveals itself to be one of the very best in the series, taut and exciting, flawlessly directed and perfectly executed. There's nothing else in the film that can quite top it, but some inspired casting helps immeasurably. Sophie Marceau is superb, and it's great to see Robbie Coltrane reprise Valentin Zukovsky, who bags many of the best lines. Judy Dench as 'M' is given a high profile in this entry, which is all to the good as she's clearly the best thing to happen to the Bond films in the Brosnan era. Alas, Desmond Llwelyn makes his final appearance as 'Q' - it would be thus even had he not died the following year - and his exit is well-handled.touching, even. On the downside, Robert Carlyle is not quite convincing as Renard, but it barely matters as Marceau is so firmly in control. Denise Richards isn't as bad as she's been made out to be - indeed, she actually seems smarter and less bland than Halle Berry in DAD.Plot and action sequences throughout the film are deftly handled, but there are some areas where TWINE seems a little derivative, cheerfully looting the Bond back catalogue, for example in the Caucasus skiing sequence which fuses together action setpieces from YOLT and OHMSS. There are also moments of alarming silliness more redolent of the 1970s and '80s, such as the scene with John Cleese making his debut as future-'Q' and all scenes with Goldie in as Bullion. And for those of us who aren't fans of Pierce Brosnan, there's plenty to annoy - excessive jaw-clenching, lots of posing, inherent charmlessness. I'm sure he's lovely in real life, mind.Generally, though this is a competent entry in the series, and its attempts at depth just about succeed. It is also the most `how'-and-`why'-proof Bond film since the 1960s, a refreshing change from those Bond films that arrogantly command the audience to suspend their beliefs and do all the maths themselves. Quite why it all went wrong three years later is anyone's guess, but I blame 'XXX' and a continuing adoration of 'The Matrix'. "},{"Title":"My favorite Bond film","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH has to be my favorite James Bond film. It seems that Pierce Brosnan's Bond films have the longest teasers (pre-credits sequences) in the series and the River Thames chase was a brilliant start, not to mention well-filmed with the London background. The action scene that stands out from them all in the film is the helicopter attack on the Caspian Sea. The plot is very interesting with twists and turns with all the oil involvement, and Pierce perhaps gives his finest Bond performance in his four outings.Robert Carlyle makes a chilling villain as Renard (he's already dead and can't feel pain), but the biggest highlight of TWINE is the two leading women Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards. Marceau is very well-cast as villainess Elektra King and is perhaps the best Bond villainess since THUNDERBALL's Fiona Volpe. Richards is a gorgeous actress and she's very charming and fun as heroine Dr. Christmas Jones. These are two of the most beautiful and sexiest Bond girls in the series; you are going to love both of them.With its well-staged action, epic plot, Pierce's wonderful performance, and two brilliant Bond girls, TWINE is a Bond adventure both Bond fans and non-Bond fans will treasure. **** "},{"Title":"The best Bond with Brosnan.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"26 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a great Bond-fan so I was very intruiged to see the new Bond-film 'The World is not Enough.'I went to see it and I liked it very much. The story this time is interesting,especcially the  character Electra King,wonderfully played by French  actress Sophie Marceau, is very well written.But off course you are not going to see a Bond-movie  for the story,you expect to see great action scenes, stunts,evil villains,beautiful locations and great humour.And all the things I mentioned above were presented very well in this Bond-film.The action scenes in the oil-pipes, on the mountains of Kazachstan  and especially on the Thames in London were very spectacular.Robert Carlyle is convincing as a villain who don't feel any pain.The locations were very exotic and the scenes in Istanbul gave me a nostalgic feeling to 'From Russia with Love.'But the most important thing in a Bond-movie is the actor who plays it.And Brosnan did it very well. He's agressive,he has got a sense of humour and he really looks like the gentleman Bond is supposed to be. But in some scenes we see Brosnan also in a more vulnerable position. So I think Brosnan is after Connery the best Bond-actor.My conclusion is that 'The World is not Enough' is a great Bond-movie with all the elements that make this series,after almost 38 years,still one of the greatest movie experiences of the year. "},{"Title":"It's Bond... again!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"33 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well it's Bond! He's back again for a 19th instalment of the same usual set of gags, gadgets, girls and guns! Can the world not get enough of this already?Not that anyone really needs to know the story for a Bond film as it's usually just an excuse for lots of action! But you might end up enjoying it more if you knew what was going on. So for all it's worth, here you go. Bond races out to protect Elektra King (Marceau, playing a very different kind of Bond girl!), the daughter of a recently assassinated oil tycoon. She's under threat as she tries to complete a set of pipelines, so she's obviously going to need some protection (NO, not that type of protection!). The threat comes from Renard (Carlyle) who plays a unique villain who can't feel any pain after having a bullet lodged in his brain. As Bond gets closer to catching him a few truths are revealed! We quickly discover that things aren't going to be as easy as they look! But then again it's a Bond film so they never are!Along the way Bond teams up with nuclear physicist Christmas (Richards) Jones (what a name!) who manages to help him diffuse bombs! Very handy as together they end up having to stop Renard from blowing half the world up!The film starts off with one of the longest opening pre-credits sequences for a Bond film! It's also one of the best which begins with an out of the ordinary escape from a building, includes a thrilling boat chase around London and ends with an obvious explosion!It's nice to see the return of some characters. Judi Dench as 'M', Desmond Llewelyn as gadget master 'Q' and especially Robbie Coltrane reprising his same role from 'Goldeneye' as ex-KGB agent 'Valentin'. John Cleese as 'R' (Q's replacement in the gadget department!) tries his best by adding some extra humour to Bond but doesn't quite get there.The film shows Bond at his best! Brosnan really is on top form as one of the best Bonds! There's also enough action, stunts and big bangs that light up the screen! Also lighting up the screen are the Bond girls who are now strong, sexy and intelligent rather then silly and stupid. It's a better change, as we now don't always have bimbos who are always in danger and in need of help!The only downside about the film would have to be that it's just the same old formula all over again. Something's wrong, bring in Bond, add in nasty villain, mix a few explosions here and there and in the end Bond saves the day and gets the girl! So you can see that the film is quite predictable from start to finish but nevertheless it's a formula that works! 'The World Is Not Enough' does have all the usuals that you'd expect (right down to the Martini's, cars and bad one liners!) but just about everything has been cranked up to churn out something good from the old formula!It's smart and stylish just as James Bond should be and in the end it's really very good!Rating - 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This is the Bond adventure of the 90's","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"48 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TWINE is without doubt the 007 adventure of the 90's. I would consider it to be one of the best Bond movies ever, but for sure the best of the Brosnan era so far, because it perfectly combines Bond's universe with the real world. The movie has a terrific look, crystal clear colours and benefits from the great craft of Clark and Biddle who both did a fantastic job. In addition Pierce Brosnan gives one of the best performances in years, taking his character both seriously and on the other hand not too seriously. Sophie Marceau offers a fantastic villainess and puts herself in one line with Chris Walken, Robert Davi and Klaus Maria Brandauer.The writers Michael France, Neal Purvis, Robert Wade, Dana Stevens and Bruce Feirstein have outdone themselves by creating some of the best characters in the series and by far the best punchlines and dialogues in years. Every dialogue contains funny and suggestive lines and this really makes fun to sit there and enjoy two hours of perfect entertainment. "},{"Title":"Twenty-one Way Up","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Michael Apted is probably the closest thing to a marquee director a Bond film has ever had. He's the biggest reason this one bucks so many of the bad trends set by most of its predecessors while simultaneously maximizing the clichés that have made the series so beloved. WORLD is worlds above any other Pierce Brosnan entry, stronger than all Roger Moore efforts but THE SPY WHO LOVED ME; it surely surpasses the unfortunately mishandled Timothy Dalton vehicles, and dare I say it defeats most - not all - of the Sean Connery attempts? I dare. (I leave out George Lazenby because I think ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE is one of the best; also David Niven because his isn't a Bond movie, not really; also Daniel Craig, because his one version to date sucked, through no fault of his own.) WORLD has what many Bond movies and most Bond books lack a giddy, relentless pace. From the thrill-a-second pre-credit boat chase, Bond doesn't stop having sex, playing with dangerous toys, and disarming hydrogen bombs... except of course to ski. What's more, WORLD's James Bond has what nearly every movie 007 fails to inherit from the pulp character that spawned him brutality. Shooting the woman he loves in the heart is maybe my favorite example of why this man has a license to kill. The reason is that he will.Bizarrely, the movie's strongest actor is its weakest link  Robert Carlyle, so terrifying as Begbie, is less impressive as Renard, the only Bond villain advertised as already dead. Unfortunately, Carlyle plays him that way. He's a little flat, a little pat, certainly no Gert Frobe; but then neither was Gert Frobe. At least Renard gets one great line A man tires of being executed. To compensate for a lack of villainous flair, we are offered an exploding MI6, a fat Russian drowning in caviar, a 70 mph no-helmet bailout from an exploding pipeline luge, a rapacious Swiss banker complete with Holocaust remittance jokes, flying BMW-splitting hedge trimmers, a VMF-surplus nuclear submarine, a Bond beauty who acts as well as she fills an evening gown, a Bond ten times more likely to shoot you than to tell a joke, and glory of hoked-up glories, Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist in hot pants. It just doesn't get any more Bond than that. "}{"Title":"Best  of the modern Bonds.","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Excellent plot (although the villain's medical 'condition' that allows him to perform at superhuman powers because he does not feel pain is a little implausible), fantastic locations and setting, fast-paced action and enough sexual tension and banter mean that this film has all the hallmarks of a classic bond. And not as over-commercialised as Die Another Day.The only weak point is the pathetic casting of Denise Richards. The bimbo-American style character has no place in the classy, sophisticated world of Bond. Although the corny but hilarious Never had Christmas in Turkey and I thought Christmas only came once a year lines were classics, in the vein of Sean Connery in the Goldfinger era. "},{"Title":"THE BEST BOND FILM SINCE THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Why? Because the three Bond movies made in between THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS and THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH have had nothing in the way of original elements. This Bond movie plays with structure and format. The pre-credits sequence is packed with plot and action, satisfying in both departments. Bond is less gadget dependent here, making him more like a real spy (or the pre-GOLDFINGER Bond). There is a dark edge on Bond's character, and the set-up is utterly sweet.SPOILERS FOLLOWThe twist (something modern movies do too much) is that the girl, Sophie Marceau, is the real villain of the piece. And the cool part is that James Bond fell genuinely in love with her, protecting her. Brosnan and Marceau share one of the best love scenes in the series. She drops the tell-tale  line what's the point of living if you don't feel alive?, which henchman Carlyle later repeats. Robert Carlyle does a wonderful turn as the henchman who can't feel anything. One can't really say his character is well developed, but what is done with him is great. The way he disposes of them both is a wonderful change after the dull character treatments in the last two films. The fact that it acknowledges character at all brings it on par with THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS (which was the best since THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, which was great). The characters don't reach the level of THE THIRD MAN, but they manage.Our beloved Q, Desmond Llewelyn (who'd been in the series since FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE) makes his exit after introducing the beloved John Cleese as his replacement. Sadly similar honors were never given to Bernard Lee as M or Lois Maxwell as Money Penny (let's face it, Samantha Bond just sucks). At least this time the replacement is someone good.Then there's the film's most advertised flaw Denise Richards. Yes, I know nuclear scientist are not hot young babes. Yes, I know the girl couldn't act her way out of a wet paper bag. Yes, I know the named Christmas Jones is stupid. She stinks, but she's the only smudge on an otherwise spotless 007 flick. Who cares? Bond movies always have something like this. DR. NO featured some terrible acting. No one has ever been named Pussy Galore. Jill St. John did an awful job in DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER. Tanya Roberts did even worse in A VIEW TO A KILL. This is no big deal. Denise Richards sucks and her character was an irritating extra, but she isn't the first and she doesn't ruin the film.THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is a very good ride and a very good Bond film. The title links back to ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE (the best movie in the series). It beats the living tar out of TOMORROW NEVER DIES, GOLDENEYE, and DIE ANOTHER DAY, making it Brosnan's best. The conflict between love and duty is clearer than ever, giving 007 an edge that should be played on. Apted proves to be a better Bond director than a director of drama (this easily tops GORILLAS IN THE MIST). The elements brought in, like fresh texture, and the collapsed soviet union, make it comparable to the better parts of THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS. This is a winner. Just remember that the bimbo is eye-candy and Bond is the one to listen to. "},{"Title":"Remember when Bond films were good?","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A lot of people have already commented intelligently here on the general suckitude of this movie. I would just add a few thoughts.It's true that the recent Bond films are choking on the formula. But it's not the idea of a formulaic Bond film that's at fault here. Indeed, the Bond formula is the most established, specific, franchised formula in film history, complete with obligatory plot twists, locale changes and even obligatory dialogue in mandatory scenes. But that's not the problem. The problem is that the inbred idiots in the Broccoli family who own the Bond franchise and who have final script and creative authority, choose (I think deliberately) to give us Bond films of the lowest common denominator, trying to maximize bottom line profit by making the films as dumb and over the top as possible. They choose to remain faithful only to those aspects of the formula that would seem to guarantee commercial success. Those formula points are1) Action set pieces that are determined to one-up all previous Bond action set pieces in terms of craziness, speed, and death-defying stunts, but to the point where they lose all credibility. For example, Pierce's speedboat chase in TWINE, or his motorcycle leap off the cliff into the plane cockpit in Goldeneye are so ridiculous that you have to laugh at them. I just shook my head in disbelief when I saw that speedboat chase, which was way over-the-top to begin with, morph into a hot air balloon stunt, I could almost hear the Broccoli family having a round table discussion, saying Hey, then we could move the action into a balloon! Huh? Isn't that nuts! Who wouldn't love to see Bond in a hot-air balloon! By contrast, just about any car or boat chase from the Connery era is much simpler, more plausible, and ultimately more fun to watch on repeat viewings because it won't dissolve into farce.2. A beautiful woman with a funny name.Hey, I love Bond girls as much as anyone else. And the funny names are great. But didn't they use to act better? And have more to do? And be sophisticated? Denise Richards seems to be best suited for a poster. She's a respected nuclear physicist like I'm an Olympic figure skater.3. Updating the Bond look to reflect whatever is currently on top of the charts.The mangled version of the Bond theme was disgusting. Giving him a German car because BMWs are cool is stupid. He's a Brit for Gods sake. Bond is cool because he's COOL. He has actual Mojo. It's not the brand of Vodka he swills, or who designed his suit. Leave well enough alone.Basically, this franchise is headed down the toilet. It's circling the bowl as we speak. They'll always make money, but the experience is changing. These days, going to a Bond film is like going to a Circus. You're going so you can Ooh and Aah at something, not to watch a coherent movie with things like characters and plot.Remember when these films were spy movies first, action movies later? Remember the whole train sequence in From Russia With Love, where Bond plays a game of wits with the evil spy? Remember the great chemistry with Connery and Honor Blackman in Goldfinger? Remember how Connery or Moore could make a line classic just with great delivery, instead of having great one-liners scripted in advance?In short, remember when these movies were good? "},{"Title":"Trying to fit 20 movies into one...","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was supposed to be the all time greatest Bond Movie. It would be faster, higher, deeper etc. And it all ends up being both uninspired and badly put together. There are a lot of neat references to previous Bond-movies (Universal Exports ring a bell?) and I have to give them one star for that. I also give the movie one star for excellent casting, and the last star goes to the actors who did a pretty good job. But this movies' real problem lies in the fact that it has no story. It's the weakest script ever in a Bond movie, and they have tried to put too much into it. Instead of making a movie, they've tried to create one long action-sequence. Guess what IT DOESN'T WORK!!! You never get one overall feel in this movie. It's all small bits of fun, and they haven't even tried to make it fit together. This movie is more a showreel of all the previous Bond movies, than a movie in itself. If you want to see it (and you do, if you love Bond) enjoy John Cleese, Robert Carlyle, Pierce Brosnan and Denise Richards' wet t-shirt. Also enjoy all the references to the other Bond flicks... But don't go see it if you want to see a real movie. Watch Dr. No one more time. Or Tomorrow Never Dies, for that matter. Please do it better next time! We can wait another year if that's what it takes to edit the movie! Just don't release another unfinished movie. It's ruining Bond.  "},{"Title":"The darkest Bond; Brosnan's best","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Contains spoilersTHE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH was the 19th Bond film, and the final one produced in the 20th century. Pierce Brosnan returned in his third outing as James Bond, acclaimed dramatic director Michael Apted took his place behind the cameras, and Neal Purvis and Robert Wade were assigned to write the screenplay. After two very Connery-esque outings as Bond, one of which was not a Bond film, Brosnan has a chance to be in the most Fleming-esque Bond since LTK...even if he must continue to be the next Sean Connery. TWINE is easily the greatest of Brosnan's four 007 films as of yet and the fourth greatest of all the Bond films, surpassed only by ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE, LICENCE TO KILL, and THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS.The film has a very unique cinematic look to it that no other Bond has had; it is the darkest of all the films. The locations are exotic but very real; you would never guess that the nuclear site or the Maiden's Tower were sets at Pinewood studios. Almost every character is given incredible detail, humanity, and in some cases, pity. This was Brosnan's best outing as Bond, and despite he keeps being confined to a Connery style Bond and doesn't quite handle his few Dalton moments, he does a fantastic job. M for once is given a major role in the storyline, and Judi Dench excels in these scenes. Tanner, Moneypenny, and Robinson all return doing a fantastic job. A new character, Q's assistant R, is hilarious. And Desmond Llewelyn gives his final outing as Q. The final moments that 007 and Q have together are wonderfully written and acted. Llewelyn was the longest lasting member of the original team of writers, actors, directors, and producers on the Bond film and his untimely demise in a car accident following this film was truly upsetting. Ms, Moneypennys, and Bonds can come and go, but for some reason, there can be only one Q. RIP Desmond, and thanks for all the memories.For the first time ever in a Bond film, a woman is the main villain. Elektra King is one of the most complex, ambitious, and truly evil of all the Bond villains and may very well be the best of them, if not the best of the women; that honor still goes to Bond's wife Tracy (a comment by Elektra makes reference to her). Kidnapped by the terrorist Renard, her father and M had no choice but to refuse to pay her ransom due to policy. So Elektra seduced her captor. She made him fall madly in love with her. He allowed her to escape, and she damaged herself when Renard couldn't bring himself to do it. Deceiving everyone, she had her own father, oil tycoon Sir Robert King, murdered by a bomb exploded in MI6 headquarters. Elektra has a great power over men, especially womanizers like 007. She deceives him as well, and by the time he figures it out, Elektra captures M, buys a nuclear submarine, and arranges to cause a nuclear holocaust to gain control over the world through the oil market. Her evil nature and deceiving all that cared about her makes her a truly nasty character, and when Bond kills her in cold blood, it's hard to surpess a cheer. Her lover, Renard, is definately the most human of all Bond's villains. With an excellent actor in the role, Renard attracts a great deal of pity. With Alec Trevelyan of GOLDENEYE, you felt sympathy for him, but the fact he was also doing this to get rich lowered the abbility for the audience to feel sorry for him. Renard, however, is doing all his actions due to blind love. Seduced and used by the woman he captured and held for ransom, Renard has a bullet in his head killing off his senses, so far making it impossible for him to feel pain or anything else. This frustrates him greatly as he cannot be a good lover to Elektra. This character's blind love for Elektra (he's willing to commit suicide so she can make millions) and the fact that, to her, Renard was merely another employee and tool, makes it hard not to pity this poor, deceived, blinded man. Even Bond seems to pity him; before Elektra's scheme is thwarted and Renard is killed, the two share sympathetic smiles.As the darkest, most dramatic, and most intense of all the Bond films, there is a great need for comic relief, and it comes in good supply without ruining the tone of the film. Valentine Zukovsky of GOLDENEYE returns with a much more friendly attitude towards Bond. Prior to Bond' involvement, he arranges to get her a nuclear submarine, commanded by his nephew Nikolai, for $1,000,000. He is unaware of the purpose, of M's kidnapping, or that Elektra is working with Renard. When Bond informs him (and when Elektra kills his nephew and destroys his caviar factory), Zukovsky joins Bond, and his final act before being killed by Elektra is to save Bond's life. Both 007 and the audience feel grief for his death, as he is one of the most amusing and charming characters ever to appear in a Bond film. Zukovsky's traitorous henchman Bull, played by Goldie, is another amusing character. The final comic dose, R, bumbles his way through demonstrating all of Bond's gadgets, all the while being insulted by Q.The film's title, The World Is Not Enough, is the Bond family motto, as revealed in ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE. The previously mentioned reference to Tracy and the ski chase pay homage to that film. Despite the excellent story and characters, there are problems with this film. Bond hardly uses his car. Zukovsky should not have been killed. And the Bond woman in this film, Dr. Christmas Jones, is the only character that is poory written. A typical bland Bond girl, she is too young to be an expert in nuclear physics and is rather unconvincingly portrayed. She serves no point to the story at all and is merely added in so that Bond can bed a woman at the end (does anyone else grow tired of this ending?). And once again, as good as this film was, it is truly disappointing they could not let Brosnan for once play the Dalton/Fleming-type Bond he has been wanting to do ever since he took the role.With 8 out of 10 stars, this is Brosnan's greatest contribution to the series. This film is so great because it is the only Brosnan Bond film to have the feel of a Cubby Broccoli 007 film, and that is something special. "},{"Title":"Film does well to redeem the bond franchise","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Following what was in my mind one of the worst bond movies ever, the world is not enough manages to repent for its prequels sin's.The plot is solid with plenty of bond type action(which is him doing super human things against multiple enemies who can never manage to hit him.)But isn't this why we go to see bond movies?? Its unrealistic....but who cares?? thats the point.. The boat scene is also very good(all be it long). But what puzzles me is the general hatred of Denise Richards and her character Dr.Christmas Jones... Now I know its crazy that a beautiful American physicist could ever end up working for the Russians in Kazakhstan...but bond needs a good bond girl and she is one...I mean you can't have him sleeping with some fat ugly Russian woman... All in all this film is a action packed movie which unlike its older brother lives up to the bond name. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Finest Bond.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a great start with Goldeneye and the hugely enjoyable Tomorrow Never Dies, Brosnan's run as Bond hits the jackpot with this fantastic action film that is undeniably one of the best James Bond films ever made. It has everything. It has some of the finest action sequences the series has ever thrown up (the pre-credit sequence is to die for), two classic villains in the shape of Reynard and Elektra (they even have Bond baddie names) and what is a surprisingly good little story. Sure it's not Tolstoy or Shakespere, but the plot is very effective and offers up many twists and turns, but as well as that the script is very daring for a 007 movie. First of all the pre-title sequence ends in disaster. The man Bond is trying to save winds up blown to pieces and to further add insult to injury, the usually indestructible secret agent winds up seriously injured ending up with his arm in a cast after the fantastically stylish credit sequence. Even better is that the injury becomes his weakness for the rest of the film and the writers even have him fall in love, a relationship that leads to a denouement more akin to the Dalton era.That's what I love about Brosnan, though. He brings many of the qualities of the previous Bond's to his own he is virtually perfect, not only giving Connery a run for his money, but at times surpassing him. We have the smoothness of Connory, the humor of Moore and the darkness of Brosnan. There's none of George Lazenby, but we should all be thankful for that. Another plus point is that we have more of an ensemble feel for TWINE, which leads to the villains being more than just the usual I must destroy the world stereotypes. Sure Robert Carlyle's Renard may seem like a typical Bond villain (he is unable to register pain due to a bullet in his head), but by playing him as a man in love who welcomes death at the end is a masterstroke and one handled fantastically by director Apted, doing a fine job here. While Denise Richards may not be the best Bond girl acting wise, looks wise she is perfect, with the wet t-shirt moments at the end being a welcome distraction. Kudos too to bringing back Robbie Coltrane. Shame he's killed off as I thought he would make a welcome regular supporting player to the rest of the cast.To sum up, The World Is Not Enough is classic Bond. The Thames chase at the star will be unbeatable and the script is very strong.You could say it left me shaken and stirred. "},{"Title":"Best of the 007 bunch","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely Pierce Brosnan`s best Bond film (if not overall film) to date. He has really settled into the role now and has made the character his own. There is an intriguing storyline and one of the castlists to appear in the entire series. John Cleese makes a very promising start (to what he has now announced is a 3-picture deal) as Q`s assistant R. The music (by David Arnold)is one of the best soundtracks- rating with some of John Barry`s best. Roll on Bond 20 !! "},{"Title":"Brosnans Third Best As Bond Wow A Hat-trick","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not Enough 1999 is Pierce Brosan;s Third Best As 007 James Bond.i mean wow just fantastic the direction,acting,music & the story everything is amazing .i love to collect and see all bond films but Brosnan Bond films are my most favorite.pierce was so serious in this film as bond the way he shots Electra in the scene is cold.Daniel Craig cant even come close he ruined bond franchise.the story is about 007 is send to protect a oil heiress named Electra King & save her from the international terrorist Renard .i hated Electra king played by Sophie Marceau but she was so great in it after Tanya Roberts in a view to a kill 1985i have seen this film more then 5 times on DVD this is a must buy for bond fans as action in this film is mind blowing.my rating is 10/10 a must see film for bond fans as well as regular film watchers. the world is not enough is simply spectacular. "},{"Title":"Best Bond film in a long time!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you who did not enjoy this movie. Shut up and stop watching bond films. You obviously know nothing about Bond. You are also probably the ones who enjoyed the timothy (I Can't Act)dalton years. This movie is exactly what we want. It's the world being threatened by a madman with nuclear capabilities. Boat chases, ski chases, explosions, submarines, attractive women, great oneliners, gadgets, and bond nails three different women. This is what it's all about. Bond is and will always be a sexist male. He is confident and bold. If your looking for real life watch 90210. If you want adventure, fantasy, and fun, watch Bond.  "}{"Title":"A Top-Notch Thrillathon of Bullets, Babes, Bad guys, and Bond, James Bond!","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The 19th installment in the James Bond film franchise The World Is Not Enough looks poised and muscular enough to renew the famous British secret service agent's license to kill for the next century. In the right hands, this predictable but dependable formula of sex, violence, witty dialogue, elaborate plotting, and epic villainy rarely misses. Comparatively, The World Is Not Enough shares the spirit of On Her Majesty's Secret Service and Octopussy. All Bond movies are alike, of course, but this escapade differs in its gallery of villains, its serpentine plotting, and its elegant but aggressive verve. The imaginative screenplay by Neal Purvis, Robert Wade, and Bruce Feirstein features dramatic bedrock. Although the filmmakers have dispersed the usual spectacular special effects and high octane action stunts throughout TWINE, strong, solid characters and an interesting plot are what hold this actioneer together. Unlike the sinewy Tomorrow Never Dies, Twine unfolds with a seamless grace instead of as a string of impressive episodes lashed together by an acrobatic plot. Happily, story takes precedence here. If you're not careful, the surprises may actually catch you by surprise.Naturally, the villains operate on a grand scale. For the record, TWINE weaves a mysterious web about nuclear terrorists out to destroy an unfinished oil pipeline across Western Asia to Istanbul. First, they blow-up petroleum tycoon Sir Robert King (David Calder of TV's sci-fi series Star Cops) right under 007's nose in an explosive assassination in the heart of MI 6's headquarters in London. Second, they go gunning for Sir Robert's gorgeous daughter, Elektra (Sophie Marceau). Initially, M (Judi Dench) doesn't want James Bond protecting Elektra because he injured himself during a hot pursuit of the assassin who killed Sir Robert. Bond seduces the spy agency doctor and receives a clean bill of health, so M reluctantly assigns a vengeful 007 to serve as Elektra's bodyguard. The assassins appear in droves. Bond still nurses a dislocated collarbone from his first bout with these brigands in the dazzling pre-credit action sequence. The boat chase that occurs down the Thames near MI 6 HQ after Sir Robert is blown to bits gets TWINE off to a rip-roaring start. 007 steers a special mini-rocket powered speed boat that allows him to turn aerial flips and submerge to avoid hitting water barriers. He tries to capture the murderous hit lady, but she commits suicide in a hot air balloon while Bond dangles beneath her on a tether. Putting a bullet into one of the balloon's propulsion canisters, she atomizes herself. Bond falls and dislocates his collarbone when he bounces off the roof of a building. This physical flaw lends his 007 a modicum of vulnerability and something for the wily villains to exploit. Meanwhile, as 007's ruthless opponent, Reynard (Robert Carlyle of The Full Monty) has survived a prior execution attempt by MI 6. Apparently, 009 put a bullet in Reynard's brain, but the resilient bad guy keeps on going. The slug severed Reynard's nerves, so he feels no pain and grows stronger than ever! Reynard plans to steal a nuclear device and smuggle it on board a Russian submarine as a part of his diabolical plot. Robbie Coltrane, who first appeared in GoldenEye as the hefty criminal mastermind Valentin Zukovsky, returns as the same character in a much larger, more forceful role.The action scenes are better than ever, and Bond finds himself in some truly tough spots. The snow chase where a squadron of parahawks, parachute sailing boats with skis equipped with machine guns, attack 007 is the stuff of which adrenalin is made. At one point, Bond uses one of his tricks from OHMSS to fool the villains and send them over the snow cliff. In another scene, helicopters equipped with huge buzz saws that can slice through metal objects like a blow-torch through butter come after our hero.Director Michael (Gorillas in the Mist) Apt gives everybody in TWINE a chance to display their thespian talents. Pierce Brosnan shows why he is still playing Bond. He brings even greater depth and presence to the role than he did in his first two outings. Brosnan has developed a signature gesture for his James Bond that he employed with great success in GoldenEye during the tank chase. At the appropriate moment, the dapper 007 adjusts the knot of his tie at this throat. Indeed, Bond tangles with a tough, vicious bunch, but his ability to improvise gives him an edge. These villains give Bond a real run for his money.As the evil Reynard, Carlyle resembles Darth Vader with his helmet removed, but this gifted English actor invests his villain with more emotional resonance than the usual Bond baddie. Because he is slowly dying from the bullet in this brain, Reynard fears nobody and nothing. Meanwhile, Sophie Marceau excels as Bond's shady leading lady. Electra King has more strength and substance than the typical Bond girl. As James Bond's girl Friday, Denise Richards continues the trend begun in GoldenEye that the women are not only good looking but intelligent. Dr. Christmas Jones, a high level nuclear weapons expert, helps Bond out of a tight scrape or two. The best news is that the story gives Judi Dench her biggest role as M. She makes the most of her first opportunity to venture out of her inner sanctum into the dangerous world of 007.The World Is Not Enough qualifies as a top-notch thrillathon of bullets, babes, bad guys, and Bond, James Bond! "},{"Title":"Better then the Critics say","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am disappointed about what a number of critics have said about this Bond film. The acting was great, especially Sophie Marceau. The plot was good and not out of the realms of possibility. The gadgets were realistic as well and the action was non-stop and fun. The direction by Michael Apted was also good and what I except from a Bond film My only criticisms was the casting of Denise Richards because she can't act and I would have casted someone older and John Cleese as R because his type of comedy does not fit with Bond, but luckily he was only in the film for a minute and the send off for Desmond Llewelyn was worthy to his years of service. A worthy Bond film to watch and as long as you don't watch Die Another Day, Pierce Bronson would be join best Bond with Sean Connery. "},{"Title":"A Strong Bond Film, and Easily the Most Serious of the Brosnan Era","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is another satisfying Bond adventure that delivers what many people expect from a Bond film and even a few new things as well.Pierce Brosnan gives possibly his best performance in this film. He shows a real intensity and really seems to be deeply invested in the mission. Elektra King, the bad Bond girl, played by Sophie Marceau, is beautiful and alluring and Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones, while not anything too notable, isn't as bad as everyone says.I really enjoyed Renard, played by Robert Carlyle. He is one of the most creepy and sinister Bond villains since Blofeld, in my opinion. However, the insensitivity to pain thing is admittedly pretty lame.I like that this film is a return to the style of films like From Russia With Love and License To Kill in that it has realism in the story and characters. Robbie Coltrain's Valentine Zukovski from Goldeneye returns as an ally to Bond, and Judi Dench's M had a bigger role than usual.This film is remembered for the fantastic boat chase through the Thames River in the pre-credit sequence; arguably the best boat chase in the entire series. There are other great action scenes as well, such as the helicopter battle at the docks and the climax in the submarine. David Arnold's music score really adds to it.This film is also remembered for this being Desmond Lewelyn's last appearance as Q. He died in a car crash shortly after the release of this film. R.I.P. Desmond Lewelyn.I think this film is just slightly better than Tomorrow Never Dies. The last Bond film of the 20th Century, this film brings us to the new millennium in style.8/10 "},{"Title":"James Bond is back and just like never before!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The world is not enough is the greatest Bond film out of the last 3. It totally chews up Goldeneye and definitely Tomorrow never dies. It has everything. It is fast, funny and furious. There is a great sense of humour. Probably the funniest Bond movie of all. It is extremely sexually explicit and sexually active. It is more sexual than any other Bond movie and really points in the direction of the novels. This film has everything you can want in a film. Humour, sex, violence, romance, action, suspense, tension, adventure and drama. There is more acting in this film. The sets are the most exotic and beautiful locations to enter a 007 film in years.Many sad and interested things commence. Shocking actions and it has absolute suspense. It is ultimate Bond. It starts off with action and then procrastination sets in but this procrastination is not boring as it is showing great acting and letting you know the amazing, original and complex story-line and plot. The actions scene are the best I've seen and of course like usual the James Bond films show again they are the greatest action films ever. Starting off witha stunt that most action movies end with.Bond wears glamorous clothes and so does Sophie. The bedrooms and houses and casino are all beautifully designed and the villains are the most vicious yet. The makers of this film really learned how bad 'Tomorrow never dies' was so they really made up for it with this. The boat chase was excellent, nothing like it has ever entered movies before. This filmalso has the largest set ever made in the history of film. The gadgets are good. The girls are sexy. The scenery is beautiful. It is total glmaour. Absolutley glamorous and is a true Bond film. It is really made up with the special Bond formula.The first scenes in the opening sequence is the longest opening ever for 007 with a toal 15 minutes until you hear garbage lash out with their sentual song of the title. The music score is great with terrific suspense and a great sense of action. Brilliant.It is a fabulous movie which everyone should watch. It is for everyone. Wondeful fun which suddenly turns to roughness and toughness. Insanity from the bad guy makes the film a lot better than the last. An awful cruel and ugly character. It is tremendous.Underwater scenes, skiing scenes, action scenes with helicopters and piles and piles of bullets. Many girls brighten up the screen and now Bond has x-ray glasses. Its bond nad beyond. New ideas and very differnet to all the other Bond films. It really stand out as a great film, not just when it comes to Bond films but with all types of films. Bond is the best. No one can match him. The world is not enough and you cant get enough excitement out of you after seeing it.I give this film 10 out of 10. It is just phenomonal. wow!, the only vocab you'll encounter after it. Look out for the disastrous incident with the BMW Z8. One to definitely watch. Dont miss it. It is ten times better than Star Wars and a lot more intelligent too. It is amazing. I just cant stop saying how amazing it is and this will happen to you too. The fun and aventure and excitment and feeling of action will stay for a long time. Dont just watch it once but watch it twice or three times. Its the best action Bond film ever. It is just like never before. James Bond is back and I cant wait till he is back again in 2 years time. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best Bond","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough brings back memories of the original Bond films, when Sean Connery was 007.  The action is non-stop, the Bond girls are lovely as ever, and the villain is classic. All of the needed elements are here and done well, thanks to Michael Apted and a delightful cast. Brosnan is the best Bond since Connery, and in my opinion gains on the master with each film.  I can't wait for number 20. "},{"Title":"Its the best Bond in ten years.","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough By Dean Kish	Pierce Brosnan's third outing as James Bond and a slew of controversy if it will be his last. 	Feeling responsible for the death of a British oil tycoon and a friend, who died in an explosion in MI6 headquarters, James Bond takes position as bodyguard to the tycoon's daughter, Elektra (Sophie Marceau), who has a mysterious past and hidden agenda.  	In recent weeks, Brosnan has gone on record saying he wants more revealing and sexier love scenes in Bond and he would love to see Bond killed off. He has also said he wouldn't mind leaving Bond behind. Are these the greatest things to be saying upon the opening of the film?  	It would be such a shame when he finally seems to be playing Bond right and having a script that finally wants us to see more Bond. After the dismal `Tomorrow Never Dies' I was wondering how the franchise was going to rebound.  	In the two past Brosnan/Bond films, we had superficial scripts which never had any depth. The stunts and deliveries were setup like other action films of the times but none really addressed why Bond is Bond. The last two were just basically action films with Pierce Brosnan. 	I guess the next question to ask is who or what is Bond? And why that element makes a good Bond film. A superior Bond film is always in the script and the intrigue associated with a spy. In the latest film the script always has two levels going on coupled with a pain within Bond himself. These play off each other as the perpetual hero shows the signs of being human. In the past 5 Bond films they have been trying to make him more human and it really isn't till this one that they seem to have located the angle they sought. Betrayed, injured, and scorned are just some of the emotions I haven't seen in Bond in years. And that's exactly why this one works and why its the best Bond in ten years. 	With this revelation, director Michael Apted's action sequences and locales seem to be fleshed out and in the highest of Bond form. Apted pushes the envelope with a great Bond finale which pivots Bond and the villain dueling in a submarine spiraling towards the bottom of the ocean. This sequence is true Bond and reminds me a lot of the great climaxes of the 80's pictures.	Within the cast is the always brilliant Sophie Marceau who's innocent but brutal Elektra is going to be a fondly remembered Bond girl. Wasted is 2nd Bond girl Denise Richards who seems to be quite out of her element and made me thinking that these two could be father and daughter instead of lovers. Richards looks like a teen and is supposed to be a `Lara Croft type nuclear expert'? Rounding out the rest of the cast is `the man who can feel no pain' Renard played deviously by Robert Carlyle. Carlyle reminded me a lot of Sean Bean's 006 in `Goldeneye'. 	With this entry into the Bond vault I hope Brosnan comes back for at least two or three more. Connery and Moore did over six each why can't Brosnan. So here is to the continuation of the franchise. (4 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer. 	  "},{"Title":"Great Bond Film","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of the best Bond films ever in my opinion. Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond and this is probably his best Bond film. It is a shame he didn't do more Bonds as I have never rated Craig, Casino Royal was pathetic and one of the worst Bond films ever and the only one I just wanted to end). Sophie Marceau is one of the best Bond villains. Denise Richards is also fun as Dr. Christmas Jones. Good to see Robbie Coltrane doing a passable Russian, but sad that this was Desmond Llewellin's last film (end of an era and no subsequent Q has been up to it, John Cleese is awful as R) The story is a good one and has some real edge of the seat moments. But overall this is Bond so not to be taken too seriously, it is fun and full of action as Bond films should be. Loved it! "},{"Title":"What Others Have Overlooked","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After reading through many of the reviews for this particular film I have realized that many viewers are focusing on the wrong aspects of this film. To truly appreciate this movie, a viewer must not only be focused enough to recognize some of the symbolism of the story and the motif of the statement the world is not enough, but viewers must also think extremely hard about the characters. Denise Richards, who plays Dr. Christmas Jones, has been slammed quite thoroughly throughout many reviews I have read. Some argue that she is not mature enough for the role. Now, I do not know her personally, but my opinion of her is that she was by far mature enough to play a beautiful nuclear scientist. I am sure that many of you that have watched this film would agree with me on that statement. Another commendation of a performance I would like to give is for Sophie Marceau. Sophie played Electra King, the rich heiress whom James Bond must protect. I personally thought she gave a fantastic performance. I had never even heard of this actress, and I was very pleasantly surprised by her acting ability. Pierce Brosnan gave a great performance as Bond as always, and the action scenes in the film were exhilarating and fun to watch. Overall, I thought this was a great film and will be adding it to my collection of favorites. "},{"Title":"Has everything that makes a Bond movie work","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Some people choose to take James Bond really seriously, others want him to be somewhat silly and light-hearted. It should be clear that this movie mostly caters to the second group, because you should really steer clear from this if you can't stand an avalanche of cheesy one-liners. Bond is really on a roll here, the corny double entendres just keep on coming. The overall style of this movie is very vivid, the action scenes are as exaggeratedly unrealistic as can be. Bond has always been pretty good at jumping away from explosions just in time, but in this movie he really turns it into an art form. If your suspension of disbelief is still intact after experiencing all that, I'm also more than happy to announce that Denise Richards plays a scientist in this movie. That's stuff you just can't make up, but somehow someone still did. Enough about her though, because Sophie Marceau is the Bond-girl that's really memorable here. Her performance just seems to get better and better as the movie progresses, she completely dominates every scene she's in. She makes the movie lots better than even the people making it seemed to give it credit for, brilliant acting. Overall this is a very enjoyable action flick, might just be the best of the Brosnan ones. "},{"Title":"Seriously Underrated","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am the first to admit my slight bias for this Bond outing, since it was the first Bond that I ever watched. However, it has so many awesome elements that make it, in my opinion, one of the better Bond flicks out there. Firstly, the villain (or villains) in the movie have an evil plot that is not a world-domination plot, but about oil, which I found to be clever. Pierce Brosnan's performance in this one is equally as good as in GoldenEye, particularly in the scene where he kills Elektra I never miss. Pure awesomeness. Judi Dench as M is at her best in this one, with the subplot about her guilt over Elektra's kidnapping. As for the Bond girls, Elektra is obviously the better one in the movie, but Denise Richards isn't completely terrible. I know, I know, people hate her performance in the movie, but the reason why I don't mind her so much is simply because this is the only movie I've ever seen her in. That's right, I am the only male on the planet that has never seen Wild Things. All in all, this is a strong Bond outing. No where near as good as Goldfinger or Casino Royale, but strong. "}{"Title":"Feeling No Pain","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Soviet Union has broken up now and SPECTRE seems to have lost some of its punch in the world that James Bond now faces. In The World Is Not Enough, the threat is one in keeping with the times. Terrorists are threatening the west's supply of Mideast oil and of course 007 is called in to deal with it.At first it's just a kidnapping of oil heiress Sophie Marceau, but when Pierce Brosnan delivers the ransom, the father of Marceau, David Carlyle is killed with a remote control device for no apparent reason. As the film develops the reason becomes quite clear.Bond has a really deadly adversary, but a situation that seems a bit much for me. Robert Carlyle was shot in the head and the wound healed over. He's not getting the medical attention to get the bullet out and it will eventually kill him. But in the meantime as it travels its way through his brain, it is killing all nerve endings, no taste of smell or taste and most importantly touch. He feels no pain and is in his mind invincible.Marceau is of course Bondified in the course of the film as is nuclear scientist Denise Richards. Did Albert Einstein have Richards in mind when he went into physics?The World Is Not Enough is not one of the best Bond features, a most improbable foe keeps it from top rank, but Brosnan Bond fans should like it. "},{"Title":"Well, at least the Millennium Dome has some use","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Two important elements in the success of any Bond movie are the calibre of the Bond girl and the main villain. Where both are good, such as Honor Blackman and Gerd Frobe in Goldfinger, the result can be a classic. Where both are weak, as with Tania Roberts and Christopher Walken in A View to a Kill, the result can be a very disappointing film (although, to be fair, Roger Moore's performance in that film was also very much below par).The World Is Not Enough (the title is taken from the Bond family motto) takes the unusual step of combining Bond Girl and villain in one person. There have been female villains in previous episodes, even glamorous ones such as Naomi in The Spy who Loved Me, but they have been relatively minor characters, subordinate to a male criminal mastermind, generally middle-aged or elderly. There is normally no doubt about which side the male villain is on (although For Your Eyes Only may be an exception in this respect); nobody familiar with the conventions of the series will be surprised when, say, Drax in Moonraker or Naomi's boss Stromberg turns out to be the bad guy.Sophie Marceau's Elektra King, however, is the first principal villain who is young, female and beautiful. Moreover, for much of the film we do not perceive her as a villain at all. She is the daughter of a prominent oil tycoon who inherits his business after he is murdered at the beginning of the film, and we are initially led to believe that the mainspring of the plot will be Bond's attempts to protect her against Renard, the ruthless international terrorist who was responsible for her father's death and who is threatening to blow up her pipeline which connects the Caspian oilfields to the West. Only later do we realise that Elektra and Renard are actually in league with one another and that she has an even more sinister plot in mind.Given that Elektra effectively combines roles that in most Bond films would be played by two different actors, it is fortunate that the lovely Marceau copes so well with the burden placed upon her, making her character both detestable and desirable. (Although Elektra is half British and half Azerbaijani, Marceau herself is from France, a country that has provided three other lovely and talented Bond girls in Claudine Auger, Carole Bouquet and Eva Green).To even up the balance, a more conventional good girl love interest has to be provided for Bond in the shape of Denise Richards who plays nuclear physicist Dr Christmas Jones. Although Richards is as attractive as Marceau, she is unfortunately much less talented, and proves to be the weakest Bond girl since Roberts. She is never convincing as a scientist, not because of her looks (contrary to what some might think, there is no genetic link between beauty and stupidity) but because of her weak acting; whenever she has to discuss anything technical it is all too obvious that she has no idea what she is talking about and is simply repeating lines learned by rote.Another feature of The World Is Not Enough is that it appears to be less of an extended advert for the travel industry than most Bond films. Although Istanbul (famously featured in From Russia with Love) makes another appearance, most of the locations- the industrial city of Bilbao, London's East End, the Caucasian oilfields- are not the sort of glamorous tourist destinations featured in most films in the series. There is a particularly good opening sequence in which Bond takes part in a thrilling speedboat chase along the Thames and in which the Millennium Dome makes its first screen appearance. (It is a pity that M's line Well, at least the Millennium Dome has some use was cut, although admittedly we did not realise in 1999 what a massive white elephant the Dome would prove to be the following year). There is also a chase scene involving snow and skiing- something that has perhaps become an over-familiar cliché in Bond movies. Pierce Brosnan is as assured and capable as ever in the main role, and there are some good supporting performances from Judi Dench as his boss M and Robbie Coltrane as the dodgy Russian businessman Zukovsky (who also appears in Goldeneye). This film marked the last appearance of Desmond Llewellyn as the eccentric scientist Q and the first appearance of his successor R, played by John Cleese as a sort of hi-tech Basil Fawlty. Denise Richards apart, this is one of the better Bond films, with an excellent balance of excitement, humour and glamour, and probably Brosnan's best together with Tomorrow Never Dies. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great 007 film","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This makes up for the mistakes of TND, I cant wait for the next one to be released. Q will be missed as.,Q. ) Cant wait to see Halle Berry in the next one "},{"Title":"Hot action with minimal body count","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The world Is Not Enough is a hot action movie with minimal gore and no explicit sex.  Pierce Brosnan's portrayal of 007 was excellent. The plot was one of the most believable 007 plots ever written. Definitely a 10 for those who like Spy/Action movies. "},{"Title":"excellent drama/espionage film","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film for the drama and Action involved in the film. Pierce Brosnan was his usual superb self as was Judi Dench who is always good value. i have no hesitation in recommending this film to anyone who enjoys action Movies "},{"Title":"Bond strikes back!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After TND's deception, Bond is back for one of the best opus of the series since the Sean Connery Era. Brosnan is at the top, as dashing as ever, Marceau as Elektra is a very good surprise, Q is as good as ever. Morover, the film is very funny due to John Cleese as R and there are a lot more innuendos than in TND and in GoldenEye (the final sentence is the best one). The gadgets are all very impressive, from the Q-boat (in one of the most thrilling pre-generic of the series) to the X-glasses (I want the same!!) and, of course, the BMW Z8. Weak points the scenario is very complex and I had to see the film 3 times to wholly understand it, Denise Richards as Christmas Jones is an absolute bimbo (Bond says she's a 'turkey'...). But these are very minor parts. I'll only have four words  go and see it! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite bond's.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably my 1st favorite bond movie it has everything cool action,good looking girls,cool gadgets and a pretty cool villian.The opening sequence was one of my favorite scenes in a james bond movie not to mention the opening credits and the theme song was pretty good to.Bond fans are going to love this movie after all it does live up to be the best bond there is. "},{"Title":"Must see for Bond fanatics","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is my first favorate Bond flick bumping down Licence to Kill to a close second. It has a strong cast, great gagets thanks to Q, and some very sexy and very smart Bond women. This Bond movie just like Licence to Kill shows Bonds darker side, which if you have seen all the other movies he rarely does. The action in this Bond movie is the best I have seen in years. Bronsan really takes over from where Sean Connery left off, Even with the line Martini, Shaken not stirred "},{"Title":"My highest expectations weren't enough!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Because this film exceeded them. Far better than the action romp of Tomorrow Never Dies, this is more on par with the relatively leisurely and plot-focused Goldeneye. I don't know who they could find to replace Pierce Brosnan, who makes the film work for being a conflicted man of action, quick to think and quicker to act and the rest of the cast is superb. The action and dialogue make you gasp and laugh, right when you should. Any worries that the Bond franchise is dying should be quashed, as this more than lives up to the history. Fantastic entertainment from a great film! "},{"Title":"An exciting thriller","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The film starts out with an excellent boat chase, but after that, things start to fall down.  Pierce Brosnan returns as Bond in his best one yet.  The film ends with a disappointing climax but the film was awesome. I would probably rate this 3 out of 4 stars "}{"Title":"A near-perfect Bond film with the best cast","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film was my first Bond film, and I honestly could not have asked for a better one. The pre-credits sequence is among my all time favorites, because it features one of my favorite stunts in a film, (Bond escaping the bank by using a window shade cord and jumping out of the window) as well as an amazing boat chase on the Thames. The title song by Garbage is marvelous, as well as the title sequence itself. As for the rest of the film, it maintains a good pace, and features great action sequences, as well as great amount of character dialogue. My favorite action scene is the helicopter attack on Zukovsky's caviar factory, and my favorite non-action scene is the scene where we are introduced to Dr Christmas Jones. I do love the ending as well. The locations in this one are very good, and I think of all the Bond films which David Arnold scored, this is the best one.Pierce Brosnan is the best James Bond in my eyes, and in his third film, he gives the best performance out of the four films he made. Sophie Marceau is very good as Elektra King, although I have to say, I do like Robert Carlyle as Renard better and the two make a very good duo of Bond villains. Robbie Coltrane reprises his role as Valentin Zukovsky in this one, proving that he is easily among the best allies to Bond. Judi Dench gives a brilliant performance as M, and it is nice to see her character finally getting involved in the story because the only thing she pretty much has done in her previous two films, which also her predecessors have done, is to sit behind a desk and give Bond orders. Denise Richards as Christmas Jones is my all-time favorite Bond Girl. Not only do I think she is the most beautiful Bond Girl, character-wise she is also the best. She is intelligent and very brave, and provides real help, instead of simply being there for the purpose of being eye-candy. Her acting may not win her an Oscar, but she did an outstanding job regardless. There are only a few minor problems I see with this film 1. There is no scene which shows Bond and Christmas preparing to go to Zukovsky's caviar factory. It would also be interesting, but not necessary to find out more about Christmas's background and character. 2. I would have liked to have the ending scene, when Bond and Christmas celebrates Christmas in Turkey a bit longer. But for what it is, it is very good.Not only did this film inspire me to watch the rest of the Bond films, but it also inspired me to watch other films and TV-shows which both Pierce and Denise have done, and I hope they will do another film together someday. "},{"Title":"Maybe the best Bond film ever","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Vow, I don't know where to start. I always thinks that Casino Royale was the best Bond ever, but I was in mistake. This movie is absolutely awesome. Pierce Brosnan is one of the best Bonds and Sophie Marceau is a perfect nemesis, and the best Bond girl in the series. I think she is the second best Bond nemesis behind Javier Bardem. The plot is the only weak point but you didn't care about it because you concentrate to the action sequences, music and the characters. It's humor is surprisingly good because of R(John Cleese) and Q(Desmond Llewelyn).I am not a big fan of Bond but I like watching these movies. This is definitely the best Bond ever. "},{"Title":"Seriously Underrated","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am the first to admit my slight bias for this Bond outing, since it was the first Bond that I ever watched. However, it has so many awesome elements that make it, in my opinion, one of the better Bond flicks out there. Firstly, the villain (or villains) in the movie have an evil plot that is not a world-domination plot, but about oil, which I found to be clever. Pierce Brosnan's performance in this one is equally as good as in GoldenEye, particularly in the scene where he kills Elektra I never miss. Pure awesomeness. Judi Dench as M is at her best in this one, with the subplot about her guilt over Elektra's kidnapping. As for the Bond girls, Elektra is obviously the better one in the movie, but Denise Richards isn't completely terrible. I know, I know, people hate her performance in the movie, but the reason why I don't mind her so much is simply because this is the only movie I've ever seen her in. That's right, I am the only male on the planet that has never seen Wild Things. All in all, this is a strong Bond outing. No where near as good as Goldfinger or Casino Royale, but strong. "},{"Title":"The last of good all-out action Bond movies","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am sure anyone reading the title of my summary title will have two questions to ask, which I will answer up front. First is the use of the term all-out action. No, The World is not Enough is not the last all-out action Bond movie, but notice I said the last GOOD one, which is true, because by all accounts Die Another Day was terrible. The second question many will ask also deals with said term, but 007's most recent outing (that has been released), Casino Royale was good, but not an all-out action extravaganza.Given the popularity of the dashing secret agent's movies, I'll assume that most people have already seen the film, and will therefore skip the synopsis. If, by some act of who knows what, you are reading this review without having seen the movie, drop everything and see it. It's not that I'm going to write any spoilers, it's just that to not see this movie is to deny one's self a lot of brain-candy pleasure.Once again, Pierce Brosnan is James Bond, charming with an almost invincibility and an insatiable desire to woo beautiful women. For his third outing as the guy in the black tux, Brosnan hasn't worn out his welcome. Robert Carlyle creates a suitable villain, and though while not the creepiest of Brosnan's nemeses as Bond (that would be Sean Bean from Brosnan's first outing as 007), Carlyle chews the scenery well and does what he is required of him. Less impressive is Denise Richards as one of the two beauties that grace the screen (that actually play major roles). She does what she's supposed to, but for the most part, she's rather flat (though her first scene was great). It's also nice to see Judi Dench and Robbie Coltrane again, and Samantha Bond is delightful in her short scenes as Bond's female counterpart, Miss Moneypenny.Where have you gone, Sophie Marceau? Carlyle may be the main villain in The World is Not Enough, but the most villainous and most interesting character is Marceau's Elektra King. She sinks her teeth into the role, and demands our attention fully whenever she's on screen alone, and shares it equally with Brosnan whenever she is on screen with him. Marceau is a talented actress, and should be in more American movies. Judging by Hollywood's fickleness with new actors, her appearance in Rob Reiner's monstrosity Alex and Emma has thus far destroyed her chances of being in more American movies. That can't be blamed on her, with all of its star power her opportunity to be in it was probably too good to pass up.The World is Not Enough is a great James Bond adventure, and is definitely worth more than a few watches by any action movie fan. It's 007 through and through. "},{"Title":"A Modern Classic!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In the Bond series, each actor that has stayed on for three or more films, has had number three be one of their best entries. For Connery it was Goldfinger, Moore and The Spy Who Loved Me. Brosnan (like Connery) had his best entry, GoldenEye, before number three. And with GoldenEye being the first Bond I ever saw, it was near impossible to top it in my opinion. But with TWINE's bold plot twists and great character insight, it in the end was hard to say. What makes TWINE so good, well it is not just an action adventure, it has a great spy plot with a thriller emoitional subplot. It affects how 007 treats his mission and what he does in it. Brosnan in my opinion IS James Bond, and while has been the best since GoldenEye, he really perfects his portryal in TWINE. Brosnan really sinks into the role here, blending all the Bond elements required to give a perfect perfromance as Bond. And with a great supporting cast, including the series first female villian, this movie is one of the best. And while Densie Richards (soo hot!!) and the way the plot is twisted around slightly drops it from Dethroning GoldenEye as the best Bond film, this is a true modern classic and a film that once agian continues the Brosnan Bond tradition of excellence! "},{"Title":"The Best Brosnan Bond film.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing TND, I was seriously considering not seeing this one, but since it was a Bond film, and I'm a Bond fan, I saw it.Warning, My analysis may contain some Spoilers.It is simply put, the best Bond film since Licence to Kill. I love the direction Pierce is taking the character, Bond is supposed to be a cold blooded assassain. The pre-credits sequence does go on a bit long, but its pure Bond all the way. After falling from the ballon Bond actaully hurts himself, and this affects him throughout the rest of the film(a nice touch). Many people complain about Renard and his lack of screentime, that would be a valid argument, IF HE WAS THE VILLIAN! Elecktra King is the villain and the first female villian the Bond series has had.Now heres what I did'nt likeEven after slowing the pace down from the last one, the film still feels a bit rushed. Bond never takes the time to eat food, or gamble.The series still has'nt retained that travelogue feel either, the last film to achieve that was FYEO way back in '81.Now if the producers can keep this up and really try with the next film, I think Bond 20, released in 2003(yes, we have to wait a bit longer for the next one) is going to be a really groundbreaking film. Thanks to this one, I can look forward to the next one with the knowledge that Bond is going back to its roots. "},{"Title":"Best Bond Movie Ever Made!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS!!!!This has got to be the best Bond movie ever. It starts with a perfect pre-title sequence set in a bankers office in Bilbao, Spain with Bond getting some money or something (the movie has a complicated plot - you will need to watch the movie several times to understand it fully). Bond disposes of the bankers and then to escape makes a thrilling jump out of the window. Just this would have made a great opening but they then go back to London to give you more. And what we get is fantastic- the villain from the bankers office (cigar girl) blows up a section of the MI6 building (killing Robert King, some rich guy involved in oil). Bond then chases her in a fantastic little boat down the River Thames before ending up at the Millenium Dome. Cigar girl jumps into a hot air balloon and Bond grabs on to a rope dangling from it. Cigar girl blows herself up and the balloon leaving Bond to fall down on to the top of the MD and dislocating his collar bone. The main titles are disapointing. It has a perfect song by GARBAGE but the graphics are bad - girls covered in oil dancing in front of weird colours that look like a kailodoscope (hope I spelt that right). It's not exactly a great turn on. The rest of the movie is great except for one problem. It takes too long to get into the next action sequence. The ski chase is very disappointing for a Bond movie and by the time you get to the next one, a whole hour has nearly gone buy. Other than that the movie is brilliant. The villains are great. Although people have been complaining about Renard not being a great villain, they have been judging him wrong. He is only a henchman, like Oddjob or Jaws. Elektra King is the main villain (played brilliantly by Sophie Marcaue) and she is a great character, unusual to see a character so complex as her in a bond movie. I can't wait till the next one, hopefully they will film in Australia with Sean Connery as the villain. "},{"Title":"My brother has no idea what he missed!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie rocked the house! Not the best Bond film to me (I like Moonraker the best.), but a very cool movie! I suggest you don't miss this movie while it's still in the theaters. My brother would have _loved_ this movie! Too bad he didn't want to come... "},{"Title":"Underrated gem in the bond franchise!","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When The World is Not Enough first came out, many didn't know what to think about it. This film delve's into the emotional arch even further than the films before it, with strong female leads, and a complicated plot that keeps you guessing right along with Bond himself. This film, along with Pierce's other fantastic Bond films, romance you into the lifestyle of the most dangerous spy out there. Bond must use his wits, and uncover the truth behind what's happening in what could very well be the Best of the Brosnan era. (though Goldeneye is the perfect bond film) From exhilarating chases, to lush settings, this film packs a punch, as well as a more thought provoking experience than one might not be accustomed to when watching Bond films. Most people complain about Denise Richards, but honestly, she does a great job and is the eye candy one should expect when watching a bond movie. If you haven't seen this yet, or you haven't in a long while, I guarantee your in for a treat either way! I don't wanna give away anything so check out this fine film. You'll be happy you did. "},{"Title":"There's no point living, if you can't feel alive.","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From the time he took over the role of James Bond, I've tended to dismiss the Pierce Brosnan era as one of the weaker periods of the franchise. That assessment was cemented with Brosnan's last outing as Bond in Die Another Day &#150; quite possibly the very worst of the 21 official Bond movies. But something odd keeps happening. I keep going back to The World is Not Enough. I've actually probably seen it more times in the past 5 years than any other Bond film. I realize now that it's not only Brosnan's best effort in the series, but also it's one of my five or six favorite Bond movies.In The World is Not Enough, Bond is sent to the Caspian Sea to protect an oil heiress, Elektra King (Sophie Marceau), after her father is killed in an explosion at MI-6 Headquarters. King's is in a race with three other groups to be the first to complete an oil pipeline to bring their product to market. And someone seems intent on making sure Elektra doesn't win the race. Bond discovers that a terrorist named Renard (Robert Carlyle) may be responsible for the father's death, the threats against Elektra and the pipeline, and the theft of enough plutonium to destroy a good chunk of Turkey. But Bond also discovers that things may not be as they seem. Is Elektra really as innocent as she seems? Or is she, as unthinkable as it may be, in league with Renard? There are a lot of things about The World is Not Enough that keep me coming back. The most obvious is the plot. It definitely has a darker, more realistic tone to it than one normally associates with a James Bond film. It has more in common with To Russia with Love than it does the quip-filled gimmicky Bond movies of Roger Moore. And Brosnan does a more than competent job playing Bond with the same sort dark tone. The World is Not Enough actually shows Bond killing in cold blood. Don't get the wrong impression &#150; there is still humor to be found in the film, but it's used very judiciously. Speaking of realism, other than the whole bullet in the brain making him impervious to pain, Robert Carlyle's Renard is a much more frightening advisory than the cartoonish villains with their ridiculous plans to take over the world. Renard could almost be a real-world terrorist. I also appreciate the increased role for Judy Dench as M in The World is Not Enough. It's good to see M out from behind her desk and in the field. But the real highlight of the film for me is Sophie Marceau as Elektra King. Not only does Marceau prove herself to be a talented actress, but the writers actually gave her something to work with. Too often in the Bond movies of the past, woman who start out as Bond's enemies find themselves swooning after a single encounter. Not Elektra. She remains defiant till the end. In fact, Elektra turns the tables on Bond. She uses Bond the way he normally uses women. And in this instance, Bond's the one doing the swooning. Elektra may not be the normal, run of the mill Bond girl, but I for one am glad of that.As for the negatives found in The World is Not Enough, I'm going to beat the same dead horse found in most other comments and point to Denise Richards. In a word, she's terrible. Her entire career is based on her looks because she certainly can't act. I cannot remember a single actor in any Bond movie (and that includes the likes of Tonya Roberts) who was so ill-suited to play their part. Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist &#150; yeah, right.Five years ago I rated The World is Not Enough a 6/10. The rating, however, seems to go up with each successive viewing. I'm at an 8/10 now. Who knows what will happen the next time I watch this movie. "}{"Title":"TWINE - the best Bond film so far","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough is, in my opinion, the best Bond movie to date. After the poor showings in the early 80's with The Living Daylights and View to a Kill Pierce Brosnan breathes new life into what was a dying movie franchise. Goldeneye was the start of the Bond revival and what a superb film that was. Followed 2 years later by the sublime Tomorrow Never Dies. The World Is Not Enough is the icing on the cake for me. The opening chase on the Thames has got to be one of the best pieces of film produced. The bad guys are perfect and the 'girls' are top tottie! Judy Dench as M is, as always, perfect (does that woman know how to act or what?).Still love watching it even now, 6 years after its release.All in all, the best Bond movie "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond's!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'The World is Not Enough' (1999) is easily one of the better Bond movies. Pierce Brosnan takes his version of James Bond to new levels and shows the true emotions of James Bond.Most notable is when Bond kills an unarmed person. Brosnan play the scene perfectly and the grief and anger within Bond is perfectly displayed on Brosnan's face. He is definitely at his best as Bond.Sophie Marceau is also brilliant. She is truly showing herself as a brilliant actress. Her portrayal of Elektra King will leave you believing that she truly is the victim. She will truly impress anyone watching the movie and she works brilliantly with all those on screen with her, especially Brosnan.Denise Richards lacks something. Her character was never fully developed which lets down Brosnan's scenes with her.The other actors (Robert Carlyle, Dame Judi Dench) are tops as well. They all play out their parts to an excellent level, especially Dench who has a very large part in the movie.The concept of the movie is excellent. It stems slightly away from the usual Bond plot as the viewer is left guessing at some parts as to what is actually happening, this brings more excitement to the film.It is definitely one of the better Bond movies! "},{"Title":"The World is Not Enough","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As I rank all of the 007 films from my least favorite to #1 favorite, this one comes in at #18. I was very excited to see this film. And it is a rather good one. The opening pretitle sequence is probably Brosnans best. The title song by Garbage is also the best Brosnan receives in my opinion. Brosnan has seemed to settle into the character rather well by now. Being a Dalton fan I was upset that Brosnan was taking over, but by this time I was used to him, and he does a nice job. There is a very nice twist when Elekra King played by Sophie Marceau is revealed to be a bad guy, which I didn't see coming. And Robert Carlyle is great as the villain Renard. He has a bullet lodged in his head which is slowly killing him, yet makes him feel no pain. Excellent idea! So why do I not rank this film a little higher? After I had just seen it for the first time I would have. But after viewing it several times since it first came out, some of the problems with it became more apparent. A good friend of mine said it best, it's like they were trying to throw in every signature element and action scene of the Bond films, and it just doesn't come off as all that original. Carlyle is great but way under used. They could have taken his character so much further. And Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones was ridiculous. In other roles I have seen her in she has faired OK, but her performance in this was awful. One person can't ruin a movie, but she truly puts a damper on everything. And then the big finale is sort of a let down. I like, and frankly expect, the biggest and best action to be saved for last. But the end climax just didn't have a lot of the spark that the opening did.So The World is Not Enough is a good film, as all 007 movies are good to me. But not as good as it could have been. Look for my #17 selection Diamond Are Forever. "},{"Title":"Slick, action packed and well constructed. ***1/2 out of ****.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"27 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH (1999) ***1/2Starring Pierce Brosnan, Robert Carlyle, Denise Richards, Sophie Marceau, Robbie Coltrane, Judi Dench, and John Cleese Directed by Michael Apted, written by Neal Purvis and Robert Wade. Running time 127 minutes. Rated PG-13 (for strong action violence and sexuality)By Blake French	The World is not Enough is the type of James Bond movie audiences have grown to love. With the latest installments being Tomorrow Never Dies and Goldeneye, I was starting to lose confidence in our philandering spy. However, Michael Apted's new thriller has enough action excitement, character chemistry, and plot twists for several films, leaving The World is Not Enough, as not only an absorbing adventure, but also a strongly crafted one.	Pierce Brosnan is easily the best James Bond next to Sean Connery. He returns as private agent 007, licensed to kill, James Bond, working for his employers M (Judi Dench) and R (John Cleese). In this film, the line of events center on the young daughter of an oil tycoon named Elektra King (Sophie Marceau). She is under much pressure from many worldly individual's due to her inheritance and responsibility with important pipelines. After Elektra's father is murdered, Bond comes to her with the instinct that she might be in danger. Electra realizes Bond is correct, especially when they are chased through the mountains by deadly terrorists with machine guns. She accepts his protection, and ends up sleeping with Bond, developing a romantic relationship that may or may not be a big mistake.	What makes The World Is Not Enough so good is the development of its villain, named Renard (Robert Carlyle). The way he is presented is exceedingly above average. The filmmakers gradually build up tension the way he is executed on screen. We first hear of him from dialogue of his employee's, who, as they are about to be arrested, kill themselves in fear of what this Renard will do to them. I can protect you pleads Bond, Not from him states the accomplice as she puts herself out of her misery.	We then learn of his level of power and his special abilities. Renard is able to withstand enormous amounts of pain due to a bullet wound in his brain that is slowly killing him, but until it does he'll grow stronger every day. The audience then sees his figure on a computer image; a ghastly looking man with an unmerciful, evil look on his face. When we finally do meet Renard in person, he holds a fire stone in his palm as he beholds smart, decisive plans and murders one of his failed workers.  This development is not near the level of the material presented in The Usual Suspects, but as sharp and smart as the writing otherwise comes. The World is Not Enough also prevails with its structure. The film's first act is precise and persuasive in its motives and characters. The flawlessly planned break comes when Bond decides to seek out and protect the third witness, Elektra. Each scene following this series of events is exciting and forward moving. The action scenes do not distract the plot from becoming successful, but evolve the tension and contain purpose. I did think the third act dragged on a bit too long, although it did sum up our conflicts. This is a movie that is focused and yet at the same time goes in so many different directions and contains so many unexpected twists, it is hard to keep up with it.  	The acting is galvanizing energetic and, for the most part, well cast. Pierce Brosnan once again brings his sly, stylish wit to the Bond character, giving him life and the womanizing stunts and skill we know 007 to accommodate. Robert Carlyle proves to reprise another villain role, straight from his earlier film, Ravenous. Sophie Marceau is also very charming and seductive, as always, conveying elegant beatitude. The young, perfect Bond bosom, Denise Richards, only proves to be miscast here. We are unable to believe her character, a nuclear physicist named Dr. Christmas Jones. Although she does provide us with one of the movie's most memorable lines as she and Bond lay in bed, we here James question I thought Christmas comes only once a year?Brought to you by MGM Productions. "},{"Title":"Bond #19 The last great fun Bond","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'The World Is Not Enough' is the last great fun Bond they are probably ever going to make, with a lot of the old spirit in it. This script could have been shot with Roger Moore 20 years before (if they hired good stunt men). Sophie Marceau is a brilliant villain, an actress who is an equal opponent to Bond. Not to mention looks - when she enters the casino in that red dress, I almost fainted. Denise Richards may not be a convincing nuclear scientist, but her outfit looks suspiciously like Lara Croft who had just reached her height of popularity in the video games. Nothing wrong with that, as these 2 ladies contribute a lot to keep the show going, and I loved every minute of it. Pierce Brosnan is a much more relaxed and sympathetic hero here than the angry, tormented agent played by Daniel Craig in the 2000s and 2010s. And all the ingredients are right, too Judi Dench as M, Desmond Llewellyn for the last time as Q, great chase sequences (first on water, then on snow), love, treachery, vengeance. What's not to like? "},{"Title":"By-the-numbers Bond entry, professionally put together but lacking in freshness and inspiration.","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan's reign as James Bond saw a massive commercial upturn in the series, and his third entry &#150; The World Is Not Enough &#150; is often cited as his best film in the role. But I've always found there's something about the film that doesn't quite gel - while action movie buffs might enjoy some of the elaborate chase sequences, true Bondage purists might find the film rather soulless and routine. It's not a dull film by any stretch of the imagination &#150; action, sex and incident come thick and fast. But the handling seems quite indifferent, one might even say uninspired, and the day after you've watched the film it's hard to recall much about it.Following a serious injury whilst chasing an assassin, James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) recovers sufficiently to continue his mission. The death of wealthy industrialist Robert King, a close friend of Secret Service Head M (Judi Dench), sets Bond on a globetrotting adventure. His first job is to locate and offer protection to King's daughter, Elektra (Sophie Marceau). He finds her in Azerbaijan overseeing the development of an ambitious oil pipeline, but almost from the moment of his arrival he finds that she is being hunted and harried by various enemies. Elektra is already traumatised after earlier being kidnapped and abused by criminals, and Bond feels her emotions are on the brink. Later, though, Bond discovers that during her imprisonment she fell in love with one of her captors, the lethal Renard (Robert Carlyle). In fact, she and Renard are now planning a devastating crime which will see the destruction rather than the completion of her beloved pipeline. Bond's task is made doubly dangerous by the fact that Renard is oblivious to pain &#150; a bullet injury to his skull has taken away his sensation of pain, making him stronger and harder than any normal man. Bond teams up with sexy nuclear physicist Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) and together they attempt to thwart Elektra and Renard.There's no denying the spectacle on display here &#150; a speedboat chase along the Thames, a ski chase in Azerbaijan, an escape from an endangered nuclear site, the defusing of a bomb whilst in transit through a pipeline, and a finale aboard a nuclear submarine are among the big sequences. But the disappointing aspect, for me at any rate, is the rather by-the-numbers manner in which the story moves from one set piece to the next. Brosnan is pretty good as Bond, more ruthless here than we've seen him for many years (the scene where he kills Elektra shows grit that is rare for this series), and Marceau makes an alluring villainess. Sadly, Carlyle's villain is totally under-developed, and Richards is highly implausible as a nuclear physicist (she does, at least, look damn fine in a chest- hugging vest and revealing shorts!) On the whole, The World Is Not Enough emerges as watchable but unremarkable entry in the 007 canon. "},{"Title":"It begins well, but ultimately it's disappointing","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough begins with an exciting pre-credits sequence a wild speedboat chase on the river Thames. Maria Grazia Cucinotta looks fantastic, with or without guns, and it's actually quite a rarity to see the British secret agent James Bond involved in field action in Britain (and in London, no less). But if this action sequence feels fresh, the same cannot be said for the rest of them (the ski chase, the underground shootout, the submarine climax, etc.).However, the biggest problem with this film is the villain Robert Carlyle's performance is fine, but his character is not very interesting - the only thing that separates him from a million other terrorists is that he feels no pain (due to a bullet stuck in his brain, which is shutting off his senses), but even that characteristic is not used nearly enough. The lack of memorable henchmen doesn't help, either. Sophie Marceau gets more screen time than Carlyle and owns the screen when she's on it, making TWINE the first film in the series where the female opponent of Bond actually seems more important than the male one.Brosnan is a solid Bond, equally comfortable in a tux or with a gun, and Denise Richards, although miscast and with running from danger as her No. 1 function, is still fun to watch. The film also marks the final appearance of the simply irreplaceable Desmond Llewelyn as Q.To sum it all up in one sentence, TWINE is better than TND, but not as good as Goldeneye. A 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Typical Bond Outing","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The biggest problem with Bond is that all the movies follow the same formula. You're ready for the opening action sequence, sexy title sequence, gadgets, search for the bad guy and beating the bad guy. This is no exception so you have to see which parts of the formula are good and which aren't so good. The World is Not enough is above average in the Bond girls department. Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards are excellent eye candy and are well above average although Richards is not exactly convincing as a top Nuclear Scientist. The direction, credits, stunts, action, dialogue and Brosnan are all upto standard. Unfortunately Carlyle as Bond's adversary and the plot aren't up to standard, so overall it's a fairly average Bond film. 6/10  "},{"Title":"It's about you, the people","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have tried to watch this without a break but I've never managed it. Cut off in the theatre, my two returns to DVD simply reminded me why the original interruption had been fortuitous. The World Is Not Enough is too long, rendered as such by two excessive fight scenes the horribly studio-ed caviar production quay bust-up and the final, interminable, impossible submarine confrontation.It's a bit of a shame as there are some great ideas demanding attention. M gets out of the house. Bond shows genuine weakness towards a woman - a woman who is genuinely powerful. Sophie Marceau is also a great beauty. However, I find her acting stilted, along with the script. This is one of the worst Bond films for exposition in the dialogue, another thing that adds to the length (and weight) of the film. The film tries to be counter-intuitive, to have some sort of surprises. It just ends up being a bit confusing.On the plus side the opening sequence is a fine one. David Arnold also repeats the successful euro-romance piano and orchestra score that he sprinkled across the previous film. Robbie Coltrane turns in a nicely judged B movie turn. And, of course, there's Desmond Lewellyn. 5/10 "},{"Title":"avoid this one","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst Bond movies overall. One thing good about it is Carlile as Renard, he's simply great as the main villain. The bad girl is OK too, Richards is quite pathetic as the Bond girl though. The rest of the movie is really bad.The story is poorly presented and is not really believable either, probably it could work (its not like realism is required from Bond movies), but the details just totally kill it.If you want to see a really good Brosnan movie, watch Tomorrow never dies. "}{"Title":"This is not Ian Flemming's James Bond","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Rented this movie some weeks ago, we get them quite late over here.I must say I was shocked at what I saw.This has nothing whatsoever to do with a James Bond movie. Any action packed film could compete with this  one The World Is Not EnoughThe James Bond we've come to know and love is emotionless and has CLASS. There is nothing classy about this Bond and he isn't funny at all. I wonder what's next.... maybe Bond breaking a leg and crying about it. I wouldn't be surprised.Please, read any of Ian Flemming's James Bond books and see what was the author's original idea about this character.There's hardly anything left of it. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best performance as 007","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Where to begin? First of all, the casting for this Bond film was absolutely top draw. Add to that the exciting action scenes, and we can say this is a Bond movie that was hard to beat for the follow up (and in my opinion Die another day didn't do better than The world is not enough).Although not everybody will agree, I think Sophie Marceau did a fantastic job as Electra. In my opinion she's been one of the most interesting characters in a Bond movie till now. Also Robert Carlyle, although short lived, plays an excellent Bond villain. Both believable and sympathetic. Last but not least Robbie Coltrane did a very, very good job again as he performed Valentin Zukovsky for the second time.The opening scene in this Bond film is, in my opinion, one of the best opening scenes in a Bond film ever. Certainly, the next few Bond films that came after The world is not enough couldn't quite match with this fantastic piece of the film. This also shows that director Michael Apted has the skills for dealing with these parts of a movie, and it goes along with an excellent soundtrack.As mentioned in the title, it was Brosnan's best Bond film, and the film itself remains (untill today) one of the most loved films amongst the hardcore Bond fans. "},{"Title":"Like other Bond films - thrilling","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The world is not enough is a typical Pierce Brosnan Bond thriller and has all the characteristics of it predecessors, with an added touch of all the ingredients that make a bond film The film's plot revolves around the assassination of billionaire Sir Robert King by the terrorist Renard, and Bond's subsequent assignment to protect King's daughter Elektra, who had previously been held for ransom by Renard. During his assignment, Bond soon sees that things are not what they seem like, and he unravels a scheme to increase petroleum prices by triggering a nuclear meltdown in the waters of Istanbul.Quite a bit of action, a fan of which I am, with great dialogues and special effects. This film has 3 bond girls, not long lived, and of course, as predictable, Bond does not marry any of them.At times the acting seems juvenilish, compared to the latest Bond films, but nevertheless the movie is a delight to watch. I also think some part is not explained, like why does M hide something in a clock when she is captured...All in all, worth a watch "},{"Title":"Bond does things a bit more differently this go around.","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This Bond film was certainly a step up from Tomorrow Never Dies, as this Bond film did some things differently than other films in the very long running series. It also does some things the same as Tomorrow Never Dies, in that this film and that one have two of the weakest Bond girls ever to be on film. Halle Berry was not all that good a Bond Girl, but she was aces compared to Denise Richards. I am sorry, she just does not have a Bond feel to her, though she is marginally better than Teri Hatcher from the previous film. Neither of these girls just seem like they belong in a James Bond movie. Not to fear, Sophie Marceau is more than capable of being in a Bond movie, Robert Carlyle is also a good albeit underdeveloped villain. The inclusion of M into the storyline was inspired as Judi Dench is great and it is nice to see her take a larger role in the movie. The action is superb and it was interesting to have Bond injured in the pre-credit sequence. The film threw a curve ball or two as well, and this one would not get quite as over the top as the next movie Die Another Day, though I kind of enjoyed that films over the top feel. The cast here is good, with the exception of the horribly cast Richards, the plot interesting and the action good. It does run a bit long and one part of the film reminded me a bit to much of a scene from Broken Arrow, however overall I found this entry into the James Bond franchise a solid winner. "},{"Title":"A better more grounded Bond","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond must rescue M, protect an oil heiress from her former kidnapper Renard, a terrorist who can't feel pain.It begins with the sleek gun barrel Point of View walk, and what follows is arguably one of the greatest Bond pre-title sequences and certainly Pierce Brosnan's best. There's a specular escape in Spain, an explosion in MI6 headquarters London and a chase on the River Thames to apprehend an assassin (Sicillian star, Maria Grazia Cucinotta) that climaxes at the Millennium Dome. All this action before the James Bond title song and it's carried out not just for show, but as it's all part of the story's later developments.Michael Apted directs the 19th Bond instalment in which Brosnan gives his finest performance as 007, he appears, confident, intellectual, more dangerous and authentic as the spy. In this he is injured and carries his ailment throughout the film, making him more vulnerable and real in life threaten situations, leaving the entertaining but bland Tomorrow Never Dies behind. For the most part this instalment is more grounded and played serious with fewer gags than in previous Bonds, certainly less than Moore's outings. A lot of this is due to Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and Bruce Feirstein screenplay which lends itself as a mystery, whodunit thriller theme and the villains, have more shades of grey as well as the heroes.Despite, Denise Richards beauty with brains role as Dr. Christmas Jones, she still appears as the typical Bond girl by the end. Robert Carlyle character Renard is given depth and ulterior motives as the villain but he still is cliché Bond Villain with scars. This aside, Sophie Marceau is excellent as femme fatale oil baron heiress Elektra King and M's (Judie Dench) late friends daughter. Dench is given more to do and shines on screen, and regulars Desmond Llewelyn (Q), Samantha Bond (Miss Moneypenny) and Colin Salmon reprise their roles. Robbie Coltrane makes a welcomed return as Zukovsky to briefly assist Bond, and Goldie makes an appearance as a henchman. Comedy legend John Cleese plays Q's side kick R. The music score and Barry's trademark theme comes in just at the right moments to heighten the action on screen. And as a bonus the title songs music is interlaced throughout the movie.The World Is Not Enough is only marred by some poor cringe-worthy quips that are synonyms with the franchise. It's a shame that all the hard work of writers, Bronson's and Apted's subtly was discarded in Die Another Day (2002), where it was CGI heavy and returned to a Moore- like, lighter spectacle adventure.This Bond is in the tradition of the earlier Connery outings, the vein of Dalton's steely incarnation, and a credit must goto Pierce Brosnan as this influenced the style of the later Casino Royale rework.Ultimately, The World Is Not Enough due to it's great plot is one of the better Bonds that can be enjoyed by fans and the causal viewer. "},{"Title":"Another solid entry into the franchise. 77.5/100","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 20th of 23 Bond movies (19th of 22 official Bond movies) Exotic locations Spain, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Turkey PlotBond feels morally obliged to protect Elektra King, the beautiful daughter of an oil magnate who he was charged with helping. Elektra is seeking to create an oil pipeline in a very troubled part of the world. Many players in the region want to see her fail. She also has the added threat of an ex K.G.B operative who now feels no pain looking to do her harm.Franchise clichés Pre-title sequence - Gun barrel sequence then sequence proper with Bond helping to recover money for an old friend of M. Things go pear shaped. Has a good chase scene on a river.Theme song - Title song by Garbage. Not bad...has an old style, 1960s feel to it.Q - Check. There is movement on this front though...you'll have to see the movie to see what, though. Watching this film with subtitles, you got to see Q say Doh!...Homer Simpson territory! Q has some bad quips in this movie...as does Bond.M - Implicit in the franchise is that 007 is the best that MI6 have at their disposal...this is made explicit by M in this movie, when she says Bond is the best we have and also mentioning in words to the effect that she would never say that directly to him.Moneypenny - Perhaps a bit narky with Bond here, but maybe it is all in good fun...there does seem to be a Monica Lewinsky related joke between them.Silly female character names - Christmas Jones. Not a grotesque name, but Bond finds ways to bring in the innuendo! Sexism/misogyny - Has innuendo early on and the scenes with x-ray spectacles are quite leering.Wine buffery - Would have to check my previous reviews, but you do hear Bond utter the rare phrase (for him) Vodka martini. Shaken, not stirred.End teaser - No? I'm watching these movies on free to air, so I'm not sure if the network is messing with the forumala. All I saw was the MGM lion sequence at the end.Watch for * MI6 headquarters are located in Scotland! Sorry if you already knew that! * Not sure, but I think you see five 00 agents, including a woman. Could be wrong on this...a summise on my part.* Perhaps for the first time you see Bond requiring medical attention...normally he seems bullet proof.* Fun with currency conversion!...when this film was made, the quoted exchange rate between British pounds and US dollars was £3,030,303.03 = US$5,000,000.* X-ray glasses.* Bond's (initially) dodgy Russian accent...to me he sounded a bit like Sean Connery at first! He must be close to double figures now as far as languages he can speak or bluff with now.* A terrorist bomb running on Windows CE! Gosh...why the panic? Odds of a blue screen of death averting disaster must be high, right? * Once you have seen the movie, go back and play a scene concerning a rod fired inside a submarine by Bond. Magic bullet? * Bond mentioning that The world is not enough is a family motto. For way more on this aspect of Bond, see the greatest Bond movie of them all, On her majesty's secret service. It has a lot of information on Heraldry.* Valentin Zukovsky (Robbie Coltrane) returns.Notes to self - Federal Security Bureau replaced the K.G.B? Wikipedia confirms this. My note had K.G.H...maybe I made a mistake in my note taking.- Devil's Breath - a real place? Wikipedia redirects to an entry for a certain chemical compound, but I didn't see any place name called this.- On a final scene to the movie...being logical (yeah...tell me about it!), wouldn't the bends be an issue? - 009 is responsible for Victor Zokas' condition. Hmm...Victor has an interesting nickname in this movie...Renoir the Impressionist? Ringo the Percussionist? Ah...Renard the Anarchist...that's it! - Hmm...forgot to revisit that early scene where Elektra talks to Bond about her family's empire...important, for later on. "},{"Title":"'Enough' is never enough","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take Brosnan continues to imbue Bond with gentlemanly charms and rough edginess. The James Bond movies are like Q's gadgets. They're made with all the usual refinements, all the usual attachments, yet every time, its always different. Number 19 in the Bond series is THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, a surprisingly great and immensely underrated modernization of 007. Not only is it Pierce Brosnan's best outing as the suave British super-spy, but its the best Bond film in years. It has everything we pay for in a 007 film, action and thrills at their signature Bond style. Although it requires a certain amount of modernization to allow Bond to fit in to the 90's, the film still carries the traditional Bond, martinis, girls and guns all included. Even if its new, it's still Bond.Pierce Brosnan, arguably, offers his best performance as 007, who is sent on a mission to track a terrorist who may be responsible for the assassination of Richard King, a multi-millionaire oil company tycoon, as well as protect his daughter and heir Elektra (Sophie Marceau), whose serious with her father's business, but still great in bed. The villain is a terrorist called Renard (Robert Carlyle), who has a unique feature a bullet is lodged into his head, making him immune to any pain until his untimely death. He, like all traditional Bond villains, holds Doomsday in his hands, and intends to drop it. Bond comes across a group of allies and foes including sexy nuclear scientist Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) and crime-boss Valentin Zukovsky (Robbie Coltrane, returning to the role from the original). Not to mention the lady M, played once again competently by Judi Dench, who is also given much more to do. As well as Desmond Llewellyn's last performance as Q, handing the job to his protégé, played by John Cleese (If you're Q, does that mean R? Bond asks.) THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH won't be complete as an official 007 film without the traditional daredevil stunts. The opening sequence contains a boat chase across the River Thames (in both land and water, no less). There's also a para-hawk assault at the French Alps and an assault in a Caviar factory where Bond is pursued by helicopters armed with large saws. Action scenes are in abundance of course, but also with the usual added wit to the screenplay. Director Michael Apted makes an ideal director and composer David Arnold produces a terrific score, capturing the thrills.The film does have its flaws. Denise Richards lacks the realism of being a Nuclear scientist. The sight of Richards with short shorts and a sleeveless shirt isn't really helping. Her acting pales in comparison to her compatriot, Ms. Marceau as Elektra King, which is superior. But otherwise, she's fine, while others are superior. Brosnan is tougher this time as Bond, but still the same sexist, misogynist dinosaur M says he is. He's still got the charm and almost just as good as Connery, but let's leave that discussion to the message board please.Heavily under-appreciated, THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is exciting and spectacular. The kind of film we expected 007 to be in. I mean, danger, action, martinis, girls, guns and kaboom! There's got to be when he's around, and don't worry, there are.Rating ****1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Flawed but enjoyable Bond film","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not Enough opens with the best pre-title sequence in any Bond film, a brilliantly-shot, utterly thrilling 12 minutes of pure action, and we even get to see Brosnan's Bond be much meaner than he was in Tomorrow Never Dies. The title song recorded by Garbage is very good and a relief after the horrendous Sheryl Crow effort for the previous film in the series. There are so, so many reasons to hate The World is Not Enough. It's got Denise Richards giving possibly the worst performance ever in a Bond film from anyone (no small feat, that), it's got a ludicrous plot involving nuclear weapons and some charming fellow who can't feel pain (or anything, apparently), and it's got some quite notably bad dialogue (although compared to Tomorrow Never Dies this is Shakespeare). The thing is, there are also so, so many reasons to love The World is Not Enough. Michael Apted, not a director who I would have picked to direct a Bond film in spite of him having made some excellent films in the past, creates dazzling, exciting action scenes which are timed perfectly (edit I'm sure that there was a director for the action scenes specifically, but I didn't know that when writing this), never allowing them or the film to become truly boring. The ski chase is easily the worst action scene of the lot, and even that is pretty entertaining and uses the width of the screen really well. Despite his performance here being criticized by many I have to stand by Pierce Brosnan again. He really is quite good here, and has a real hard edge and some dramatic content to work with, which he uses to full effect. The David Arnold score is excellent, improving on his own solid work on Tomorrow Never Dies and hearkening back to John Barry's classic scores, although obviously nothing will challenge Barry's several brilliant Bond scores. The film is simply spectacular on a visual level, with Apted making sure to get the maximum potential out of nearly every scene, a move that is the complete opposite to something like John Glen's lazier efforts in the 80's. To balance out the silliness and... Denise Richards *shudder*, we have some of the darkest scenes in the series as a whole. Therein lies the problem. This movie has the biggest identity crisis I've ever seen in a major franchise film. It's absolutely insane in how it switches from a tense action scene to something that could have been in Tomorrow Never Dies or one of the worse films from the Roger Moore era. Heck, that doesn't even begin to cover how Bond shows real menace then comes up with a snappy one-liner a minute later. It's absurd and a bit surreal. Not surprisingly it is the darker Bond film contained within the overall final product that is more interesting, and those aspects in addition to the quality of the film's visuals and score make this a worthwhile and enjoyable Bond feature, but also one that leaves an odd aftertaste, as the viewer surely knows that this could have been much better. The World is Not Enough drastically improves on Tomorrow Never Dies and promises a strong follow-up which it unfortunately did not receive, leaving this as a middle-of-the-road entry in the series and the second best of the Brosnan era, but still a film which contains specific scenes which are among the best in the series (the opening boat chase may be among my two or three favorite action scenes in a Bond film), but doesn't quite come together as a cohesive whole. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan's third appearance.","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough Title is taken from one of James Bond's ancestors Sir Thomas Bond's coat of arms. This is a Bond film with a difference. It has a similar plot structure to the others -- yet the characters are far more complex. It has one of the strongest acting ensembles for any Bond film. From Patrick Malahide's oily banker to David Calder as Sir Robert King ( managing to give a resonance to the rest of the film by speaking one line!).This must be due to Michael Apted's superlative direction. All the scenes in the film are acted well . Note the scenes with 'M' and Bond (Judi Dench makes it personal) Pierce Brosnan is in his element as Bond in this film and really suffers physically and emotionally.Sophie Marceau is effective as Elektra making you feel initially sorry for her and then.......!Robert Carlyle is excellent as Renard  a 'gently' menacing world weary terrorist. Bond almost feels an empathy towards him at the film's climax. In conclusion this was Pierce Brosnan's finest moment as Bond -- there is a moment in this film where he administers a coup De grace to one of the film's leading characters -- totally shocking and brilliantly played! "},{"Title":"Great Bond film.","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was one of the first Bond films I saw, and after seeing it, has made me a huge fan of the films. I thought this film was exceptional as far as the Bond films go. It had an interesting storyline, the action pieces were exciting and I found the different characters interesting too. I thought Pierce Brosnan shined as Bond, and in my opinion, this was his best Bond film. I also liked Sophie Marceau as bad girl Elektra King, although it's a shame she gets killed off at the end. Like Sophie Marceau, Denise Richards was well cast to play Christmas Jones (great name!) as she is good looking and had a good character to play. The film had the best opening to any Bond film with the explosion at MI6 and then the boat chase that follows. The only bad things about this film were that the plot gets a little confusing at times and I didn't like Bond's Z8 getting chopped in half. "}{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies yet","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was really wondering if Pierce Brosnan could match his superb performances in his previous two movies and I was not disappointed.  With probably the best opening action sequence and best soundtrack in any Bond flic I've ever seen this movie is a must see.  Sophie Marceau as Elektra King was also the best Bond woman I've ever seen.  She made an incredible performance. "},{"Title":"Well - is that another Bond or what","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My name is Bond, James Bond! Long enough we have waited for Pierce Brosnan to say these words again and now there he is - masses of explosion, good special effects and a typical Bond story (well what else would you expect). If there is anybody who has not seen Brosnan playing Bond yet and liked the way Sean Connery did I'd say its now or never to go and check this one out - you won't be dissapointed.  "},{"Title":"There's no point in living if you can't feel the life.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The 19th Bond film is a complex and tragic character driven storyline rather than the action feast that was Tomorrow Never Dies. As such, it is the best Bond film since On Her Majesty's Secret Service in 1969 and does not rely on gadgets but certainly relies on the girls. It also sees Pierce Brosnan totally at home in the role of Bond and maintains the tradition that the third film for each actor reaching that number is a high point (Goldfinger and Spy Who Loved Me were the pinnacles for Connery and Moore).The film contains across the board superb acting from Robert Carlyle as a very different Bond villain, Robbie Coltrane in the welcome return in his colourful role of Zuckovsky previously seen in Goldeneye, oscar winner Judi Dench in an extended outing for M and particularly Sophie Marceau in the pivitol role of Elektra King. Even the minor characters are superbly played from the beautiful assassin (Maria Garazia Cucinotti) to Q's new assistant R (the irrepressible John Cleese). It was also nice to see the M16 boys back from Brosnan's previous outings.The film is well paced and wonderfully held together with sensitive and excellent direction from Michael Apted. Add to the mix, the necessary stunts including a brilliant chase along the River Thames, unusual locations in Baku and a soundtrack from David Arnold of which John Barry would be proud.Congratulations, 007, your time is certainly not up! This film has certainly put the heart and life back into Bond. But how will they top this for Bond 20 and the 40th anniversary of the best film series in history in 2002?  "},{"Title":"A fantastic film, up with the best Bonds.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Now this was more like a proper movie, after GE and TND failed to do much for me and since most other films this year have failed to live up to the hype IMO (star wars1, sixth sense and the abysmal blair witch junk), TWINE is a shining sparkle not only in terms of James Bond films, but also films of 1999.This is definetly the best film I've seen this year at the cinema and I think the last time a performance moved me so much as Sophie Marceau's wonderful portrayal of Elektra King was with Titanic. Let's hope this is a good portent for future James Bond films in the new century.Pierce Brosnan is FANTASTIC as James Bond and this is now more his character than Sean Connery's, but it will be such a shame if he gives up playing the character after one more film. Nice to see M with such a good part, and although by no means awful, the only weaker elements were Denise Roberts and Robert Carlyle, but neither was THAT bad, just sidelined to the shadows by the performances of Brosnan, Dench and obviously Marceau.Definetly in my Top.3 James Bond films, maybe even No.1 or No.2.Go and watch the film now if you haven't !!! "},{"Title":"Once Is Not Enough","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, I thought that this movie was excellent.  I am a die-hard James Bond fan (I own all the videos) and have most of the soundtracks.  It is definitely one of the more well-rounded James Bond films, with a nice balance between action, drama, and plot.  I saw it three times in one week, but I think it takes that many viewings in order to fully understand the complicated plot.I think that the acting (with exception of Denise Richards) was superb all around, although I could never grasp how a villain like Renard could come across as so frightening that he could drive one of his henchman to suicide (You'll know what I mean when you see the film).  He seemed very diminutive and sometimes I even sympathized with him when he couldn't feel any pain.Even so, I enjoyed Robert Carlyle's performance, as well as Sophie Marceau's.  There was talk about Sharon Stone playing the role of Elektra, but I don't think that Sharon Stone could have played the part any better. I wouldn't have been able to generate sympathy had she played the part. Sophie Marceau played a tortured Bond Girl with conviction.  Now that's what we need, some good Bond girl characterization!!  She's the best bond girl since Octopussy.Denise Richards was good to look at, but many of my friends couldn't help but giggle every time she said a word on screen.  As a nuclear physicist she sounded very Teeny-Bopperish.Pierce Brosnan?  What can I say?  The credits are wrong.  They show Pierce Brosnan AS Ian Fleming's James Bond 007.  The as should be an is. Pierce Brosnan IS James Bond 007!!By the way, did anyone notice in the opening credits scene that John Cleese was NOT credited.  Now that is an injustice considering that he is the most popular star, save Pierce Brosnan and Desmond Llewelyn, in the entire movie!!!!!  He needed more screen time.  I think he was perfectly cast considering he had very little to work with.Go see this one more than once.  It's worth it each time!! "},{"Title":"Just what the world needs...","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's good to know that you can always rely on the Bond films to pick you up when you're feeling down. Everything you would expect from a Bond film is here, from the standard exotic locations and excellent cast, through a marvellous plot. The pre-titles sequence alone has enough in it to make most other action films hang their heads in shame - someone has finally found a reason for the existence of the Millennium Dome.Once again the producers of the Bond series have left the competition miles behind, and full marks must go to Pierce Brosnan for shaking off the ghost of Connery once and for all. "},{"Title":"Third time lucky for Brosnan","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond is back in action &#150; finally! After the lacklustre &#145;TND' and the truly awful &#145;GoldenEye' Pierce Brosnan has at last put his own stamp on the character, as opposed to looking like a cut-price Roger Moore attempting to impersonate a cut-price Sean Connery. Director Michael Apted has rightly eschewed the flash-bang-bonk style of Martin Campbell and the &#145;I can't think of anything, so let's have a fight here' approach of Roger Spottiswoode. What emerges is a more thoughtful Bond pic, in the style of the greatest entries in the series, such as &#145;From Russia&#133;', &#145;OHMSS', &#145;For Your Eyes Only', &#145;Living Daylights' and &#145;Licence to Kill'. What &#145;TWINE' has in common with these is fully-rounded characters and a plot that makes basic sense. In &#145;GoldenEye', Sean Bean had the scarred face, so had to be the villain, while in &#145;TND' potentially interesting characters such as Paris Carver and Dr Kaufman were killed off almost as soon as they'd appeared. Not here. Sophie Marceau is the most fully developed Bond woman since Diana Rigg and, while Denise Richards's character isn't developed in the same thoughful way, she has a vulnerability reminiscent of some of the better Bond heroines (Tania in &#145;From Russia&#133;'). Brosnan has matured, put on weight and has developed some of Timothy Dalton's burnt-out assassin approach to the role. Once or twice there are &#145;death-defying' leaps more reminiscent of the &#145;Bond is indestructible' approach that ruins the Connery films for me, but 2nd unit director Vic Armstrong (a series veteran in a variety of roles and fight arranger extraordinary) ensures his action sequences are in keeping with the humanity of this new Bond. If Brosnan has still not quite captured the humanity and fears of the Fleming Bond, he's probably come as close as modern audiences will allow the screen Bond to go. This is a pity as Fleming's Bond is so much more interesting than the screen version (Dalton, Lazenby and some parts of Moore's characterisation aside). As M, Judi Dench has a larger than average role and is very convincing, while the supporting players (Colin Samson, Michael Kitchen, Samantha Bond and John Cleese) are all up to par. It will be particularly interesting to see how the Bond, Tanner, Robinson, R relationships may develop in future. For the villains, they are mostly an expendable lot, and they are expended violently and often. Cutting down the Rambo-style shootouts that wrecked &#145;TND' would have been a good idea given the character-driven approach, but never mind, maybe next time. As villain in chief, Robert Carlyle is excellent (even if his accent isn't consistent throughout the film) and the final confrontation between him and Bond is worthy of anything in Fleming's canon. Meanwhile, Robbie Coltrane gives an excellent reprise of his &#145;GoldenEye' role, Zurkovsky. With a little creative effort on somebody's part, Coltrane could become the new Sydney Greenstreet. Let's hope Apted decides to do the next Bond instead of &#145;49 Up', for he has made the most interesting contribution to the series since John Glen left the series a decade ago. "},{"Title":"Wow!  What A Movie!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie not knowing what to expect.  I'm not as familiar with the previous Brosnan Bonds as I am some of the rest, however this blew me away.  The flow of the movie and dividing between action and slower scenes was perfect.  Judi Dench, Robbie Coltrane, Sophie Marceau and the lovely Denise Richards all put in great performances.  A perfectly blended movie with action, comedy, romance and intrigue.  Worth seeing twice.  Surprisingly great title song by Garbage, as well. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a Bond fanatic.  I own all the movies and have seen them multiple times each.  Although this does not make me a true expert I do know a good deal about Bond and I have to say that this was one of the best Bond films in years.  I personally disliked the past two (having fear that Bond's days were numbered) but have since recanted that view.  This movie by far makes up for any past problems.  It had amazing action, phenomenal plot twists, great characters, and (as any Bond film should) wonderful women.  I highly recommend it for any Bond connoisseur. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie!!!!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the most bond-ish James Bond movie yet to come.  The sarcasm in the movie, and the sex scenes of course, were very very good. The gadgets Bond uses are some of the best if seen yet.  I hope you all enjoy it too.  > "}{"Title":"Unbelievably Awful","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While I like Pierce Brosnan as Bond, this movie is simply awful.  The story is weak, jumping from location to location without reason.  When I saw the helicopter with a giant saw hanging from it, I about lost it.  How lame. At least that was an original idea.  'World' didn't have many. This film even rips off other Bond films, i.e. the ski chase, the boat chase over land, and riding through a pipeline.  And while I'm certainly no nuclear physicist, I don't think you can take the core of a nuclear weapon and turn it into a rod for a nuclear reactor in 15 minutes!!  It was refreshing to see John Cleese as R, but nearly all of the humor in this film (including Cleese's) was far over the top.  Maybe that's just typical Bond, but it's never been this bad. Robert Carlyle gave an impressive performance as Renard.  It's just too bad that performance was wasted in this movie.  Robbie Coltrane reprises his role as Valentin and did a very good job.  His scenes were at least entertaining in this otherwise unbearable movie.  "},{"Title":"Enough?","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not Enough presents some difficulty for someone attempting to prove the proposition that the series has had its day. You can see the dilemma. How can this entry be so much more enjoyable than the last while simultaneously being as derivative of other instalments? What separates TWINE as we're all loath to call it, from its predecessor is that it stands on the other side of that fine line that segregates total self-parody from a fresh reworking of old material. The shift in tone may be slight and the film itself only a notch more concerned with the mechanism of a story and slightly meatier drama but it's enough to make it watchable and entertaining as opposed to cringe worthy. Credit for this should probably go to Michael Apted whose injects the whole enterprise with a bit of gravitas and character. There's not THAT much to chew here in that respect but it makes a critical difference. If the film is more assured and less pantomime than before then it still has problems in the script department. This is still a story culled from the series back catalogue. Renard, the villain of the week is largely wasted after an intriguing introduction that promises much then falls back onto familiar ground. Pervis and Wade could have run with the idea of a villain who can't feel pain and is close to death and so arguably more dangerous but revert to type and employ it as a mere gimmick. You also have to wonder whether it was necessary for Renard to look SO much like Blofeld from You Only Live Twice and if this is symptomatic of a general failure of imagination that plagues the film somewhat. One scene that should be singled out is Q's farewell which highlights what the Bond producers need to get away from, particularly in light of this movie's follow up. It makes the mistake of the basic confusion between two things - audience expectation and the established world of the characters. An uninitiated audience may imagine that Bond and Q have a relationship akin to teacher and student/Father and Son but anyone watching the movies regularly rather than casually over the years knows this to be cine-bowel content. Q is a civil servant who, and I hope your paying attention, does NOT make gadgets himself, he presents them to field operatives and is part of a wider division that R and D's equipment. This is made clear throughout the series and viewers should note the difference in tone between Q's scenes before the 1989 hiatus and afterwards in which the character as constructed in the audience imagination supplanted the character as written up to that point. Its a bit of post-modern reinvention typical of Pervis and Wade. Q bows out talking about the tenets of wisdom he's passed on to Bond and the gadgets he's particularly proud of. Lovely for the fans but utter nonsense. If TWINE has problems its in reconciling this fan boy fluff with the stories more serious pretencions. Its sometimes an uneasy alliance that doesn't allow the material to gel. That said, overall TWINE is entertaining stuff - a great opening sequence, good title (always important), some nice visual flourishes and a real groaner of a closing line that makes you laugh like you did at the end of Roger Moore's outings. A confusing entry then, as it pulls back from the precipice of being total fluff without really filling you with confidence that the series is recovering. There was a feeling here that if Brosan's Bonds kept moving in the direction of more considered plotting, better characterisation and less recycling that the next one may be really rather good. Unfortunately team Bond did the opposite and made TWINE the exception rather than the rule of Brosnan's period in the role. The most well rounded of his era. "},{"Title":"This movie was dull and boring","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very difficult for me to sit through.  I am sorry, but the action shots were very inferior.What was so great about the Sean Connery James Bond movies is that you could escape into a lush film, european atmosphere, many scenes of around the world which took you far far away in a glamorous venue.  This movie did not have any of those attributes except for two rooms with nice decor.  That was it for me.The backdrop for the nuclear laboratory was the tunnel that went under the water that was built several years ago.  Everyone had already seen it.  I could not believe that was the best they could do on this movie.The movie was excruciatingly long with the same old comebacks from the almost gone James Bond in a pinch.  There was the same old ticking away of the bomb with ever so unrealistic situations.  At least with Sean Connery's unbelievable get-aways, you accepted them with delight because of the scenery, cinematography, and Sean's wonderful sense of humor (only because he really was gorgeous).Please do not waste your time on this movie.  Toy Story 2 was TEN TIMES better in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Bad, Real Bad","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I like bond films and think Pierce Brosnan does well in the role, but number 19 just isn't worth a dime. Brosnan, Marceau, and Carlyle are good if you overlook a few badly written lines, but what casting director in their right mind would hire the girl whose past great work has been a bad rendition of Starship Troopers, a slutty thriller, and a black comedy about beauty pagents. Denise Richards is cancer of this film not matter how much you sink into the film she spews forth some ridiculus badly acted line, i.e. or do you want a glimmer. It is easy to see that she was not hired for her acting skills, but her fake assets. Come on Hollywood both Famke Janseson and Michelle Yeoh were both beautiful and good actresses don't insult the audience. Then in the story her character stays with Bond because she'll be in trouble if she doesn't get back the nuclear warhead. She is a freakin' scientist why is she held accountable if terrorists shoot up her government lab steal a nuke and kill bunches of people. I think that the government would be in trouble not Christmas Jones. The whole movie is just a vehicle for stupid sexual jokes. This movie gets a D-.  "},{"Title":"What the ???","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear god. This is dreadful. Not for the story, which was good. No, my complaints have to do with the actors, dialog and the technical aspects of the film.*** POTENTIAL SPOILER ALERT ***Ok. Here we go.1) Why is nearly all the gunfire in the film totally fake? You had a nice big budget. SPEND IT!2) Why do the characters have stupid names? Who on earth calls their child Christmas or Elektra?3) Why does Sophie Marceau's character turn from an intelligent, alluring woman into a spoilt 14yr old brat?4) Renard, the evil bad guy. We see very little of him. Why?5) Can someone prove to me that Denise Richard's character is called Christmas Jones for reasons other than for a stupid pun at the end of the film?6) In certain scenes why does the sound effects so obviously not match up to the action. Bond fires 3 shots and we hear 2 totally out of synch. Why?*** SPOILER ENDS ***If the film didn't have the faults listed above, I would have quite enjoyed it. But it has them, so I didn't. Ho hum. "},{"Title":"I Hate Silly Movies.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  (Contains No Spoilers. As this movie is already spoiled, nothing I write here can further spoil it.)This movie insults anyone's intelligence (even some of the more sophisticated domestic animals might feel insulted). If this were a stupid little agent thriller from the UK of the 1960s I wouldn't mind. But come on, this is a BOND MOVIE and it was made in 1999. Brosnan must really really have been in need of money very badly not to refuse such an idiotic script. Or maybe he just didn't read it&#133; Maybe no-one did. Sounds strangely plausible to me. Maybe it was written by a random generator. There is no definite prove, yet it is very likely that said random generator was also used to select cast and role-names.Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist? Called CHRISTMAS Jones???Former Monty Python comedian John Cleese as Q's sidekick? What, Q the sidekick has a sidekick? And John Cleese is in a Bond Movie??? That's like say, putting Mr. Bean into a Bond movie... Oh wait, he was in a Bond movie.Elektra. Nice name, Mr. Random Generator.. guess there's simply no place for poor old Pussy Galore in todays politically correct US of A.M, head of the Secret Service (MI6) PERSONALLY goes to Russia to look after Elektra whose life is threatened? THE HEAD OF THE SECRET SERVICE GOES THERE PERSONALLY???? Hello McFly!! Anyone home? Now I really wonder if she will be captured by the bad guys... Not.Allow me to describe one sequence in detail. James bond opens a submarine hatch and dives around a nuclear submarine... 30 (?) meters under the water surface with no scuba gear. Then he opens another hatch, steps into the reactor room and prevents a nuclear meltdown by pushing the fuel rods back into the reactor. With his bare hands. Poor Mr. Random Generator, how could he possibly know that those rods are hot, very very hot and very very radioactive?Did I mention that I hate silly movies?The only thing that saves this movie from me giving it a 0 is that IMDB's rating system won't allow it. While I wouldn't go as far as saying that this movie proves that God doesn't exist, it comes close. Too close.Next time, please let my dog write the script.Oh the humanity.  "},{"Title":"Greatest Bond Opening Scene Ever","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The last James Bond film of the 20th century began in spectacular fashion. Now, a lot of the Bond movies have great openings, so that's nothing new, but this one outdid itself. This 15-minute opening may be the best ever with an amazing boat race and opening credits. It gets my vote, anyway.After that, frankly, it slowly goes downhill. (That's the problem with too good a start!).In the end, it's okay but hardly a memorable Bond picture. It has the usual assortment of heroes and villains, wild and improbable action scenes, tons of sexual innuendos, sharp DVD picture and great 5.1surround sound. New actors to this series included Sophie Marceau, Robert Carlyle, Denise Richards and Robbie Coltrane. None of them are big drawing cards who are going entice people to see the movie.I didn't find any of the characters particularly memorable, unfortunately, so I can't rate the film higher than a 7, but that opening was a 10. "},{"Title":"Complicated, isn't always bad, people!","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Yes, it's true, I really like 'the World is not Enough'. While it does have a complicated story, I've never found that a bad thing. James Bond has always had some level of complexity in it's plots, and while 'the World is not Enough' is very hard to follow at points, I think that if you look deep into it, you'll see a very entertaining, almost surreal plot that will jump at you from out of nowhere.As for the characters, I feel they're interesting enough, Elektra has a cool dark presence which fits well the bad guy of the story, and Sophie Marceau plays it off beautifully. But the big problem of this film to lot of people is Denise Richards, who plays this film's main Bond girl, Dr. Christmas Jones. I feel this is bad casting, putting Denise Richards in the role of a nuclear scientist, but she does what she can with the cheesy lines she is given, so I'll give her the benefit of the doubt.One of the things that really grabbed me about this film is it's amazing action scenes which may just be the best of the franchise, and no, I've not forgotten Bond being pushed out of a plane in Moonraker or fighting Zorin on the Eiffel Tower in A View to a Kill, I'd happily take the boat chase or the helicopter saw scene anyday.Brosnan makes a good performance as Bond, but even three films in he's still not reaching the standards set by Sean Connery and Roger Moore, and not forgetting Timothy Dalton.Despite it's complicated plot and somewhat forced dialogue, 'the World is not Enough' marks one of Brosnan's best Bond films, an awesome plot when you can see it clearly, cool characters, nice acting, and not forgetting the brilliant action scenes. It's still not my all time favourite no, give me 'the Spy who Loved Me' or 'the Living Daylights' anyday. "},{"Title":"007 Strikes Again!","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is Pierce Brosnan's third movie as James Bond 007. This time, Bond is sent to protect Elektra King (Sophie Marceau), the daughter of a murdered oil tycoon. Villain Renard (Robert Carlyle) is secretly planning the destruction of a pipeline, which would lead to the destruction of Europe. Bond teams up with research scientist Dr. Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) to stop the plot.Plenty of fast action sequences and thrilling stunt scenes in this movie as well, especially the ski scene. Marceau makes a spellbinding Bond Girl, whereas Richards looks like just another girl on the block, not having the seduction, beauty and class for a conventional Bond Girl. And, this film also marked the final appearance of Desmond Llewelyn as Q. The character pointed out that he is retiring and his assistant R (John Cleese) would probably take over. Q's final words to Bond was Always have an escape plan, and then it shows his final scene - lowering out of sight on a moving platform while Bond looks on. This is a fitting tribute to end Llewelyn's Q saga.The story has an exciting twist to it, so it is an unpredictable movie that would be captivating for the audience. However, I thought that this film was a little on the boring side, particular in the middle scenes where it lacks action and adventure - it's just a lot of lackluster talk. The main action doesn't take place until the climax. Overall, it is an average Bond entry for the series.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best Bond?","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Now that it's possible to take account of all the Pierce Brosnan 007 movies, is it fair to say he never quite got into the role?He did leave on a bad note with Die Another Day, one of the worst-ever Bonds with no help from him. Especially there but in all his Bonds, he carried a higher level of heaviness and arrogance than any of the other Bond actors did, which made rooting for him harder than with Sean Connery, Roger Moore, or Timothy Dalton. Yet at least one of them, this one, he got across that rare mixture of charm and insouciance that otherwise eluded him.I think it has to do with the quips. They are so bad in this film you almost feel for Brosnan having to deliver them. If you have to watch a guy snuggle with Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards when not racing a motorboat across the Thames, it helps when he serves up lines you can groan and feel better about yourself for not ever wanting to deliver, like If he's Q, you must be R, and He got buried in work. Or asked about his relationship with a woman who just tried to blow him up Strictly plutonic.That's the best part of The World Is Not Enough Brosnan is having fun. He's a good actor, who God knows looks the part of Bond better than even Connery did, especially in blue-tinted shades. So when he eases off the throttle, you have a better time watching him. At least I did.And that helps a lot when the story is a mess, like it is here. A globo-terrorist named Renard (played by Robert Carlyle, unrecognizable from The Full Monty,) is apparently plotting to destroy a critical oil pipeline running though the former Soviet Union, and with it capitalist Elektra King (Marceau). It's up to Bond to outfox Renard, though there is much he doesn't know about going in, including how to dismantle a nuclear bomb, which is where physicist Christmas Jones (Richards) comes in.Many reviewing this film rip into Richards. She's not much of an actress, but she comes off well enough here for me, playing her Bond girl part with the right amount of engagement and hotitude. You wanna put that in English, for those of us who don't speak spy? she asks, a nice line that sets up her scoffing character. She's better than Tanya Roberts or Grace Jones were, anyway. More problematic, not because they aren't better actors but because they have to play impossible parts, are Marceau and Carlyle. She's all over the map, while he's so low-key as the central villain he disappears.What makes this a better-than-average Bond picture is Brosnan's lighter touch and some incredible action scenes, beginning with the long opening, which takes us from Bilbao, Spain to a long chase on the Thames that is the best start to a Bond film since The Spy Who Loved Me. There are other good sequences, too, like Bond and Christmas zipping through a pipeline and a machine-gun battle inside a Russian missile silo.To set this up, The World Is Not Enough features an outlandish plot that requires Bond's boss M (Judi Dench) to put herself in harm's way for the sake of a friend's daughter she has guilty feelings about, while raising questions about Stockholm Syndrome and how world energy policy might be affected if someone nuked Istanbul. Most of the weirdest bits involve Marceau, who is one reason I enjoyed Richards' performance. At least with her, what you see is what you get.The story's the same for this film much of the time, enough for one to forgive the rest. Director Michael Apted gives you thrill ride after thrill ride, and Brosnan for once makes such a genial center; it feels churlish to wish it made more sense. But I do. "}{"Title":"Great film **mild spoilers**","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  We all have our opinions on Bond.  Some scorch Brosnan for being too wimpy (or being human) in recent flicks; others think his one-man army is a bit of a pain given past installments.  Now these are valid criticisms, to be sure, and I see why some people would hate the films.Well, let's just say this (and this is obvious) PIERCE BROSNAN IS NOT SEAN CONNERY!  Because, face it, Connery is a great actor (his choices of film roles may not have been great, but he has much talent), and while Brosnan is too, he obviously can't measure up to Connery's precedents. That saidI have enjoyed all of Brosnan's outings thoroughly.  GoldenEye was ingenious, and is basically what any new action flicks should aspire to be. Tomorrow Never Dies is obviously blasted for being too action-oriented, but it is my personal favorite of Brosnan's films.  Die Another Day was a step down from the first three, but still quite enjoyable - and certainly better than most of the slop Hollywood churns out these days.  And, of course, this - probably the most hated of the lot.While again, it is not as good as TND (IMO) and is in a dead-heat with GoldenEye for second best Brosnan film, TWINE is a well-paced, well-plotted action flick.You should all know the plot by now, so I'll skip it.ACTING is one of the film's strong suits.  Brosnan, of course, is great as Bond, par usual, and the supporting cast shimmers as well (as a whole). Sophie Marceau is a great (and sexy) actress in the grand tradition of continental sexpots such as Loren and Cardinale, and she gives a superb performance as Elektra King, the daughter of an oil magnate and target of the terrorist Renard (Robert Carlyle); she is perfectly seductive as the bad girl, and while not quite as good as Famke Jansen's Xenia Omatopp (from GoldenEye) she is equally convincing as a good and bad girl, and has layers; she has a reason for doing what she does, and is more realistic than the average Bond villian.  Robbie Fitz Coltraine, one of my favorite actors, expands upon his hilarious GoldenEye cameo as Valentin Zuchovsky, the ex-KGB agent and former enemy of Bond, gives a great performance, and is actually something of a major character here.  Judi Dench is great as M, who is actually a character this time - her scenes while prisoner of Renard and King show how intelligent and resourceful she is.  Desmond Llwelyen (sp.?) has his last role as Q, and he's wonderful as always.  John Cleese is hilarious in his cameo as R, and though he's not quite as good as Llwelyen (here or in Die Another Day), he still is worth watching.The only two nonremarkable major performances Robert Carlyle and Denise Richards.  Carlyle (sporting the same haircut he had in the Cracker episode To Be A Somebody as depressed homicidal socialist Albie Kinsella) is one of the greatest actors working today, but here, his character is underdeveloped and a bit cliched.  In the last scene, his anger at suggesting that his love Elektra is dead is his highpoint; his bed scene with Elektra also hints at the possibility of a great character.   Again, Carlyle's a great actor, and with a bit more work, his character could've been great as well.  Alas.Now, on to Denise Richards I don't think she's as horrible as some people claim, but she's still gives quite a poor performance in comparison to the other main actors.  Richards isn't a horrendously talented actress, to be sure (known more for her body than her abilities as an actor), and she tries her best - perhaps she's not to blame, either; it's the WRITING and her character herself that do her in as well.  I'm not saying Richards is going to win any Oscars anytime soon, but I've seen far worse performances.Of course, the actions scenes are very well put together (esp. the opening one and the gunfight at Zukovsky's caviar factory), save the final confrontation on the Victor III sub, which nearly sinks the movie (pun intended) - and the dialogue scenes are better than you might expect. And, again, there are a lot of stupid, unfunny puns, but they are tolerable.Now I know I commented more on the performances than the film itself, but still, you got my drift, I think a great film, not quite Brosnan's best, but still grossly underrated.Nine stars. "},{"Title":"Bond is back!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  40 years ago it all started.In 1962 Sean Connery played James Bond for the first time.This year this super agent returned on theaters with the 20th 007 movie Die Another Day.But before that Bond was seen in this 1999 made The World Is Not Enough.Pierce Brosnan is playing Bond for the third time.The plot for this movies isn't important..Who remembers it? But this movie is filled with great action scenes and that's all some people need.Sure I want something else from movies but sometimes it's good to take your brains out for a while and just enjoy the ride. Denise Richards is the Bond girl Dr. Christmas Jones, Robert Carlyle is the super villain and also Robbie Coltrane does some great work in the movie.Judi Dench is M as usual, Samantha Bond is miss Moneypenny and Desmond Llewelyn is Q.Sadly this was his last time as Q because he died in a car crash that year.John Cleese took his place and he's also seen in this movie as R.This isn't the best James Bond movie ever made but this offers some great entertainment.If you want to see a perfect entertainment movie just watch James Bond.  "},{"Title":"Standard Bond action including the hottest Bond girl ever","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I didn´t like this movie that much when I saw it first time. And when I saw it again yesterday I must say it was just as bad as I recalled. In the end Denise Richards saves a lot as she is nice to watch, but all in all this Bond falls in the category worst three Bond-movies "},{"Title":"This Bond film was Enough for me and I mean that in a good way","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't consider myself a die hard James Bond fan. But I did like The World Is Not Enoungh. I found the last Bond movie to be a little slow and had my reservations about this one. I was pleasntly surpised that I enjoyed this Bond movie. The action sequences are cool and the very sexy Denise Richards and Sophie Marcau make good Bond girls. All in all a fun film. "},{"Title":"okay, but I've seen better....","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It was November, 1999 and I saw TWINE on the opening day. I was underwhelmed. Yeah, the boat chase got me pumped up, but then it just stayed in second gear throughout the rest of the flick. Denise Richards was horribly miscast and just, well, horrible. She obviously never watched a Bond movie before, and she just walked through the role as if she were doing Wild Things 2 or something. I was glad to see Judy Dench do something more since she is certainly more charismatic than the old men in the previous films. Sophie Marceau delivered, but she wasn't repulsive enough when you saw her true colors. Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond ever. Sean Connery was never playing Bond as long as I've been alive, so Pierce Brosnan is by far the best to me.But the franchise is falling apart, and they're running out of ideas the climax reminded me of The Spy Who Loved Me, I saw traces of The Living Daylights, Goldeneye, etc.Put the franchise to bed after Die Another Day, please. "},{"Title":"The ultimate Brosnan Bond...so far","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I still remember the day when I walked out of the theater after seeing The World is not enough for the first time. The experience left me, as a long time Bond freak, simply speechless. Pierce Brosnan's previous Bond movie Tomorrow never dies was unfortunately a slight disappointment and I expected and afraid that I would see something like it again. How wrong I was!Tomorrow never dies was like a pale, almost invisible shadow of The World is not enough. This phenomenal film starts out with perhaps the most exciting, entertaining and powerful opening sequence in the history of James Bond movies. I know it's a big, dumb cliché to say it but it's true! The beginning is truly amazing and it lefts the viewer astonished and makes him gasp, laugh and marvel for a dozens of times. I already knew before the opening credits started that this is most likely going to be the ultimate Brosnan Bond and as it happened, the movie just got better and better with every scene.Garbage's great theme song was pretty moody, stylish and successful - not as sensational as Tina Turner's Goldeneye which was a perfection but certainly better than Sheryl Crow's frustrating Tomorrow never dies or Madonna's stupid new song composed for the latest movie. Robert Carlyle was a terrific choice to play the role of the bad guy, his performance was miraculous, full of emotion and devotion. It's safe to say he already is among the classic Bond-movie villains. Pierce Brosnan really internalized the part of 007 with his third time. He was already splendid in Goldeneye but now he was more natural in the role than ever before and I guess as fantastic as he can ever be.This was also the last performance of the late Bond veteran Desmond Llewelyn in the role of Q. Look at how movingly he leaves his farewells to 007 as well as the whole audience he just slowly glides under the ground and looks at Bond with a sad, wistful and melancholy look in his eyes, almost like he wants to say goodbye, it's been nice to be around since 1963 but I'm sorry, my time has come. I guess the producers knew that he wouldn't necessarily be around three years later although nobody had any idea that his departure was so unexpected and tragical. I wonder how these movies will work without him. I love John Cleese but he can't replace Llewelyn, no way.Action of this movie was quite sensational and if you want to watch the flick only because of the fast-paced chases and shootouts you'll love what The World is not enough offers you. Plot was rather interesting and certainly better than in many other Bond-movies. The humor was once again cleverly witty. The World is not enough was so bloody good that we have to go all the way back to the early 80's to find an old Bond-flick that's equal to it. Die another day will have to work real hard to beat this. Personally I don't think it's not going to happen. I'm looking forward, impatiently. "},{"Title":"An entertaining Bond film","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although this show could be a lot better, I found The World is Not Enough to be an entertaining Bond movie. It's opening sequence is great with the explosion at MI6 and the unforgettable boat chase with Bond adjusting his tie underwater. Ha! Just like in Goldeneye, Pierce Brosnan and Desmond Llewelyn(God bless him)play a witty scene were Q shows Bond his gadgets such as his new BMW. The bagpipes thing was too funny! Bond is then sent on his mission to protect Elektra King, the beautiful daughter of the late Robert King who is destined to continue the family's oil pipeline business. She and Christmas Jones were great Bond women. I like the idea of the name Christmas. It definitely revives the long lost tradition of Bond's girls having exotic names(Honey Ryder, Pussy Galore, Domino, Kissy Suzuki, Plenty O' Toole, Solitaire, Mary Goodnight, etc.). I was also greatly entertained by Robert Carlyle's role as Renard. An excellent villain.Although this movie isn't as good as Goldeneye, it's a good show. If you're a Bond fan, be sure to watch this. Out of five stars, I give it three.  "},{"Title":"Flat action sequences let this film down","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The third entry for Pierce Brosnan in the Bond canon is certainly an improvement over Tomorrow Never Dies (1997). Michael Apted as director brings  much more depth to the characters than usual for a Bond flick. M in particular is much more developed and film benefits from it. However where the film falls apart is with the action sequences. Which is a shame as original and well directed action is one of the things we have come to expect from Bond since Goldfinger (1964) started the transition from away from the suspense and drama of From Russia, With Love. Michael Apted is not an action director, and because of this the producers seem to have made the huge mistake of passing the direction of the action to Vic Armstrong. Armstrong, who has been a stuntman on the Bond movies for many years, has made the transition to director, and not successfully. The action is well conceived and the stunts are in places fabulous but the direction is so lame and flat that the sequences come across as dull and uninspired. The ski chase (which Bond movies usually do well) is boring (is that a Blue run Bond is skiing down?) and both the sequences on the Thames and in Zukovsky's Caviar factory are overlong and lacking any originality.Which is shame. With well conceived action this film could easily be one of the best Bond's. Instead it comes across as uneven and frankly, boring.  "},{"Title":"Easily the best Brosnan Bond so far(Spoilers below)","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Following on from the slightly disappointing Tomorrow Never Dies comes Brosnan's third and best entry into the Bond series.  While it's not quite as topical as TND was, the plot is less predictable and the action more exciting and spectacular.After failing to prevent the assassination of a top oil magnate inside MI6 Headquarters, Bond is assigned to protect his daughter Elektra (Sophie Marceau) from the clutches of sinister terrorist Renard (Robert Carlyle), who once kidnapped her and held her to ransom.  Renard is a pale-skinned, scarred figure of a man with a bullet in his brain that is slowly killing him but nevertheless renders him invulnerable to pain.  He is mounting a world-threatening operation involving a nuclear submarine and, once again, it's up to Bond to take him out....The plot contains some interesting surprises as well as taking the series in directions its never been before.  Renard and his former hostage Elektra have an unusually complex relationship, and M (Judi Dench) is given a meatier role in a plot that eventually puts her in danger. The now-famous title chase sequence involving the real MI6 Headquarters and the now-demolished Millenium Dome is very effectively staged with some subtle comic touches (Bond adjusting his tie while submerged underwater mid-chase).  The other main action scenes involving an escape from an exploding oil tunnel and a final fight on board a sinking submarine.Brosnan is as charming and suave as ever in the role of Bond, and he handles the demands of the plot and action with ease and grace.  Sophie Marceau is perfectly seductive and treacherous as Elektra, bettering Denise Richards who casually walks through the role of Bond's assistant, nuclear physicist Christmas Jones.Judi Dench makes the most of her role as M, having been given much more screen time and here we see just how resourceful and vulnerable her character really is.  Desmond Llewellyn bids a poignant and memorable farewell as Q, while John Cleese is introduced as his assistant and successor, R.Carlyle makes Renard a quietly intense Bond villain, and his bedroom scene with Elektra evokes a certain degree of pity for him.  Whilst he perfectly insane and sadistic, the script fails to accord him any memorable lines. Robbie Coltrane, last seen in Goldeneye, makes a hilarious return here as Bond's old friend/adversary Zukovsky, especially in a scene where Bond entraps him in a pool of his own caviar.  His last scene in the movie is wonderfully tragic and, considering his relationship with Bond, quite poetic.The World Is Not Enough sets the standard for future Bond films.  The genre will likely remain alive for a few years to come, provided the writers can provide enough twists, drama and new situations for Bond to encounter.  In recent years, particularly with both this film and its predecessor Tomorrow Never Dies, there seems to have been an effort on the part of the film-makers to incorporate a certain degree of plausibility in the film's typically preposterous plots.  Going just a little further in this direction would not do the series any harm.  It is unlikely the series' major conventions (girls, gadgets, action and explosions) will be dropped.  These things crop up in just about every action movie these days, but few would argue that nobody does it better than James Bond, 007. "},{"Title":"not as good...","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is not Enough seems to have taken the Bond series from a great series of action movies to a dramatic soap.  GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies seem to have an idea of a believable villain, with Bond out to stop him.  This is the idea of most of the older films.  World breaks this likeable formula (its what made it famous) and throws in the worst villain/henchman since Jaws, a love story that makes you sick (look at From Russia With Love) and the worst thing ever done in a Bond film, bringing M into the chaos.  The story seems to have its ups, but is made into a sappy love story where we feel for the characters a little too much, a definitely lingers so far away from Bond that it ceases to be a Bond film. I trust Die Another Day will be better. "}{"Title":"New Review","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Upon watching TWINE several more times, I feel it necessary to update my review.  I still believe that it is by far Brosnan's best Bond and I now feel that the no pain angle of Renard's character was more developed than I had at first thought.  In the Thames river chase at the beginning (which was a lot fun) Brosnan actually gets wet (drenched actually) which was done with good detail.  The action is fast and furious and Sophie Marceau's turn as Elektra balances out the terrible performance of Denise Richards as the most unrealistic heroine in Bond history.  The plot is interesting and Brosnan is at his best.  He really is a fine actor and handles his role with passion and feeling.  Judi Dench is great as M.  She has an extended role and is less wooden and unappealing as her character was scripted in previous efforts.  I still feel that Renard should have been one of the best villains if he was more confident and bold but the look inside his character when he's in bed with Elektra is still an interesting scene.  One of the top ten Bonds pushing the top five.7.2/10     "},{"Title":"A GREAT ACTION FILM","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film it was great the cast and everything was so great. I loved dense she was awesome. I watch this film all the time. I say go see this film it rocks the bad guys are all great to and the locations are awesome. on a scale of 1 of 10 i give this one a 10 go rent it if you haven't seen it all ready it is great!!! "},{"Title":"Up there with the best","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan's third and so far best Bond film - a powerhouse action adventure combined with driving characters and story, all polished with sleeker than sleek Bondian style.  The cracking Brosnan means business as 007 here bringing all the elements the fans, audiences and critics love to see from the character and bringing back memories from the four guys who went before him, as well as the flair he brought to the role in his previous films.  TThe story sees Bond investigate into the murder of an oil tycoon, which leads him into the path of his haunted daughter, Elektra King, (an excellent Sophie Marceau) and her terrorist ex-kidnapper, Renard, (Robert Caryle), who plans to gain unlimited power by siezing control of the King pipeline.  Regulars Judi Dench (M) and Desmond Llewelyn (Q) are on hand with particularly memorable and fitting appearences this time around and the bankable cast is further expanded with the presence of Denise Richards, Robbie Coltrane and John Clesse (stepping in as Q's successor).  All this and some of the series' most amusingly over-the-top and spectacular action ensures that this Bond is up there with the best of them. "},{"Title":"Christmas Jones?!?!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Whatever happened to names like Pussy Galore, Octopussy, Agent XXX, Xenia Onatopp, and Plenty O' Toole?Well, that's political correctness in the `90s for ya!Anyway, this is a average Bond movie with a very HOTT Bond Girl!***out of****stars "},{"Title":"Best Bond Since Sean","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not only do I feel that The World Is Not Enough is the best Bond film since Sean Connery handed over the franchise, but that this movie is a welcome departure from the path many action adventure films have been taking the last 20 or so years. That is to say, The World Is Not Enough is not a 'comic book' movie. My use of the term 'comic book' does not imply that it's based on a real comic book. I use the term to describe a specific film genre that is not necessarily derogatory. The characteristics of 'comic book' films include simple plotlines, two-dimensional characters, lack of moral ambiguity, cessation of the laws of physics and a corresponding strong reliance on special effects. Do you get the picture?And since Sean, that's how the Bond films were evolving...until The World Is Not Enough. Not that it's a complete departure from this trend, but this Bond possesses more human elements than we've seen in a long time. Bond is a real spy again relying on his wits, not gadget-man relying on special effects. And as such I think that the movie is all the better for it. Much so.  As I said, this the best Bond in years, so keep up the good work!  "},{"Title":"Great pacing but misses some opportunities","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough has some great stunts, solid action and is one of the best Bonds in terms of pacing.  The plot never really gets dull as is jumping throughout without becoming ridiculous.  The World is Not Enough features one of the top Bond bad girls in Sophie Marceau but misses on the golden chance to make Robert Carlyle's Renard one of the top two or three best Bond villains (even though he's still good.)  He's given a great gimmick (that he's slowly dying from a bullet to the head that makes him feel no pain) but it's not elaborated on very well, other then a demonstration with a scalding hot rock.  Renard is also not given much to do and is upstaged by Elektra, Marceau's character.  The teaser is one of the longest in the series and is also one of the best.  The best Bond action is still when no punches are pulled and the story gets after it.  The plot for the World is Not Enough has enough of those moments to be Brosnan's best effort, even though Carlyle's considerable talents aren't elaborated on as much as they should have been.  Brosnan, himself, isn't as uptight as in previous efforts and is more fun to watch.  Judi Dench as M has an extended role and isn't as hostile, which is welcome.     7.0/10 "},{"Title":"Poor,poor entry in the Bond franchise....","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be the worst Bond film ever made. I agree, the film had a good plot unlike the ridiculous plot in Tomorrow never Dies, but the plot was completely wasted by poor direction,tongue in cheek acting,poor music,poor locations and extremely depressing set peices which were very badly lit. The whole movie was dark in some way or the other....I agree the plot was a bit dark and Electra was quite complex.Look at the locations in Thunderball,Goldfinger,Moonraker,The spy who loved me,Octopussy,Tomorrow never dies and you will understand what I am talking about.The mood is never depressing in a Bond movie,but this movie was extremely depressing. Badly lit set peices seem to be the norm in this movie.Take for instance the mine set,the pier climax, the submarine docking set in Instanbul and we see that it is nowhere near the sets like You only live twice,Goldeneye,The spy who loved me or Moonraker. Fans except a flamboyant Bond and not the Bond that pierce Brosnan plays in TWINE. He never sees to be relaxed and is always searching for the right words to say,yet Pierce Brosnan seems to have settled down in the role and is quite impressive at times. David Arnold's music in Tomorrow never Dies was very impressive and reminded fans of the John Barry era,but David Arnold's decision to go in for electronics in TWINE ,instead of the truly original jazzy James bond style is very poor and wasteful.A very poor effort by David Arnold in TWINE and he must have lost a lot of fans with TWINE.Hope he goes back to the John Barry roots again if he is offered to compose the next James Bond movie. Except for the very,very good boat chase on the thames and the title song, the movie is a utter waste of time.Most of my friends were dozing after the first half an hour.I havent seen anyone doing that in a Bond movie at all. I hope the producers get it right the next time around and dont disappoint Bond fans.In my view,TWINE is a wasted effort on a good script and is the worst Bond movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"How can you please Bond fans anymore?","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Some people love James Bond films, some people hate them. Some people love Connery and think his is the ultimate Bond, others grew up on Roger Moore and think his is the quintissential 007. Bond has had adventures on submarines, in space, on islands with nuclear reactors, on trains, on planes, gone up against voodoo priests, former SIS allies, and of course Blofeld himself. So how do you please Bond fans these days when it seems he's done it all? The answer is, you don't. You stop trying to please them and concentrate on making a half decent movie that just happens to star James Bond.Tomorrow Never Dies was a half decent film, but overall not Bond IMHO. It was more parody of Bond, not to mention the machine gun swinging Bond of that last film could have just as easily been Bruce Willis or Ah-nuld. As a Bond film, this latest has some excellent points. Brosnan is an excellent Bond, seemingly born to play the part (though Dalton is THE Bond IMHO and The Living Daylights is the perfect Bond film). Brosnan simultaneously has elements of the dark and dangerous Connery and the lighter, suave leanings of Roger Moore. If Connery and Moore had a love child (ewwww), Brosnan would be it. Thankfully, he uses his Walthar more than the machine gun in this film.The producers also realized what a diamond they had in Judi Dench and expanded her role for the film, which brings new dimensions to the story. Actually, Bond's entire supporting cast is in effect throughout the film, from Moneypenny to Q to the lesser players, who normally only show up at the beginning and end of Bond films. Robert Carlyle is an excellent villain and an excellent actor, though the bullet in the brain spiralling toward the medula oblongata is a little much to believe. Robbie Coltrane is also back and his presence makes a good foil for Bond.The producers also shyed away from the by now cliche Dr. Evil world domination plot, choosing instead to downsize a bit. Millions will die if the evil scheme is brought to fruition, but it's not the usual type of thing at all. One city would be destroyed, and it's all about oil and ruthless business, not taking over the world. The action is also respectable, with an amazing opening sequence (what was Q gonna fish for with that boat, Alligators? Whales?), and well paced and tight action sequences throughout the movie, though the scene with the helicopters was a little much to believe, though exciting nonetheless.The film also has bad points. Denise Richards, while hot, is not a great thespian. It seems her only purpose is to mesmerize us all with her breasts and provide Bond with the final horrible pun of the film. Sophie Marceau is passable as a Bond girl, her character is saved by the ambiguity of her intentions. All in all, she's a lot sexier than bubble-bod Richards.The plot twists aren't impossible to see coming, but better than your average Bond where everything is as it seems. The fact that Elektra is as she is with Renard says a lot about both characters. Bond does some actual detective work here, it's not on the same level as Dr. No, but it's something.John Cleese debuts in this film as Q's assistant (and now replacement with the death of the beloved actor who played Q, we loved ya pal!) and plays the bumbling role well, though he'll have to change it a bit now that he is Q. The more serious attitude he displays at the beginning of his debut scene will serve the character better.There are loose ends at the end when the submarine explodes, with Richards saying she needed to stop something or other from overloading, and then glossing over it as they run for the escape hatches, something tells me there was an editing job there that erased her part in that scene, perhaps because it killed the momentum of the escape I can't say for sure.All in all, I was highly pleased with this Bond outing. Both Goldeneye and TWINE belong in the top 10 Bond films of all time IMHO, while Tomorrow Never Dies goes down to the bottom with such stinkers as Moonraker and Diamonds Are Forever.P.S. The opening theme song by Garbage was exactly that IMHO. The last good Bond theme music was Tina Turner's outing in Goldeneye, again, that's IMHO. "},{"Title":"a not so bad movie the first couple of times","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not much on bond since a lot of movies are the same and very violent. I usually give movies a 10 here but since they show this movie 50 times in one month, well i will have to cut the score. and why would denise richards be dressing like a slut at work when she should be wearing longs sleaves and safety gear? I prefer to watch the tomorrow never dies or license to kill. Much better bond movies.  Oh and I like Brosnan for bond. "},{"Title":"Bond, James Bond.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, the director realized another good James Bond. I don´t know why many watchers are disappointed of this film. Each of James Bond movies offers us every time lot of action, plots, twists, damn good special effects, nice sound tracks, romance, adventure and thrilling moments. I cannot understand how somebody can be bored by all these events. I thank to God James Bond was created. I like every new story one by one and i can see it again and again because it is never boring. The characters in this story were acted excellently through Sophie Marceau and as usual Pierce Brosnan is a top agent. I´m looking forward for the next hot Bond film. I gave 7/10. "}{"Title":"Suffers on the small screen","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A marked improvement on the barely-acceptable GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies, TWINE does at least work as a proper action movie. Pierce Brosnan is more energised, the villains more interesting and credible and the dialogue far cleverer. The pre-credits sequence alone features more memorable set-pieces than all of Tomorrow Never Dies. When the Bond theme kicks in, it hits the spot whereas in recent films it seemed a bit incongruous.Director Michael Apted is unashamed about making a Bond film and this one has a bite and authority that's been missing of late.However, on television The World Is Not Enough reveals faults that were somehow overlooked on the big screen. A lack of colour is evident throughout, with a palette made up of beige, stone and light blue. The enjoyment of the film's narrative is based on what-happens-next and once you know the twist it just isn't as gripping. On the small screen, sheer entertainment and visual thrills are what you want and The World Is Not Enough's emotional melodrama just doesn't cut it. The best Bonds for TV viewing have a light-hearted feel Goldfinger, Diamonds are Forever and Live and Let Die being prime examples.Little things to notice Robert Carlyle's psychotic villain resembles a morose soccer hooligan, upset at his team's relegation. The French Sophie Marceau seems very leaden, and has a downbeat delivery. So does Brosnan, bizarrely, with slightly stiff body language around Marceau (no, I don't mean the bedroom scenes!) How come the Q boat doesn't ever quite catch up with the larger, slower craft in the pre-credits? Despite the ambition of this opening sequence, none of the later action is worth holding out for.Yep, there is a made-for-TV feel to The World Is Not Enough on the small screen. In fact, none of the Brosnan movies compete with the spectacle of the Connery-Moore years, which is a shame as it's repeat viewing that keeps the Bond franchise going strong.Still, at least Michael Apted uses suspension of disbelief rather than gritty realism to carry the audience. That's how it's done. "},{"Title":"missing the point","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TWINE failed to hit the mark with a not so catchy plot, bad casting of characters, and a lack of the sharp humor that was beautifully scripted in Tomorrow Never Dies, Thunderball, and most others.Denise Richards is by no means, bond girl material; far from trying to pass her for a nuclear physicist... puh-leeaze!! M's involvement was taken to new heights, breaking away from bond tradition, and I have no idea what the writer was thinking making MI6 so easily accessible to some oil tycoon. tch! tch! Bond 19 has been a dissapointment. Tomorrow Never Dies has set standards that have still to be met, although it could have done with a stronger plot, like that of Goldeneye.-Ash. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  A good Bond flick, but the action genre has moved on","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not Enough is decent as James Bond films go, and for an action movie buff like me, I found it worth watching. Pierce Brosnan does his bit well, looking tense during the tense bits and cool during the cool bits. My favorite James Bond, yes, *including* Sean Connery, so sue me.However, the James Bond shtick (which they are trying to modernize) has always been cheesy. Compared to regular action films, which have gotten more sophisticated since James Bond emerged in the 1960s, in The World is Not Enough, the badguys didn't chill me, and the female physicist was pretty bad (Denise Richards). There were many disconnects with plot, which was confusing, especially in the last 10 minutes. Lots of hastily explained button-pushing and machinery and we're not sure what our hero's trying to accomplish. I was very disappointed by the John Cleese role, which fell flat in my opinion, and hope they work that out for the next film, Die Another Day.It's pretty good compared with Tomorrow Never Dies, but I liked Goldeneye better myself. I used to love this stuff but I'm starting to realize that compared with other kinds of action movie films, the James Bond thing tries too hard and comes across as silly. You know, they can't have a normal car chase, it has to be super-duper-boat-plane-cars. Jackie Chan films by contrast tend to keep it simple, and the humans and their cleverly set up situations provide the tension, rather than the props. The Living Daylights is a Bond flick which shows some restraint in this regard. Also For Your Eyes Only, in which Bond's car blows up, so they have a car chase in a dumpy old Volkswagen and it's great.Who should see this film-- Action movie buffs with nothing better to do on a rainy day,or if you don't find James Bond films silly-- I can't think of anyone elseI'll give The World is Not Enough a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film to watch if you like Bond-movies","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Every Bond-movie is a product of its era. In the 1980´s Bond was fighting against the KGB agents and madmen trying to destroy the world with various mass destruction weapons. The Bond of the new millenium fights against the multimillionairs who have strange ideas of how to rule the world. In this film Bond´s enemy is Renard (played by the great Robert Carlyle). Like in every other Bond-film the enemy has some sort of physical uniqueness. In this one Renard is unable to feel physical pain. Renard has killed Sir Robert King, the British oil tycoon and the next target is his daughter Elektra. Bond´s job is to protect her from Renard and of course to eliminate him. I consider myself as a Bond-fan. I practially grew up watching these films and I have to say that although Sean Connery is by far the best Bond ever, Brosnan suits in the role of James Bond really well. His performance is again solid in this movie. Other great performances are done by Judie Dench as M, Robert Carlyle as Renard and John Cleese as R. Somehow Denise Richards is ok but not really believable scientist. I am not sure but I believe that John Cleese will get a bigger part in the future Bond-movies because of the death of Desmond Llewelyn. I will miss him in the upcoming movies since he was really one of the icons of these movies. All in all, The World Is Not Enough is good Bond-movie but it still lacks that certain something. 7/10 "},{"Title":"AVERAGE BOND FILM","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you've read my comments on Brosnans other films you'll know I really enjoyed them. With The World is Not Enough I can't say I was too thrilled with it.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD)On the plus side, the action scenes were fantastic. When Bond jumped in the Q boat and pursued the killer at the beginning the action was just astonishing. There was also some good scenes when Bond was skiing with Elektra and the scene where Elektra had Bond in a torture machine reminded me of Goldfinger where Connery was strapped to a machine with a laser heading for his groin.The other good thing was the role of M once again played by Judi Dench. In this movie she didn't just give Bond his orders-she actually took part in the action and I commend the writers for including her in the action.However, this isn't what you'd call a spectacular Bond film. I like most of the Bond films but this is rather an average adventure much like On Her Majesty's Secret Service and Diamonds are Forever.One minor criticism I do have is the fact that the ending took place on a submarine. Both The Spy Who Loved Me and Tomorrow Never Dies took place on a submarine and it was a bit tiresome to watch it again. I hope the next Bond films takes place somewhere totally different at the end and not on a submarine.All in all, an okay Bond film but not the best.  "},{"Title":"Very good Bond","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw The World Is Not Enough, I did not think much of it.  On repeated viewings, it is now one of my favourite of the series.Brosnan is growing nicely into the role of Bond, and lets hope he sticks around for a few more films after this one.The latest Bond outing has very strong writing and character development. Fans finally get to see 'M' in action, although that element of the film is a bit of a let down to say the least.While both Denise Richards and Robert Carlyle fail to pull off their characters, Sophie Marceau is one of the best Bond girls in recent memory.Sadly, this will be the last Bond outing that features 'Q', who will be sadly missed from the series.  RIP!  "},{"Title":"Bond is back in top form","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I truly disliked Tomorrow Never Dies, for being too much of a generic action movie, and too little of James Bond. Now, with TWINE, Bond is back at his very, very best Slick, witty, charming, elegant - and relating more on a good plot than simply machine-gunning down his enemies.TWINE begins with what may be the best opening sequence of any Bond movie - a breath-taking boat chase on the Thames, ending up in a hot air balloon by the Millennium Dome. It continues with a fascinating plot, full of twists and turns, and - quite a novelty for a Bond movie - some genuine character development.Brosnan is more confident in his Bond role than ever - in his third outing, he IS Bond without any doubts. The stunningly beautiful Sophie Marceau brings tremendously much to the movie with her ambiguous character. Is she good or evil? What are her motivations? Denise Richards looks pretty and fills out her tank top in plenty, which I suppose is why they hired her in the first place. As for the main villain, Robert Carlyle is one of the few disappointments in the movie. He's just too bland to make any real impression, and somewhere along the way you start feeling sorry for him rather than hate him (which any good Bond villain should make you do). Then there's the always reliable Robbie Coltrane reprising his humourous role as Russian mafia-boss Zukovsky, and John Cleese makes a funny debut as Q's replacement.The locations are mostly ugly (oil fields in Azerbadjan?), but there are some beautiful scenes to compensate (one skiing scene in particular). The action scenes are credible and well executed, and doesn't completely take control over the move (like in Tomorrow Never Dies). And finally, the musical score is nearly perfect, giving strong flashbacks to the golden era of John Barry.This is one of the very best Bond movies ever in my opinion. I give it a strong 5 out of 6 on my dice, and recommend it to everyone! "},{"Title":"Another great Bond film, 9 of 10","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"       This was the 21st of 22 Bond films (counting 2 unofficial films and one currently in production).  This was the 3rd Bond movie in which Pierce Brosnan played James Bond and he is the 5th actor to do so.  This was the best Bond movie in years and I give it a 9 out of 10 rating as near excellent.      The teaser involved Bond fighting thugs and escaping with a suitcase of cash by jumping and using a rope tied to an unconscious thug to escape a building in Bilbao, Spain.  Later, this suitcase of cash explodes at British intelligence headquarters killing a good friend of M's.  The cash was rigged to explode.  This is the last movie with Desmond Llewellyn as Q.  Except for the two unofficial Bond films he was in all of them except for the first one, Dr. No and also one in the 70's, Live and Let Die, when the producers made the mistake of not writing him in because they wanted to reduce the gadget idea.  They got so many complaints that they quickly asked him back to be in all the Bond films after that.  John Cleese, of Monty Python and Silverado, is in this one as his aide, R, and will be a hilarious and supremely appropriate replacement for Q.  The VHS of this film has a video tribute to Mr. Llewellyn.      Bond is sent to the Baku oil region of Azerbaijan near the Caspian Sea and north of Iran to look after the killed man's, Mr. King, daughter.  He goes on adventures into Khazakstan and rescues the American physicist, Dr. Christmas Jones and briefly battles the evil Renard who is a terrorist with a bullet embedded in his head from 009.  This wound makes him resistant to pain.  Valentin Zukovsky, an ex-KGB agent and current entrepreneur, courtesy of Reagan's ending of the Cold War, makes his second appearance in a Bond film as a fairweather friend to Bond and he helps Bond.  Robbie Coltrane give a great performance as him but without the great lines of his first appearance in Goldeneye.  Renard and others (I will not spoil anything) steal plutonium to blow up a pipeline and a city and Bond must stop them.      The villains in the picture are great and I give them a 10.  Q is great in his last appearance in a Bond film.  Brosnan is great as usual.  The plot is very exciting and nervewracking and thoughtful and well written and I give that a 9.  The effects are great but there is too much machine gun play as usual so I give effects a 9.  Chicago area born actress Denise Richards is a beautiful and sensitive female lead and has a great figure.  Paris area born actress Sophie Marceau is also beautiful and it is interesting to compare their two personalities when you first get to know them.  It is a contrast in American straightforwardness, sass, and forthrightedness versus European sensuality, femininity, grace, and sulking.  It is really a wonderful comparison of women of two cultures, at least before some things go awry later in the film.  The lead song was not that good and I give it a 6 of 10.  The soundtrack was good and I give it a 7 of 10.  This was the first Bond movie to end with the James Bond Theme and not a song.  Overall, the movie maintained a high level of excitement, spontenaity, creativity, and freshness and was a near excellent 9 out of 10.  That is my rating for this movie and I recommend you see it.       "},{"Title":"Proficient Bonding","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Its hard not to like 'The World is Not Enough' as it seems to be trying to very hard to be successful; and in many ways the movie does succeed in what it attempts to do.  The action sequences are very good, the settings are stylish, the women lovely, the villains despicable and Pierce Brosnan seems to be comfortable in the role.And yet, for some reason the movie never seems to acquire that same sort of dramatic strength that other movies do.  That having been said, however, 'The World is Not Enough' remains an entertaining piece of film that offers enough 'Bond' moments to satisfy most fans of the series, if not all.The pre-credits sequence is very good, and of particular interest is a ski chase involving Bond and several gliding snowmobiles.  Similarly, a long sequence occuring in an unused Russian missle silo is wonderfully paced and shot.  Unfortunately, the missle silo sequence introduces Denise Richards as the female lead.  Although a fine actress, Richards looks entirely too young to play against Pierce Brosnan.In the long run, 'The World is Not Enough' is a fine movie, even though by times it feels disturbingly like a 'placeholder' Bond.  "},{"Title":"Decent Bond flick","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warningpotential spoilers!In the 19th Bond flick,007 fights a bad guy with a bullet in his brain from using a nuke.Brosnan is pretty good in his third time as 007,Carlyle & Marceau are good villians while Richards is laughable as a nuclear scientist.Lots of action,including a pretty awesome boat chase on the river thames.Q's final appearance,but he is replaced By R played by John Cleese.Rating***1/2 out of five "}{"Title":"Non-stop action from the first scene","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan proves once and for all that he is as good, if not the BEST James Bond to date.  The series has moved into a period of some well written scripts with plenty of action but with less gadgets.  The first scene of this movie is one of the longest and most intense scene's I can ever remember.  Congratulations to the producers and director for an exciting action packed film.  "},{"Title":"Bond woman is Bond","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of my least favorite Bond movies, largely because it is not a movie about Bond, but the Bond woman. Sort of reminds me of Michael Keaton in Batman II, altho there it was vis a vis the villains, not a sidekick.  She seems to beat up more people at a time in each fight than Bruce Lee did in an entire movie.  I know there will sometimes be fighting more than one person at a time in a Bond movie, but I prefer Sean Connery's one-on-one fights rather than this absurd stuff.  Pierce Brosnan is too stiff as Bond, and just does not work overall.  He is no compelling Bond persona and is not convincing.  There is lots of action, as always, but not a really menacing villain.  Still worth seeing, as are all Bonds.   "},{"Title":"fun and exciting","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   The World is Not Enough is a fast paced action thriller based on the suave British intelligence agent James Bond played by Pierce Brosnan.  The film company speared no expense with dramatic chase scenes that features flipping boats and missile equip BMW convertibles.  The plot tells the story of a typical James Bond flick where good conquers evil with Bond performing truly unbelievable feats to achieve his missions.  The script features Bond enticing the ladies using his clever sex filled one-liners.   The films weakness is Dr. Christmas Jones played by Denise Richards.  All in all I would  recommend this film to any one who wants to go to the theater and have a fun exciting time. "},{"Title":"One of the best.....","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The world is not enough is one of the best Bond movies. Only A view to a kill is better!!! This movie has it all!!!, action, drama, comedy and LOVE!!!!?! To bad this is Desmonds (Q) last film. He died shortly after making this movie!!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Keeps getting better and better!!!!!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Man oh man can James do anymore! This just makes the 007 series that much better. I rented this on VHS and thought it would make a good rainy day movie but I believe it would be good for all occasions. I never have been a huge Pierce Brosnan fan but he did a bang up job in this one. Roger Moore or Sean Conery have always been my 007 but Pierce pulled this one off with flying colors. The plot involves money hungry oilers and a crazed maniac that is bent on revenge on everyone. And of course there is a nuclear warhead involved in there somewhere. Although it is a stereotypical Bond movie the special effects and gadgets from Q make the movie a spectacular array of FX fun. My wife watched it with me and she is not a Bond fan and she liked it from start to finish. This movie was excessively cool.  "},{"Title":"Is the 007 series suffering from the same big-budget, low-thought production system that seems to be plaguing the Lethal Weapon series?","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers) The Lethal Weapon series began with a succession of excellent action films, but as of late, particularly in the fourth installment, the content just went overboard and much of the quality was lost. This same thing seems to have happened with the latest installment in the James Bond film series, and although The World Is Not Enough does have its redeeming values, its blunt financial motives are all too obvious. Clearly, the `Bond girl' is a significant tradition in any Bond film, and the casting of stunningly beautiful Denise Richards in this role would reveal the film's commercial intentions all by itself. But on top of that, they throw in a hilarious name (Christmas Jones) and claim that this heartthrob is a freakin' nuclear physicist. Watching Denise walk around in her cute little shorts and halter-top while she talks about plutonium and physics is just funny, and it takes away any possible chance of her character being taken seriously. If they expect her to play the part of a highly educated physicist, they could have at least dressed her to look less like a high school girl.The World Is Not Enough starts out with the traditional Bond opening, with the cool, collected Bond conversing with the enemy only to wind up making an elaborate escape and barely getting away with his life. Some things about this scene just come off as weird or incorrect. For example, consider the fact that while the opening scene takes place in Europe, the police officers that burst into the room are speaking Spanish. I really hope that I am just missing something and that that wasn't just randomly thrown in. The action was excellent, but in most cases it was so ridiculously exaggerated and unrealistic that it made it funnier than exciting. I realize that this IS James Bond, and this is the kind of crazy stuff that he is famous for, but it is a little upsetting that the screenwriters couldn't come up with some kind of action that is possible in real life but still creates thrills and excitement. Does that little speedboat that Bond takes off in have wheels? It's cool to see a boat jump up on land and slide a bit while the hero jumps out and makes a heroic rescue or something, but this thing was STEERING. Bond was literally driving it around the streets, and don't get me started on the idiotic underwater scene. Also, there obviously wasn't much proofreading done on the scene where Bond and Jones jump off of the vehicle in the tunnel, while traveling at 70 MPH!! Surely the typical Bond film's audience is aware of what would happen to someone who hit cement while traveling that fast. And especially in a tunnel, that's probably certain death. And it was not a very brilliant idea that was devised in order to get a jumping-out-of-a-helicopter-on-skis shot &#150; the helicopter pilot tells them that the wind is too strong to land, and this is followed by a shot of the helicopter hovering over the mountain in an utter absence of wind other than what is created by the rotors. Bond and Elektra jump out and we get some unnecessary but beautiful scenery shots as the ski gracefully down the mountain in their cute little ski outfits. This whole scene is unnecessary and, to make it worse, it's followed by one of those breaks where the plot is explained boringly through a bit of dialogue.The narrative structure of this movie is badly flawed, with the action literally stopping periodically in order for the characters on screen to discuss with each other, in pure dialogue, what is happening in the story. This type of weak presentation is something that is more at home is cheesy action B-movies, and it's almost heartbreaking to see it in a James Bond film. There is also an awkward use of sound while one of these little duologues is taking place while Bond and Elektra King (Sophie Marceau, one of the few reasons to watch the film) walk through a crowd of people. There are people running all around them, and the camera is pretty far away, yet you can hear them perfectly as they speak in normal tones, and you can't hear the people running around them. The reasons for doing this are obvious, but it makes the crowd seem eerily silent. And then you have the helicopter with the circular saws attached to it. I sure hope that one of the writers was fired (and beaten, for emphasis) for THAT little idea.It's the other Bond tradition - the villain - that saves the movie. Robert Carlyle is wonderfully menacing as Renard, the bad guy who literally has no feelings because of a bullet that is lodged in his head and is slowly numbing all of his senses as it gradually kills him. Not only was he an excellent villain for this movie, but he also gave the best performance of anyone in the entire, film, followed closely by Judi Dench as M. While the concluding action face off between Bond and Renard is effective (thanks, in no small part, to the quality performance from Carlyle) and even fairly exciting, it dissolves into dumb action film cliché as Bond (of course) gets the girl. Granted, I wouldn't complain about that part, James Bond always gets the girl. But did we really have to have a shot where the distressed and frightened Christmas Jones happens to fall right into Bond's open arms? That's bad form, as Hook would say. The World Is Not Enough is definitely a characteristic James Bond film, but I really wish that there was more quality involved in the formula these days, and less flying snowmobiles piloted by miracle marksmen. And if only they sold some of those x-ray glasses as collector's items&#133;  "},{"Title":"A Refund Is Not Enough","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was raised on James Bond. Starting with Goldfinger, I see each one of the films as they are released. I saw Dr. No and From Russia With Love in re-releases. I would have to rate The World... as one of the worst, almost as bad as the deplorable Moonraker. At its best, the Bond formula provides numerous spectacular action scenes, gorgeous women, exotic locations, and, most importantly, villains who are truly a threat and nearly Bond's equal. Renard wants to be a classic Bond villain, but I pitied him more than I feared him. ***Possible Spoiler*** Elektra simply is not scary. And Christmas - aaargh! Denise Richards rates MAYBE Bond Girl #3 status, the one who usually gets it on with James once, and then is killed the next day by the bad guys. NO WAY she ends up with him at the end. ***End Spoiler***The problem appears to be that Brosnan is Bond Lite. He does not exude the ruthlessness and smarts of Dalton or Connery, and so the other characters need to be scaled down to not show him up. Even so, this movie suffers more from its own stupidity. I do not expect realism from Bond, but I do expect it to play by its own rules. Why make a big deal of the injured shoulder, when the only trace of it later is an occasional wince? Bond is never hampered by it at all. The final scene with Elektra is just sadistic, not compelling. The best Bond movies make him a human-scale hero, where his ultimate victory is inevitable, but he has to struggle along the way. Ignore this mess. Tomorrow Never Dies is much better. "},{"Title":"A Good Bond Film","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm kind of surprised at all the negative comments this movie is getting. This is not the best Bond film or even best bond film of recent times (Tomorrow Never Dies was the best Bond Film of the 90's), but I still liked it. It did make a mistake in having it's best action scene, the boat chase, at the begining because none of the other scenes can compare. Still I found it to be whity and entertaining. It's one of the more original Bond films I've seen in a while (helecopters with spinning blades on the bottom, who would of thought). This movie does have a little too many explosions but what the hell, it's fun. This movie also has Pierc Brosnan's best Bond performance yet. Not as good as Tomorrow Never Dies but better than Goldeneye. I give it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"script writers need geography lessons?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Or maybe not, the filming locations in some scenes, anyway, were close to actual countries which Pierce was visiting. They always look better than those cheesy theatrical sets which ruin the plot.In the construction area scene, the crowd cheering for salvation of a Russian Orthodox Temple is wearing Muslim dresses and waving Iranian (or were they Hungarian?!) flags which makes the whole scene ridiculous. If this temple was real, not many people would care, well certainly not many people of other religions. The Azeri government would have never allowed a foreign company (let alone a woman) to monopolize an oil pipeline project. In fact, the major part of this business is state-controlled. When displaying Bond her pipeline on the map, Elektra says that it passes Turkey, while on the map it is clear that it goes in opposite direction.And where in Turkey can you find fireworks on Christmas?Otherwise, it was fun, but ending was a little too long.  "},{"Title":"Bond reaching the depths of ridiculous","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most ridiculous Bond movie of all time. Brosnan, although too skinny for the role of a professional killer, did a good job in Goldeneye. Expectations were great, but now he gives us a ridiculous performance, only topped by Denise Richards, who, in playmate's shorts, works in a nuclear facility deep within Russia, not even thinking of the risk of being harassed by the 500 technicians who also work there and miss female contact... Robert Carlyle, Judi Dench and the great John Cleese try hard, but are unable to save this great masterpiece of brainless cinema. And there is Sophie Marceau... poor little one... can anyone forget her as the girlfriend of the also ridiculous Braveheart?  "}{"Title":"A Near Miss","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite high production values and much that is interesting, this movie was a failure in my estimation.  Denise Richards won a well deserved Razzie for the worst performance in a supporting role (she plays a nuclear scientist who looks and like a 20-something model and sounds like a valley girl).  The talented Judi Dench, who plays M, is trapped in the wrong part in the wrong movie for the wrong reasons.  The movie is far too long and has some flat places.  Nevertheless, Pierce Brosnan gives a good performance as Bond, as does Sophie Marceau as the femme fatale.  This film is decent, despite the fact that it could have been a lot better.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"James Bond..the 19th installment and much of a muchness really","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have always been an avid James Bond Fan from my younger years so I I haven't quite figured out why the movie did not appeal to me as much.  It has the ladies, the action, the totally unrealistic plot like any other Bond movie..Brosnan is a good Bond (but not in the class of Connery or Moore).  Maybe that's it.  Modern technology makes the Bond stunts not as stand outish as they used to be.Maybe its the female M...or John Cleese coming into the fray as the replacement Q.  Or maybe, just maybe after 19 Bond movies the novelty has worn off.That said this is still a good Bond movie as far as Bond movies go, and the James Bond in this movie is a little more ruthless and callous in nature (watch to see as he doesn't always have to kill in this movie but does).For those of you that watch this movie, don't expect a Bond classic, but it is one of the better Bond movies of recent times. "},{"Title":"The worst James Bond after Octupussy!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  NoTiCe MAny SPoileRs AheAd DON't gO AnY FurTHEr!!!!!You know the plot, what you don't know is that James Bond is getting old, the fans are tired of watching Jimmy shagging Babes. The only new stuff is always the gadgets, which are not getting old. The sense of humor is good but when you 've got a James Bond who actually does Bruce Willis(in Die Hard), you can't have good results. A bunch of sexy actresses, a bigger part for M and Pierce Brosnan isn't Enough! The movie is just a very very very very BAD replica(immitation) of Die Hard.The first part has a very Bad and very not convincing but very sexy Richards(Dr. Christmas! what in the earth name is that!), a cool Brosnan(not need to talk about him!) and Elektra King(Marseu, or whatever her name is spelled like) who doesn't seem very notorious and finally the greatest thign this movie has a BAD GUY WHO CAN'T FEEL A THING! Robert Carlyle is very good but can really one actor save the titanic called James Bond! How the hell did he do that thing with the boat! Q is dead so he will rest from Bond's character!The second part has some good jokes, some good action scenes(who are totally unconvincing) and some sex in the end! R is the new Dude who will make us have a good time(maybe!), he is good but does John Cleese deserve that kind of treatment!  If you haven't seen any James Bond watch Dr. No first. If you wan't to see Pierce Brosnan watch GOLDENEYE for a change! Don't even take a look here you'll be very sorry!To add into my coments i would like to say that i am a huge fan of Bond but wathing him collapse isn't what i love to see! I'd rather remember him with the characteristicks of Sean Connery who really shows who James Bond is! FORGET 'EM ALL! ROGER MOORE, GOERGE LAZENBY, TIMOTHY DALTON.................. SEAN RULES!!!hello MISS MANYPENNY....I HOPE THE NEXT WILL BE BETTER!!! i am looking foward for it! he will be back! "},{"Title":"A positive view of the best 90s Bond film.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes. It does have some *terrible* puns. Yes. It is still a fairytale of Good v. Evil. Yes. It still ultimately sticks with the tried-and-tested working formula of a Bond adventure. It may not be groundbreaking, but it's still an enjoyable film.The World Is Not Enough is, in the opinion of many, the best 90s Bond film. An apparent difference from past Brosnan efforts is the great acting. Bond is sleek and smooth, justifying the critics who compare Brosnan to Connery. The villains, Robert Carlyle and Sophie Marceau, are manipulated so genuine audience dislike occurs. Also, our old friend Valentin (from Goldeneye, 1995), played by Robbie Coltrane returns, bad-accent and all.TWINE is set mostly is the oil-fields in ex-Communist Asia, the scene changes are smooth and, along with the plot twisting, keep you watching. Broccoli has worked out the perfect ration of action to romance, making the film enthralling to the last.The final verdict? One to watch, for Bond fans old and new. Smooth and polished, The World Is Not Enough will keep anyone watching, and feeling thrilled.  "},{"Title":"'The World is not Enough'.....but this film is far too much","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This flop brings shame to the legend surrounding the classic 'James Bond' films. Once adorned with sophistication and dignity, this plot was clearly devised late one night by a group of drunken no-hopers who thought of releasing it in the hope of being famous. And yes, this film is going to be remembered- but for all the wrong reasons.I'm not going to waste much time filling you in on the dire script, but basically one man saves the world from a group of terrorists who've been let loose with a nuclear bomb. Yeah right. The word unrealistic doesn't do this film justice-why can't a group of trained snipers with hi-tech guns not capture armed only with a bad hairstyle and a corny smile? Clearly the villains are as mentally challenged as the scriptwriter.The classic wit of Bond has been replaced in this film by a blend of 'dry and subtle humour'. Or so the makers claim. It seems to me that they've just randomly inserted punchlines from '101 Jokes for Nursery School Kids'. Laugh? No, I didn't.In a vain effort to save this film, some privileged individuals with more money than friends splashed out to provide it with some admittedly stunning special effects. To be honest though, these only serve to highlight what this film could have been as they are so out of context with everything else displayed.In short, I don't recommend that you get off your couch to see this disaster. Instead, go to the video shop and pick a random film off the shelf. It's bound to better than this. Oh, and while you're there, save others from the pain that I went through and trash all other copies of this junk. "},{"Title":"Superior 90's Bond and well up there with the best","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan's third and so far best Bond film - a powerhouse action adventure combined with driving characters and story, all polished with sleeker than sleek Bondian style.  The cracking Brosnan means business as 007 here bringing all the elements the fans, audiences and critics love to see from the character and bringing back memories from the four guys who went before him, as well as the flair he brought to the role in his previous films.  The story sees Bond investigate into the murder of an oil tycoon, which leads him into the path of his haunted daughter, Elektra King, (an excellent Sophie Marceau) and her terrorist ex-kidnapper, Renard, (Robert Caryle), who plans to gain unlimited power by siezing control of the King pipeline. Regulars Judi Dench (M) and Desmond Llewelyn (Q) are on hand with particularly memorable and fitting appearences this time around and the bankable cast is further expanded with the presence of Denise Richards, Robbie Coltrane and John Clesse (stepping in as Q's successor).  All this and some of the series' most amusingly over-the-top and spectacular action ensures that this Bond is up there with the best of them. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best, but poor script","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I feel for Brosnan, he's had 3 stabs at Bond, but everytime he has to work with a bad script, or a director who doesn't understand Bond. Goldeneye wasn't bad, but not great, Tomorrow Never Dies was just Die Hard and this one is boring.This Bond movie features Brosnan's best acting as Bond, he has a lot more to do, and gets involved with his character, but the script fails him, the film's structure is lacklustre.The film has way too many locations, it becomes a little silly. Bond can't be everywhere! Brosnan could be a great Bond, but please give him a great script ! The opening pre-title sequence is the longest I've seen, and it's quite good, not the best, though.The love interest is good, but sometimes feels sloppy. The villain, Renard is terrible, he has nothing to do here.Pierce plays Bond well in this one, he's got all the characteristics of Bond near perfect. Dalton and Connery are my favourite Bonds, but Brosnan isn't far behind. Denise Richards was terrible in this, totally miscast, she's way too young for this movie. Robert Caryle is wasted here, but he did the best he could with a bad script. Sophie Marceau is quite well developed, she plays her role well. Judi Dench is good, but her character seems very awkward in the film, terrible writing for her character.The director, Apted, understand the Bond character, but his direction was hampered by a script which was structurely lacking.The score by Arnold is okay, but way too much electronics, and the end credits scoring was terrible, really bad!!!!!Overall, not the best Bond film, but Brosnan's best work as the character yet.  "},{"Title":"Great Bond action!!","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, let's just say that I want to be James Bond!  He is so cool and his adventures are awesome exotic locales, beautiful women, hi-tech gadgets.  Who wouldn't want to do that for a living?  I have always thought that Pierce Brosnan would make the best James Bond and was so disappointed when he wasn't able to do it back in the '80's (due to his 'Remington Steel' gig).  Then they chose that hack Timothy Dalton.  But when Brosnan was finally able to take the chair, I was thrilled because I knew he'd be perfect.  And I was right!  He is the penultimate Bond dashing, debonaire, intelligent, and he has the accent which is just the icing on the cake.  'The World...' fits in perfectly with the Bond formula.  You have Bond, the beautiful femme fatale Bond girl who is not who she seems (the amazing Sophie Marceau), the brainy Bond girl (the luscious Denise Richards), the villain with a certain weird quirk (Robert Carlyle) who in this case is unable to feel any pain or emotion due to a bullet lodged in his brain, severing all of his senses, and big, splashy, over-the-top action.  And kudos for making Judi Dench's 'M' more than a cameo in this one.  She is always a pleasure to watch onscreen.  Under Michael Apted's extremely capable direction, 'The World Is Not Enough' will satisfy any Bond fan's craving  for the best spy-guy movies around!! "},{"Title":"Poor stuff","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I found myself watching this film and it was all going in one ear (or eye!) and out the other. The 'baddies' are killed all too easily, Carlyle is not given enough screen time and Denise Richards is a joke. The worst bond since Tommorow Never Dies! Goldeneye is Brosnansbest Bond outing. "},{"Title":"A lot of people went gunning for this one.....","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have read with a great deal of dismay the comments made about this entry into the Bond canon on both this site and many others. And I would like to say, they're both right and wrong....Allow me to elaborate... There is nothing purer and more exciting to a Bond fan than the first 10 minutes of a new, fresh out of the packet Bond movie. It is exhilarating and also a little nerve wracking. The usual question arises What if this one ends up like Licence To Kill? Trying to please all and failing in the process? TWINE does not fail during the first 10 minutes, Michael Apted manages to put in 2 opening sequences. The great dive from the bankers office in Bilbao and then the mother of all speedboat chases along the Thames. TWINE shows that when you allow new writers to create Bond scripts, they end up both wrecking and rejuventing the series. TWINE's storyline is a little muddled, but it allows the crew to create newer, more modern action set pieces. Brosnan's interpretation of Bond grows better with every film. He manages to combine the lethality of Connery with suave, louche, lounge lizard of Moore. But, sometimes the minuses suddenly mount up. Robert Carlyle is wasted, he serves merely as a sucker punch, distracting you away from Sophie Marceau's Elektra King. Robbie Coltrane's rather poor Russian accent is stretched to breaking point and yes, Denise Richards does stink ever so slightly as Christmas Jones. But, look at the film! Never has Bond looked so slick and so damned Hollywood! Bond was getting a little staid, from one huge set to another, but this film breaks that mold. All in all, better than most. Bring on 2002!  "}{"Title":"A living daylight!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Robert King, an oil millionaire, has been killed. As his daughter Elektra (Sophie Marceau) continues his business, terrorists attack her new pipeline. Once again, it´s 007´s turn to save the world...Sometimes I can´t decide which one I like better Goldeneye or The world is not enough?. I think it´s  Goldeneye, but The world is not enough, comes very close to it - and makes you forget  007´s mediocre mission in Tomorrow never dies.The action is superb and self-ironic. That´s exactly what makes the 007-movies so enjoyable. I especially liked the ski chase - I suppose it was thought as an  hommage to On her majesty´s secret service starring  George Lazenby, the one-time 007. Once again, Pierce  Brosnan does an excellent job. As ever he doesn´t takes himself too serious and that´s good. And Robert  Carlyle is the best villain in a long time. Kill me - I´ll die anyway he said to 007. What a cool phrase!  It made me remember the great scene from Goldfinger, when Sean Connery said to Gerd Fröbe Do you expect me to talk? - No Mr. Bond, I expect you to die! Remember it? That´s pure 007-cult! I´ve heard that Brosnan will only return once again.  One thing is sure I will miss him. I´m excited who  will be the next James Bond - I think Ralph Fiennes would be a great candidate! We´ll see... But I also felt a little melancholic when I watched it. It was because of Q-actor Desmond Llewelyn. He died in a car accident in December 1999, just a few weeks after the movie was released. But I´m sure that John Cleese will continue his work as well. This makes The world is not enough to a very  special, remarkable 007-movie.Q is dead, long live Q! "},{"Title":"One of the least good Bond Movies.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok...I am a huge Bond fan and basically enjoy all of the movies.  So I wouldn't call this one bad.  But it is certainly more Hollywood than Pinewood.  It's an ok action movie......but not what I would consider a typical Bond movie.So......rent it...watch it and enjoy a couple of hours of decent action.But if you expect all the special charm that most Bond movies have, you'll probably get disappointed. "},{"Title":"Yep, it was really not enough...","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about the last Bond-film.  It has amazing scenes like the opening pre-credit scene.  I has one of the strongest and best Bond-girls (Sophie Marceau).  It has once again fantastic music by David Arnold.  But... that's not enough.  On the other hand, it also has the worse Bond-girl ever.  Denise Richards, by being so stiff and boring, took over that title from Tanya Roberts.  But at least, Tanya Roberts could blame it on the character she was playing in A View To A Kill, a Bond girl that was screaming James! every five minutes.  Here, Denise Richard's acting is just horrible with a capital H. And I really really really dont like the fact that Bond gets so emotional.  What's that all about?  We want the super hero!  Not some guy who cries because the girl he fell in love with (after watching her picture on a computer screen for five seconds) turns out to be a baddy.  Pleeeeeeeease!  And although I liked the fact that M's part was bigger in this movie, I was holding my heart.  M is obviously in love with Sir Drake that she makes it her personal vendetta when he gets killed.  That when I got scared.  With all the emotional mess in this film, I thought that the twist of the movie was going to be that Elektra was M's....daughter!!!!  Fortunately that didn't happen. "},{"Title":"The best Brosnan Bond film so far","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have read a lot of commnts on this site some good , some bad, people make comparisons with Connery , Moore and Dalton ( Lazenby does'nt really count). I rate the best Bond movies on different era's. Connery's best was Diamonds Are Forever, Moore's was Octopussy and Dalton's was Living Daylights and The World Is Not Enough is Brosnan at his best. The opening chase scene was the best begining to any Bond film and the plot did have credibility and could be believed rather than the usual taking over the world thing , the choice of actors was good Sophie Marceau was great as a two faced Bond girl, Denise Richards was ok but it is difficult to judge as she did'nt feature until the second halve of the movie and did'nt get many lines. Robert Caryle was good as a villan going back to his days in Cracker, but we did'nt see enough of him and Sophie Marceau seemed the more evil of the two. Brosnan has got better as he has gone on, Goldeneye was good for his first attempt, Tomorrow Never Dies was even better and now he has improved again,as for someone's comment about John Woo directing a Bond film, I don't think he would be ideal although the action would be guranteed I watched Hard Target and don't think his style of directing is really Bond. "},{"Title":"It's the Future, Mr. Bond","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With the release of `The World is Not Enough,' the James Bond series approaches 40 years of existence.  No one disputes that the series' glory days are over-they have been since the late 1960s.  But the series continues to thrive--we are told that only Bond films are guaranteed to make money world wide. But the question remains, what is the future of the series?  The chase scenes in the Bond films have been surpassed by other movies.  The special effects are good, yet not Matrix-class.  And the insistence on keeping the films' sex tame has made that aspect almost quaint today.Well, if `The World is Not Enough' is the future of Bond films--it's a healthy one. There are several reasons for this1. The film has a good director, Michael Apted, who has done `Coal Miner's Daughter' and other critically blessed movies.  Recent Bond films have seemed like a series of unconnected chase scenes.  In `World,' Apted remains a consistent pace.  2. The plot is easily followed and not as far-fetched as some have been in the past.  Bond films usually feature a villain out to take over the world.  Bond's foe here is Renard (Robert Caryle), who wants to capture the oil delivery mechanism from the former Soviet Union to the West.  Important-yet not apocalyptic. 3. `World' has a wonderful cast.  Caryle (even though he is made up to look like Fester Addams) is one of best developed Bond bad guys ever. He is ruthless, but we almost feel sorry for him because he can no longer feel pain (something his lover taunts him about), and is dying.  Sophie Marceau is both beautiful and  talented as one of Bond's love interests.  Robbie Coltrane and Judi Dench are back, as is Desmond Llewelyn as `Q' (although there is poignancy in Llewelyn's departure in the movie-he died after the filming), but he will be replaced adequately by John Cleese. 4. Pierce Brosnan.  No one can ever replace the best Bond, Sean Connery, but Brosnan is a strong number two.  He is athletic enough to convince us (unlike Roger Moore) that he could escape death on a regular basis. And notice how business-like he is.  Sure he has time to bed a few beauties and to crack a few puns, but he seems focused on getting his job done.Where to improve the series?  First, the producers need to stop using starlets (Denise Richards, in this case) who can't act as Bond girls.  Marceau shows there are some beautiful, talented women out there.  Second, stop the double entendres.  They're not funny any more.  The last pun in this film is a real groaner. Other than that, the future is bright, Mr. Bond. "},{"Title":"A no brainer, and not terribly original, but fun.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If I had to pick one word to describe Bond film #19, The World is not Enough, it would be reliable.  Its not that its a bad movie, it was fun in a popcorn movie kind of way.  It has all the Bond requirements, lots of cool gadgets, gunfire, explosions and babes, it just didn't really offer anything new.  All this for me equals a good movie, but not a great movie.  The performances were all good except for Denise Richards, who wasn't really bad, per se, just not believable as a nuclear physicist.  I mean come on, I'd buy Woody Allen as a heavy weight boxing champ before I've believe Richards as a scientist.  Its a small quibble really though because Bond films have never exactly been known for believability.  Speaking of believability, the only other major problem I have with this movie is that the method that the baddies plan on blowing up Instanbul with is not only unbelievable, its downright impossible.  But again, who am I to expect a Bond film to conform to pesky things like physics.  Overall though its a check your brain at the door good time.  I give The World is not Enough a 7 / 10. "},{"Title":"a disapointing James Bond film","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"     I was very disappointed in this very long & seemingly endless film. Pierre Brosnan  is not a good James Bond & I hope they either retire the series,or find a really GOOD Bond, they also need more convincing VilliansRobbie Coltrane as Bonds KGB counterpart  was a sheer delight thougth.   There were also too many explosion for my liking ,The story is weak & unexcitingonly a very low **1/2  rating from me "},{"Title":"Bond Moving When Not Moving","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that Bond actually showed some feelings in this movie, when he wasn't running around and blowing up things.  I really enjoyed the scenes where he was in bed with Elektra and talking to her so tenderly.  He also seemed very upset when he learned some things about her and in their last encounter.  In the last scene, by the way, Bond said, Call him off, I won't ask again but then he did ask again, twice.  I liked this movie better than TND because there were slow scenes.  In TND, even in the non-action scenes, Bond was in a moving car or a noisy airport or a noisy party.  There was still too much water and fire in this movie, though.  I don't really think people look good wet.  I also thought the action scenes at the bomb factory and the caviar factory looked alike--dark places with machinery.  I don't think that Renard was a good Bond villain.  Most of them are gleefully maniacal, but Renard was positively depressed.  I've read that Denise Richards was very bad, but frankly I found it hard to tell, since she didn't have more than two lines in any scene.  She was definitely too young looking to play a nuclear scientist, but I don't think she was terrible in the role.  I think it was strange that Dr. Christmas Jones told Bond right away not to make jokes about her name.  Why did the writers give her such an unusual name if they didn't want other characters making jokes about it?  I thought it was odd that when the title song was sung, they left out the line There's no point in living if you can't feel alive.  I thought it was clever that they put that line in the song, since it's part of the plot.  I know they used a stunt man in this movie, but I saw his face twice, which sort of hurts the illusion that it's Bond.  All in all, I liked this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"The best since Thunderball !  (*SPOILERS WARNING*)","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really like this Bond film. This is the first time I saw Bond's arm broken. This Bond film has some twisting point, you have to see it for yourself. Judi Dench did a great role in this film, as M.  Last but not least, Bond's car (BMW) is awesome. "},{"Title":"My number 179 movie","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, you have read correctly. This is my number 179 movie. I usually like the James Bond movies, so I liked this one a bit, too. But I think this is a not-that-good one, because it is a kind of boring and not as original and action-packed as the others. But ´The World is not enough´ is definitely not the worst JB-movie ( that goes to ´Thunderball´ or ´Majesty´s Secret Service´ ). And there are not that much thrilling effects in this movie. I wanted to like this movie, since it is a JB-movie, but I just could not. I like action movies, I like James Bond movies, I like Pierce Brosnan, and I like Denise Richards. But the movie was not good, though. I recommend this film to fans of the James-Bond-movies or to guys that have never seen a JB-movie and do not know what to expect from it. But because of the not-bad action and the OK-actors I rated this movie 7/10. "}{"Title":"Brosnan puts away the AK-47 and hugs onto his Wather PPK (Spoilers)","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"          This movie was great. I mean, great. With Brosnan's two previous Bond Movies- Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies- exploding with Roger Moore action, this movie retreats to 007's creator- Sean Connery. Meaning Bond will not use the AK-47 which was first used in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, and brought a new statement, but this movie actually uses Bond's favorite gun- The Wather PPK. Based upon On Her Majesty's Secret Service name for Bond's family motto, the movie has a HUGE storyline which surprised me and got me interested through the whole movie. One thing about THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, it doesn't spoil viewers with action or sex appeal. It maintains the realism that Bond was losing in the past. If you like this movie, think about watching other great 007 movies that relate to this film- License To Kill, You Only Live Twice, and Live and Let Die. If you think Bond is dead or losing his touch, your wrong. Brosnan keeps Bond in tact and launches himself into action- from Water, To Land, and Air- The World Is Not Enough should be on your shelf whether on DVD or VHS.                 "},{"Title":"Breaks the formula-Spoilers!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Like License To Kill,TWINE certainly stands out among other Bonds, since it actually takes some risks. Although there have been previous Evil Bond girls, none are as captivating as Electra, who truely thinks things out, and unlike previous girls, is pretty much the main villain of the film, which up to a certain point we believe is Renard.  Another way the film breaks the formula is that it expands the role of M, perhaps in response to all the attention Judi Dench has been getting. Here, instead of standing behind a desk and giving Bond his assignment, M gets in on the action, to an extent.  We also see the return of Tchaovosky, the ex-KGB agent turned mobster/businessman and Turner(MI6's chief of staff) from Goldeneye, as well as Robinson from Tommorow Never Dies. These additional recurring characters add some extra continuity to the series apart from the traditional combo of M/Moneypenny/Q. We also get to meet John Cleese's R, whose addition to the series is timely considering the sad demise of Desmond Llelowynn shortly after this film hit theathers.  Anyway, like License, TWINE is a refreshing break from the formula, in many ways. There's the usual attraction of stunts and so-on, but at least there's something new. "},{"Title":"007 proving his, and our, tirelessness","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Admittedly, I was not expecting a bad production in the latest addition to the continuing Bond saga. Neal Purvis and Robert Wade were signed to write the screenplay, and I had heard of their successes with 'Plunkett And Macleane' (also starring, coincidentially, Robert Carlyle). Though in many eyes Brosnan is not THE James Bond, his irrepressable style and charisma in Bonds 17 and 18 proved to me that Eon had not taken a backward step. Bond's primary mission seems to be to move with the times, and he certainly does not fail here (this did not appear to be the case with 'License To Kill', it seems to me).Traditionally, the major villain in a Bond Movie will have aspirations of world domination - we are not spared even here, albeit on a lesser scale. Carlyle makes one of the most genuinely powerful, even frightening villains of the series, portraying his martyr Renard's anger and frustration with understated skill. His fantastically life-threatening injury makes the character increasingly maddened, made only more so by the sexual frustration with his lover Elektra, played with flair by French actress Sophie Marceau. Elektra is the first real female villain across the entire series, and works incredibly well. Bond is instantly seduced by her, unaware of her underlying intentions, and the moment when he kills her is both refreshing and shocking, to see 007 shoot his former lover in cold blood. The brilliant Zukovsky (Robbie Coltrane) has been resurrected from GoldenEye, a courageous yet expert move. The hefty Russian is given a fairly abrupt exit, however, as Elektra forbids him any further life to prevent him from saving Bond from her garrote chair (The question is, however, whether this will be the last of him. I wonder not). Every scene is electric, with superb performances from all (most).Bond enters the millennium with a very large explosion...I, for one, will be sorry to see Pierce go. "},{"Title":"One of the series strongest entries","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Since my favorite entries in this film series often differ with critics and film scholars, I don't expect them to concur with my assertion that TWINE is one of the strongest entries in the long running 007 film series. I like Pierce Brosnan's Bond. He's been able to finally get rid of the whole invincible superman motif that has plagued the franchise since Moonraker while preserving Bond's mystique. Instead of trying to top Connery and Moore, he's able to marry both their strengths with his own style. Though I have long thought that the producers should let John Woo and other Hong Kong directors take a crack at the franchise, dramatic director/photographer Michael Apted does a surprisingly good job here. In addition to being abld to bring out the best in his actors, Apted's background in photography comes in handy during the action scenes, making up for his lack of experience in the genre. The film also has a great score, too. If we can't have John Barry back, then David Arnold, who also scored Tomorrow Never Dies, is the next best thing. The film also benefits by the casting of Robert Carlyle as the villain Renard. Instead of the pun-spewing lunatic we would likely get in a non-Bond actioner, Carlyle channels cinema's greatest madman Colonel Kurtz from Apocalypse Now. There are visual similarities between Renard and Kurtz as well, though Carlyle is obviously a lot slimmer. And the early scene that gives us background info on Renard is remiscient of the briefing on Kurtz at the beginning of AN. As for the women, Sophie Marceau is wonderful as Elektra King. She is able to do something most of us wish we could do, she takes whatever she wants and does it in a way so that people think she's a real nice person. Alot of people have complained about Denise Richards, but she does fine here considering that she had two roles to fill not only was she the good girl, but she also had to take the position filled by Jack Wade in the two previous films. However, when they called her Dr. Jones I couldn't help but think of Bond's famous stateside counterpart. Tomb Raider fans will notice the outfit she wears at the nuclear facility is very Lara Croft, who by the way would be an ass kicking Bond girl. Lastly, this film makes a great encomium to Desmond Llwelyn, who tragically died in an auto accident weeks after this release.All in all, Pierce Brosan's best Bond film, at least until John Woo directs him. "},{"Title":"-Pierce Brosnan is not James Bond...!!!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  -You know...James Bond used to be the man.  Connery, Moore, Lazenby and Dalton all did an excellent job portraying the slickest agent ever known (Dalton was all right).  However...Pierce Brosnan is not James Bond...!!! He is a chump.  The only reason The World Is Not Enough kept my attention is because of a beautiful little lady named, Sophie Marceau.  Sure...All the 007 movies have a drop-dead gorgeous woman to keep you entertained, but they are supposed to have an interesting plot as well.  This one just doesn't cut it in my opinion.  Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"Just one comment to make...","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not really going to comment on the film, but instead on a lot of the comments made here. It seems that 90% of the comments criticise the casting of Denise Richards as a Nuclear Physicist, citing the complete implausibility of her in this role. Can I ask of all those critics, honestly please, how many Nuclear Physicists have you actually met? I know several, and pretty girls do work in nuclear physics! You can have your PhD finished at 24, so what's the problem? Working in a lab doesn't make you buck ugly! "},{"Title":"The World Has Had Enough","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In which Mr Bond drives a speedboat, skis down a mountain, flies a plane, wears blacktie in a casino (but haven't we seen this before?) and Sean Connery doesn't appear, Ken Adam's sets aren't manifest, the likes of Pleasance, Shaw and Lee are notable only for their absence, Binder's credits are but a remembrance of things past and John Barry is a no more than an echo amidst looped gunfire and inept digitised sparklies of ricochettes. ..Not merely the worst Bond film ever made, TWINE manages to rank as one of the worst films of any kind, with Brosnan's appearance yet again that of a startled hamster and Carlyle's essay as a villain running the gamut of emotion from A to B. Dench is, frankly, dreadful, not so much M as Ermmmm, a performance on freeze frame. The embarrassment factor's higher than watching Eastwood playing love interest in his latter films Llewelyn deserved better than to be brought back one last time for this, whilst Cleese is as funny as a wet afternoon in a cemetery.Acting, direction (by Michael Apted, who really ought to know better), SFX are dire -- whilst as for narrative exposition, the whole thing is a primer on how not to write a movie, the opening sequence alone an epic of incoherence.There's neither excuse nor justification for any of this, because the strengths of the Bond movies are, or should be, timeless wit, originality, muscularity, spectacle. That none of those elements is evident here says everything there is to say about the bankruptcy of talent responsible on display actors, director, music, sets, credits, and, above all, writers.Goodbye, Meester Bond. The world has had enough. "},{"Title":"Try to be an actor/actress first.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  O.K. O.K  Maybe it didn't have a lot of consolidation in the movie, but you have to admit it was appealing and the acting was good from the main actors!  I really like when James Bond(Pierce Brosnan) actually is cold blood enough to kill Elektra King (Sophie Marceau).  Thinking he would of been too weak and fall in her game again.  I thought the casting director chose the right actors for this movie and Sophie was a great villain.I've been Sophie's fan since her first movie La boom.  Her evolution was amazing until at 34 years old and she can act better than some American actress.  Sorry to say that, but it is true.  She has the French flair and knows what the world wants Beauty and personality!Also, Pierce Brosnan, this British who also seduced the World, was a perfect match with Sophie.  Very handsome, charming and extremely clever, I give him a 5 stars for his performance.Well, that was my opinion and still think the actors have more nerves than the critics for they have the courage to get on the stage and give their best shot! "},{"Title":"Suddenly VERY Ironic...","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A good film.  A humorous and dashing Bond.  The ever-lovely Bond girls.  Great special effects.  The humor was a little to disgusting from time to time is my only complaint (i.e. Christmas only ... once a year.).  The film is, though suddenly much more ironic (and sad) as Q spoke of leaving in the film, and died in real life, MI6 got bombed in the film, and did in real life (not to mention some tragic goings on with some real Russian submarines).   "},{"Title":"so close to a great bond flick, but no cigar","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  brosnan gave a superior performance in this one.  too bad he was surrounded by poor acting.  christmas?  they were looking for a pussy galore and failed something awful.  she couldnt act anyway.  and victor who was a notorious bad guy in the previous films was kissing bonds behind.  why?  other than that is was a good movie.  great story, twisting plot and good fx.  thank god tim dalton is no longer bond.  if you can ignore the weak supporting cast, this movie is worth a view. "}{"Title":"Number 19 shows","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although completely overlong and the plot quite complicated for a Bond film it was still good. Brosnan is the second best Bond by far (no 1 is Connery). Robert Carlyle has little to do and won't be remembered as one of the best villains. Judi Dench finally gives the character of M another dimension. Most of the dialogue is awful, but the opening boat sequence and snow/ski action scenes are very good.  The good idea of having Denise Richards in a completely miscast role reminds me of earlier Bonds. Sophie Marceau does try but fails as a sinister, lethal villain . A nice send off to Q and good intro to R (John Cleese). Overall not too bad **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-mill!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know, it is me? Or are Bond films just getting a little tiresome now! Goldeneye was good, but the last two Bond outings just seem bland and boring!(MINOR spoilers) The World Is Not Enough had an interesting introduction and stunts but this film just didn't go anywhere for me. Robert Carlyle is such a great actor but added nothing to the role of Renard, for a character who couldn't feel pain- he was just bland! Sophie Marceau was excellent as Electra King, although her being a villain was very predictable, she played one extremely well.What really downgraded the movie was the casting of Denise Richards as the scientist, Dr Christmas- her scenes with Pierce Bronson were excruciating. Robbie Coltrane was okay, the end battle was disappointing, and in general I think Bond has lost his spark. Can't wait for the video-game though, I hope that's better than this film! I'm giving The World Is Not Enough a ** out of ***** for the opening sequence! "},{"Title":"Dont Talk Spy...","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Typical Bond movie.Bond meets bad girl, Bond likes bad girl, Bond finds out bad girl is bad, Bond dumps bad girl, Bond meets good girl, Bond likes good girl, Bond uses charm on good girl, good girl falls for him.That and the typical plot and something blowing up.I think the one thing that really ruined the movie though, was Denise Richards. We first meet our leading lady at a research base. She's supposed to be a scientist, but tell me, if your going into a highly dangerous area, would you wear a tank top and shorts too short? And what about her lines? About 10 lines in the movie, and the best thing she could say was Can you say that in English for those of us who don't talk spy? Yuck! She may have the 'Bond' beauty, but I don't think this was the part for her. "},{"Title":"Bad.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've just read a comment claiming that this is the best of the last twelve years! This is one of the worst of the entire 40 years.While for once the plot is actually quite well thought through, the execution of the film is apalling in almost all departments.Robert Carlyle actually manages to be bad- I never thought that was possible. Using a character who can feel no pain could have led to all sorts of interesting situations, instead he holds a hot rock for a bit- oooh!Denise Richards continues her campaign for the prize of worst actress of all time (see Starship Troopers, Wild Things).The script is appalling, the first ten minutes is nothing but a collection of witless one-liners.Pierce Brosnan has definitely outstayed his welcome after a decent debut and a reasonable follow-up. It's time to give the most sought after male role in the film industry to somebody who can act (clue- furrowing the brow does not equal acting).Sophie Marceau is a redeeming feature, her performance is excellent, though the scene in Istanbul between her and 'Renard' is slightly tortuous, lacking the chemistry it sorely needed, though I guess that could be put down to the rather bland nature of 'Renard'.Robbie Coltrane breathes life into the film at the right time, and Goldie is quite funny towards the end, but these are small things that went right in an otherwise wrong film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but nothing special","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad choice when you're in the mood to turn your brain off and indulge in the usual, totally implausible James Bond spy fantasy. Okay, you know what you're going to get with a newer Bond film. Here's my take on what worked and didn't The boat chase and ski chase scenes are expertly done and work. Sophie Marceau's exquisite beauty is a definite plus. The radar sunglasses scene is cool. It was good to see John Cleese in the film, but his role wasn't written to fulfill it's full promise. Also, in my opinion, Q (or Cleese in the future, I suppose) need to do the usual fill Bond in the gadgets scene before they are used. During those scenes you can try and predict and anticipate exactly when each gadget will be used. The BMW M3 was screaming for a chase scene with gadget play that we didn't get. A big minus for me. Robbie Coltrane is a great actor but he wasn't convincing as a Russian crime kingpin. The biggest minus? Denise Richards. I don't want to be cruel, and she's certainly pretty, but that was a laughable performance and is a candidate the miscasting hall of shame. The movie overall is not bad, but nothing special. Goldeneye was much better. "},{"Title":"Not as good as other Bond films.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"      I saw this movie on pay-per-view. I had heard good things about it and decided to pay my $4 and watch it.     I found the movie to be lacking and one of the worst Bond films. It was the same old Bond formula, beautiful women, high tech gadgets and chases. This movie showed nothing new and was a rehash of the last bond film. The old Powermad psychopath who wants to nuke the world. I don't know how this movie got the great reviews it did from film critics. "},{"Title":"Never shaken or stirred","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan has really grown into the Bond Part quite well.This is despite those totally tired, supposedly funny one-liners. How rotten can they get?The action scenes are okay and much what you would expect from the usual Bond formula. On the acting front, my grandmother would make a more convincing WWF wrestler than Denise Richards does a nuclear scientist.Robbie Coltrane is pure ham and little Robert Carlyle must be the least scary Bond-baddie ever.He couldn't knock the skin off a rice pudding never mind beat James Bond in a fight. All in all a fair entry in the series. James Bond will return.      "},{"Title":"Yes! Now this is vintage Bond.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the best action in any Bond film.  The action sequences in The World is not Enough, are a little hard to believe, and too inconcievable, but after all, this is James Bond!   Take, for instance, the opening scene.  It is 15 minutes of pure nautical adrenaline, with a cool end taking place on top of still being built Millennium Dome.  Of course, none of that could EVER happen, but again, this is 007. This time around, James Bond must feel lucky having DR. Christmas Jones (Denise Richards of Starship Troopers fame) and Elektra King (Sophie Marceau from Braveheart) surrounding him. As awesome as the action is in this Bond film, the storyline is unmatched by any other Bond film. Although I rated this movie a 10, and it is my favorite 007 flick, I was a little upset at whomever made the choice to cast the young, beautiful, obviously not even close, Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist.  Come on guys, all ya had to do was put her in her in a T-shirt in bed, and it would have been just as good, if not better.  A word of advice, a movie rental at your local Hollywood Video costs $3.79, spend the extra money to PURCHASE a previously viewed copy ($9.99) for your collection. "},{"Title":"Not really a good movie or a Bond movie","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As always, the critics are saying TWINE is yet more of the old Bond we've always been given. That is hardly true. For a start, the last two Bond movies, GoldenEye (1995) and Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) have been very different in style - a high-tech thriller and an all-out action movie respectively - and secondly, TWINE is very different to both of them. It has the slightly dirty Eastern European look of GoldenEye, but is more interested in characters and sweeping emotional drama than, well, anything else. Everybody knows hiring director Michael Apted was a direct response to the almost non-stop action of Tomorrow... , but it's a knee-jerk reaction. Although he does manage to get first class performances out of  Sophie Marceau and Robert Carlyle, he makes them too human, too easy to associate with, so we are left with a Bond movie without a proper villain.  No-one is actually evil, just misguided. Perhaps all they need is a hug. And there is almost no physical threat to Bond, even Renard, who can feel no pain, offers little challenge or danger to 007. In fact, there is very little threat to Bond himself through out. Nobody is desperate to kill him, Renard has no hard feelings against him and Electra King almost loves him.I find it hard to believe people are raving about the action scenes. They were awful. Michael Apted has never directed an action movie before and it's painfully obvious. The shoot-outs are okay, but everything else is lame. There is no flair or intensity, every sequence is uncomfortable and clumsy. The showdown with Renard at the climax is incredibly amatuer and weak - like something you'd see on a BBC TV series. Which is pretty appalling when you compare it to the awesome showdown with Darth Maul at the climax of The Phantom Menace (1999), of the same year, and the blistering action of Tomorrow Never Dies two years previously. As an action film, TWINE just doesn't cut it.Pierce Brosnan gets more emotional, human and serious as Bond, which the critics seem to like, but let's not forget why the public didn't accept Timothy Dalton - because he was too emotional, human and serious. The 'this time it's personal' tag behind the film is an action movie cliche we've heard 4 million times before.  And it's been personal in the last three 007 flicks - in Licence to Kill (1989), Bond's friend was fed to a shark. In GoldenEye, another of his friends turned against him. In Tomorrow Never Dies, his old girlfriend turned against him. And now in TWINE, Bond feels guilty for unintentionally aiding an assasination. Brosnan plays an emotionally repressed secret agent exceptionally well in certain scenes, but is this what people wnat to see from James Bond? The more screwed up in the head 007 becomes, the more uncertain and upset he gets, the less attractive as a character he becomes.Many agree that Brosnan didn't quite become Bond until Tomorrow Never Dies, in which he was perfect. But he's altered his performance again, and now he's certainly going the Timothy Dalton way.  Let's hope he knows what he's doing. I was, before the film, a big supporter of Brosnan, but now I'm not so sure. He still hasn't QUITE achieved the character as only Connery and Moore have before. I'm really hoping Adrian Paul (Highlander Endgame) gets a shot at the role now.As for the other characters, I can't believe Valentine Zukovsky is supposed to be the same character as in GoldenEye.  In that movie he was a tough, greedy, dangerous crimeboss. Now he's simply a wise-cracking comicrelief bumbling fool who can't be taken seriously for a second.  What a waste. Denise Richards has taken a lot of stick for her terrible performance as Dr. Christmas Jones, but there is little she could have done in such a dead-end role. But, yeah, she is terrible.  Thankfully she's kept off-screen most of the time in her suspiciously Lara Croft-esque costume.It's also a shame that while Bond managed a smile when seeing Zukovsky for the last time, he couldn't as he watched Q exit for the very last time. Desmond Llewelyn was perfect as always as the disgruntled gadget-giver. He will be sadly missed.Bond movies ARE action adventures. Choosing a director blatantly uncomfortable and unfarmiliar with the genre is just a stupid move. Apted shoots the whole movie like a period piece, a costume drama, and forgets what TWINE is. In the end, it's entertaining, and it proberbaly better than GoldenEye, but it's not Bond-y enough for a Bond movie. It's a shame, but The World Is Not Enough is a number of steps in the wrong  direction.  Tomorrow Never Dies remains the only true 90's Bond movie. TWINE, like GoldenEye, just  strays too far from the essential formula and pays the price.  And a screeching abomination of a theme tune (no wonder they're called Garbage) doesn't help.Worth seeing for a great performance from Marceau and an even better one from Carlyle, but whatever you do, see Tomorrow Never Dies first. It is not only one of the best 007 flicks, it's one of the best action movies ever, and far more deserving of your attention.Extremely little-known fact The idea of Renard being unable to feel pain is taken from the character Stamper in Tomorrow Never Dies. Stamper had the same afffiction in that movie, which is why, even when he is stabbed in the leg, he doesn't seem to notice. The line when the audience are told this was cut so they could use the idea in TWINE for Renard.  "},{"Title":"Great Introduction","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This may sound unbelievable, but The World Is Not Enough was my introduction to James Bond and I couldn't ask for a better one. The graphics, the music, the stunts, the suspense and the classic Bond was all in the movie.Of course, there was no deep, moving plot, but what can one expect? This is a pure action/thriller type of a movie. James Bond has become a genre of its own and it is something American cinema can be proud of. Oh and the song by Garbage was an excellent addition to the movie. Interesting idea that people's names are only one letters, well the names of the good guys.If you want a mindless, pretty thriller, this movie is definitely for you.  "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies Bond movies...","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   The old James Bond movie SUCKED. Goldeneye brings something good  smart story , good actors , perfect director. I loved GOLDENEYE. 2 years later another good movie with bond, but now this movie  The WORLD Is Not ENOUGH  S U C K S , it is STUPID from the begining to the end , I HATE IT. "},{"Title":"Could have been an ACTION Masterpiece","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I want to say that my favorite 007 film was GoldenEye for its exotic landscapes, great special effects, cool toys, sinister villain, and HOT bond Girls.This film could have surpassed it for its plot twists and its character development. Even Judi Dench was out and about rather than behind a desk. But they casted DENISe RIchards, who couldnt act a slight bit. You won't mistake her for a true thespian, but she was much better in Wild Things. She made the plot almost silly.The villain was also very weird. His diminuitive size and his ugliness made this film unpleasant. Bond films are supposed to be about a world of class, sophistication, urbanity and beauty, and this universal rule applies not only to BOND and his GIRLS but also to the villains, sets, etc. If i want ugly, weird, uncool villains, I'd watch the Batman series.It's a shame. It could have been a 9 but because of Denise Richards and Robert Carlyle, it's only an enjoyable 7/10. Still an improvement over Tomorrow Never Dies. =)I pray that the next Bond continues along this line with character development, plot twists without sacrificing the action. They should also bring back old characters like Wade, and Natalia from GoldenEye. Bond forever "},{"Title":"Pretty good thriller up to usual Bond standard.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All in all a good high-octane thriller which has come to be expected from the most successful film series of all time. Pierce Brosnan is adequate as the 00 agent once again, although his attempts to give Bond a deep gravelly voice can get a little annoying as can his gasps of pain and agony when touched in the slightest way. Sophie Marceau is excellent as the female lead, using her considerable acting range to put across a variety of moods. Her scenes with Brosnan are often electrifying. Robert Carlyle provides the staple Bond villain with the low deep voice and corny threats. Another excellent performance by Robbie Coltrane as Zukovsky, reprising his role from Goldeneye, is included with a convincing Russian accent to boot. This is Desmond Llewellyn's final Bond. His acting, understandably had by now become slightly stilted. One of the true high points of the film is John Cleeses appearance as R. His Fawltyesque remarks are hilarious in any context. One of the real low points of the film is Denise Richards' acting. While, she is not lacking in some aspects, she is the least-convincing nuclear physicist I can imagine. Her delivery of technical speak, particularly at the climax, is laughable. Judi Dench's performance is once again believable as M. The script has its highs and lows, the latter occurring in the early stages. The music is more synthagal that usual, but mostly fine. The music in the first of the three pre-credits scenes is absolutely dire. The main theme tune by Garbage has to rank among the best of the Bond series so far, however. The pre-credits sequence is as usual a mix of action and ludicrousness, though the thought of Bond boatmotoring through suburban London rather than Venice or Jamaica is quite comforting. This film is promising at times but the climax is not worthy of its formidable build-up. "},{"Title":"Bond needs help from...","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Alright, I think that Brosnan is a decent Bond. Granted, Connery and Lazenby had more brawn, Dalton had more range, and Moore had more arthritis. Brosnan is passable. But he could do better with some help from...1. A new casting director. Denise Richards? Hello? Tanya Roberts was equally bad, but at least she looked of age. Imagine the film with an actress with good acting chops and intelligence in the role of Christmas Jones (a desparate name). Think Julianne Moore or Kate Blanchette.2. A new location manager. So the climax of the film takes place in Istanbul. Do we ever get to see Istanbul? Think of the uses of locations in From Russia With Love or The Spy Who Loved Me. TWINE could have been shot anywhere and still have the same flavor. Bond films are always remember for their locations That was the one in Egypt or That was the one in Jamaica. This is the one that was....where?3. John Barry. Whatever happened to Barry's association with the Bond films? His lush musical scores augmented the sense of grandeur of the Bond films. Think of the themes from Moonraker and On Her Majesty's Secret Service. David Arnold's orchestrations are decent enough but PLEASE dump the techno score. It cheapens the film! James Bond is a classy guy. He doesn't do raves! I normally stay for credits, but I walked out during the credits of TWINE because I could not bear the music.4. John Glen as editor and 2nd unit director. Could we shorten the opening sequence by a reel or two? Could we have some stunts that are above the level of The A-Team or are not CGI enhanced? This man can solve both problems. This film is has the only ski sequence of the series that puts you to sleep.With all the money and effort poured into the series, I hope changes can be made to bring it above the level of ordinary action films. Bond films used to stand out. Now they seem only to blend in.  "},{"Title":"At least it made a lot of money","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan returns in his third outing as Bond, James Bond, and it's obvious he's growing more comfortable in the role each time. That's the good news. Aside from the laconic ease and distinctive stamp Brosnan has placed on his performances as 007, this entry in the nearly 30-year-old series does little to enhance the legendary character beyond updating the periphery with different locales (in this case, eastern Europe) and gadgets a bit more farfetched within today's context than they were during the 60s (as evidenced by a holographic projector a bit more suited to the 23rd than late 20th century). This time out, Michael Apted handles the reins and, apart from the usual competently designed and executed stuntwork (including a splendid boat chase along the Thames), little drama is in evidence. Carlyle plays a subtly icy terrorist (all too briefly, as it turns out), Dench is stalwart as Bond's frequently disapproving 'M', and Marceau offers a admirably nuanced turn as James' inscrutable love interest, Elektra King. But whatever thespianic points they score for the home team, many more are lost by the woefully inadequate Denise Richards, here doing her best (or is it worst?) Malibu Barbie-nuclear physicist imitation. With each successive bi-annual visit from the world's greatest secret agent, one always hopes that this one will top them all, that this will be the chapter that has as many killer script ideas as killer villains (e.g., Goldfinger, On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Octopussy). Oh, well. There's always 2001. "},{"Title":"this IS Bond...James Bond","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It took Pierce Brosnan three Bond flicks to get it right but, he got it right for sure with this one.  His lines seem effortless, as if he actually likes his Martini...shaken, not stirred.This is certainly the best Bond flick since the Connery days and would have been one of the best of all time had it not been for one thing....Denise Richards.  Her part was weakly written and even more weakly delivered. Richards is out of her element in a big-time, action film sharing time with arguably the most recognized character in the movies today.   Add to that that Marceau, who plays an electrifying and royal Electra King, chewed the scenery in her role as the no one can resist me feme fatale, and Richards looks like a freshman co-ed arriving on campus for the first time.  A deer caught in the headlights.But if you've lost faith in Bond movies lately, this will restore it.  It delivers on all angles while losing the silliness of the past duds dating back to the end of Roger Moore's attempts. "},{"Title":"Mr Brosnan is Not Enough","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me say two things first I like Sean and Timothy too. Now before you hit the escape button let me add I also liked Goldeneye and saw it more than once. It's streamlined spy-story plot,and Sean Bean make it a cure for channelsurf blues, but something is missing from the Brosnan world, maybe I just think he's too skinny. This movie made me ask myself Is it me or are the Bond bad guys getting smaller with each film? Perhaps this is a petty point for real fans like yourselves, but can you see this guy standing up to Oddjob or TeeHee or even Grant in FRWL? Ouch!I can't look. The fight between 007 and Renard looked like two rambunctious teenagers fighting over a video game joystick! Before I start ranting (too late?) I implore you to rent NSNA and watch the fight between Sean Connery and the big Swiss guy SPECTRE hires to make him less of a nuisance. Maybe I like this fight because the film goes out of its way to suggest that 007 may be ready for retirement. I know the purists dislike that movie, but the elder Connery in that film could easily take Pierce Brosnan. I have fought this leaning, as hard as any Bond fan can,since TND came and went, but this latest chapter is, for some reason just as anti-climatic. Time for a new actor? "},{"Title":"After two strikes, Bond hits a home run.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A good blend of mindless action, fun, and a good plot.  They ever follow the three question rule explained in Austin Powers the spy who shagged me were you ask a bad guy the same question three times and he has to answer.GoldenEye was strike one, Tomorrow Never Dies was a foul ball out of the park, and this was a barley good home run. "},{"Title":"echoes of Goldfinger, but its just a gilded copy (possible SPOILER comment)","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It seemed to me that the film makers must have been challenged to come up with something new for this 20'th film. So they went back to the basics.Just like Goldfingers plot was not to steal gold from the Fort Knox repository, but simply to contaminate it and render it useless so as to corner the gold market, so the villains in this film intended only to contaminate the competing oil pipeline areas to make their own successful.Whereas Goldfinger was accompanied by the emotionless Oddjob, the new villainess has an equally emotionless cohort in Renard. But he isn't just cold emotionally, he is actually incapable of any physical sensation at all.Denise Richards' character was simply a gratuitous display of her physical assets. She wasnt very convincing and didnt appear to have much of a role in the film other than to serve as a foil to the wicked Elektra King. I found it interesting that she was first presented as a lesbian (again, echoes of Goldfinger and Pussy Galore?)It just didnt seem very inventive. The only things that were somewhat new were the helicopter with the wheels, the guys with the powered paragliders, and of course, the cool little boat. The car got very little use in the film, which was disappointing. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best Bond","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the fairly mediocre Tomorrow Never Dies, The World is Not Enough puts Bond back in form. It's an intricate plot involving Bond protecting Elektra King (Sophie Marceau) from the villanious terrorist Renard (Robert Carlyle). At first glance this plot may seem like any other simple Bond plot but there are some great twists. Sophie Marceau  is the best actor ever seen in a Bond film. But let's not kid ourselves This is a Bond film.And there are some problems Don't blame Denise Richards;its not a great role. And there are the bad lines, and a corny action scene (the caviar factory). But this is mostly a fairly classy Bond film, and also succeeds as a classy action film.  "}{"Title":"Movie B  DVD  A+","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough	B/A			6.19.00		2.351/5.1 	First Viewing		169 EnhancedHas there ever been a better movie title?  For a popcorn movie, this is not bad.  Much better than &#133;Never Dies.  One great thing about Bond movies is that the DVDs are reference quality in all respects.  Great sound and video, incredible use of the 5.1 system and lots of extras.  "},{"Title":"GOOFS - stunt man visible","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe you could add the following goof for this filmWhen Bond leaves the building where he has been attacked by the helicopters with the tree cutting discs, he rolls down the steps to avoid being hit. As he gets upright near the bottom of the steps we see a clear facial shot of the stunt double. (Even more obvious if you use the VCR pause button, but obvious enough even if you don't) "},{"Title":"Okay I Suppose","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Half-decent Bond vehicle which has all the usual gadgets, explosives and attractive women but which fails to be either particularly interesting or well put together. Often feeling like two films it impresses with it's action scenes but is let down by it's lack of a good couple of baddies. Robert Carlyle simply is not on screen long enough to be effective in his role and the immense fear everyone holds him in isn't at all understandable. Sophie Marceau at least gets a chance to show off her tremendous range of accents (Is it English? French? Russian? Who knows!)and that'll hold her in good stead but I can't help but feel that after Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies this is quite a tame effort in comparison. "},{"Title":"Inside the Actors Studio with James Bond","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A Bond who cries out when he falls against a hard surface? Who looks concerned and scared when the villainess/bed interest gets all PMS-y, confused and hysterical? Who looks hurt, genuinely truthfully injured, when the same woman accuses him of using her as a sexual plaything to pass the time? What's going on here? Did Elia Kazan come out of retirement to humanize the limping franchise? Or did some feminist cat-stroker--a Nancy Savoca or a Gillian Armstrong--strap on their subversion helmet? The auteur, it seems, is Michael Apted--and his work here is his own personal best since 1980's COAL MINER'S DAUGHTER...not to mention the best Bond in about three decades.That ain't saying much. Both Apted's oeuvre and the Bond canon have blown beets in recent times. But Apted's relentless focus on as much human truth as he can wedge into these overpriced episodes of Remington Steele feels welcome, even if it doesn't quite work. (The Bond series needs surreal fun. Bring out Charlie Kaufman.) Sophie Marceau is quite impressive as perhaps the most subtly and exquisitely acted of all bad Bond girls. And as the good Bond girl, Denise Richards should have most heterosexual male eyeballs out on stalks, though Apted and the writers haven't really figured out the optimum use of her--something thus far only Paul Verhoeven, who turned her into a human Lichtenstein painting, has caught.But better written than any Bond since George Lazenby, and boasting the likes of Robbie Coltrane and Judi Dench in supporting roles, this one has some class. Apted gives the scenes a dense real-world texture that you've never felt in a Bond movie before, and it moves. In short, the Jerry Bruckheimer formula works hire some really overqualified people and let them do their best. "},{"Title":"reasonably entertaining Bond flick","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The latest James Bond opus, `The World is Not Enough,' makes for reasonably diverting escapist fare, provided, of course, one is not too discriminating in one's moviegoing demands.  Bursting at the seams with the usual array of high-tech gadgetry and elaborate action stunts (including a spectacular pre-credit boat chase along the majestic Thames), the film once again stars Pierce Brosnan as the intrepid secret agent 007, undergoing a myriad of hairbreadth escapes as he makes the world safe for the democratic forces of the Western world.  The quality of any Bond flick must be measured by how well it fulfills several basic requirements the quality of its stunts, the level of its wit, the beauty of its women, the creativity of its gadgets and the cleverness of its storyline.  `The World is Not Enough' fulfills most of these prerequisites fairly well although much of the humor &#150; except for some scenes early on involving Q &#150; falls miserably flat with the allegedly clever quips and one liners eliciting far more groans than laughs.  The story itself, though it sputters at points, always seems to right itself at crucial moments.  As always, profusion often leads to confusion as more and more characters are introduced then dispatched before we have had time to register exactly who they are or what part they play in the proceedings.  However, the writers and director Michael Apted have provided a solid core around which to build their narrative  the character of Elektra, played winningly by Sophie Marceau, the daughter of an oil tycoon, who provides us, first, with a focal point of humanity and sympathy and, then later on, one of ruthlessness and villainy.  Rendered enigmatic by her dual qualities of warm vulnerability and icy cold malevolence, she turns her every interaction with Bond into a fascinating duel of wills and wits.  That is far more than can be said for the other major female figure in the cast, Christmas Jones, the nuclear physicist with the aerobics-instructor body, who, next to Elektra, looks even more inane and insipid than that description sounds. As to the hardware and the stunts, they, as usual, cannot be faulted in their imaginativeness and technical proficiency, but the unending parade of ear-splitting explosions and gun battles does begin to grow a bit wearying during the overlong 128 minute course of the film.  Some judicious editing would certainly have helped immeasurably in tightening up the proceedings somewhat.`The World is Not Enough' must, finally, be adjudged a success or failure based on one's love or disdain for the Bond series.  Those with no strong feelings either way will find themselves relatively entertained by the movie's assortment of stunts and actions and positively enthralled by the riveting performance of Ms. Marceau - which is about all one can reasonably ask from a film of this nature.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies ever.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was definitely Brosnan's best Bond movie, and one of the best ever made. The only ones that were better were You Only Live Twice and For Your Eyes Only. It had some great action scenes, and a good plot with lots of twists. It had some crappy jokes, although the last line in the movie was great. One thing I don't understand is why everyone calls this movie Bond 19. It's really number 20. All of the Bond movies, approximately in order, are Dr. No, From Russia With Love, Goldfinger, Thunderball, You Only Live Twice, On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Diamonds are Forever, Live and Let Die, For Your Eyes Only, The Spy Who Loved Me, Moonraker, The Man with the Golden Gun, Octopussy, Never Say Never Again, A View to a Kill, The Living Daylights, License to Kill, Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies, and The World is Not Enough. Count them. That's 20. "},{"Title":"Too much brawn and bullets, not enough brain","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The entire James Bond ouevre is a guilty pleasure of mine, but in recent years, my interest has waned.  While I thoroughly like the recently assembled casts of Dame Judi Dench, Pierce Brosnan and John Cleese (a brilliant choice to replace the late and lamented Q), the material just doesn't seem to rise to their talents.The World Is Not Enough has the usual elements evil villain bent on significant world havoc and Bond to the rescue.  What's missing, however, are the detection and character interaction that marked the great Sean Connery Bond films (Moonraker excepted).Instead, we have gunfights and explosions and predictable chase scenes.  I could also do without the '60-ish double entendres and stupid names (here we have a Christmas Jones).  Hey, guys, just say it!I do applaud the filmmakers for taking on the chaos of the new world order, since Bond no longer has Commies to fight and there seems to be a lack of megalomaniacs about.  But John LaCarre's Single and Single (a book) is far more satisfying and works the same turf. "},{"Title":"Big, brash and boisterous - Bond is back!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After two years of intense speculation over plot, cast and budget, James Bond returned, and more spectacular than ever. With a fifteen minute opening sequence, including a boat chase that reputedly cost more than £1 million per minute to make, locations stretching across Europe and Asia and innumerable huge set pieces, The World is Not Enough is certainly not going about the business of being the nineteenth Bond film in a half-assed way.With the Cold War long since gone, Nineties Bond films have struggled to come up with good reasons for the superspy to leave the comfort of his ever-occupied double bed. Last time out, in the generally poor 'Tomorrow Never Dies', Pierce Brosnan was fighting a power-crazed media mogul, this time he's trying to protect the West's oil supplies from insane and superhuman ex-KGB agent Renard (Robert Carlyle). When a rich industrialist and friend of M's is killed, Bond is sent to protect his daughter, Elektra King (Sophie Marceau). The plot, as always, is ridiculous, but then you don't expect a great deal, especially when it gives director Michael Apted an excuse to have such an enormous amount of fun. Several Bond regulars return, including Judi Dench as M, with an expanded role not really adding much to the film and Samantha Bond excellent as Moneypenny. Desmond Llewelyn, who sadly died earlier this year, returned for his seventeenth Bond film as Q and now with John Cleese as an assistant. Robbie Coltrane reprises his 'GoldenEye' role as the treacherous Valentin Zukovsky with Drum'n'Bass guru Goldie as his henchman.All the components are present &#150; the girls, the gags, the gadgets. The jokes have been somewhat upgraded &#150; less of the corny puns (Brosnan was never as good at them as Roger Moore anyway) and more proper jokes that make you laugh rather than wince. The final gag is one exception &#150; a pun so obvious you can see it coming an hour beforehand. Cleese, also, is a total failure in this respect &#150; his brand of slapstick is entirely inappropriate.	At the end of the day, the bad guy is often the deciding factor in whether a Bond film works or not, and Carlyle delivers par excellence. Whereas Jonathan Pryce was effeminate and rather dull in the last outing, Carlyle is both menacing and melancholy, knowing he will soon die from a bullet in his head that means he cannot feel pain. Much has been made of Bond's genesis under Brosnan into a caring man of the Nineties, but here he is just as dispassionately cool as he was when Timothy Dalton wore the famous tux. It is just that his women have minds of their own without being overly macho &#150; he can use them and cheat on them, but now they get over it. His only concession to weakness is a dislocated shoulder obtained falling about 100 feet onto the Millenium Dome. 'The World is Not Enough' is not really a development in the Bond franchise, but it is a very slick addition to the series and a great improvement over the lacklustre 'Tomorrow Never Dies'. "},{"Title":"Great stunts, mediocre plot","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the 19th installment of what has become an institution in filmmaking.  James Bond has to be the most enduring of characters in film.  He has been in Her Majesty's Secret Service for almost 40 years now and barely looks 45!  `TWINE' is true to the late Bond formula.  A flimsy script serves as an excuse for Bond to wreak havoc and mayhem on evildoers in the name of saving the world.  As always, it is full of gadgets, gizmos, lots of corny puns, serial sexual conquests, pyrotechnics, and stunts galore.  It is a genre unto itself, part comedy, part action/adventure, and part sex fantasy.This installment concentrated on taking the action and stunts to a new and exciting level and in that regard succeeded brilliantly.  This was one of the most impressively stunt intense films I've ever seen.  There were stunts that made use of every element; air, water, earth and fire.  Michael Apted set the bar at a new level with innovative and complex stunt work brilliantly done.  The DVD has a bonus feature that gives behind the scenes looks at the stunts and you get a real appreciation for how much planning and work goes into setting each one up.  I was surprised to learn that Pierce Brosnan actually did some of his own stunts.  Also, Apted's choice of locations was fabulous, with some of the most majestic backdrops you will ever see for an action flick.As impressive as the action was, I still long for the days when James Bond films were stories of international intrigue, with strong and mysterious plot lines, rather than a predictable succession of death defying chase scenes.Pierce Brosnan gets high marks this time out in the starring role.  He was witty, charming, cool, tough and very athletic.  Sophie Marceau was alluring as the victim turned villain, though the part was limited in scope.  Besides her bewitching beauty, Marceau is a terrific dramatic actor and this part really didn't allow her much opportunity to show the breadth of her talents (See &#145;Firelight' if you want a better example).  Denise Richards landed her first part playing a grownup in this film.  Her character was included strictly for the titillation factor, a role for which Richards was correctly cast and is amply equipped.  Fortunately, the part did not have a heavy line load and didn't require any real acting, an area in which she has scant assets.This film gets a 10 for the action sequences, and about a 4 for the story.   I split the difference and gave it a 7/10 overall.  As Bond films go, this was one of the more entertaining in recent memory.  Action fans will love it.  For those looking for an intriguing plot line, probably not.   "},{"Title":"Same old fare, different day.  Denise while sexy, was awful.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe you need a Sean Connery to make such formulaic movies more interesting to watch.  Dolph Lundgren has more range and his movies more variety.If you're going to keep the sex and violence implied, you need to do more with the rest. "}{"Title":"Another great piece of Bond action, although slow in places","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Directing the 19th piece of the most successful movie franchise in history is no small task. And the task went, surprisingly, to the much less action-based Michael Apted. Disregarding the critics who slammed the film even before its release, he has done a good job.Pierce Brosnan is, in my opinion, the greatest Bond since Connery, and he steals the show once again. The three women in his life at the moment (why are there always 3?) begin with a government doctor (with a strangely 60s haircut), then the beautiful duo of Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards. Marceau especially oozes seduction, whilst Richards character does not give her enough to build on, leaving her just her Tomb Raider-style costume has a basis. Robert Carlyle plays an exceptional villain, although again there is not enough of him. As usual, we have old regulars Judi Dench, Robbie Coltrane and Desmond Llewelyn, who will be sorely missed in and out of Bond.The film did feel slightly drawn out through the middle, and I was surprised to learn that they actually cut over 30 minutes from the original running time. Indeed it does feel somewhat disjointed, and a better forecast of the film's pacing would not have gone amiss. David Arnold has once again turned to heavy percussion in his score, and there is a good title song by Garbage.A good slice of Bond action from all concerned - roll on number 20! "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films ever. Plenty of action and intrigue.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the okayish Tomorrow Never Dies, I thought that the quality of Bond films had stabilised. I was wrong, this new Bond movie is better than both of its predecessors put together! At first, the storyline of an oil crisis might not sound that interesting, compared to what Bond has faced before, but once you get to know the characters (especially the dynamic Elektra King), there's more than enough to keep you hooked for the whole movie. This Bond movie has the best plot, casting and special effects since Goldeneye. Unlike many other movies, this didn't leave me just waiting for the sequel, this was fun enough by itself. Certainly a must for every Bond enthusiast.  "},{"Title":"THE TIME IS NOW AT HAND TO GIVE UP ON BOND!","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    Let me state for the record that Pierce Brosnan's acting talent gets better with age.  In this film, his portrayal of the title character, James Bond, is superb. (No, he's not Sean Connery, but then is anyone?) And once again, as in all of his Bond performances, Brosnan has chosen to define the character in his own style.  Clearly, this professional choice was a wise one and should be highly applauded.  I also found the prologue tribute to the late Desmond Llewelyn (Q) to be touching and tasteful an outstanding farewell to a wonderful master character actor, whose exit from the role had been planned for the next film in the series, only to be usurped by a tragic and untimely demise.  Let me also state that I could find no fault with the excellent and credible acting of Robert Carlyle as the sinister Renard, the latest Bond villian.  But it should be noted that what made the previous Bond villains so memorable was that, indeed, they did have emotions be as they were, selfish, quite sinister and, for the most part, down-right nasty. However, a villain whose main attraction is his inability to feel pain, or any other physical sensation, holds no real appeal that is translatable to the viewing audience. Bond fans will always remember Goldfinger and Emelio Largo.  I seriously doubt if any will remember Renard.  As for the film itself, I am sorry to report I found, not necessarily predictable, but nevertheless, boring.  Unless that is, you happen to be a computer 'techie' and or combined demolition enthusiast. It is about time that someone informed the film industry that several hundred pounds of explosives does not constitute a good and palatable script.  Nor would it hurt them to study the 'Indiana Jones films to get a handle on the art of action pacing and plot.  Needless to say, one should never trip over or be buried by the other as is so frequently evident in this production blink and you've missed something.  I might also add, in 'real life' I am a scientist, and even I had difficulty keeping track of the quasi-scientific, mumbo -jumbo plot (which by the way was full of technical holes big enough to drive a truck full of explosives through).  The dialogue, or what passed for such, was atrocious. And, to add insult to injury, the females chosen as co-stars (with the notaable exception of the magnificent Dame Judi Dench as M) were deplorable as actresses  and or sex objects.  Finally, the film itself was far too long.  Even in a cut down version from an original 140 minutes to the released 128 minutes, I couldn't wait for it to end.  All in all, I think its fair to say Mr.Bond has had a damn good run.  Let him now, like Q, pass away in quiet timely dignity. "},{"Title":"Dull, recycled Bond Flick.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I tried very hard to like this movie.. but in the end it's just a mediocre action flick.  The directing was awful, the story line was not believable for a moment.  Sure it had a couple of nice scenes (which we've all seen before), like the ski chase and the boat chase.  Denise Richards is about as dumb a nuclear physicist as you can cast.  The other french chic isn't so hot either.  This movie seems like a string of action sequences tied together with a shoestring of a plot.  This Renard character is not sooo evil, not even scary, yet this chic in the hot air balloon is so scared of him that she kills herself.  Bond's car is unremarkable,  hey if it's made out of titanium, then how come that chopper's steel blades sliced through it like a knife in hot butter?  That little speedboat is laughable too.  You really expect us to believe it can go underwater... how about making a boat with an enclosed cockpit so Bond doesn't have to get wet underwater?  The only beleivable character in this is Bond himself.  Brosnan plays him well. It's worth a rental but not much else. "},{"Title":"entertaining but...","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hey the formula still works after forty years! Ok...can we all agree that Denise Richards was a miscast, and can't act to save her life? Tattoo from Fantasy Island would have made a more convincing nuclear physicist. She looks good in a wet t-shirt and daisy duke shorts, but that's about all! *Spoilers ahead*... The action sequence with the helicopter and the tree blade on the dock was a bit long and ridiculous. I am also disappointed that Robbie Coltrane's character was killed off, just as he was getting interesting in the series. As well, a sad farewell to Q, he was the greatest, although John Cleese should fill his shoes quite nicely. I also wish the Renard character had shown a bit more Dr. evil personality. Oh well, it's still a very exciting movie, and worth a rental. Pierce Brosnan is way ahead of Roger Moore and light years ahead of Timothy Dalton.   "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Not Enough","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have been a Bond aficionado since I was 9 years old. I try my best to be as objective as possible when it comes to reviewing a movie on its own merits. But I have to take a stand with this film. The World Is Not Enough (or TWINE for short) is a disappointing addition to the Bond series.And it's not for lack of trying. Oh, it has the obligatory boat chase, ski chase, nuclear bombs, beautiful women, deranged villains, and lots of shooting at bad guys. It has the M confrontation scene and the Q-with-his-gadgets scene. It even has Robbie Coltrane's character from Goldeneye. But that is just not enough.The locations are, for lack of a better word, ugly. Except possibly for the snowy mountains, I don't know any place in TWINE that will pique one's interest in travelling. If that's just an attempt at realism, it fails. Even Tomorrow Never Dies made Hamburg look interesting.If you're one of those who is a stickler for detail, you will spot the continuity errors in the boat chase at the beginning. You will howl at some of the plot holes. (What would make someone fear Renard enough to commit suicide when he seems more like a two-bit hood who's dying anyway? Who *was* Dr. Christmas Jones working for? etc.)But if you are willing to just have fun, you will probably still notice the slack pacing in the ski chase, the mediocrity of Robert Carlysle's Renard, and the flat directing of some of the more interesting actors from Great Britain. And the ending has almost no punch at all. This movie has bad directing and poor writing, and it's painful to experience at times.And then, there's Denise Richards. My word, is she awful! She is undeniably beautiful, but thoroughly unbelievable as a nuclear physicist. She's almost as bad as Tanya Roberts in A View to a Kill without a hint of sophistication or respectability. (Contrast her with Michelle Yeoh or Maud Adams.)I cannot give this film a great vote of confidence. Rent The Saint instead. And if anyone cares for Ian Fleming and James Bond, please retire the character with dignity, or give him a movie worth his stature. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Exhilarating Bond Movies","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Missed it in theater, so just so is yesterday on video. If it was so Exhilarating on video, then I can only imagine how great it would have been on Big Screen. Brosnan is the best without any question. Without him, our beloved hero 007 would not have survived 90s. Brosnan has class and sophistication of previous Bonds, but a cool demeanor and personality suited for action today. Anyone else, and the action would seem cheap and mindless. Brosnan delivers it in cool and calculated way, as if their is a lot of thought behind it.Michael Apted has created a very enjoyable movie, with mind blowing fast pace action. You can feel the blood rushing through your veins. It is just too bad that he made few obvious blunders, that will keep this movie from being classified as a classic. The choice of both women was wrong. Sophie Marceu doesn't seem evil enough, or confident enough, or sexy enough, like the bad girl from Golden Eye. She seems like a chick from Beverly Hills 90210, trying to play the bad cold blooded girl. However, compared to Denise Richards playing a Nuclear Physicist, Sophie gave an  Oscar winning performance. I mean what was Apted  thinking or not thinking? I guess we are beyond the days of just having bimbos, and have progressed to the age where bimbos play nuclear scientists! The scene where she is first introduced, where she is getting out of her scientist suit, is just one of the cheapest ploy to present eye candy that I have ever seen. Also, the characters of 'M' and 'Christmas Jones', do not make any significant contribution in helping Bond. Its almost like the director wanted to make them useful, and was thinking about it, but just forgot about them in the end, and next thing you know the movie was complete. The villain 'Renard' was also not given enough chance to establish an identity. He talked too much and that took away  the mystery of his character. The guy who played bad guy on Gladiator, J. Phoenix, showed what bad character is supposed to be.Other than that, the movie was awesome. The final action sequence kicked butt! One thing that was missing was the Villain's personal assistant, the big bad killer, that Bond always has to fight, and is always mismatched but wins because he is smarter, and then gets to the the Villain in chief.The last line was perfect. I look forward to Bond's return. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking action","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  How can anyone be critical of James Bond films? Especially The World is Not Enough. The introduction displayed very good action, from a boat chase along the Thames to a struggle in a hot air balloon. Although all the previous Bond films were brilliant, excluding On Her Majesty's Secret Service, they couldn't boast about involving famous English landmarks like the millennium dome. To add to a brilliant storyline, the gadgets created several exciting moments along with the superb acting of the best Bond yet, Pierce Brosnan. Who can forget the brilliant one man boat submerging underwater, and the cool, calm, collected James Bond straightening his tie even though he was in a middle of a high speed boat chase, and his enemy was getting away!! I have to admit, the plot did die a little after the introduction. The storyline was good, but the thrilling introduction did it no favours as people were expecting it to be as action packed as the start. The villain, Renard, was genius. A man that can't feel pain! Played by Robert Carlisle, the character Renard was a stroke of genius by the scriptwriters. However, it was a pity to see that he didn't use this physical advantage much to his benefit. Apart from showing off by holding hot rocks, Renard never really bothered Bond as much as he should have. Robert Carlisle did put in a great performance though, as did Pierce Brosnan. A mix between Connery's aggressiveness and Moore's witty charm, Brosnan adds his own sophisticated look! Last but not least, how can we forget Denise Richards? Putting in an impressive performance as Dr.Christmas Jones, she uses her charm (and looks!) to win over male viewers and of course, the man himself, James Bond. I know critics think that the Bond series is dragging on too long, but as long as they're making them as impressive as this, they can make them forever!!!!!!Rating - 9.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Can we get a new storyline please?","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK.  Welcome to the new Millenium, 007.  Your mission this year is to create a movie with a NEW storyline.  I was very disappointed with the movie.  Did the writers sit down and pick names that could have a zillion different puns? It was the same old same old.  007 has to rescue the world from doom and sleep with as many gorgeous women as possible.  All the while keeping that calm, cool, and collected attitude and witty (?) remarks.  The action was very fake.  It was as if he was putting little or no effort into it.  Over all the movie was slow and the casting was awful.  I mean come on Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist? The new Bond Bimbo patrol. John Cleese was funny and Q (Desmond Llewellyn)was still wonderful.  I am a little sad he will no longer show up.  But I know Cleese will do a wonderful job as his successor.  Sophie Morceau was  Electra-fying.  Playing a cold hearted criminal AND caring daughter.  Very realistic acting.  It was as if her character was played by two people.I think we need a new Bond though.  Brosnan is getting boring. In fact 007 is getting boring.  We need to get some fresh storylines, and get rid of the sexist pig Bond.Overall I give this movie 4 stars out of a possible 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Bond movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough is the 19th James Bond movie and the third to star Pierce Brosnan as 007. This is an excellent Bond movie, just as good as Brosnan's two previous Bond films Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies. This 007 adventure has terrific action, beautiful women, and a great sense of humor. It also has some very good performances. The best French actress Sophie Marceau (of Braveheart) just about blows everybody away with her portrayl of Elektra King, the daughter of an oil tycoon Bond is ordered to protect. She's a great addition to the series of Bond women from the past to the present. Denise Richards (of Starship Troopers) is very good as the other Bond woman, nuclear scientist Dr. Christmas Jones (another awkward name the writers came up with). I still can't understand why most people hated this character. I think Richards is just fine in this role. Robert Carlyle (of The Full Monty) is good as bad guy Renard. Robbie Coltrane is hilarious as Valentin Dmitrovich Zukovsky. As for the returning Bond series regulars besides Brosnan, it's great to see Judi Dench back as M this time with a much bigger part (thanks in part to her small Oscar-winning role in Shakespeare in Love). Samantha Bond is also back as Miss Moneypenny. I think Lois Maxwell, who was the original Miss Moneypenny for the first 14 Bond films, is proud of the job that Bond has done. And finally, Desmond Llewelyn came back for the last time as gadget inventor Q. Sadly, Llewelyn died a month after the release of this movie. He was one of the best things about the James Bond movies. When I went to see the last couple of 007 flicks on the big screen, I couldn't wait to see the presence of Desmond Llewelyn. He was terrific in all the Bond movies he appeared in. He brought a lot of humor to the part of Q and those inventions were a gas. His presence will surely be missed. Getting back to the movie, The World Is Not Enough is great fun from start to finish. Make sure you check out the pre-credits opening of this movie. It's a blast.***1/2 (out of four)  "}{"Title":"The World Is Not Enough... but 19 Bonds are","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's quite amazing that more Bond films are still being made after almost 40 years, and if you watch 'The World Is Not Enough' you can see that they have indeed overdone it all.  Every joke and every action-piece - however spectacular - is nothing new.  We've seen it all before, and done just as well if not better.No disrespect to Pierce Brosnan though, who in my opinion gives his best performance as 007 yet, and also Sophie Marceau, who makes a perfect villainess.  I can't say the same for Denise Richards however - a believable Lara Croft, yes, but nuclear scientist??  Still, the late Desmond Llewelyn as 'Q' has made a fine last performance, and I think the films will lose something without his memorable presence.Overall, this film is very watchable for pure entertainment value, but I hope the Bond producers will consider calling it a day before they ruin what was, in the beginning, a great phenomenon.    "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Solid Entry into the 007 series","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Im a really big fan of the James Bonds so I had to see this twice in the theaters. The first time i thought it was rather disappointing and dull but the second time...it was total entertainment.After 19 outings James Bond hasnt lost it yet. This has the normal action, gadgets, locations, villains, and girls. Pierce Brosnan is probably the best actor to play 007 (along with Connery and Moore).There are people who say that oy its the same stuff everytime and its never going to change. Well theyre right but James Bond will never change. We will always want to hear him say Bond James Bond again and again...so face it 007 will be the same forever.I enjoyed this film very much. Its better then Goldeneye but not as good as Tomorrow Never Dies. There are problems with the film. For one the villain Renard is great concept but is so underwritten that we forget hes there. The screenwriters should have developed him more and drop Electra King from being the bad guy.The action this time around the action is a re hash of the older 007 films. The opening sequence was the best part of the movie and probably one of the best opening sequences. We have seen the skiing chase before but its lamely done. The bunker and helicopter sequences are good but then the climax which should be the best part is lame.I have notice something about the action scenes in the last 3 007 films they all concentrate on one thing.Like in Goldeneye it was stunt sequences, In Tomorrow Never Dies its shoot outs and this one there are lots of explosion.It does matter if there on snow something will blow. Theres no huge shoot outs or fights on a top high buildings...no we get a fist fight in a tilted submarine. Oh Well at least Densie Richards wet tank top saves the ending.The cast is fine. The usuals return M,Q, and Moneypenny. Valentin returns from Goldeneye in an amusing role. We are introduced to R played by John Cleese who is seemly going to replace Q. Sadly Desmond who has played Q was killed in December...he will be missed. The girls this time are more sexy then TND. Denise Richards is the sexist, perhaps she lacks credibilty on being a nuclear scientist but I enjoyed her preformence more then Marceua.In the end despite numerous flaws this remains a entertaining time and an above average 007 film. EnjoyReview 8/10  "},{"Title":"Brosnan in his element","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion The World is Not Enough is easily Pierce Brosnan's finest outing as James Bond.  I would even be tempted to call this the greatest Bond since say The Spy Who Loved Me if not for The Living Daylights. To begin with we (the audience) get more action packed into the first 15 minutes than most full length movies provide.  Some have complained of the boat chase's length but I found every minute of it pulse pounding. The story is too involved to explain here and I find this another good point.  The plot is intricate and believeable and the film is populated with wonderful actors, with the sad exception of Denise Richards.  All the same Sophie Marceau, both beautiful and talented, more than makes up for Ms. Richards.  Robert Carlyle is chilling without going over the top.  Judy Dench's increased screen time is quite interesting despite my misgivings about bringing M into the fray.  And Brosnan shines.  He is both cruel and unforgiving as well as witty and nonchalant, something that only Connery had achieved before this.But for all this it is also a great 007 adventure.  There are plenty of explosions, fast vehichles, beautiful women, gambling, vodka martinis, skiing, guns, Q gadgets(sadly the last from Q), and the world's most style consious secret agent in the middle of it all.  Above all else this film is exciting entertainment, and for that there is only one name...Bond, James Bond.  "},{"Title":"Lives on a good Bond-feeling.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"                               **Please excuse me for some spelling mistakes**                              I'm afraid ''The World Is not enough'' have the same sickness as the very lousy                               ''Tomorrow Never Dies''. It is just too much over explored actionscenes, and too                               many people gets killed for a Bondmovie.                              It would be stupid not to compare t.w.i.n.e with any other Bondmovie, and then it                               is painfully obvious that this one is quite low in the list. But it has one thing that                               ''Tomorrow never dies'' didn't (and not ''License to kill'' either buy the way).                               Some real Bond-feeling. There is a lot of things that are wrong in this movie, but I                               still think that it is a pure Bondmovie. The quick lines (''I've always wanted to                               have christmas in Turkey'') are perfect and everything else seem to fit in. But it is                               tragic to admit it, but it was better in the old days Bondmovies and in the new                               ones the glamour disapears. They will never make a Bondmovie like they did                               before. Go see ''From Russia With love'' and ''Goldfinger'' to see what Bond                               really is all about. My rating is 3 out of 5.                              The bad guys are not as mean as they were before... i think i have to cry                               **Please excuse me for some spelling mistakes**                              I'm afraid ''The World Is not enough'' have the same sickness as the very lousy                               ''Tomorrow Never Dies''. It is just too much over explored actionscenes, and too                               many people gets killed for a Bondmovie.                              It would be stupid not to compare t.w.i.n.e with any other Bondmovie, and then it                               is painfully obvious that this one is quite low in the list. But it has one thing that                               ''Tomorrow never dies'' didn't (and not ''License to kill'' either buy the way).                               Some real Bond-feeling. There is a lot of things that are wrong in this movie, but I                               still think that it is a pure Bondmovie. The quick lines (''I've always wanted to                               have christmas in Turkey'') are perfect and everything else seem to fit in. But it is                               tragic to admit it, but it was better in the old days Bondmovies and in the new                               ones the glamour disapears. They will never make a Bondmovie like they did                               before. Go see ''From Russia With love'' and ''Goldfinger'' to see what Bond                               really is all about. My rating is 3 out of 5.                              The bad guys are not as mean as they were before... i think i have to cry "},{"Title":"Don't you just love James Bond!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The nineteenth 'official' 007 opus sees Bond leaving the twentieth century in style. After so many adventures the audience more than knows what to expect. With this in mind, it still baffles me when people complain about the tiredness and sameness the series lapses into. A simple fact should be noted here, a review stating that a Bond movie is unoriginal ain't a review in the first place!!  Unoriginality is part of the series' charm and the audience does not take kindly to major changes to the proceedings. 'The world is not enough' is a great action movie in its own right. A superb pre-title sequence takes place on the river Thames in London - death defying stunts reign supreme. Bond movies are the benchmark for cinematic action. The contribution the series gives the industry in this field is immeasurable. Well where's the review of the movie I hear you ask! If you've seen one then you have the blueprint for many. Here Bond is sent to protect 'Elektra King' a wealthy heiress to an oil empire. En route he encounters various baddies who have their own vested interested in Ms King, primarily 'Renard' played by Robert Carlyle is top of this list. Sadly the film marks Desmond Llewelyn's last appearance as 'Q'. Ironically in this film 'Q' is all set to retire and is provide with an assistant - 'R'. Therefore future generations will deem this as the way 'Q' is written out of the series. However, tragically Mr. Llewelyn was killed in a car crash not long after the film had been released, - he will be missed greatly. The Brosnan era has returned 007 to the forefront of cinemagoing audiences. Both Pierce and his alter ego are a success. Future predictions, the aforementioned actor will stay with the franchise until 2007 thus clocking up seven bond films, after which some other actor will take over for a few movies but won't be accepted in the role, following this a long-term replacement is found, thus the cycle continues. In short, Bond movies are just like diamonds - they are forever!   "},{"Title":"I wanted to make a couple of points!!!","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think it`s the best of the Brosnan Bond films, that`s not really saying much.... But again like every James Bond film it goes on and on and on.....It could have been cut by 30 minutes no problem. MY big comment is the casting of Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones.. A nuclear scientist, what a joke!!! What a terrible actress!!! The director seemed focused on shooting her in a wet halter top... It only added to my laughter. Denise Richards recently won worst supporting actress in the Razzies.. An award she deserved.. "},{"Title":"So Good It Even Denise Richards Can't Ruin It","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When it was announced Pierce Brosnan would be taking over the role of Bond, I for one was extremely worried.  Having lived through the worst of the Roger Moore Bond films (Moonraker and A View to a Kill), I was pleasantly surprised by Timothy Dalton's rendition of the part, which returned to the no-nonsense style shown by Sean Connery in Dr. No and From Russia With Love.  Given my prior experience with Brosnan was primarily with Remington Steele, you can imagine why I was concerned.Goldeneye was much better than I imagined, as was Brosnan in it, and Tomorrow the World was not nearly as bad as it could have been.  With The World Is Not Enough, Brosnan and the series seem to have hit full stride again.The plot is wonderfully complex, setting up a marvelous twist halfway through that sustains the plot through the last half of the film.  The performances (one excepted) are uniformly excellent.  Brosnan gives his character the kind of depth (e.g., guilt over failure to protect loved ones -- you can almost see Teresa Bond's face in his eyes) reflected in Connery's and Dalton's performances, which makes Bond all the more dangerous.  Sophie Marceau and Judi Dench also gives a wonderfully multi-layered performance, as a woman with more going on in her mind than the audience can begin to comprehend. Robbie Coltrane is a lot of fun in his third go-round as Bond's Russian-gangster contact Zurofsky, and John Cleese looks to be a promising new addition to the series.  Best of all the performances is that of Robert Carlyle as the chief villain -- his villain has to be one who feels nothing, yet there are key moments (particularly with Sophie Marceau) where the dispassionate mask falls ever so slightly.  This is the sign of a great actor -- the things he can tell you without saying a word.Which leaves Denise Richards -- what can be said about a mediocre actress playing (unconvincingly) a nuclear scientist named Christmas Jones.  Ah, well, every rose must have its thorns; fortunately, there are a lot more petals than thorns on this rose.A final note should be made about Desmond Llewelyn, in his swan song as Q. Cleese will probably do a fine job in the role he seems set to take on, but there's something about Llewelyn that will be seriously missed about the series.  From his dyspeptic reactions to Bond's treatment of his work to the later films where he truly develops a link with Bond, Llewelyn's personality has always been a welcome one to the films.  Having closed out his career as Q just before his own untimely death, Llewelyn's final line of the series takes on a truly poignant note -- Always have an escape plan.  All true Bond fans will miss him. "},{"Title":"Good flim but not the best.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the better bond flims but was not one of the great bond flims there was not enough action in it. The story was one of the best one`s that is what i liked the best about this one. The one villian was not really good i thought the male one the female was very good but rather bad at times during the movie.  "},{"Title":"simply a Bond movie! Anyway it is not my favorit type of movies","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In fact I don't watch this kind of movies. I avoid principally movies with violence, smart men with guns and beautiful women who fall in love at once and sleep with them, and especially when they such an aggressive enemy! This could be the main plot of many movies. Anyhow I watched it because I wanted to have some change and watch a movie in English since most of the movies here in Germany are dubbed. I also wanted to watch the beautiful Sophie Marceau. Well there is not much to tell about. The main idea that crossed my mind was that James Bond parody movies like Austin Powers are not really necessary since James Bond makes fun of himself in his movies! Another thing is that I never can understand why could be some people so wicked, at least in movies? Adding to that a bunch of scientific mistakes were unsurvivable situations like for example holding a Plutonium rod without being fatally radiated (the consequences should manifest later). The music was good and in fact I passed a nice time mocking of Bond and friends. It is also always a delight to watch Sophie, although I prefer to watch her in better movies. "},{"Title":"Standard Bond film with some new character changes.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This standard Bond flick seems to be continuing the slow move toward set pieces separated by weak storyline, although in this film two things stood out, and they weren't attached to Denise Richards! The latest Bond baddie is deliciously evil, yet even he seems to be mislead and all too human, despite his superhuman qualities. Bond himself is meaner than normal, showing a harder edge brought about by his loyalty, and quite possibly affection, towards M. The storyline is stock, with the ante upped on the stunts, set pieces and one liners, with more personal involvement from M and an spooky appearance from Q, it's a must for all Bond fans and a good evenings entertainment for non-fans. Let's hope the next Bond film emphasises more on Bonds' hard edge and character development only touched on here. "}{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best Bond movie involving Pierce Brosnan. I won't say that it is the best Bond movie ever because each Bond movie is specific to its time. But for once Brosnan shows that he can be mean as well when he kills Elektra towards the end. Denise Richards has a very full figure that is put to good use in the movie but she is definitely a misfit as a physicist. Renard is not the best Bond villain I have seen but I guess he passes of ok. Do see it. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This the best Bond movie involving Pierce Brosnan. I won't say that it is the best Bond movie ever because each Bond movie is specific to its time. But for once Brosnan shows that he can be mean as well when he kills Elektra towards the end. Denise Richards has a very full figure that is put to good use in the movie but she is definitely a misfit as a physicist. Renard is not the best Bond villain I have seen but I guess he passes of ok. Do see it. "},{"Title":"Not enough.","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's painfully obvious that the people jumping around declaring this to be the best Bond film ever are those who haven't even *seen* a Bond film before GoldenEye. Yes, you know what to expect from these things and as such you go in prepared to cut the film plenty of slack, but now it's just starting to get ridiculous. TWINE's got sexism in spades, tragic one-liners that you can see coming half an hour away, and any semblance of credibility shot down in flames by whoever went out and cast Denise Richards - they may as well have called the film Just Give Us Your Money And Sod Off. I'll admit that she wasn't half as bad as I was expecting, but the sentiment still stands...It's not all bad, no. There are some good action scenes, though they're mostly swiped from older films. Sophie Marceau gives it a bit of class, as of course does good old Dame Judi, but the interesting Angry Bond hinted at in the very first scene just fails to materialise - and Carlyle's Renard is a non-event (right, bullet in the head, great, senses destroyed, fantastic, what kind of imaginative plot twists can we get out of this? Er...) They could at least have given him the chance for a Roy Batty-style slow, natural death (and, God forbid, a bit of philosophising) instead of the sigh-inducing Standard Villain Finisher we get here. And that's not exactly a spoiler when it's a Bond film you're talking about.Disappointing on the whole, then. Not without merit as a brainless action flick, but there should be a *bit* more to Bond than that, surely.  "},{"Title":"Not Bond as I know and love.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My only real problem with TWINE is there is no big Bond final set piece, just a sunken submarine with a real claustraphobic feeling. I grew up with Bond and the big finales, and that's what i loved about Bond, a lot of people don't like Goldeneye, but the Satellite dish ending does it for me, and the N64 game is the cherry on top. What I can say about TWINE is that it has probably the best starts to a Bond film, it is such a cool intro, but once the stylish credits are over the film becomes slow, and there isn't enough action, though there seems to be a lot of gadgets, and did the BMW have to suffer such an painful death. Critics say Brosnan plays his best as Bond in this, but IMHO I didn't see anything wrong with his previous ones. Had this had a big ending, i could have forgiven all it's negative stuff. Friends say they can forgive it purely on the basis of the last line being so good. "},{"Title":"what a waste of talent","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan was capable, as usual, but the writers and casting people were not up to par.  Dench is so wonderful in other films, but her M was written rather dim. Her character got some action, but was not developed well enough. John Cleese's talent was completely wasted.I figured out the bad girl/daughter as soon as she was introduced, why didn't M? This one issue is just one symptom of the poor writing in this Bond. The sexual innuendos, historically silly, were no longer clever, they were just crude.The female cast was one of the worst ever. I've heard Ms. Richards and Ms. Marceau have better performances in other films.  Ms. Richards looks barely out of High School and is not convincing as a PhD senior scientist. The writers did neither of the women favors with their insipid dialogue.  If Dr. Jones did not want jokes about her name, why not just use Dr. Jones or Chris?Casting people should take a clue from the other Brosnan film last year, Thomas Crown Affair, and cast more mature women in some roles.By the way, what brain trust thought they should kill off the Russian, a great repeating character?A real let down after the previous Bond film. "},{"Title":"Better than the others ??","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I´ve seen yet all the James Bond movies and I think that the last three films with Pierce Brosnan are not as good as they were predicted.When you watch the old films with Sean Connery and Roger Moore you can find a plog in the most cases. But when I had to watch GoldenEye three times to understand what the plog was, this film cannot be called good. (See other recommendations about GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies)With the last two movies it was the same case - too much action and too less story. But maybe it is today´s  viewer who just wants to see action without understanding what happens, I  don´t know.I hope that the next James Bond-movies won´t be a bad copy of the old ones, but witty-interesting ones.Comment by S.F. Loehr "},{"Title":"The best Brosnan Bond movie.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye was bad, TND was horrible but The World Is Not Enough was okay! It is not one of the best Bond films but still, it's almost nearly as good as some of the old Bonds! Robert Carlyle was pretty good, Sophie Marceau was surprising, Denise Richards was not a very convincing nuclear technician(but she had other qualities...) and, most important, Pierce Brosnan finally had a chance to be a real James Bond, not is usual Rambo style secret agent. Garbage did a good job with the theme song(as did Sheryl Crow). Its an okay Bond, and a huge leap away from the last 3 movies. This is not one of the best Bonds, but its so much better than the last 3 that I will give it 68%!!! "},{"Title":"Best in quite some time","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan finally comes into his own in the latest 007 flick.  While the genre still suffers from formulaic plots, this one seems to take that into consideration.  It seems more time and money was spent on a story that keeps you interested, rather than waiting for the next stunt.  Brosnan seems to have finally discovered that you need a sense of humour when playing Bond. He didn't seem to get it in his earlier efforts.  The smug smile of Connery or the bedroom smile of Moore have been missed, but maybe they are not forgotten quite yet.  If this movie is a reflection of what to expect from here on in, then we will have something to look forward to in the future. Carlyle is a better villain, Marceau was fun as the is she good, is she bad girl, and Coltrane added some very funny lines.  The only terribly miscast role went to Denise Richards.  Although wonderful to look at, she just isn't convincing as a nuclear physicist (if that's really necessary). To sum up, certainly worth the price of admission and popcorn.  Having wrote this, I think I'll go see it again! "},{"Title":"Great in parts, but hollow as a whole","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this film and pondering over it for a few weeks, I can't help but think that it could have been so much more. TWINE is a bond film constucted of superb parts but lacking as a whole. Robert Caryle as the baddie had his many fans across UK and the rest of the world salivating at the prospect of that most talented of young British actors turning his hand towards Bond villany. Especially once the extremely imaginative and potentially thrilling character details became known. But where was he in this film? Yes he had all the glorious menacing presance we had hoped for, but he hardly appeared in the film, the role of head bad 'guy' being given to the entirely unconvincing and unimmpressive Sophie Marcau. Denise Richards made a suitably beautiful Bond girl, but her role in the film was unclear. After the escape from the missile silo, she had no reason to tag along with Bond, in fact her presence was absurd as 007 is supposed to be a top secret agent. And OK, the romance in Bond films is rarely convincing, but this one just seemed to spring from nowhere, just to have the out of place Roger Moore style ending. The action sequences were uninspiring, with the obvious exception of the blistering pre-credits scenes. Bonds car seemed to be made of wood and the climatic battle was hardly on the scale of the best Bond films, not even that of recent Bond films. The locations used were also rather dull and uninteresting, again with the exception of the Greenwich scenes. We've seen the world through Bond films a thousand times, and I think it's about time we brought him home and saw some more scenes in good old Blighty for a change. And I DON'T mean that ridiculous picture postcard Scotland that belongs in a crass Hollywood production rather than British venture such as Bond. The real shame is that there were some great elements. The boat chase and Carlyle's bad guy have already been mentioned, but putting M in the field was also a very successful idea, as was the return of Robbie Coltrane. Goldie was great as the sniveling henchman and it was good to see so many black actors appearing in major roles. Finally, the sad departure of the late Desmond Llewellyn was well handled and Brosnan is still acting a great 007. Nonetheless, after all that waiting, I can't help thinking that this film could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Bland, James Bland","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Now there were bland entrees in the James Bond series. Take View to a Kill for instanzzzzzz. Yeah, but you had 57 year old Roger Moore hooking up with Grace Jones and Duran Duran dating the whole affair... Nothing screams out mid-eighties like Duran Duran. Than you had You Only Live Twice back in 67, but you had novelties attached to that oafish vehicle, such as Roald Dahl's screenplay and Donald Pleasence Blofeld and the least grating of all Bond tunes. So Connery and Moore both had their dog days, but none were as shamefully anti- attention span as The World is Not Enough. As a struggling film student I cannot even fathom how studio execs allowed this off the assembly line. Uninspired regurgitated cliches of the worst Bond films. This film will make Anti-Roger Moores rethink MoonRaker as a joke. More like the creme de la creme compared to Brosnan's shameful nothingness. Come to think of it, there isn't much to comment on since this is a gaping void of creativity. It was like a two hour commercial, (advertising Denise Richards' assets mostly). Brosnan was once quoted as noting how long it took some of the older entries to get off the ground. This one gets a little air than rapidly crashes. I am an avid Bond fan (with Lazenby being my all time favorite Bond) and his death is in good order. Actually I wouldn't mind seeing Lazenby come and put him out of his misery. He's got more paniche in one long tooth than Brosnan does on his whole person. Sub-rating of negative four stars.  "}{"Title":"better acting than action","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not one of the greater Bond entries, but worthwile mostly because of Sophie Marceaus efforts. Brosnan is still OK in this part, and I find this film more interesting and coherent than the previous Tomorrow never dies. That one almost drowned in it's own desperation for eye-catching stunt sequences. However, Denise Richards is less than brilliant here. "},{"Title":"this Bond sucks","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  this Bond is one of the worst Bonds I have ever seen. Bad story, bad acting, overlong. The story is really stupid, and overdone. Hope that the next bond will be twice as good, if its not, I will never go and watch a Bond movie again "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies yet!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH was excellent (Except Denise Richards wasn't really fit for a Bond movie). This is Brosnan's best one yet, and his best job as 007. I really liked the conspiracy that is uncovered, and the action sequences are good. I didn't like R (Q's replacement) and I was sad to see Q leave (in the movies as well as in real life-Desmond Llewyn, God rest his soul). The gadgets were cool, especially the sunglasses. The little humor and sarcasm that Bond says was good, as it is in all of Brosnan's Bond films This was one of my favorite Bond films and recommend it to any Bond fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Typical Bond; a heck of a good ride","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let's face it, no one goes to a James Bond film to have an intellectually stimulating evening.  You go for the thrills, the humour, and the sexy outfits.  This fits in all counts.As is usual, some evil person is out to destroy the world.  Also as usual, Bond is sent to stop him.  Along the way, Bond meets interesting women, and gets in and out of trouble.  No surprise here. But this is fun, none the less.  New things here are the introduction of R, played by John Cleese, Q's assistant who is more funny and witty than Bond himself (believe it or not) and could be considered more interesting than Q was (may he rest in peace). Also, M (Dame Judi Dench) gets far more involved in the events than any supervisor has ever been before, and this works really well.All in all, a damn fine time and a really good outing.  See it on the biggest screen you can. "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best Bond movies","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  To cut it short one of the best Bond movies of all time and definitively much better than the last two. At last, Brosnan is convincing, however Marceau & Carlyle steal the show with their superb performances. (Bye the way Thank God Judi Dench took the role of M four years ago! Simply fantastic...) Good story, good characters (especially Marceau's complex Elektra King). Fantastic action scenes (especially pre-title sequence!), although most of them are not really new... Worst thing Denise Richards as a wanna-be Lara Croft AND a physician (How old is she????) - just bad casting! "},{"Title":"It's simply awful","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It becomes more and more difficult to watch James Bond movies because so many spoof have been made about the serie. After the release of Austin Power, I almost quit watching Bond movies. I went to see TWINE and absolutely hated every minute of it. Even the opening scene which usually gives the tempo to the movie is awfully bad. The stunts are nothing new and Sophie Marceau is credited for probably the worst performance of her career. I have to give it a 1/10. "},{"Title":"two hours worth of machine gun shooting","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  No action movie should be longer than 100 minutes. This one is 140. And I hope someone soon will understand that machine gun shooting and explosions are B*O*R*I*N*G! Stop that crap! But we also have to say that Bond has never chosen a better moment to tighten his tie, and the Bond babes have never been prettier. - 5/10 "},{"Title":"I hated it","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The worst movie I've seen since that re-make of The Haunting. Redeemed marginally by Judi Dench and a great title sequence. The script was appalling - yes, we expect Bond movies to follow a formula but this was formulaic and convoluted at the same time. I know kids in the theatre had trouble following the plot. Hell, I had trouble. Ah well... plenty of explosions to distract the kids, and way too much bad bad dialogue to distract the rest of us.  Is it just me or is Pierce Brosnan morphing into Roger Moore?  It won't help. Sorry to repeat the biggest cliche of them all but, yes... there'll only ever be one real movie Bond and I don't even have to say his name. Mind you... I can't wait for Rupert Everett's gay take on the franchise. Hope Hollywood/someone has the sense to run with it. It's the kind of twisty revamp the series is crying out for.  "},{"Title":"Too long, too unlikely and too complicated","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yawn, yawn. Glad it was all over in the end. Where's the suspense in this one? More stunts, action and sexual jokes than ever. But this time, like often, more is not better. Watch Denise Richards as the most unlikely, terrific looking, below 25 years old nuclear scientist in the most unlikely place on earth. On the positive side though , she has a nice pair. Of shoes.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, minor flaws","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it is not that hard to rate this James Bond better than its four predecessors it's fast paced but takes its time. It actually developes plot, story and character. You really find acting in the film -- lots of acting, from Judi Dench through Robert Carlyle, Sophie Marceau up to Pierce Brosnan. The script has some good (and some not so good) jokes; some jokes concerning Q became stale if not quite cynical after his death in a car accident. At some points you find even tragedy in the movie, last time seen in the unlucky but good OHMSS. Another interesting thing, the movie has direction! Michael Apted was the the best decision for many a year (including Martin Campbell, who is not that bad, but was a bit to heavily counting on fast paced comic book action), he directs not just one action scene after another but takes interest in the characters. Now for the flaws they are minor because the flawed scenes are still enjoyable. One is the neither very funny nor suspenseful action sequence in the caviar factory. Rather bad looking. And then, can anybody tell me what Goldies role was meant to be? The only good thing about it is a nice joke in the casino ... but they are doing nothing with him. To end on a happy note, the film looks good (does anybody remember the ridiculous closing sequence of Tomorrow Never Dies, in the pool?) and has all the typical ingredients of the Fleming novels and the early films. "}{"Title":"Well, I guess we shouldn't be too picky....","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ...it is a Bond film, after all. And brainless escapism has its place. Nonetheless, it seems clear that the producers are trying to make the film appeal to teenage boys, with all the subtlety of slang-misusing parents trying to prove their hep-factor to their kids. Some of the casting was a mistake, and the music was god-awful.Denise Richards looks like she just got her drivers' license, and exhibits all the talent of a Beanie Baby. She was terribly miscast - Bond chicks, even the ingenues, are usually a little more sophisticated. Sorry, but I imagine it took a lot of rehearsals for her to not say nukular. Well, at least there was that long wet t-shirt scene. That's what most people will remember.Perhaps it's my imagination, but I thought Brosnan looked a little pained in the last scenes, uttering such immortal dialogue as I thought Christmas only came once a year. Oh, blecch. Sophie Marceau did all right, although her character was too two-dimensional even for a Bond flick, but jeez! sadly Robert Carlyle was not given much to work with and was not a terribly threatening baddie. John Cleese had barely anything to do, and didn't seem too interested in doing it well.I personally like Brosnan as Bond, so no complaints there. The opening sequence was good - wish la bella italiana had had more screen time. Now THERE's a Bond babe for you. I missed Michelle Yeoh, too.Lots of explosions. Obvious plot twists. A plethora of factual errors. So what? These things are to be expected. The only true crime committed in this movie was the pathetic pandering to the kiddies. If the Bond dynasty is to live on, it must focus on what it does well, and not get sidetracked like this.  "},{"Title":"Why are we still going to see Bond movies?","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The unchallenged perfection of Sean Connery created a saga and a perennial absolutely male character. This is what makes millions of people still going to see some typically pointless, silly and simplistic movie. I guess no one really cared for the sake of anyone in this film, we were just expecting the martini scene, the my name is Bond scene, the bed scenes and the fabulous curves of the two female leads and Z8. Some action scenes were so funny they reminded me of Kevin Costner ridiculous performance in Waterworld. Generally you all know why you saw this film and this has nothing to do with quality. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but still good!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that this latest 007 movie is better than the last one, but worse that the first Pierce Brosnan film (Goldeneye). Still lots of new cool Bond gadgets, however, I would of liked to see the car do more, or Bond actually driving it before it got cut in half. For die-hard Bond fans, this one should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Why isn't Bond deaf?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TWINE is a movie made to formula, but its a time-tested formula and it works.  That's the good news.  The bad news is that the movie takes no chances and so offers very little that's new to a Bond fan but more of the same.  Worse, it seems to have abandoned all the Fun Stuff that is necessary to build to Potential Armageddon.  Instead of long suspenseful segments on a train or underwater, we're subjected to explosion after explosion after explosion.  Bond movies have always required a certain amount of suspension of disbelief, but its easier to accept that Bond can walk after torture than it is to accept that he can still hear after the big booms constantly around him.Q Makes a nice exit and Cleese will be a good R, and it was great to see M get in on the action.  But the plot made less sense than usual (there are other pipelines, other oil fields) and the final sex jokes were way overdone.  Mostly, you're left with the flash and sound of explosions ringing in your eyes are you leave the theater.In the middle of the Bond pack of movies, but you think they could do a bit better with all the experience they have.  The best Bond movies have combined subtlety with the over-the-top heroics.  But 'subtle' is not to formula, alas. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BETTER BOND MOVIES !","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a good Bond movie,BUT I'm kind of disapointed on how the Bond movies have changed over the years....I think the last GREAT Bond movie was Licence To Kill. After Licence to Kill, I find the Bond movies completley changed....this one was good,actually! I'm not going to tell the plot (read another review for that) but this movie is worth seeing, especially if you like Action movies and another 007 show, For You Eyes Only. The guy who played Renard did a great performance and so did John Cleese.(the guy who played R and also played Monty Python) I can't wait till another 007 comes to theater, and I hope they will have a different actor,this time,as Bond!!!! "},{"Title":"what a disappointment!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  i don't know why, but i was very disappointed with the newest Bond entry. I liked the last ones with Pierce Brosnan (what a name!), but this was so incredibly boring, it just wasn't interesting! This has got to be one of the worst Bonds ever! The plot was unneededly complicated, i got totally lost in it! And when a plot gets too complicated, it gets boring. This one has the most dull and cheesy jokes ever with a totally wasted John Cleese. There are two, no three good parts about the film the opening scene and Denise's breasts. "},{"Title":"Bond is back","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well bond certainly came back with a bang this time, full of the usual stunts, wisecracks and one liners.  This film puts Pierce Brosnan up to number 2 best ever Bond as nobody could ever surpass Connery.A couple of little plot holes appeared but the action carried it through, Marvelous performance from the beautiful Sophie Marceau, but a bit shaky from the miscast Denise Richards as Christmas Jones Nuclear Scientist, although with eye candy like that who cares!World is Not Enough  8/10  "},{"Title":"Somewhere in the Middle","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I'm just getting blase, but TWINE just doesn't quite do it for me. It isn't the worse by any means (no matter how much post-revisionist Moonraker folks weigh in), but it's not the best.  The main thing is that it seems so...formulaic.  Which is ironic, but maybe 20+ movies is too long.It's not that the writers do't try.  We get a few altered elements, like the main villain.  And there's a lot of psychological angst (like in Goldeneye *uggh*).    So it's a marginal 90's kinda spin on the basic themes.Part of it is that Bond needs a decent villain.  Sorry, but Ranard just doesn't cut it for me here.  Say what you will about Tomorrow Never Dies, at least Pryce plays a Bond Villain(tm).  Ranard would be lucky to get hired on as Goldfinger's backup henchman.Bond movies, to me, have also been about exotic scenery.  TWINE fails to deliver here.  There are a few establishing shots, a decent outdoor mountain ski-chase, and then *poof* everyone's inside.  Apartments, submarines, inside pipelines, cells...this is the first time claustrophobic Bond movie. Istanbul, Hong Kong, Baku, Moscow...who can tell?  Everyone's inside most of the time, or on a featureless dock.The main Bond girl is okay, and as for Denise Richards...well, I think enough has been said of her.  She's there so that Bond can get a girl at the end.  Marceau is good, but Chrismas Jones...?  Bah, give me a Pussy Galore or even a Solitaire any day of the week.Pierce Brosnan is adequate for the role.  He is hard-edged here, and I don't think that's out of character for Bond-in-the-movies.  Connery's Bond shoots an unarmed man dead in Dr. No, Moore wasn't adverse to breaking an arm or two in his earlier days, and Timothy Dalton was ruthless.As for the rest of the cast, okay.   Judi Dench is okay, although it's hard to imagine the old M getting into these kinds of scrapes.The plot?  Who cares.  Although I must admit, as someone else noted, watching these folks casually juggle unshielded plutonium is kinda funny. It's basically an excuse for them to chase around the landscape...but again, they're mostly indoors.  *grrr*Basically, an average entry into the series. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't ordinarily go for action movies, but this one was very exciting and fun. It did drag on in a couple of parts, but for the most part kept me on the edge of my seat. I especially enjoyed the scene at the beginning with the motor boats! And I think Pierce Brosnan makes a terrific Bond! "},{"Title":"James Bond is forever","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond is still active and fighting for our freedom... This version is not as bad as many feared. Always entertaining and unrealistic, always close to the tradition (the threatening opposition always speaks with a foreign accent and Martinis are shaken, not stirred...) but James is evolving with his time. He does not smoke any more, he still shags curvicious creatures but has a female superior and falls for the modern caricature of the self reliant, full on, American Ph D.... James is a man of the 90-00's.Glamour, love  and terrorism, a lifetime is not enough... "}{"Title":"Shaken, or stirred?","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Please, the best bond movie ever? ??? I hardly doubt so. In the three bond movies that Brosnan has played 007, I can undoubtly say this is the worst one. I thoroughly enjoyed Goldeneye, and, Tomorrow never dies (to an extent...) and while Brosnan is no Roger Moore, I am sure he could've done a better job with this movie. The film, was, at best, sloppy, with a loose plot chock filled with poor acting & bad structure. Although I will always be a fan of Judi Dench, I cannot say the same for the rest of the Bond women in the 19th Bond film. . The bomb diffusion scene in the pipeline was utterly hilarious and, I'm sure, a mockery to anybody with knowledge in the subject. As for the action scenes, there was the classic bond mixture of expensive vehicles and mass destruction. Although flashy, there was no build up to any of the action scenes, and they finished just as abruptly as they started. Sloppy, and very very predictable, they weren't much to look at.Well, the only good outcome I received out of dishing out money to watch the bond movie was a glimpse at the brand new '00 BMW Z3 roadster, and, probably the coolest bond gadget ever, his x-ray sunglasses.Shaken, or stirred? Not my martini, of course, but my stomach.I think I'd feel better seeing a count of 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Bond ad nauseum. . . (minor spoilers)","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Makes Bond #20 sound rather depressing. . .This latest offering from the Bond franchise doesn't bring anything new or fresh to take the suave spy into the next millenium. Rather, it just rehashes old ground, again. The formula is so well known by now that most of the action sequences fail to raise any excitement any more, at least anywhere near the levels of Goldeneye, the best of the Pierce Brosnan enterprises. There are the innumerable hair-raising races against time, spectacular chases in some form of locomotion (every time these get better and better &#150; the boat chase is brilliantly executed), wildly improbable Bond girls (Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist), and James once more biting off a whole lot more than he can chew. You'd think he'd learn.The defence of Bond films it that nobody takes it seriously, of course it's formula, but it's just good ol' escapist fun. But even escapist fun gets boring if it's played without variation. The plot is not too far-fetched for 007  oil tycoon gets murdered at MI5 headquarters, daughter and heiress is supposedly next in line, James has to protect her and help get her new pipeline built before the bad guys blow it up. James gets help along the way from M, who rather uncharacteristically puts sentiment over common sense, and the aforementioned Richards.There is a twist, but it's fairly predictable, and the worst fault of the film, like many of its genre, is that it fails to present any convincing or complex characters. None of the supporting cast show any depth, or make you care about their motives, and why they act the way they do. Oh for another Xenia Onatopp. If you're going to do The Villain, then go for it.Denise Richards is so out of place it's not even funny. She evidently thought so too, because she puts no effort at all into her role. John Cleese takes over from Q and demonstrates potential as R. The saving grace is Judi Dench as always, showing vulnerability and humanity in a tough profession for a woman. Pierce Brosnan is, well, Pierce Brosnan. That was probably quite adequate for 007 ten years ago, but if he wants to make it into the next century, Barbara Broccoli et al really need to do some reinventing on a major scale.Other than that the film is well photographed and the special effects are, as usual, special. But by the end of the film, I didn't really care who got shot or blown up. As long as the movie finished.   "},{"Title":"How do they top this one ?","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Fantastic film !  I can only describe this film as 'total escapism at it's best'.Brosnan is on a par with Connery already - he is perfect for the role and is taking it into the 21st century in style.The new baddies are superb too.  The only complaint with Robert Carlyle is that he is not in the film enough.  Robbie Coltraine is also brilliant (once you get used to his Russian accent).The highlight of the film has to be the corniest joke ever right at the end but I won't spoil it for anyone who hasn't watched it yet.I can't wait for this film to come out on DVD.... "},{"Title":"Beautiful girls, sophisticated gadgets, lots of action... it must be a bond film","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When it comes to exciting, generally inoffensive action films, you can't really do any better than a bond film. There is, as usual beautiful scenery, fairly corny dialogue a fairly nasty villain and unbelievable stunts- but what more could you expect? Unfortunately the Bond girls, in particular Dr Christmas Jones is totally unbelievable in her role as a nuclear/ rocket scientist, which is fairly disappointing - where is Michelle Yeoh when you need her? Pierce, is great as Bond as usual, but the best performances really come from M and Q. This film is as action packed as they possibly could have made it, with some of the best physical stunts I've seen in a while, but its mindless entertainment at best- even though it is thoroughly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Like the old Bond movies","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH reminded me a lot of the old Bond movies of the 1960s. The violence was conspicuously reduced, Bond was more stylish than in the preceding movies, and the rather old-fashioned plot with the oil pipeline was more similar to the Connery-era movies than to the high tech movies of the late 1980s and early 1990s.Generally, I though the movie was very good, but storywise not as good as its predecessor. TOMORROW NEVER DIES had a more thrilling and interesting story which never got bored. The plot of THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH sometimes felt a little stretched and not too interesting.As for the actors this one was rather mixed Pierce Brosnan was excellent, Robert Carlyle as the bad guy was disappointing and weak. But let me tell you about Sophie Marceau never before was the main lady in a Bond film as sexy and seductive than she was. It was the first time that in a Bond movie I was more interested in her fate than in Bond's fate (and I was shocked by the way she left the film).I would give the movie a 8/10 for the great acting, but the rather poor story. "},{"Title":"Definitely Bond!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that I´m somewhat of a Bond addict. Brosnan is a very excellent Bond player, in my opinion. And so, how could I be disappointed by this film? Therefore, I wasn´t. I loved the combination of suspense and action. However, a little less action around women might be nice.Something I noticed in the film the appearance of Dr. Christmas Jones. Can´t help noticing that at her first appearance, she´s looking very much like Lara Croft. Same shirt, shorts and shoes, same kind of hairstyle. Only drawback she´s not english. But she´s definitely not afraid of action and has some braincells in her head. I like that! Whose idea was this?The new successor of Q (Cleese as R) is also fun to watch. Has obviously studied Q behaviour, and with his history of Monty Python, I think that we can have a lot of fun with him the next few movies. His appearance is made just at the right time, as our old friend Q died in a car crash recently. Very sad.Anyway, I´m going to watch this one again. I´m sure there are still some details I have missed. I can advise this film for everyone who likes a good action movie with a lot of humor in it, and who´s not too picky about the quality of the storyline (though I´ve seen worse Bond stories). "},{"Title":"Hey, it's Bond","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'll keep this short because perhaps I am not the most qualified person to be commenting on this film series.  You see I have never been a huge Bond fan.  They have been films that I watched once and that was it.  I can appreciate the history of these films and I can also appreciate that Connery is a living legend when it comes to Bond but beyond that, to me, there is not much to a Bond film.  Again, I can appreciated all that goes into making one but this series will always poorly compare to some of my faves like Indiana Jones, Lethal Weapons and Rambos.  TWINE is a good movie.  It is fun and filled with many inventive gadgets and beautiful women.  Marceau and Richards are a pleasure to look at and the stunts are wonderful and the humour is very good as well.  It is always fun to hear Bond say Shaken not stirred.  and of course  Bond, James Bond.  Even for a non fan like me I can appreciate that.  So in my humble opinion, this is a good film and worth the money you will spend in an afternoon to see the film.  But for a more educated review, scroll on down in this section, I'm sure you will get the skinny from many others that are huge fans of the picture.  But from a casual fan of the series, my opinion, it is good, just nothing great.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Yeah, it´s great!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I´ve been a huge fan of the 007 movies for years. I like every Bond film there is, even the weakest ones. A Bond film is always an entertaining action movie with gorgeous women and humour. TWINE is a great film too. I really enjoyed it and it seemed that so did all the other people in the packed theatre. Bond films always get a huge audience because people love these films. Why would they otherwise go to see them? TWINE is more complex than 1997´s Tomorrow Never Dies which still is my favorite Bond film. But it is as entertaining as Tomorrow Never Dies. There´s plenty of action, humour and great actors and actresses. John Cleese is a great addition too and Q is always a pleasure to see on screen. We´re really going to miss Desmond, may him rest in peace. Judi Dench is great as M and we see her in action too. Brosnan isn´t Connery but he sure is damn close! Sophie Marceau sure is sexy and seductive but unfortunately the gorgeous Denise Richards is left a little in a shadow. But she does good job, though Sophie is the main lady here. Overall, a great entertaining Bond film and surely worth checking! The title song by Garbage is good but not as good as the two previous ones by Tina Turner and Sheryl Crow.I give this 10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Some of the best Bond action to date!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the best Bond action to date!  Also the banter with Q is top notch and the introduction of John Cleese as R, Q's apprentice, seems eerie given Desmond's recent death.  Denise Richards while amazing looking is about as plausible as a nuclear physicist as Nicole Kidman was as a rocket scientist in The Peacemaker. "},{"Title":"Bond is back, and he's cool!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Lets get started this movie is cool! If you enjoyed the previous Bond movies, you will like this one for sure. James Bond is back in his classical relaxed and humorous style. So why don't you buy a ticket, sit back and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's a James Bond movie, so what? You can see many pursuits, some explosions and James Bond being successful in seducing attractive women (or being seduced by) and saving the world. In summary you can say that it's fun. Watch it if you got some time to do so but don't tell me that I didn't warn you that you will see nothing that can surprise you if it's not the first James Bond movie you watch in your live. Hmm, maybe there's one point because the big boss of the evil forces has one characteristic which means a separation from all the colleagues in the Bond Movies before, but I don't want to tell you too much if you didn't hear it until now.  "},{"Title":"More spectacular action, more beautiful girls. Great fun!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A great movie with all the high tech effects and gorgeous women (or is it the other way round?). Reeks of commercialism but does suffer too much for it. Not as good as Goldeneye but better than TND. Robert Carlisle is an excellent villain. John Cleese will make a superb 'R'. Judie Dench gets better with every movie. Can't wait 'til the next one. Hope Pearce Brosnan hangs on to the role for a bit longer. God bless to Des Llewelyn, we'll all miss him. "},{"Title":"Shocked, stunned and not a little surprised...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I used to love Bond. Every year, Christmas would roll round again and they'd stick on Goldfinger or Live and Let Die and I'd be rapt for 2 hrs in a world of spies, fast cars and cool things. Then it all went wrong. The Roger Moore films got too hammed up, Timothy Dalton tried hard but somebody tried to work it as an action flick <License Revoked or something>, and by the time Goldeneye came along I was reduced to tears.So I wasn't looking forward to being dragged along to the latest monstrosity. Call me sad <if you must>, but I loved every second. From the moment the speedboat chase starts, <worth every penny of admittance on it's own>, the film never flags. Enough plot to make it interesting, more stunts than you could want and just the right level of corny jokes to give you a chuckle.This may be the 19th Bond film, but it IS the best for a long, long time. If you want entertainment, this is the one to watch at the moment... "},{"Title":"Thrilling, but lacking a bit","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This new Bond movie, The World is Not Enough, had an action-packed beginning, but kind of lagged in some places.  Denise Richards, Bond's love interest/rocket scientist, had the incredible body of a Bond girl, but didn't have the brains of a rocket scientist.  Although this was a step up from the old movies, where women didn't have brains at all, it could be better.  Some of the gadgets were also cool, but the new BMW didn't even compare to the Tomorrow Never Dies car.  John Cleese was a good addition as R, but I was sad to see Q go.  All-in-all a Bond good movie, but not up there with the great ones.  "},{"Title":"I want to be Bond when I grow up","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I grow up I want to be just like James Bond. Sharon Lenehan told us last year in Barfly that she wants to be Courtney Love when she grows up, but no, James Bond is for me.I want to be able to attach myself with a bit of curtain cord to an unconscious adversary, smash a window and leap out of a seven story window with lots of money and survive with style. I want to be able to snow ski like that.I'd like to be allowed to wreck Q's best toys in blazes of machine gun bullets. I'd like to always look suave like Bond.The gadgets. The women. And if I was Bond I wouldn't be worried about the ethics of well, anything. No agonising over small things like cities for example. Responsibility has taken on a new meaning.I'd agree, if I could be bothered, that it probably isn't a good idea to say blow up Istanbul. But if M asked me to arrange the destruction of a major city, well I'd probably just do it. If it suited me.Nah, Bond's a man of action, not thought. And a hell of a lot braver than I'd ever be.James Bond is back in The World Is Not Enough and he's in form.  This Bond film is funny, engaging and exciting and right up there with the best of the Bond Films.	There haven't been many Bond movies in the nineties. Unlike the generations who have preceded them, younger people hardly know who he is. For the rest of us Bond is an institution.  Bond disappeared for a while. There was a six year break after Licence To Kill (1989) starring Timothy Dalton, six years for Bond to mend his wounds and indulge in some fast paced recreation in Luxemburg, lounging with gorgeous women and dry Martinis.	Bond remerged in the guise of Pierce Brosnan in Goldeneye in 1995, battling with  rogue British agent 006 (Sean Benn) and the nasty, strong thighed Xenia (Famke Janssen).	In Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) Bond, again Pierce Brosnan, encountered bad guy media giant Elliot Carver (Janathon Pryce) in an overloud ear smashing action movie which suffered from a lack of the famous Bond humour and subtlety. No room was left for the humour that must exist in a good Bond film.	But there's plenty of fun in his latest, The World Is Not Enough. And for the first time in Bond history there exists credible character development and even a story line that almost makes sense!Brosnan, who is as good as Sean Connery as 007, has as his chief adversary the nasty but sad Renard played by the superb actor Robert Carlyle (Trainspotting, The Full Monty, Go Now, Hamish Macbeth, Riff Raff, etc).Carlyle takes what could have been a very ordinary character and encourages us to actually care about Renard. A definite rarity in a Bond film.The women are played by Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards. Marceau (Braveheart) plays a part that would probably have been played by a man in previous years and takes full advantage of the opportunity.Denise Richards (Starship Troupers, Lethal Weapon 1, Wild Things, Drop Dead Gorgeous) as Christmas Jones is more like the traditional Bond bimbo, and is unforgettable as the short shorted, small T shirted, nuclear physicist!And there lies a large part of the charm of The World Is Not Enough. Sex has become fun again. Sexism? I don't think so. Bond and his women in this film have re-found the pre AIDS, pre PC world Sean Connery's James Bond inhabited in the seventies. It's great escapism.No love is lost but none of this lot want (or fear) children or HIV. Perhaps they should be worried, but when you're as bullet proof as James Bond, who cares?  "},{"Title":"A good film that keeps you awake all the time","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is my first time (!) when i see a James Bond movie and i have to admit that it was good film. The action starts from the first minute and lasts during the end of the film. James Bond as  i know is a great character with a very dynamic style. I liked very much the actress Sophie Marco but especially Denise Richards.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps my favorite James Bond movie!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond at his best!  This was one of the best of all the Bond films I've seen.  The plot was interesting, the action very exciting, the special effects well done, and James his typical unflappable and impeccably dressed self.  I can't imagine anybody interested in this genre not loving this film.  An added personal plus for me was Judi Dench playing the role of 'M' - I love the PBS comedy As Time Goes By with her as the co-star.I'd give it 9 stars out of 10. Bravo!--Dilip 12/20/99 (I saw it Dec. 4) "},{"Title":"Good film with lots of action but special effects over the top.","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A typical Bond film with lots of action.  Pierce Brosnan portrays James Bond as a cool but reluctant killer, as you would expect of the character as originally written.  The sex is kept well under control, unlike some of the earlier Bond movies.The only spoiling factor is that there are too many special effects and your brain tends to get overloaded.  May be better in a cinema with a top class sound system.That said, well worth the effort to go and see it. "},{"Title":"Up there with the best Bond films ever","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There was a definite I'm expecting the usual Bond cliches with little surprises expectation before watching this film.  I mean just how many more times can we get away with this character?  Well, if the next film stacks up as well as this then bring 'em on now.The World Is Not Enough is the usual Bond cliches but bigger and better than ever before.  Brosnan is THE man when it comes to Bond, no doubt about it.  He takes the toughness of Connery and the humour of Moore, ignores dreary Dalton and puts it into this modern day superhero.Whilst the film is in danger at times of becoming Carry On Spying, the action is just so flipping fantastic that you don't really care.  Gimme 100% entertainment from Mr Bond anyday and i'll be happy.  That's what this is.  When you watch a Bond film you don't expect it to change your life so just enjoy this for what it is.  "},{"Title":"Oh Oh dear","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *Spoilers* There is a track on the soundtrack to the 19th official 007 offering. It's called Come in 007, your time is up. It may be a fair headline to assess the wordiest adventure with perhaps the most complex plot.After a labyrinthine opening in which the millionaire Sir Robert King is murdered, Bond is soon chasing off down the Thames is search of the slinky assassin. Fifteen minutes later and the opening titles roll. Typically stylish and sexy thanks to Daniel Kleinmann's direction, we are soon back in the thick of the action as Tanner (Michael Kitchen) explains the complex reason for King's death.After Q signs off in a poignant scene (Desmond Llewellyn should have retired years ago to be honest), the baton is handed over to stumbling John Cleese as R, the gadgets expert who plays comedy far better than Des ever could.Bond ends up as bodyguard to Elektra King, the mourning heir to Sir Robert's fortune. She's building a lucrative oil pipeline across Europe amid difficult opposition from the Russians and other hostile forces.Our hero wastes little time in bedding her, having already seduced the doctor who mends his shoulder injury from the pre-credit sequence.A thrilling but derivative ski chase follows and so it goes.The whole movie is about an hour too long, there's a cracking David Arnold score, some witty one liners and the entire cast is superb. Even Denise Richards, the busty Lara Croft clone, is pretty good, eclipsing the likes of former Bond girls such as Tanya Roberts and Jane Seymour.It's interesting that as 1999 draws to a close, the franchise seems to be in the same sort of shape as it was 10 years ago. The series is looking tired and worn, desperately in need of the sort of energy that director Martin Campbell infused with 1995's superior GoldenEye.In short, Bond needs to go off for regular rests and come back in a few years refreshed. Either that or try something a little different as 007 skiing, diving and seducing is really getting on my nerves.The world may not be enough but Bond 19 is plenty thanks very much.  "}{"Title":"If you've seen one Bond, you've seen them all...","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond movies tend to have similarities throughout the beautiful babes, the explosions, killing the bad guy, and so on. The World Is Not Enough is no exception. I've always wondered how Bond defies the basic laws of physics, survives falls that would kill normal people and manages to sleep with more women than a horny frat-boy. I've also wondered why these nuclear physicists and computer programmers are fabulously beautiful. Trust me, I know female physicists and they do NOT look like that. If you were originally interested, catch the matinee. Otherwise, it's really not that big of a deal. "},{"Title":"Action packed, but been there before.","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  An entertaining action packed movie - but it left me with a sense of deja vu!  Pretty girls, 'gadget' watches, and the almost obligatory snow-scene chase.   The opening sequence is as impressive as normal, and the action is maintained throughout. But don't expect to see anything that has been in a Bond movie before.  And I still can't get used to 'M' being played by Dame Judith Dench!  "},{"Title":"19 is not enough","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"      I don't look forward to Bond films any more, I just enjoy them when they arrive, a bit like christmas and birthdays (when you've seen a few. Every one is almost identical, the presents are the same old things you always get with just the occasional surprise, from the same old people; but they are people you love. They say the same things in the same way. They tell the same old jokes and make the same puns and even though you've heard them (18 times) before you still laugh and have a wonderful time. Of course the next day it is just a quickly fading memory and hasn't changed your life in any meaningful way.    TWINE is no different from any of the other Bond movies. I have nothing to add to the previous comments which just about cover everything. Unlike some comments, though, I liked ALL of the characters, no exceptions. They are like part of the family!          Score 9/10        "},{"Title":"Typical Bond Fare","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There is nothing terribly different about this Bond film than the other recent ones.  Pierce Brosnan does a good job playing 007, but this is probably the least impressive of the Bond films staring him.  The boat chase sequence was kind of neat, but they made it too long.  The title sequence doesn't start until a while into the film; you suddenly remember oh yeah, there's a title! Joe Don Baker, well known to MST3K fans everywhere, is absent, but Robbie Coltrane is back. "},{"Title":"The best Bond in years - with the best cast!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a splendid adventure this new Bond movie is! I really did not expect very much, considering the fact that the James Bond character is kind of an anarchronism today. But the filmmakers succeeded in giving us a joy ride through the genres - with James Bond no longer being a secret agent, but more of a super-hero!The spectacular start sequence with the wild motorboat chase on River Thamse really pulled me into the action - from than on it was unimportant that the story is totally chaotic and often just impossible to follow!What really blew me of was the fantastic cast - especially the best Bond girls ever, the incredibly breathtaking Sophie Marceau and hot Denise Lara Croft Richards. The approach to cast more famous actresses as Bond girls worked out - not only did they look nice, but their roles were very vivid as well. All in all a terrific action movie - a whole lot of fun if you don't need an intelligent story to enjoy a movie... "},{"Title":"It's bond, but not like you've seen him before !","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've always loved bond movies. They're great popcorn movies, and that's what I expected from this one too. But it's not.. Somehow the movie is different from the other bond movies with their shallow storylines. The characters seem to have more emotion or something. And I love it ! On the action front this movie does not disappoint. There are some great scenes with lots of explosions and furious action. The best fx part was the scene with Bond wearing x-ray sunglasses. really marvelous, I was very amused. Then the bond girls. I absolutely did not care for Denise Richards as her part was so underwritten. She looked great, but her character was hardly explored at all. But Sophie Marceau, wow she's amazing !! Very sexy and mysterious, she's a killer babe. I don't wanna spoil anything..see for yourself. Conclusion TWINE is quite different from the Bond you've seen before, and it's like a breath of fresh air. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Lives on a good Bond-feeling.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  **Please excuse me for some spelling mistakes**I'm afraid ''The World Is not enough'' have the same sickness as the very lousy ''Tomorrow Never Dies''. It is just too much over explored actionscenes, and too many people gets killed for a Bondmovie.It would be stupid not to compare t.w.i.n.e with any other Bondmovie, and then it is painfully obvious that this one is quite low in the list. But it has one thing that ''Tomorrow never dies'' didn't (and not ''License to kill'' either buy the way). Some real Bond-feeling. There is a lot of things that are wrong in this movie, but I still think that it is a pure Bondmovie. The quick lines (''I've always wanted to have christmas in Turkey'') are perfect and everything else seem to fit in. But it is tragic to admit it, but it was better in the old days Bondmovies and in the new ones the glamour disapears. They will never make a Bondmovie like they did before. Go see ''From Russia With love'' and ''Goldfinger'' to see what Bond really is all about. My rating is 3 out of 5. The bad guys are not as mean as they were before... i think i have to cry     "},{"Title":"Brosnan at his best... but it's not enough","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well... great expectations. When watching the trailer I thought Mmh, almost more explosions than in all the Bond movies so far together. And so it was. In almost every room there was a bomb. Another thing, James You do not wear your watch when having sex with Sophie Marceau. But after all it was quite entertaining. "},{"Title":"Ok Bondfilm!","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a movie I really wanted to see this year (next to Star Wars of course). It turned out to be a bit of a disappointment. Action, beautiful women, a good storyline and a lot of new and interesting locations, it was all in this Bondmovie. On the other hand, I wasn't really impressed about the badguy and badgirl. They had a pretty well designed plan but not as ridiculous or even more world-threatening than Hugo Drax' (Moonraker) or Blofeld's. Pierce Brosnan as James Bond was excellent as well as Judi Dench as M and Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky. Denise Richards as Christmas Jones was a bit underused, I think it would have been better if we had seen a bit more of her. I further think that Desmond Llewelyn should quit playing Q because he's now really too old. He'll probably quit because John Cleese plays Desmond's assistant R, but we'll see that in the next bondfilm. The biggest disappointment was the film's pace. Especially the last thirty minutes could have been squeezed in ten to fifteen minutes. Overall the film is a bit on the slow side. Another big disappointment was how Renard came to his end. This was just too obvious and too undramatic. In other bondfilms (not all of them)you didn't really see the ending of a bondfilm's villain coming and a lot of those endings were far more dramatic and original than this one. One of the scenes I think wasn't really necessary, was the one with the torcherchair, absolutely unnecessary! When I look at all of the three bondmovies with Pierce Brosnan as James Bond, I think Goldeneye is still the best and most solid of the three. My all-time favourate bondfilm still is Goldfinger and second is Goldeneye. So overall, an ok bondmovie! "},{"Title":"Third Bond of Pierce turns to be his best so far","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldfinger (Conneries third) , The Spy Who Loved Me (Moores third) and now The World Is Not Enough (Brosnans third) are probably the best Bonds ever.The opening scene of TWINE is absolutely a great one as are some of the typical Bond jokes. The story is more dramatized then in the last movies which serves Judi Dench as 'M'. The screenplay allows her to demonstrate that she is a fine actress. Sophie Marceau is an excellent villain although Xenia 'Famke Jansen' Onatopp was more exciting.I don't know what to think of Denise Richards, but she is more a Bond girl of the early seventies gorgeous but not very interesting.David Arnold proofs to be a great successor of John Barry. His score is superb, especially the music of the opening scene (put the CD in your car turn up the volume up and you easily drive 100 miles an hour without noticing). If you are a real Bond addict his CD with Bond covers performed by various artists is worth buying, listen also to the music of the movie Stargate excellent!)Pierce Brosnan finally became Bond. I'm a real Connery fan but Pierce plays the role perfectly in balance. He is determined and violent, but also tender and funny. Chances are that he will be the best Bond ever.There are some rather nice details in TWINE as well. In one sequence in Castle Thane you can see the late 'M' Bernard Lee on a painting hanging on the wall. Desmond Llewelyn has his (final?) goodbye after 17 Bond movies and is replaced by John Cleese. I do want to know were Bond buys his eyeglasses for with those the world is enough to me. "}{"Title":"Best Bond since ever","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The new James Bond movie is - in my view - the best of all. For the first time there's a somewhat more complex story-line which turns and twists several times. Of course, the actors have the well-known qualities you expect in a Bond-movie. Additionaly there is this appreciated bit of irony throughout the whole movie. Only the special effects are sometimes a bit exaggerating - but aren't the fx the reason for all of us to go to cinema? "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond is back for the 19th time to save the world as usual. Pierce Brosnan plays James Bond for the third time, and it is a fine role for him.  (I didn`t like Dalton and Lazenby) This film delivers the usual stuff, but not a lot more. The action is as always fast, cool and very Bondish.  The point where this movie falls flat on it`s nose is when it comes to th e villains.  Although the villain in Tomorrow Never Dies was average, this is near the bottom.  The actionscenes are what saves this movie, + it is JAMES BOND.  There is not a lot new in there though, but a good film nevertheless. 8/10    "},{"Title":"So close to the formula it's insulting","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am, or rather was, a lukewarm fan of Bond movies. But these days, they so closely follow the formula that it's impossible to be surprised at any point in the film. TWINE had the most hackneyed plot ever, and the script - egads - the dialogue was painful. Adding insult to injury, Denise Richards was not only implausible as a gorgeous twenty-something nuclear physicist and  weapons expert, but her acting was on par with an Idaho potato. You can quote me on this She's a female Keanu Reeves!Just imagine a plot involving a big explosion, and lots of suspense-less firefights where Bond effortlessly dodges bullets while hanging out in one of the omnipresent fuel dumps that litter the movie. There, you've seen it all.  "},{"Title":"If you know what to expect, you won't be disappointed","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Back when Roger Moore was nearing the end of his Bond career, Johnny Carson quipped  that Moore was getting so old that pretty soon he'd have to start carrying cyanide suppositories.  That's the stage Pierce  Brosnan is at.  Still, it's fun imagining  him as Bond (James Bond) and even more fun imagining a nuclear scientist who looks like  Denise Richards.  (It could happen.)  Plus  there are lots and lots of explosions and  lethal gadgets.  It's hard to get too  curmudgeonly about such a movie if you  didn't know what you were getting into when  you bought the ticket, you need to get out  more.  It has some respectably tense moments,  and the FX are okay.  (This movie is a good  litmus test for the sincerity of your feminist  feelings, btw.  The more it outrages you, the  more sincere you are.) "},{"Title":"Everything you could ask for","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  We Bond fans aren't greedy. All we ask is for a bit of pure, daft escapism to make our sad little lives pleasurable. And this is what you get from this film.The plot is of course fairly routine. Psychopathic terminally ill villain Renard (French for fox) played by Robert Carlyle is out to steal a nuclear weapon and it is Bond's job to stop him and protect the beautiful Elektra King (Sophie Marceau) as well. As it is, he soon falls for her and then becomes embroiled in a typical world-threatening plot.But that is all neither here nor there. It is the marvellous action set pieces where the budget has been spent. And they are breath-taking. As usual, the opening sequence is the most blinding as 007 chases a female killer across the Thames in a high-powered boat around the Millennium Dome.The film has its sentimentality though. It would seem that Q (Desmond Llewellyn) may have bowed out, and R (John Cleese) seems a poor replacement. But on the whole, this is Bond at his best sexist, misogynist and as fun as ever. "},{"Title":"The best movie","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm new to Bond fandom as I've only seen a few movies (This one, Tomorrow Never Dies, Goldeneye, and The Man With the Golden Gun), but I'd have to say this is the best of them.The acting was great, except Denise Richards seemed a bit too...... impatient, always seeming to know exactly what to do, and sounding too flat to mean it or really want to. Pierce Brosnan is fitting into his Bond role nicely, and I hope he stays onboard for awhile longer.This is, far and away, the best Bond story I've seen. We got to see M in a role besides the queen of numbers, and the villainess (and the best of the two Bond girls in this movie) seemed to especially p**s Bond off give more dimension to his character. He seemed more darker around the end than I'm used to seeing. I think M took some notice of that too. The villain, much better than that computer geek from TND, was generally creepy, although they should have explored his character more.Great action sequences, I thought that the ski sequence was better than A View to a Kill (the movies listed above are the ones I've seen entirely, I saw the beginning of this) and the boat chase is one to be remembered! The others were up there too, but less memorable.Great music! I actually found myself thinking about that during certain points of the movie, and that's uncommon for me. The opening was cool too. Garbage did better than Sheryl Crow, or whoever in TND, and that other chick in Goldeneye.This had all the ingredients of a classic Bond movie, with the best villain, a fantastic story, awesome effects, Bond girls, a charismatic Bond that still has a few tricks up his sleeve, and action sequences and stunts in all the right places.9/10 "},{"Title":"The gadgets were not enough","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's a Bond movie. What else is there to say. Not the best I've seen but not the worst either. Fairly entertaining with a couple of unexpected turns. It's got the usual gadgetry, car-boat chases, sultry women. This one, however, seems to be a little thin on the whizz bang stuff.Why oh why do they have to cut up the poor car?I am going to miss Q. "},{"Title":"The question now Modern Bond Vs. Connery Bond","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I entered the movie theater I had no special expectations for this movie, and maybe that was the reason why I loved it so much. After Tomorrow Never Dies this TWINE could only be better, but the outcome was very enjoyable. Classic Bond, the best. The argue about Sean Connery Vs. Pierce Brosnan will continue but to me is clear at this point that Pierce is the best as an international mistery invencible man. Sophie Marceau was the perfect casting. Sophie has done for modern Bond what the ever lasting Pussy Galore did for the old one. Charm, excitation The true Bond Girl!. This is with no doubt the Bond movie I recommend to a person who had never seen one. Bond in a nutshell. Classic. "},{"Title":"Best Bond in years","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw TWINE a few days ago and it delivered. I was totally surprised. I thought Goldeneye was a pretty good Bond movie but not too special and Tomorrow never dies was really average. So I was very afraid to see a film that continued the decline in the series. But how wrong I was....This is certainly the best Bond since the early Connery films. Brosnan is great. He's cool, arrogant, funny and he is also the dirtiest of em all... I am a huge fan of Connery but give Pierce two more films and he will be defenitely the best Bond up untill now...The story pure Bond. At times impossible to follow and the twists come fast and furious. Great locations, great women and outrageous action setpieces.I thought this film was like a 'best of' of all Bond movies. The story and the action scenes have been done in other Bond films but it is done in such a great way it feels okay and fresh.The acting is good, a bit tongue in cheek, as is needed in films like these and the criticism that Richards is bad is totally useless. Marceau is actually pretty good (and pretty!) so making Richards role  a thankless one and I must say she IS bad. But this does not distract from the fact that this is a great, no superb entry in the series. "},{"Title":"Very good film in most respects, Brosnan is competent.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The James Bond films have become well-known for their exciting but unbelievable stunts, their attractive women, their serious flaws in the plot, and those amazing gadgets that get Bond out of tight situations, always in a hair-raising way.To be fair to each new Bond film, you have to completely push out of your mind the fact that Sean Connery, the only real James Bond, is not in it.It is a welcome surprise that they have a very well-thought out plot this time. They also have some excellent actors, including the elegantly beautiful Sophie Marceau, who plays Electra King, and Denise Richards, who plays Christmas Jones. These two, and Judi Dench who plays M, really carry the movie, and more than make up for Brosnan's merely competent 'by-the-numbers' acting.This film is well worthwhile watching, and will probably make you want to see Richards and Marceau in some of their other films as well. And while you're at the video store getting them, you'll also need to pick up Sean Connery's Bond movies as well, to restore your faith in James Bond! "}{"Title":"All in all a good Bond movie, but not great.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All in all a good Bond movie, but not great.  It had little plot and the characters jumped from place to place with no rhyme or reason as to how they got there.  But the special effects were very well done as were the stunts. The Bond movies are getting shallower, more repetitious and rely heavily on the special effects.   "},{"Title":"This movie was great.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great. When i first walked into the theater, I thought this was not going to be as good as T.N.D.( Tomorrow never dies) but it was awesome. You have to listen really well to figure out what the movie means, since all bond titles have a description in the movie.  The movie overall was great, especially when they went in the oil pipe.  Another thing that was cool was when M tampered with the clock. i THINK THE MOVIE WAS COOL AS ANYTHING!!!   "},{"Title":"Bond is not enough","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just love the james bond movies.All of them and this one too. But, after TOMORROW... the level of expectation was too big and ambitious that when the movie was released i was a little disappointed. The work of directed by Apted is not as good as Campbell or Spottiswood except for the exposition dialogues and the casting is great. The action sequences isn't totally working. Not too much passion in it. Denise Richard is a lust bond girl and that's it. Sophie Marceau has a great caracter and is very good as Pierce Brosnan.The very best point of this movie is, for me, the score that wrote the genius David Arnold. I just loved every single notes. He's the best since John Barry.Well, start the waiting for the next bond movie. See you after the millenium, James ! "},{"Title":"The best Pierce Brosnan Bond yet!","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is first Bond film that I have truly enjoyed since the days of Roger Moore. The last Bond Flick was so bad I could not stomach watching it to the end.  What an awful plot!!!  This film really has an involving story which is accented by the action scenes, rather then the other way around. Pierce Brosnan seems to be maturing well into the role.  While Denise Richards is the featured Bond Girl; Sophie Marceau is the one you remember long after the movie ends. (It takes more then cookie cutter beautiful features to create a sexy character)  Robert Carylye of The Full Monty and Ravenous looks to be on the verge of stardom.  His character was not the usual one dimensional villain we see if Bond films ( or lampooned in  Austin Powers movies). In summary, this is a very entertaining Bond movie from beginning to end.  I hope the producers continue along the same vein in future Bond efforts.  "},{"Title":"Was this a low-budget movie?","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  You know what really freaks me out?  No, not the silly buckled shoes that Pierce was wearing in this film, or that ridiculous  digitally enhanced missing earlobe of Sophie Marceau's.  It's the fact that most movie goers, and film critics for that matter, can't tell when a movie has LOUSY PRODUCTION VALUES.What are production values?  They're the little things that make a movie look well like it cost money.  And TWINE has some of the all time CHEESIEST production values I've ever seen.  Now, silly plot and bad acting by the leading ladies aside, how can I convince you of this?How about comparing this turkey to it's predecessor, one of the Bond films with the BEST Production values.   Tomorrow Never Dies has great photography, eye popping sets and one of the best music scores ever.  TWINE?  Yuch.  What a chintzy mess!  Want a direct comparison?  How's this...in Tomorrow Never Dies, when they want to watch something on the Video Wall it's a huge panel the size of a barn in a great set.  In TWINE, it's two grainy screens in the floor! Ouch.That's just one example.  Let's look at some of the other incredible locations in TWINE.  Hmm..there's a gravel pit, an ugly underground mine, a tin shack on a dock that probably cost a lot of money to build since it was designed to fall over (for a bad joke joke), a really lame submarine interior, and a field out in the middle of nowhere.  Wow.  How glamorous.  Remember when James used to visit stunningly beautiful locations?  Remember the beautiful look of the photography in Elliot Carver's party in Tomorrow Never Dies?  What the heck has happened?The music in TWINE was another huge letdown.  It was barely noticeable and certainly didn't help to keep the action going, although those hideous action scenes probably couldn't have been saved anyway.In this film we see the umpteenth ski chase and it's the worst one yet. Bond is chased in a series of boring medium close-ups by vehicles that looked so slow my grandmother could have outrun them in a wheelchair. This is the fault of both the screenwriter for not coming up with any original ideas for action sequences, and the director for executing them so poorly. Michael Apted ain't no action director!  Tomorrow Never Dies was very careful to put new twists on their action sequences, like Bond driving from the BACK seat in the very well done chase sequence in the garage, but in TWINE, it's back to the ol' standards...or in this case, sub-stardards.Finally, I would be remiss if I didn't comment on the screnplay. Boooooring.  The main problem is the lack of a convincing villain. That Renaud guy (boring as well) didn't seem particularly menacing either, and the one interesting idea in this film, a villain who can't feel pain was never used right.  I could see a really brutal hand to hand battle with Bond making that idea play out but the only example of him ignoring pain is him picking up a hot rock (wouldn't his hand swell up to the size of a basketball afterward???).In a lame attempt to make Bond more human they try to give him a weakness in this story.  And what is it...a sore shoulder!!!  That's really dumb.I've come to the conclusion after seeing this film, that a truly well made Bond film is a rarity.  With the exception of the first four Connery films, and Tomorrow Never Dies, the effort expended on making the series seems to diminish as the profits increase.  Let's face it, if this film didn't have the Bond name stamped on it and was starring Dolf Lundgren, instead of Brosnan, it would be about as compelling as the average direct to tape C-movie action release.P.S.  Anybody other than me notice that in the scene where Brosnan and Richards climb out of the exploded pipe line, the supposedly smashed over trees in the background were all cut off square across the bottom. Cheeeeeeesy.  "},{"Title":"The worst Bond film since Roger Moore.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan's fine - well, compared to his unpleasant preening in THE THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR - even if he lacks Connery's witty irony and supple grace, Niven's autumnal sadness, Dalton's robustness, even Lazenby's tragedy.  The fault lies elsewhere - the tiresome set-pieces, directed without speed or invention; the inappropriate villainess who belongs more to a Kieslowski chamber piece than an action extravaganza - her naval-gazing slows down an already sluggish pace; a Bond girl whose every elucidation of nuclear physics makes her seem even more like an airhead.  The previous Brosnan attempts at gender reconstruction have given way to old-style misogyny; and some of the self-parodic plot elements behave as if Austin Powers never existed.  There are a couple of superb jokes (most though are sleazy rather than cheeky), a wonderful John Cleese, good examinations of voyeurism and spectacle, and an interestingly tragic villain to compensate. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan ignites the screen ... as agent 007.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan ignites the screen once again as agent 007. The World Is Not Enough has to be said is one of the more brilliantly written James Bond movies, reminiscent of The Living Daylights. Brosnan has to be said is the immaculate Bond, a superb fusion of Connery's invincible Bond, Dalton's darkness and with his Brosnan's own stylishness and boyishness. The World Is Not Enough has the necessary ingredients to make it the ultimate Bond film... locations ... gadgets ... villain ... plot ... and of course the girls. Sophie Marceau is stunningly beautiful and is captivating in her role as Elektra King, however much is left to be desired about Denise Richards and more of her rigid performance. After a beautifully composed and fitting score in Tomorrow Never Dies, David Arnold has failed to deliver depth and sense of humour. The World is Not Enough score has to take a backseat to that of Barry's Bond's score and also Eric Serra's Goldeneye. But still a highly entertaining Bond.   "},{"Title":"Typical Bond-movie","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I expected nothing when I went to see this movie, and quite frankly, got nothing. It was just like all the other Bond-movies, with (almost) no surprises. Although it had a promising line-up of actors (Coltrane, Carlyle and Cleese) and goodlooking women (Richards and Marceau) they were almost completely wasted Carlyle and Cleese got too little screentime and Richards had crap dialogue (and didn´t get to show off her body too much). Surprisingly, Marceau is the one who gets to have fun with her character, especially towards the end. This, and the little character development there is, is the saving grace which saves this movie from being a flop. An average movie.    "},{"Title":"A True Bond Film","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I was thrilled to see Dame Judi Dench as M become an important figure, and not just someone who sits behind the desk and sends men out to die.  Previous Bond films have underused her.  I cannot, however, say the same thing about Denise Richards's nuclear scientist.  Evidently, Denise Richards comes from the Bridge School of Acting--unable to convey the concept of falling off of one, even if you push her.  Yeah, I know why she was there, but she has less personality than the wet t-shirt she was sporting.  And who would dress her in that jean jacket?!Overall, however, my quibbles are few.  I didn't approve of Bond's injury-- Bond should be impervious to injury.  However, the rest of the film, with it even having a *plot* -- a step up from the atrocious Tomorrow Never Dies -- was pleasing.  Sophie Marceau, as everyone has been saying, does a fantastic turn as Elektra King, and almost makes up for Denise Richards.As for Brosnan, he was already my favorite Bond just due to GoldenEye, and he continues the role well through this movie.  James Bond Will Return felt like a promise instead of the threat it was after Tomorrow Never Dies. "},{"Title":"Best of Brosnan Yet","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went and saw The World is Not Enough today and was hoping that I wasn't going to be disappointed. I wasn't. The opening scene before the title of the movie was even shown, brought the audience to the edge of their seats and promised the best was yet to come.For fear of spoiling the movie, I will keep my plot summary relatively short and general. After a disastrous mission by Bond (Pierce Brosnan), he is taken off the active duty roster and told to rest up his injuries. Being the stubborn and persistent agent that he is, he maneuvers his way back into active duty to continue investigating the botched mission. Bond's new assignment entails the protecting of a beautiful young woman, Elektra King (Sophie Marceau), who's father had recently died in Bond's previous mission. And since we are talking about James Bond, as you can guess, a romantic involvement ensues. The story becomes more complicated as we discover that the young woman is thought to be the next victim of the killer who murdered her father. I'll leave the rest of the story for you to see.James Bond has gone through many changes but I hope Pierce Brosnan is here to stay as the legendary British spy. He brings a charm and style that we haven't seen since Sean Connery's portrayal of James Bond. One of the biggest plus' of this Bond movie is the recruiting of director, Michael Apted (Gorillas in the Mist). Unlike some of the past director's, Apted is a character director and as such spent some time focusing on Bond's character. The audience is given a chance to see some of the grayer areas of James Bond and this allows the audience to see a more well rounded character. I have always found in the past movies that the Bond character was too black or white and that we never really got a good idea of what Bond's thoughts or feelings were. Apted was able to provide us with a bit of a better insight in this movie.For the most part, the rest of the cast performed very well. Sophie Marceau was very good as Elektra King and I found Robbie Coltrane as the big (no pun intended) casino/caviar boss an absolute scene stealer. We are also introduced to a new peripheral character, R (John Cleese). He is Q's (Desmond Llewelyn) new assistant and foreshadows the changing of the techno-gadget guard. Sadly to say, I think that this may be the last movie that we will see Llewelyn in. As for Cleese, he was absolutely hilarious in his very brief debut and I believe he will become a staple character in the James Bond series. It was too bad he didn't have a larger role in this movie. The one actor that I didn't like was Denise Richards. I found her acting to be quite forced and at times just terrible. Her character was probably necessary to the story but they could have chosen a better person to play the role (Saffron Burrows perhaps??). The last Bond movie used Terri Hatcher in it and quite frankly neither Richards nor Hatcher have the international feel that a Bond movie demands.I have to say that the action sequences were unbelievable! They were fast paced and quite visually stunning, although some of them were a bit hard to believe. But then again, it wouldn't be a Bond movie if we didn't have some logic defying stunts.Overall, this was a very entertaining movie. It's a little bit long but well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"BEST BOND EVER!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The last 4 Bond movies were great, Licence to kill had all the action when Bond avenges his friend Felix, Goldeneye introduced one of the best Bonds yet, Brosnan, and Tomorrow Never Dies was an adventure that brought you around the world with James, but THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH has it all, action, suspense, drama, comedy, and travel, and the prettiest Bond girl ever!!!!!!(Denise Richards)   If you see one Bond movie your whole life, make this the one!!!! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but something missing...","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This latest Bond outing is certainly filled with its fair share of action, humour, and beautiful women.  Brosnan is comfortably fitting into his role at last, and manages to demonstrate a suitable combination of charm and menace at all the correct times.However, there is something missing.  It is almost as though the film lacks some of the vital energy that made romps like Tomorrow Never Dies, The Living Daylights, For Your Eyes Only and Thunderball so fun.  For that matter, this film is almost as weak as Goldeneye (which spent more time trying to work out what it was and how to be politically correct than it spent actually being a Bond film).  Right from the beginning, parts of the movie seem as though they have been put in because they should be there, rather than because they belong there.  For example, the entertaining boat chase at the very beginning is preceded by a very short scene in Spain that only serves to put the timing of the opening credits off.Although many of the characters are extremely interesting (look for Sophie Marceau as the most complicated Bond girl ever), the film somehow seems overlong, a problem that most of the earlier films never suffered.All in all, an entertaining movie, but still, something vital is missing in this one.  3.5/5. "},{"Title":"Enough Is Too Much","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it was because I was a kid when I first saw them, but the Bond films of old never seemed quite this outlandishly stupid. OK - there have always been gadgets (some ingenious, some not) and the stunts have always been a big part of the series' attraction, but come on! The opening scene, while lengthy, fast paced and exciting, is so ludicrously overdone that it plays like a parody of itself. Leslie Nielsen would seem more at home in this scene than James Bond.I guess they tried to inject some reality into the mix by making Bond injured the entire film with a dislocated collar bone (typical injury after falling a hundred feet or so). Unfortunately, this serves to make every stunt seem all the more preposterous. It really isn't necessary, and shouldn't have been part of the story. On the plus side, Brosnan makes a great Bond. He has intensity when he needs it, and can pour on the charm too. I still like Roger Moore the best, but Brosnan is really good. Too bad he couldn't have gotten the role 14 years ago when it was initially offered to him.I can't tell if this is better or worse than TND, but this ranks somewhere on a par with License To Kill or Live And Let Die - some good scenes, but overall a forgettable entry.And bring back the old music! "},{"Title":"Another great Bond, and a big elephant stamp to Pierce Brosnan","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a big Bond fan since I saw my first Connery Bond (I think it was Goldfinger). To me, there have always been several elements that make a Bond film work, and they must be perfectly balanced to make the film work. These include action (top chase scenes or action scenes are a must), humour (but laconic, and without falling into the traps of so many other films), villains (and other characters) you love to hate, and above all a believable Bond. The girls are secondary as window dressing, but important if their characters are well developed (character is king).This one has them all, and in the best balance for a while.The opening chase is brilliant, classic Bond. A nifty gadget, top speed, unbelievable stunts and a hero to cheer. The rest of the action sequences struggle to keep up with it - the ski chase is okay for a little while, but goes just a little long - though the chopper chase and gun fight on the docks is excellent.The humour is finely balanced, with Brosnan once again showing his perfect timing. He is as laconic and self-effacing a Bond as one could hope for. As much as I like John Cleese (I'm a Python and Fawlty Towers fan from way back) I fear that his inclusion in the cast as the probable successor to Q may swing the pendulum too far toward satire. I'd watch that one with caution if I were the producers.Elektra fills two roles wonderfully - a classic Bond girl with haunting, sultry good looks, and a calculating, heartless villain. Hers is a great addition to the story. Christmas Jones was a nothing character, and the movie would not have missed her being written out. It seems that Bond must sleep with someone at the end of the film, The name seems merely an excuse for the film's last line - straight out of Benny Hill.Brosnan is Bond. He has given the role a life and a depth that it has missed for many, many years. For my money, Connery is still the best Bond, but Brosnan is so close behind him as to be a real threat. Lazenby, Moore, and Dalton are so far behind these two as to be completely out of the race. Brosnan has kept the charm and the cool of the other Bonds, and given him the humour and the cold killer-instinct that he lost when Connery left. Dalton tried to bring that back but failed. Moore relied too heavily on the charm and the humour, and Lazenby just failed.The look on Brosnan's face during the opening scene in the banker's office when he displays his repulsion at those that tried to kill him, gives Bond a new depth. Brosnan is brilliant again.Oh, and where can I get a pair of those x-ray glasses????  "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Disheartened","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Every two years I look forward to the new Bond movie and this year I waited in anticipation until finally The World is Not Enough was released. The best thing about the film would have to be the more serious and dangerous approach to both the storyline and the character of Bond which has been missing for ten years and even at that never equals the hardness of Licence to Kill or Timothy Dalton's much superior interpetation of James Bond. I did enjoy the film very much but then, this being a Bond film, I was always going to enjoy it. The only problem I really have with TWINE is that it is an over-long film and fails to make good use of the characters involved in the plot, possibly because there are far too many characters. John Cleese is a welcome addition and the farewell for Q was very poigiant and altogether shockingly quick. It is definatley Pierce Brosnan's best Bond film yet and I feel that he has managed to grasp the role much better this time than he did in his previous two. I will not deny that I came away from the film feeling a little disheartened having expected something a lot better but nevertheless it is still a pretty good addition and well worth going to see. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies ever.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TWINE is witty and intelligent, with great action and believable characters. Brosnan continues to grow into the role, looking better as he ages. Although we share nostalgia for the early Bond films, this is as good as the Connery movies. "},{"Title":"Brosnan has finally matured as 007!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While not best of all the 007 flicks, The World is certainly up there near the top. Brosnan has now developed into  the perfect Bond ( even surpassing Sean Connery) , and he certainly keeps the show on track in this movie. The story line is a bit too complicated for the typical fast paced  style of all Bond films. However, the plot does begin to make sense half way through the movie( I think)! Robert Carlyle and Sophie Marceau were excellent as the villainous duo, while Denise Richards was somewhat mediocre in her portrayal of a nuclear physicist. With her voluptuous figure and with a name like Christmas Jones, it seems her only role was to be a  ready target of sexual innuendoes  from Bond. The best being, after some steamy lovemaking , I thought Christmas came only once a year. The special effects were as exciting and unbelievable as ever. A trademark of all James Bond movies is at least one wild chase scene. You won't be disappointed here either! Bond movies are really in  a class of their own; you either love them or you hate them. Being an avid Bond fan, I say don't miss this one!  "},{"Title":"Not Excellent, Not Bad","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I have to admit I was not that fond of this movie. I am a huge James Bond fan, having seen almost all the movies more than once! Maybe that it was I was displeased with it. I don't know why. It is driving me crazy! I guess I set my expectation too high with this one. I would have thought the director/producers/actors would have seen the comments made on Goldeneye and TND and made the appropriate changes. I thought wrong. It just doesn't have that classical element that I am sure many of us miss. The car wasn't used that much, and I felt that Renard had potential, but was not in the movie enough. And also I didn't think many of the things in here were that original. But I guess after 19 movies it's pretty hard to keep it original. All the actors/actresses were fantastic, with the obvious exception of Denise Richards, who I liked only because of the.....ehem...close-ups. I guess what I am trying to say is that it better be better next time! "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Reviewing Bond films has become a little like guessing the age of trees. Thus we have to assess not merely whether we have a good or bad Bond film but do we have a good early, mid, or late period Bond. I have to say this latest opus is definitely good late Bond, and average overall Bond. Not as good as Goldeneye (A great Bond film) but infinitely better than the execrable Tomorrow never dies. Brosnan is now number 2 in Bond hierachy IMHO after Connery, and the added depth of expression he is allowed in this vehicle allows him to actually, well, act. The plot is so so, as it concerns a devilish plot to control the Worlds oil supply. Oh yeah? How sixties. The villain (Robert Carlyle) is also so so. The current Bond penchant for weak chinned British thesps as lead villain is as ineffective as it is infuriating. Can't we go back to the old middle European nasties, or is that non-PC? The pre-credits sequence is excellent if a little forced. You do get not one but two stunts so it's worth it. The problem is the PCS in Goldeneye (The best ever?) was SO good you compare all new ones with it. The Women are good and bad. Sophie Marceau is the most complex and well written female character ever in a Bond movie, and allied to her considerable physical gifts (She's drop dead gorgeous) she makes for a refreshing new approach to the standard Bondette. But that I could say the same for Denise Richards. She is positioned in this film (and in life, truth to tell)as a body with brains. She obviously left her brains at home for this role. She is not credible as a nuclear phycisist who isn't interested in men. Yawn. I am not giving anything away when I tell you she finally succumbs to that certain someone. She does a little wiring at one point to show how independent she is, and saves the our heroes life. Apart from that she is a piece of fluff and spends most of the film mewing.Her underwater swimming sequence almost redeems her, however. The script is very sharp (An early jab at the Swiss, and Nazi gold is gets things rolling). Recruiting Apted (A renowned dramatic director) has paid dividends with some of the best interplay ever in a Bond film. The sequences between Marceau and Brosnan are particularly well handled. Judi Dench gets to pay a part in the plot (A good move) and the locations are handled better than any Bond film I can remember. They are actually credible within the context of the plot. So some good and some bad. The reality is that its the central villain and the central premise that fail this film. Not to the detriment of the film, but in comparison with previous Bonds. The rest of the film is undoubtedly superior Bond. I hope Brosnan sticks around and fulfills his promise to recruit Quentin Tarantino to helm a Bond movie. Now that would be interesting "},{"Title":"The best Bond movie for a long time","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am possibly unusual amongst Bond fans in having actually read all of Ian Fleming's original 007 books. I have to say that this is probably the best Bond film since _Live and Let Die_. The plot is 'sensible' i.e. not farcical. Brosnan is I think the closest Bond to the books of them all. Connery may have been good ... but a Scot as James Bond? No way I'm afraid. Brosnan is a very, very, good James Bond. The opening sequence in London is something of a first - very impressive, especially if you happen to be British! To see them chasing outside the Houses of Parliament and then wind up at the Millenium Dome is terrific.What makes this film rather special is stupendous performances by the villains as well. Carlyle is really chilling - especially when he tells M she will die really nasty. As for Sophie Marceau - wow the nastiest Bond girl I have ever seen. Oh, and by the way, that must be the best closing line to any Bond film!This is a cracking Bond movie. "}{"Title":"Three's a Crowd","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Every third film in the 007 franchise seems to be the pinnacle (e.g. Goldfinger, The Spy Who Loved Me) of the actor portraying 007, and this film might have resurrected the 007 franchise into the next millenium. This was the first 007 flick to have the ultimate plot twist like the Jennifer Love Hewitt flicks I Know What You Did Last Summer and its sequel, where Elektra King ends up being the first female lead villainess in a Bond film.  Like a megalomaniac or evil leader like Blofeld, she sets the standard for female villainesses, as well as a mangled earlobe, which would make Blofeld her husband.  Denise Richards might have grown up from the twisted, slutty role in Wild Things, but makes a reference to caviar without any champagne in this film.  She had a champagne bottle in Wild Things, but no caviar.  Should have had Matt Dillon as Renard, but Robert Carlyle might be just another employee like General Koskov (TLD) or Gobinda (Octopussy), and portrays a dying man that never quits.  Reminds me of the Necros character, where he kills for a living.  Pierce Brosnan might be the combination of Sean Connery and Roger Moore, and his films pay homage to the original 007 series.  Too bad that several of Raymond Benson's short stories have been published in Playboy, since they make excellent scripts.     "},{"Title":"Fabulous combination of several action-packed Bond movies all rolled into one spectacular, adrenalin pumping action film","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough is exciting from one end of the film to the other. The plot has twists and turns which a true Bond fan tries to detect before they happen.  Particularly intriguing are the similarities between Brosnan's action sequences and those of other Bond heroes in previous films. Actions such as ski sequences, water sequences, helicopter sequences, high-powered vehicles crashing through building sequences, and of course, the love scenes have the Bond signature on them.  The good looks, elegant demeanor, quick-thinking and quick-acting performance of Brosnan as Bond, coupled with the advanced technology of special effects put Brosnan out in front of any of the Bond characters who went before him.  May he be around for at least ten more Bond films.  "},{"Title":"Bond Is Back!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I grow up I want to be just like James Bond. Sharon Lenehan told us last year in Barfly that she wants to be Courtney Love when she grows up, but no, James Bond is for me.I want to be able to attach myself with a bit of curtain cord to an unconscious adversary, smash a window and leap out of a seven story window with lots of money and survive with style. I want to be able to snow ski like that.I'd like to be allowed to wreck Q's best toys in blazes of machine gun bullets. I'd like to always look suave like Bond.The gadgets. The women. And if I was Bond I wouldn't be worried about the ethics of well, anything. No agonising over small things like cities for example. Responsibility has taken on a new meaning.I'd agree, if I could be bothered, that it probably isn't a good idea to say blow up Istanbul. But if M asked me to arrange the destruction of a major city, well I'd probably just do it. If it suited me.Nah, Bond's a man of action, not thought. And a hell of a lot braver than I'd ever be.James Bond is back in The World Is Not Enough and he's in form.  This Bond film is funny, engaging and exciting and right up there with the best of the Bond Films.	There haven't been many Bond movies in the nineties. Unlike the generations who have preceded them, younger people hardly know who he is. For the rest of us Bond is an institution.  Bond disappeared for a while. There was a six year break after Licence To Kill (1989) starring Timothy Dalton, six years for Bond to mend his wounds and indulge in some fast paced recreation in Luxemburg, lounging with gorgeous women and dry Martinis.	Bond remerged in the guise of Pierce Brosnan in Goldeneye in 1995, battling with  rogue British agent 006 (Sean Benn) and the nasty, strong thighed Xenia (Famke Janssen).	In Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) Bond, again Pierce Brosnan, encountered bad guy media giant Elliot Carver (Janathon Pryce) in an overloud ear smashing action movie which suffered from a lack of the famous Bond humour and subtlety. No room was left for the humour that must exist in a good Bond film.	But there's plenty of fun in his latest, The World Is Not Enough. And for the first time in Bond history there exists credible character development and even a story line that almost makes sense!Brosnan, who is as good as Sean Connery as 007, has as his chief adversary the nasty but sad Renard played by the superb actor Robert Carlyle (Trainspotting, The Full Monty, Go Now, Hamish Macbeth, Riff Raff, etc).Carlyle takes what could have been a very ordinary character and encourages us to actually care about Renard. A definite rarity in a Bond film.The women are played by Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards. Marceau (Braveheart) plays a part that would probably have been played by a man in previous years and takes full advantage of the opportunity.Denise Richards (Starship Troupers, Lethal Weapon 1, Wild Things, Drop Dead Gorgeous) as Christmas Jones is more like the traditional Bond bimbo, and is unforgettable as the short shorted, small T shirted, nuclear physicist!And there lies a large part of the charm of The World Is Not Enough. Sex has become fun again. Sexism? I don't think so. Bond and his women in this film have re-found the pre AIDS, pre PC world Sean Connery's James Bond inhabited in the seventies. It's great escapism.No love is lost but none of this lot want (or fear) children or HIV. Perhaps they should be worried, but when you're as bullet proof as James Bond, who cares?  "},{"Title":"Bond returns to form!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the dismal outing of Tomorrow Never Dies, I had very low expectations for this latest adventure.  But instead of action over substance that it's predecessor had relished in, TWINE invests it's strengths in a nicely complicated plot and classic banter.  The action begins with a wonderful, yet overlong, boat chase and continues with an unforgettable ski scene which, for me, was the highlight of this latest entry.Brosnen was back with incredible class and has finally made his transition into the Bond mold, a feat that was never achieved by Dalton, Lazenby or Moore. Renard was incredibly ordinary with Caryle bringing a potentially classic villain to life by underplaying it into a bland and lifeless costar confined to the sideline.  This has definetly been the problem with the latest bonds lacking the classic villains like Blofeld or Goldfinger opting instead for the boringly normal Trelyan and Karver. The potential of Renard though gives me hope for an improvement in future Bond villains. The bond girls this time were Marceau and Richards.  Marceau was absolute gold played to perfection with the perfect balance of sex appeal, aggression and sensitivity.  Richards is another story. Her body had every guy in my cinema salivating with her endowed chest getting plenty of screentime (watch for that wet T-Shirt!) But her acting was incredibly poor and reminicent of the worst bond girl in history; Jill St John from Diamonds are forever. But hey, I still love Denise and will gladly watch her over, and over, and over again!!! Though Q, R, and Moneypenny were criminally underused, M made her mark becoming an intricate part in the film's plot.Overall Bond is definetly back in style with this film up there with my personal favourites of Goldfinger, You Only Live Twice and Goldeneye. I'm still hoping for a trade off in the action for a bit more of the classic spy operatives that were evident in the forementioned films, but this is still definetly a must see Bond (if not just for Richards!) Grade; A- "},{"Title":"Is It?","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I won't argue that Pierce Brosnan isn't the best Bond. I think he is. But this movie didn't have the special feeling the old Bonds had. I think that the women have taken over the action. I'm not saying there is anything wrong with that, but just think about it. I don't think anyone wants Ian Fleming's wonderful creation to become a porno star. "},{"Title":"Return to Form","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Third Brosnan Bond.  Goldeneye was good Bond, TND was bad Bond, and TWINE is good Bond again.  After starting off Brosnan's Bond career well with Goldeneye, the writer's made him too politically correct in TND.  Now, with TWINE, they have returned Bond to his un-PC, un-feminist, chauvinistic, sauve, debonair self.Sorry to see Q go, although I am a huge John Cleese fan and look forward to his next stint as R.  Judi Dench is a good M.  Sophie Marceau is an absolutely stunningly beautiful woman and a good actress as well.  Robert Carlyle was the best Brosnan Bond villian yet.  But although Denise Richards presents some awesome eye candy, can she really act?  Fortunately they kept her role relatively small.The gadget and action sequences were OK.  The pre-credit boat chase was the best.  Also liked the helicopter scene and the casino.Best Brosnan, equal to Goldeneye, as well as the Connery Bonds and better than Dalton's, Lazenby's and Moore's. "},{"Title":"The worst bond movie ever...","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Gosh... if I wanna hear the cheap innuendos, I'll probably rent a b-grade flick and watch it! The stunts were OK, but over all the movie was a disappointment! And what was Denise Richards there for? They could as well have done without her in the movie! A 20-something Nuclear Scientist... HO HO HO Ah, yeah, it was Sophie that made the movie worth a dime! If you haven't seen it yet... good... you are not missing out on much. The repeats on TBS superstation are better! "},{"Title":"A film that returns to the Bond we all know and love.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Here it is, Pierce Brosnan in his third Bond film and in my humble opinion in his best. From the opening sequence which dwarfs that of Goldeneye, we are grabbed by the front of the shirt and propelled into the comfortable and familiar universe of Bond...James Bond.All the key sequences are present and correct. We have gorgeous women in the guise of the irresistable Sophie Marceau and the eye popping Denise Richards, we have quips by the dozen from our hero, we have a villain with an edge (he feels no pain don't you know) and we have cool cars and gadgets.There is no new territory here, but then that is not what you pay your £4.50 to see. Slick direction and sharp performances from all of the cast (bar an out-of-her-depth Denise Richards who chews over her lines like a Bulldog chewing a wasp) and brilliant special effects ensure that this movie is a worthy installment to the most enduring of all franchises.  "},{"Title":"formulaic but highly enjoyable.  some lovely location shots of London.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a Bond fan for most of my life, with the exception of the unfortunate casting choice of Roger Moore.  Pierce Brosnan makes an excellent Bond, and he even resembles Ian Fleming's description (Sean Connery had the wrong color eyes).  Obviously, Bond has been modernized- no more racist, sexist, mysoginistic, cruel, and abusive behavior- well, more or less.  I think it's a good change, and I admire Brosnan for refusing to smoke in this film.  The sixties are long gone, and it's only natural for the series to update the character of Bond.  He's still the same basic archetype, and very appealing at that.  Of course, the bad puns and silly double entendres remain- it wouldn't be 007 without them.  And the ridiculous names of female characters are essential as well, though casting Denise Richards as a tank top wearing nuclear scientist named Christmas is a stretch even for a Bond movie.  She looks about 19, and can't act her way out of a paper bag as far as I could see.  But the exquisite Sophie Marceau made a fine villainess, though Renard's character was underwritten and not particularly menacing.  I felt sort of sorry for him, actually.  I loved the location shots along the Thames- it made me want to visit London.  I was sorry to see that Russian mafia guy killed off- I liked him in Goldeneye (a great movie) and I was happy to see him again.  I have to say that Pierce Brosnan's haircut was sort of wierd- too long and brush like on top.  But that's a minor complaint.  For the most part, I really enjoyed this movie. I can't wait to see the next Bond film.  I hope they will bring Desmond Llewelan back, although I understand he's very old and they are trying to phase him out in case anything should happen to him (God forbid).  Still, John Cleese was funny and should be a fine follow up. "},{"Title":"This film is very average","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Like the band who sing the title song, this film is garbage. The plot is non-descript, seen it all before. Robbie Coltrane's russian accent lasts about 5 seconds. Supposedly professional snipers shoot a hundred rounds at Bond and miss by a mile and the joke at the end, I'll save it for anyone who manages to watch it all the way through, is vomit inducing. "}{"Title":"James Bond forever!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another great Bond Movie.  Pierce does a great job even doing the cliche's and innuendos.  More beautiful Bond women, both Good and Bad and exciting and intense.  The special effects were awesome.  The High speed jet boat was unstoppable on land, sea, air or asphalt.  The BMW as always looked great.  Too bad it was a victim of one of the baddest Helicopters ever sent out for a Trim Job.  The plot was not really new but the twists and subplots helped give it some new life.  Knowing Bond could dish it out at the end was tough but deserved.  Denise is gorgeous and almost convincing as a Nuclear scientist. Do they all dress that way?A great, fun, entertaining and exciting movie.  "},{"Title":"Minor spoilers follow","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is better than ever in the role, and the opening sequence, culminating in a superbly choreographed chase around the metropolitan bits of the Thames, makes us settle back in our seats, fully expecting a long, exciting, satisfying ride.  Looked at afterwards the plot seems to be, if not great, at least sound.  So why was I so disappointed?I'm still not sure; but I think the following example from the latter half of the film is telling.  M is captured, and cunningly manages to send a signal to her allies on the outside, who include Bond.  Bond gets the signal - and then he's captured and taken by force to the very place M was trying to lead him to.  This is poor craftsmanship, nothing more.  It's as if different scenes were written by different people, and no-one cross-checked.The script has other notable weaknesses.  The villains' big plan is revealed far too late in the day to really excite us.  It's not really exciting anyway.  And the science!  The ridiculous explanation of what a bullet in the brain does, that unbelievable place in Azerbaijan (or was it Turkey?) with perpetually burning flames, and the cavalier use of nuclear fusion ... they add up to a bit too much implausibility.  (It's the CHARACTERS in the Bond world that can get away with being silly, not the techno-speak.)  But the main problem is just this all the good ideas have been used up by the end of the first hour.As for Denise Richards as Christmas Jones ... I WANTED to like her, if only to be contrary, but it took too much effort.  I really couldn't see her tagging along with a secret agent.  Christmas lacked the simple charm of the old Bond bimbos and the reason for existing that more recent ones have had; and anyway, Richards's acting was atrocious.Maybe I've over-stated my case.  There's certainly nothing here to make us despair about the future of Bond films they still have the genuine stunts and location work, and the sense of belong to a lineage completely different to the one that, say, `Die Hard' belongs to.  There's bound to be a weak episode every so often. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I loved Tomorrow Never Dies and thought Goldeneye was perfectly watchable.I thought The World Is Not Enough was simply a protracted put together of these 2 films.I couldn't follow, or understand for that matter, the plot at all. There was of course some exciting action as ever. And as ever Pierce Brosnan was brilliant as James Bond. I've decided he's the best since Connery after long contemplation. Handsome, charismatic and unbeatably boyish. I also thought there was a quite inventive touch in Robert Carlyle's, brilliant as ever, bad guy character having a bullet in his head that was killing off his sensesone by one, like one day his remorse would be killed off, then his fear, then his pity, then his pain etc. etc.But it's no good having al these good ideas if the end result is so confusing and strangely unexciting. Boo.** "},{"Title":"One of the best yet","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely Brosnan's best outing as Bond, and probably the best Bond film since the Connery era. TWINE has all the hallmark Bond characteristics (superb action setpieces, wild locations, silly one-liners) but stands out for its unusually thoughtful treatment of its major characters and their relationships. This makes for a surprisingly rich experience, a far cry from the rollercoaster ride that was Tomorrow Never Dies.The regular cast are as excellent as ever, Brosnan looking ever more comfortable in the part. The previously under-utilised Judi Dench has a much bigger role here, a pleasure to watch. We may have seen Desmond Llewellyn's swansong as Q, with the brilliant John Cleese obviously being groomed as his replacement. It will be sad to see Q go, but he is 85, after all. Robbie Coltrane makes a welcome return as Zukovsky from GoldenEye.Sophie Marceau as Elektra King is about as sexy, seductive and downright evil as Bond bad girls get. Unfortunately, Bond's sidekick Denise Richards is average at best. She looks okay in a Lara Croft sort of way, but she lacks credibility as a nuclear physicist and comes across as a bit of a bimbo. She is the film's only real flaw; I longed for the return of Michelle Yeoh. TWINE is less frenetic and much better paced than TND, less humourous but more complete. I hope the producers do the right thing and keep Michael Apted on for Bond 20.   "},{"Title":"We've all had enough.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After high hopes this turns out to be a big let down. The main problem with The World is not enough is the action sequences are very poor. The boat chase at the beginning is bond at its best but the following action scenes fail to deliver. The action scenes were never built up and as a result lost any tension and surprisingly never generated any excitement (apart from the opening sequence). As for the end sequence well it really was tiresome and not dramatic or exciting one little bit. Its a shame the opening scene couldn't have been the climax to the film.On other fronts the actual story holds up quite well and this is coupled with good performances from Marceau, Robert Carlyle and Judi Dench. Brosnan is making the bond role his own, he looks smooth but looks as though he can beat the living daylights (pardon the pun) out of anyone. But it can't be denied there is something missing from TWINE. Perhaps after a few weeks when the so called real bond fans have calmed down a little bit they will realise TWINE is just average.Goldeneye still remains Brosnans best bond as it was more playful with some classic bond scenes such as the bungee jump and the tank chase. I don't know if its just me but its about time the bond franchise was given a real overhaul from top to bottom.By the end of TWINE it was starting to get a little tiresome and the sight of Denise Richards trying to act was embarrassing to say the least, lets just say her two best friends must have won her the role. The next bond should be given to a younger director and maybe the resulting film will seem a little more fresh. Overall 5/10. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a wonderful ride.I've always been a huge Bond fan, which proves action heroes don't have to be us big dumb Americans to save the world! I wasn't disappointed at all with this one. It reminded me in lot of ways of the original Die Hard movie. Many thrills and surprising suspense. Denise Richards acting left you ducking your head for cover, otherwise, a classic Bond film.Long live the British!!! "},{"Title":"Bond needs to return to the style of GoldenEye","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film on its opening weekend and I have to say that I was slighty disappointed. I thought GoldenEye was a brilliant return to form for the franchise after the lacklustre Licence To Kill. However, I thought Tomorrow Never Dies was only just above average. I would have to say that The World Is Not Enough is no better than Tomorrow Never Dies.The pre-credit action sequence was very good and the opening credits were quite good as well. I heard the Garbage theme a few weeks ago on the radio and didn't think much of it - but when watched with the movie, it seemed OK.Some of the the subsequent action sequences were a bit of a let down, such as the ski chase. Even the film's finale (Bond in hand-to-hand combat with Renard aboard a submarine) was a bit of a let down. You'd have thought that the film-makers would have had a chance to create a class punch-up scene (like in From Russia With Love), especially with the villain's special gimmick of not being able to feel pain. That brings me nicely on to subject of Robert Carlyle, who played Renard. He might be a fine actor, but he just wasn't tall enough to play Renard. Director, Michael Apted had to use various tricks with the camera during the finale, to make sure that the audience didn't notice how much taller Bond was than Renard. Even Sophie Marceau was taller than Renard, making their scenes of intimacy seem a bit silly.Denise Richards looked absolutlely gorgeous in her role as Christmas Jones, although she didn't have much to do. Why the hell would she accept such an insignificant role after starring in films such as Starship Troopers and Wild Things.Sophie Marceau was OK in her role, Bond himself was quite good. Pierce Brosnan has grown into the role quite well. One of GoldenEye's few flaws was the fact that Pierce Brosnan looked a bit to thin for the role. But in this movie, as in Tomorrow Never Dies, he has put on a bit of weight, which lends a bit of credibility during the action sequences.To sum up, not a bad Bond movie, but nowhere near the best in the franchise. I'd give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bond.  Just Bond.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, it's Bond, what do you expect, hmmm?  Maybe some revolutionary insight into the profound existence of man?  Corset-ridden comedy of manners?  Or a superspy bedding lithe young beauties simply because he knows how to use his weapon effectively (hee, hee).  If you expect any but the latter, you're going to be sorely disappointed.  The World Is Not Enough doesn't pretend to be anything it's not, which is as refreshing as cinema gets at the moment.  It's a cheesy yarn of... actually, no, I don't remember the storyline - something about oil, bankers and wanting to take over the world - but the visuals are superb, the acting fairly solid with flashes of brilliance, adequately directed and greatly enjoyable.  What more do you want, eh?There are sterling performances from Dame Judi Dench as M, and from Robert Carlyle as Renard.  Unfortunately, Carlyle is chronically underused we only get a brief indication of the emotional pain the character goes through. Renard does what he does for a completely different reason to any other BondBaddie (TM), but this is only lightly touched upon.  After all, isn't a great idea for a character?  A man who feels no pain, who will get stronger and stronger until the day he inevitably dies?  He is, after all, the perfect victim AND the perfect villain a man with nothing left to lose.I've always had a soft spot for M ever since Dench stepped into the role. She may be MI6's evil queen of numbers, but the bean-counter from Oxford has depth, heart and commitment.  T.W.I.N.E. expands her role greatly; we get to see a lot more of her ability to care.  There's a slightly implausible bit when we are asked to believe that the head of MI6 cannot escape from a cell with a tiny wee padlock on it, but the rest of it is a tough acting role, and Dench plays it superbly.As for Brosnan, well, he plays Bond very well indeed.  It's hard to imagine Connery running down a gantry with an automatic machine gun in each hand blowing people away left, right and centre, as he does in Tomorrow Never Dies, but who cares?  Brosnan makes the role his own, and I, for one, enjoy his performances immensely.  Desmond Llewelyn makes his last appearance as Q, and it's very touching indeed.  I shall sorely miss him saying Pay attention, 007, in his own inimitable style, knowing that what will follow is the coolest selection of gadgets that will fuel kids' imaginations the world over.  Let's face it, we all want the car, don't we?  It would certainly make getting into London a hell of a lot easier, wouldn't it?John Cleese is good as R, Q's replacement, and Marceau plays an interesting character very well.  Denise Richards isn't really as bad as everybody else makes out (although she's certainly weaker than some of the other performances), but hey - what does she bring to the role?  Pneumatic breasts that will stand her in good stead should she ever be in a potentially dangerous drowning situation.  This may sound harsh - sorry, Denise, if you are reading this (as if), but you must have understood this when you took on the role.  Michael Apted directs competetantly, although it doesn't have the same narrative strength as his Gorillas in the Mist or P'Tang Yang Kipperbang, both previous sterling efforts.In summary, then, this is not the best Bond movie by a long shot.  It's not even the best Brosnan has done.  He is, in this author's humble opinion, the best Bond there has been (controversial, but hey - I like him). T.W.I.N.E. is good fun, executed fairly well.  The narrative may lose you at times, but it's one set-piece after another.  You don't come out disappointed. "},{"Title":"Underuse Of Robbie Carlyle","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The best Bond baddie in years and he is so underused. Apparently he feels no pain, can push himself harder blahdee-da but we don't really see this. A top punch-up scene without the confines of a sub would have been fantastic. "},{"Title":"Didn't live up to expectations.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Of the three Brosnan Bond movies, this must be the most disappointing, lacking exoticity and originality as well as a strong screenplay. As was the case in Star Wars 1, explosions and effects didn't save this movie. The only valid points to celebrate were John Cleese, Sophie Marcreau and Denise Richards; all giving solid performances. "}{"Title":"Outstanding Brosnan cannot save outdated Bond","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan looks better than ever in this latest Bond Flick.  However, the format is showing its age.  The elaborate chase scenes and requisite outrunning fire scene look slow and unbelievable.The plot is better and more believable than earlier Bond films.  But in this case the end is telescoped by the beginning.  Its clear who the culprits are within 20 minutes of the opening credits (which are the most interesting part of the film).  The culprit is unmasked with 45 minutes to go in the film and we're left shifting in our seats waiting for the thing to end.As usual, the women are beautiful and that at least gives the men in the audience something to look at while we wait for the ending. "},{"Title":"Good, but not Excellent","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's very much a case of Bond-by-Numbers in this film - we get re-workings of several ideas from previous films, and I can't help but get the feeling that I've seen this before.There's a boat chase (which, admittedly was pretty good), a ski chase, and even a nuclear bomb. (though I had to ask myself why Bond needed help diffusing the bomb when he's done that sort of thing hundreds of times before on his own.)Robert Carlisle was barely in it. However, Elektra is a great character, and brought out some emotion from Bond, and surprisingly M, too.If you like Bond, and especially Brosnan, I'd recommend it. If you like John Cleese, you'll enjoy his scenes.Overall, not bad, but could be better. A fun way to pass a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"A solid addition to the Bond legacy--A little perspective, please.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see The World Is Not Enough without bothering with reviews beforehand, and I came away satisfied. *Then* I read the comments and reviews--and found myself sorely puzzled. The best Bond ever, the worst Bond ever... Richards good, Richards bad, Coltrane good, Coltrane bad, R good, R bad, plot good, plot bad, action good, action bad... about the only thing everyone seems to agree on is that it's a Bond flick. Which indeed it is. Let's have a little perspective, please.This being a Bond flick, we can expect a few standards... Many high-speed chases and explosions. One or two beautiful women in tight clothing. At least one villain with delusions of grandeur. A complex and over-the-top plot to take over the world that would make the Brain of Animaniacs fame say, Huh? Tongue-in-cheek innuendo and bad puns. Spiffy gadgets. Narrow escapes. Lots of dead bodies and just as many slick one-liners. Opulent surroundings.Boiled down, what this amounts to is These movies are not meant to be taken seriously. The plots are unrealistic, the main character is shallow, there are holes in the continuity that you could drive a Hummer through, such as how as James Bond stayed 30something since the sixties? If these things bother you, you have no business watching Bond movies at all.Now.The boat and ski chases dragged out a bit longer than they needed to, but Bond's inventive (and, needless to say, unrealistic--that's the whole point, folks) uses of his not-entirely-functional speedboat and skis earn a grin. For once we see him get ruffled, thrown for a loop, and in one memorable instance, beaten the living daylights out of in a fall from an exploding hot air balloon. The legendary savoire faire slips a bit, and Bond comes across as a bit more human; a guy who's got slick moves, but occasionally gets overconfident and--my God--sometimes makes mistakes. He gets water up his nose when the prototype boat he swiped from Q doesn't work entirely as expected, and actually gets injured (beyond artistic and superficial facial bleeding). In the process of being sneaky and properly spy-like, he discovers a shady situation--and gets neck-deep into it before he finally figures out what's actually going *on.* Bond strolls blithely in where angels fear to tread.Sophie Marceau is excellent as the beautiful but dangerous Elektra King, who manages to make my skin crawl. Her male counterpart, Reynard, is regrettably underused, his supposedly superhuman abilities never coming into play. Denise Richards is a letdown after the outstanding performance of Michelle Yeoh in Tomorrow Never Dies, but it's unfair to blame this just on her; Christmas Jones was written in, so I'm told, solely to produce the necessary jiggly bits. Though even more sadly underused than Reynard, she's still a refreshing change from the swimsuit-shrinkwrapped brainless eye candy of earlier Bond films.The submarine sequence did leave something to be desired, offering neither continuation and resolution of plot lines beyond the major 'save the world' plot, nor slick action. Not until that point do I find myself regretting Bond's newly-acquired humanity; he and Dr. Jones bumble around for a while before finally encountering the villain and doing battle. Christmas Jones could get in some action of her own at that point, and does not; Bond's injury could be exploited and is not; Reynard's much-touted superhuman strength and lack of sensation *ought* to be in evidence, and are not. In a last-ditch improvisation, Bond offs the bad guy and saves the day, and we're treated to the latest results of Bond writers' neverending efforts to find new and unusual ways for the villain to get iced. (Can't James just shoot him for a change?) I enjoyed the ploy of Bond firing himself and his curvy companion out the torpedo tube, but that went by so quickly as to almost be overlooked.Q was, as always, wonderful, and I look forward to seeing more of John Cleese as R. M, though given more screen time than in the previous two films, was a disappointment. Gone is the tough, no-nonsense 'evil queen of numbers' who gave 007--and everyone else--hell; this M is consumed by guilt, wound neatly around Elektra's delicate fingers, and played like a drum. She walks blithely into a bad situation and ought to have been kicking herself for her sheer stupidity--the head of MI6 should know better. When she finally does realize she's in trouble, she fumbles, wrings her hands, and only manages enough ingenuity to let Bond know where she is so he can come save her. I'm sure if he'd been in her shoes, he'd have been out and kicking butt before she could do more than notice his absence--assuming he was dumb enough to walk into the situation in the first place. *This* is the M who, when told she didn't have the balls for her job, replied frostily, Maybe so, but the advantage is that I don't have to think with them all the time? Dame Judi Dench should have been put to better use; with the part she's given, she can't show to advantage the way Brosnan and Marceau do.All in all, The World Is Not Enough is a good, solid addition to the Bond legacy, and I look forward to seeing the new trend towards deepening the plots and the character continued. The plot was better and more memorable than that of Goldeneye, but the action scenes fall a good bit short of Tomorrow Never Dies, and only a few characters are used as well as they could be. "},{"Title":"The best Bond in years.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this one on opening night, and it is still with me, which is really saying something for an action film. Bond is back with a vengeance, and Michael Apted's masterful direction of what could have easily been another routine entry in the series raises it to the same classic status as Goldfinger. I was initially annoyed at the prospect of Pierce Brosnan as Bond, but he seems to have slipped quite comfortably into the role, and holds his own with such acting luminaries as Dame Judi Dench,Robert Carlyle, and the always interesting Robbie Coltrane. I appreciated the depth given to the stereotypical Bond girls this round, particularly Sophie Marceau, who is one of the great finds of this decade. I'm definitely going to see this one again, and waiting with baited breath for the next one. One last note love the casting of John Cleese, but for those who haven't seen the film, I won't spoil the surprise. "},{"Title":"A sad return to the comedy driven days of Roger Moore","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has sufficient explosions etc to appeal to the average adolescent suffering from the most extreme forms of testosterone poisoning, but the move from the occasional witty aside seen in Brosnan's earlier outings as Bond towards outright pursuit of comedy put it in the category of a high tech Carry On film.The basic plotline had more holes than a fishing net, the science was inaccurate in almost every case and frankly the acting was not up to the standards of recent films in this strand.  Bond will probably maintain a place in the public's affections - after all it survived several farcical episodes with the indescribably wooden Moore - but when compared with the slick work in Goldeneye, for example, this movie was distinctly third rate (and even that is a generous assessment).  "},{"Title":"Great stuff. This is what Bond is all about.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this film expecting a lot and I wasn't disappointed. This movie has everything you would want from a Bond film; action, style, sexy girls and groanworthy innuendo with the tongue planted firmly in the cheek. However, it also shows that the franchise is still in a state of constant evolution, experimenting with different things so you really don't know what is going to happen next.Some of the action scenes almost had me jumping out of my seat. You would have thought there would be a limit to the amount you could do with a motorboat and some pyrotechnics but this film proves otherwise. OK, the boundaries of reality are breached frequently and in some cases blatantly but who honestly cares?And the good points just keep coming. The direction just has style written from head to toe. Brosnan is excellent, as are Carlyle and Coltraine. Goldie makes a very cool appearance as the henchman Bullion (Although he could have got dressed up for the part...) but above all of these is of course the brilliant Judi Dench who makes her best appearance yet as M.So, if this film is so good, why do I still prefer Goldeneye? Well, it did have a few minor flaws. I personally thought John Cleese was a bad choice for Q's replacement. Not because he is a bad actor but strangely his sheer amount of screen presence overshadowed the rest of the cast (Except Dench of course) and really didn't fit the bumbling character he was playing. Also, I thought the girls were a tad weak and unconvincing in this film, at least compared to the previous four Bond films. (Still an improvement on the Roger Moore days though.)The best Bond ever? Not quite. It is still a very worthy addition to the series though. I would recommend this to any action-loving cinemagoer. "},{"Title":". . . but is this movie good enough?","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Definitely good enough,  not overall as good as Goldeneye but better than TND.  Robert Carlyle et al are much more credible villains than was Jonathan Pryce effeting his way through TND, but Michelle Yeoh was a better foil for the Brosnan charm than Denise Richards  -  she is little more than a large pair of breasts topped with a pretty face (although that may be a good definition of a classic Bond girl).In one or two places the comedy went a little over-the-top  -  with Q and R for example  - losing the film a little credibility and momentum as a consequence.  Sophie Marceau smoulders her way through the movie, but there is not enough information given on her motivation for what she does later in the movie.  Serena Scott Thomas makes a welcome return to the big screen as the doctor and let's hope we see her again in Bond 20.The submarine sequences were a little confusing  -  maybe I will understand exactly what Denis Richards is doing with the red and green lights when I see the film for a second time.  And that I shall see it a second time is probably all the recommendation you need.It's Bond and, with all it's faults, it's still streets ahead of the opposition, and it's still a must-see.  So see it. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Not Enough","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first half off The World Is Not Enough was absolutely spectacular. Unfortunately the second half of the movie was slow and the ending was definitely forgettable. I'm not saying that I didn't like this new Bond movie, cause it was decent, but it didn't match up to the first 2 Bond movies starring Pierce Brosnan. Here are my likes and dislikes.1) The open sequence with the incredible boat stunts. Every Bond movie has a great opening to start the movie and get the audience into the action. I love it. 2) Sophia Marceau What a great actress this sultry French woman is. She was one of the best reasons to see this film. Not only is she gorgeous, but she can act and shows great emotion. 3) More screen time for Judi Dench. Another great actress who has definitely earn additional exposer. She's wonderful as M 4) The ski chase scene. Another exciting choreographed action scene that will leave you breathless. Of course skiing has been done way too many tim es in Bond movies. 5) John Cleese as R, who will probably replace Q in the upcoming Bond movies. Having John C is essential for the humor between R and 007. Q has done a great job in the past, but he's getting old now.Stuff I disliked. 1) Another incredibly lame plot. No originality. What did this plot have to do with the World Not Being Enough? Nothing at all. The villian wasn't even after the world. No wonder the title was changed about 10 times. 2) The second half of the film dragged on forever with little or no action at all. Boring!! 3) The lacklusted ending. I didn't feel on the edge of my seat watching the ending. I was hoping then would get out of the sub and star a nice chase scene. Never happened. 4) Robert Carlyle as Renard. Even though I thought he did a great acting job, I never felt that he was all that threatening to me. I'll blame it on the script and not the actor. 5) Denise Richards' terrible acting performance. She was much better in Wild Things. Thankfully she didn't show up until halfway in the film. Didn't think Bond should have bedded her either. Some traditions should be broken. 6) The terrible use of the new improved BMW car. This vehicle seemed better then the last one, but was never utilized. I was hoping for another car chase scene, instead we got helicopters chasing Bond and Christmas around a dock. 7) All the action scenes were shown in the trailers. I hate that s**t!!Overall, the movie is worth seeing at least once. Just don't expect it to be better then Goldeneye or Tomorrow Never Dies. "},{"Title":"The worst Bond movie ever","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen each Bond movie a hundred times, I feel I'm well qualified to pass judgement on where this film fits in the history of this series...At the bottom.  This  was not a spy movie, which is what Bond is supposed to be about.  It was just a mindless shoot-em-up which are a dime a dozen these days.  Bond has always done extraordinary things in the movies, but he was never superhuman.  In this film he dodges massive explosions by running away 10 feet from ground-zero, can breath underwater for like ten minutes, etc, etc.  From the excellent Goldeneye, the last 2 007 capers have gotten progressively worse.  Still it's a Bond and I'll give it 5 out of 10 stars.   "},{"Title":"One of the best of the Bond series!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen all the Bond movies (except for View to a Kill, and including Casino Royale and Never Say Never Again), and I feel that this one is one of the best.  Strong performances, a classic Bond formula, a not-so-indestructible Bond actually showing emotion-even YELLING (something I don't think Bond's ever done in any other movie), a villain with a Bondian gimmick (but not a cliche, two-domensional mastermind), plus two of the most beautiful women in the Bond saga (Denise Richards and Sophie Marceau-WOW!)!! This is Bond at it's best, and deserves to stand side-by-side with Goldfinger and Thunderball as classic Bond movies! "}{"Title":"A twisting, exciting movie","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw James Bond I was pleasantly surprised.  I had read that this movie wasn't that good.  I enjoyed it.  Lots of action, some suspense, and some surprise.  You should disregard the critics and see it "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best Bond movies for a long time and it is good to see that M/Q/R and the MI5 gang are more than just a cameo at the beginning!.  Brosnen shows just how much an actor can bring to the role, which is something previous Bonds somehow failed to do.And if it was supposed to be Q's last film, his exit scene was brilliant!.All good fun! "},{"Title":"Same old stuff but still fun","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The lates Bond film follows the same formula as all the others.Bond must save the world from evil villian with the aid of a beautiful woman or two, pulling off lots of breattaking stunts and using lots of trendy gadgets,Even though this latest enstallment of Bond offers nothing new with regards to story it is still fun and exciting to watch. I expect Bond will still be saving the world many years from now with a woman in one hand and a martini (shaken not stirred)in the other.  "},{"Title":"Watch this for the characterization, not the action.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan returns as James Bond for the third time in what is a more characterized look at James Bond.  Brosnan makes Bond feel more humane, this is given not only by the fact that he dislocates his left shoulder (altough this really doesn't add all that much to the film) but by his tempermant and how he acts around women.Brosnan's portayal of Bond as a more humane character is not the same as the Fleming books, Bond is a cold character.The film opens with a good opening sequence, but it went on forever - starting in Bilbao and finally ending with a speedboat chase along the river Thames in London.The title song was overshadowed by the complete overuse of CGI graphics in the title sequence setup - women covered in oil, which is the basic premise of the whole Bond film.The plot of the film revolves around Bond, who feels guilty about the death of Sir Robert King decides to protect Elektra King (his daughter) from an assassination attempt by the Renard who (played excellently by Robert Caryle) has a bullet in his head...The idea that you can lose all senses if you get a bullet through your temple is stupid - but this is Bond, and your not really meant to understand nor comprehend it - it gives an edge to Caryle's character - which is used well when Caryle is with Elektra, but unfortunetly this is never truely taken to its limits towards the closing stages of the film.The chemistry between Elektra and Bond is excellent, altough a little dry - but that was the whole point, Brosnan wanted to show that Bond was weaker than this manipulating woman.The film weighs heavily more on the characterization of Bond, Elektra and Renard - I enjoyed this, but I felt this was let down by the poor attempts at comedy by John Cleese and Goldie (the guy with the gold teeth).Also included in this film is Denise Richards (of Wild Things fame), who is supposed to be a nuclear scientist - her lacklustre performance which sounds like she's just going over her lines is only unlifted by her breasts which are thrusted into every tight shirt that is imagined and they are also thrust into the camera every time she is on screen.Thankfully this Bond film, unlike the terrible Tomorrow Never Dies, relies less on gadgets, talking cars and Brosnan's iron gripped hair - and relies much more on the characterization - but in any bond film, there needs to be action - and there wasn't any - so to speak.The action sequences relied only on set piece explosions - that's it - just explosions - I didn't come all this way just to watch explosions - where's the danger or the threat?The ski chase was boring, its obvious the director tried to speed up the sequence trying desperatly to keep the tension up - but failed miserably.Other action sequences were also of lacklustre performance.  But this film was never about the action - it was about the characters - how they performed with each other - you had to wonder if Bond could ever kill a woman in cold blood.The end sequence on the sinking submarine was okay, not specatular - and the end fight sequence with Renard altough good was never up to the scratch of other Bond films Overall I found the film to be a very enjoyable romp - but I did feel let down that the action wasn't as good as I had hoped.This film is certainly Brosnan's best performance in a Bond film, but if he wants to do another Bond film, I'd certainly tell him to put more action and depth into the film. "},{"Title":"Bond-not your father's Remington Steele...","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hey this one was a lotta fun-though it gets LONG and slowish in second hour. Here are the things I really liked*John Cleese as 'R'-need more of him and his humour in the film! The whole audience lit up when they saw who it was-great idea!*the Motorboat race from Hell. That was good too-right over the top, long, incredible stunts, you name it. Much fun!*Sophie Marceau-Beautiful! Devilish! Can act! Liked her a lot-a nice turn-round from some of the bimbos that pack the older Bond films. Good choice here.*Robbie Coltrane-great stuff! *Remington Steele-uh, Pierce Brosnan. Not better than Moore, nor close to Sean Connery-but decent, has made a 3rd winner in a row in this series. I'm impressed, hope he keeps on doing Bond another couple of times out. He was definately what the series needed, that is to be sure.*Judi Dench-because, that's why.*The whole Russian/Kazakh/Caspian setting. Quite real-world and nicely done.*The Bad guy with the bullet in his head. Effective.What I didn't like...*Too long! Drags in second half.*Denise Richards. Can you say 'Block of Wood'? Yikes! If you thought she was plastic in Bug Hunt-uhhh, Starship Troopers that is!-wait until you get a load of what she delivers here. Thud thud.*I think we've seen the Bond-underwater/sub bit before. More originality here, please?*Some of the early stuff involving the banker got a bit twisty, HUH?But-never mind-I liked this a lot for what it was good at-and recommend it to Bond fans of all stripes.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Explosive in more ways then one","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In the latest bond action thriller it pairs up Bond with two women excellent writing except for one part bond should never fall in love with a woman when he plans to sleep with another other than that even the jokes were good this time but maybe they should start thinking about adding in a more stable recognizable character people won't really need to get to know fast but have forgotten about maybe Pussy Galore now that was a character (not the original) "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've been a 007 fan since the start, with Dr. No, while doing a stint in the Army in the 60's and while Sean Connery will always be Bond to me Pierce Brosnan is an extremely close second. It is only my loyalty to Connery that prevents me from looking at them as equals. What I really liked about The World Is Not Enough was that more of Ian Flemings Bond was brought back, as demonstrated by his matter of fact, cold blooded dispatch of Elektra. We sometimes forget that while Fleming's 007 is charming, witty and extremely intelligent, he is in fact one each cold blooded killer.This is a great bond film with great stunts and great acting, even the weakest actors (Ms. Richards) are good. Ms. Marceau on the other hand deserves an academy award nod for sure and John Cleese is a great pick for the future Q, I for one hope he comes back. Pierce Brosnan seems to really like being Bond and I hope continues to have fun with it and he stays for a very very long run. It took a long time to find a true replacement for Sean Connery and his name is Brosnan, Pierce Brosnan, 007 for sure. "},{"Title":"Same old Bond, but better","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"     I think with this outing Brosnan establishes that he is (gasp) the best Bond ever (Connerey's great, but he's helped by the fact he had better scripts to work with).  In the first scene he establishes a facet of Bond that's been lost since Roger Moore took over--that Bond is dangerous and quite unaffected by killing people.  Marceau is a great Bond woman, the action scenes are well done by director Apted, the script does what Bond scripts are supposed to do (by my count Bond only does three impossible things, far less than any Bond film since Moore took over), and to my amazement, even mis-cast Denise Richards acquits herself well.  There's a great villain in Renard, but he is underused which is a shame; after so many so-so bad guys I wished they'd done more with an interesting one who is not simply a meglo-maniac.  They seem to have run out of ideas for the car (which meets a quick end), but the addition of Cleese as R should help.  I hope Brosnan makes at least one more appearance as Bond. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing all the lackluster reviews, I was fearing the worst.  But you know, it really was surprisingly good.  You have to take a certain mental state with you when you watch a Bond film.  If you are expecting brilliant plot convolutions and a totally consistent and logical and plausible premise, you're probably going to be disappointed.  But within that context, TWINE actually held its own pretty well, I thought.  There were a few overly gratuitous jokes (but that's also typical Bond)... it started getting a little tiring when it seemed that it was the Bald Men's Army against the world (watch the Bad Guy henchmen closely).  Nice to see some cameos from old faces (though I didn't catch the Bond Women on the first viewing).  A passable job of acting all around, some better than others.  I'm going to miss Desmond Llewelyn; this was pretty obviously his last picture.  But I think his replacement should fit right in.  Not the best Bond film of all (don't ask me which was), but actually I'd rank this one pretty high, at least among recent one.  I'm buying the video when it comes out. "},{"Title":"Bond movies never Disappoint","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  (don't read if you don't want a slight plot giveaway)But although I loved this movie, I found myself feeling a little bit sorry for Elektra.  Not sure what it was about it, not sure totally why James killed her.  (don't like giving plots away, but) It wasn't totally logical.  He coulda given the gun to M or whatever.  But when she said dive and tada..  I don't know, I docked it a star for that.... Soundtrack is another awesome soundtrack.  ;)  and they kept the same conductor from Tomorrow Never Dies.  and they brought back that dumb nut from Goldeneye (the guy with the limp remember??  lol)  9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but not fantastic.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The plot was mildly incoherent, but I was entertained nonetheless. Pierce Brosnan was in good form as Mr. Bond, and the supporting cast put in good solid performances... with the notable exception of Denise Richards. I must say that her presence detracted considerably from my enjoyment of the movie; sure, James Bond flicks don't call for great acting, but this was downright painful, especially when contrasted with the performance of the much more beautiful and talented Sophie Marceau. That was my only real gripe, though; otherwise the film was good fluffy fun. "},{"Title":"Action aplenty!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although this third outing for Brosnan's Bond lacks the flamboyant villains, fiesty femme fatales, and really good one-liners of old, it more than makes up for it with it's amazing action sequences.It easily has as many narrow escapes as Indiana Jones and as many explosions as John Woo.I must add that Carlyle's portrayal of Renard, the villain who feels no pain, is probably one of the coldest characters I have seen on film.  John Cleese is definitely a superb successor to 'Q', but Denise Richards' ridiculously named character Dr Christmas Jones is a bit of a liability.But Hey, it's a Bond film -- 9/10 "},{"Title":"007's Confident return to form","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough (Bond 19) is a classy thriller, and a worthy addition to the canon of Bond. Pierce Brosnan has never looked more comfortable as the British Government's most famous agent - dangerous, dashing and deadly.  In this installment Bond deals with the murky world of International terrorism and the Oil industry.  Assigned to look after the daughter of a wealthy heiress, Sophie Marceau, he gets more than he bargained for.Robert Carlyle, one of the UK's rising stars, gives us the menacing Renard - a  terrorist with an invulnerability to pain and a chip on his shoulder.  Robbie Coltrane also returns as Valentin Zubotsky, the ex-KGB agent who tangled with 007 in 'Goldeneye'.  With a guest role from Judi Dench as M, alongside Samantha Bond, Michael Kitchen, Colin Salmon, John Cleese and the fantastic Desmond Llewelyn as Q, the writers have built a great support team around Brosnan's Bond - and this is as it should be, Bond was never a man to work alone.Locations take us all over, but the best sequences for me were on snow and water.  The Ski sequence with Marceau and Brosnan was stunning, and the pre-credits chase from Vauxhall Cross (London's real MI6 HQ) up the river Thames to the Millennium Dome was classic Bond - pacy, death-defying and keep me on the edge of my seat.The writer's showed their knowledge of the character, with details of Bond's world coming through - and the title, as 007 says, is the Bond family Motto!  They make a subtle mix of humour and action, yet also find room to give Bond a darker edge and some vulnerability.  Of course 007 could not get through without the women and the bad puns, and both are in evidence with Marceau, Maria Grazia Cucinotta, Denise Richards as a nuclear bomb expert (really!) and Serena Scott-Thomas as a MI6's Doctor with an impressive bedside manner!Music duties again from David Arnold were again well executed and the title song is a belter from Grungy loop experts Garbage.Director Michael Apted has provided a stylish film, perhaps one of the best looking Bond's in some years.  This is a confident return to form for 007, he looks set to keep his 'License to Kill' well into the next century.   "},{"Title":"A Great Watchable Enjoyable Film","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a James Bond film, and that is basically it. If you like good action films and if you like comic book style baddies AND if you like the ever popular James Bond format then you will love TWINE. It is a film that basically has been done 18 or 19 times before but with 18 or 19 different names Pierce Brosnan is a good Bond and he has great acting ability. If you like movies with surprises then this may not be the sort of film for you. Overall it is a great watchable enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"A film worth watching before Y2K.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When you think of James Bond, super spy, you think of ever beautiful locations, megalomaniacal villains, and sexy femme fatales.  The Bond franchise has been in the movie business for 30 long years.  This is it's 19th movie, and it's a blast.  The franchise is somehow still going strong, but it's a definite improvement over Tomorrow Never Dies.  Still it's a good movie in it's own right, it just had it's flaws. Story line A billionaire tycoon is killed in an assassination at MI6 headquarters.  His daughter, Elecktra (no not Carmen), has inherited his vast fortune and wealth.  Bond is sent to protect her at all costs.  But he has one problem, the psychopathic Renard.  Whom in fact is particularly interesting, a bullet is lodged in his head and he can't feel pain.  Faced with that challenge, Bond must defend Elektra, or suffer a fate like the billionaire tycoon and be killed. The concept of the movie is typical Bond fair.  But it had it's flaws.  First of all, the lack of Dr. Christmas Jones.  She just appears halfway through the movie and she's just plain tagging along with Bond.  That's it, no more of this.  Then there's Renard, he looks like Donald Pleasance playing Blofeld.  Also, he wasn't much of a villain, just somebody who likes to destroy things and had no motive.  Also, the bullet in his head is not typical of Bond.  Many of Bond's people are bionic ally enchanced, psychopathic, and megalomaniacal.  He just isn't like either Blofeld nor Jaws or Oddjob.  I could let this thing go because this is fictional though.  Then the final thing, the lack of gadgets.  I remember the best scene in Tomorrow Never Dies, a thrilling car chase with Bond steering on a cellular phone.  The car just only shoots rockets.  You call that a gadget?  Yet again, all those locations.  Mainly Bond films just stayed in at least one or two spots.  We got Bond here, hopping from Baku, Azerbaijan, to Kazakstahn, and then to Instabul (From Russia With Love), Turkey.  Why can't they just stay in one place? By the way, Renard never really SHOWED he felt no pain in fist fights in the film.On the plus side though there are many things.  First of all, the story, it's well planned but Bond is rather dressed like Tim Dalton in License To Kill.  There's a good use of manipulation and true colors of betrayal though.  Brosnan gives Bond a harsher, yet darker tone, that's why I somehow like him in this film.  The action is waaay intense, from the Thames chase to the climax under the sea, Bond delivers all out stops with everything he got.  Marceau also gives Elektra King some vengeance and lonesome power.  But what I REALLY like in this movie is R.  Yes R, played by one of my favorite actors John Cleese(Monty Python).  He is a good replacement for Q.  It's a good thing he signed up from more fun on 3 more Bond films.  He'll do a good job with the role.  There's also the good role Robbie Coltrane did as Valentin Zukovsky from GoldenEye...  Too bad it's his last though... All in all, this was a fun movie.  An intense thriller that made me happy from beginning to end.  It had it's flaws but at least it's better than Tomorrow Never Dies!  Which gives me a question, will 007 ever die?  I hope he lasts for a while, but to assure that, we MUST bring back somethings like Sean Connery had in his personality, not rely on explosions, but on wit and charm and good action.  Let us strive to make Bond go BEYOND all limits as being a good film.  I hope 007 doesn't die soon.  But to assure the safety of our beloved spy... always look at this things and ponder this James Bond Will Return  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit it right off the bat I'm not a huge fan of Bond films, but I'd heard that TWINE (Good God, how's THAT for an acronym?!) was one of the better movies in the series to come out in awhile, so I decided to bite.I must say that Pierce Brosnan makes a great James Bond (well, anyone would be an improvement over Tim Dalton), and it was nice to see Judi Dench involved in the action as well. Robert Carlyle is one of the more creepier JB villains to come out in a long time, and the action was superb, especially the opening sequence. It's too bad that John Cleese's character wasn't expanded more though.The only drawback was the silly Denise Richards character when she's first introduced (I couldn't help but snicker at the outfit she wore under her uniform, and what's a lone American scientist doing in some remote part of the world?) but she comes off well in the climax.Overall, not the best movie of the year, but it's up there. I gave it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bonds ever.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With The World Is Not Enough, Pierce Brosnan has fully developed the character of James Bond from merely the hedonistic character he has been in the past, to a thinking and feeling James Bond that responds to the pain in the situations that face him, and actually finds something other than physical gratification in the some of the gorgeous women that he beds.  As with all James Bond movies, this is a formula movie, but the formula works very well and I am glad that they have stuck with it.  The action scenes are spectacular, and they are softened by more-funny-than-usual comedy.  Changed too is the way in which women are portrayed within the movie.  As villains, they are powerful not merely for their sexual appeal (which they have a lot of), and they get their due treatment from Bond just as all of the male villains of the past.  Bond's love interests are also becoming less helpless and more intelligent and assertive.   Also, the appearance of John Cleese adds depth to the comedy and it appears that we may expect to see him in further productions. All in all, this could be one of the best James Bond movies ever.  With so many good ones, it is hard to have a favorite. "},{"Title":"Christmas Jones?","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a James Bond fan, I think that the opening sequence of the film is one of the best, if not the best, in any of the James Bond movies.  However, once Denise Richards enters the movie as Christmas Jones(very lame name) the movie goes south. Mostly because her part coupled with her acting is awful!! If you want to see it, wait for it on video or DVD. "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome!!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is awesome. The action is reminecent to OHMSS, but done better (ski chase) and other Bond's. I loved this movie. It's my 2nd favorite Brosnan. It wasn't as good as Goldeneye (that's one of the best of all time) but beat the pants off of Tomorrow Never Dies. Sophie Marceau made an excellent villiness (much better then Johnathon Pryce. Anyway, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A great all action yet darker bout of 007 fun","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond returns in what is definitely Pierce Brosnan's best 007 flick to date.  Gone is the boredom and slowness of GoldenEye, gone is the stupidity of Tomorrow Never Dies.  Instead we have a great thriller which doesn't take itself too seriously.  Brosnan was born to play Bond...and he really makes himself at home in this flick.  The plot is still a little unbelievable but compared to Tomorrow Never Dies it deserves an Oscar!!!  The opening title is the best yet and the action sequences are well choreographed and memorable...only Denise Richards lets the great array of characters down as the worst Bond Girl ever...and thats saying something!!!! "}{"Title":"The best Bond film in years...","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TWINE has received mixed reviews from the press, so I was a bit skeptical after being let down by the previous Bond films. But, as always, I went in with an open mind.What I saw surprised me. Quite simply, this is the best Bond film since License To Kill. We see a Bond that is a bit more raw and gritty. Sure, we've got all the great gadgets that we've come to know and love.. but all aspects of the film are first rate, resulting in a great action/adventure film.As far as the actors go, I'll sum it up quickly Pierce Brosnan is at his best, Denise Richards isn't nearly as bad as people make her out to be, Sophie Marceau is PERFECT as the villianess, Robert Carlyle is the best Bond villian in years (although not nearly as good as Goldfinger or Sanchez), and the MI6 gang live up to standards.One nice addition that I really got a kick out of is Q's (Desmond Llewelyn) replacement, R, played by John Cleese. I can't wait to see him in future installments of the Bond franchise. )All in all, TWINE is well done and, as I said before, the best Bond in years. If you enjoy good action/adventure films, you should DEFINATELY check out The World Is Not Enough. You won't be disappointed...  "},{"Title":"Better than the last one.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  So with Brosnan's third foray into the franchise known as Bond-dom he has become currently the most identifiable man with the charactor for this generation.While he still is not Connery, he at least is not a scrawny little guy like Dalton who played the personality wonderfully but just did not have the on screen presence the character needs to have. But Brosnan does play Bond far more cold and calculating than either Moore or Lazenby and that's a good thing.The stuntwork in this installment is, as always fantastic with the highlights being the intro's boat chase and the chase in the pipeline. The latest version of the Bond women were, as ever, beautiful and this time they came with personalities to boot, I especially liked Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones (Lara Croft?). The only fallback to the script was the buildup of Renard (Robert Carlyle) as an indestuctible mad-man and then they made no use of this ability. All the sexual inuendos all also present and Bond of course beds all the women he encounters also.Over all a fun 2 hours plus and I'll definitely be catching this one again when it hits video next year.  "},{"Title":"Good movie...Formula is wearing thin","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a really good Saturday afternoon...nothing else to do...type movie. If you liked the last one go see this one. It is pure formula and if you want an intelectual 180 minutes, go elsewhere, but for fun this one is great! A real plus here is  the (as usual) special effects. I had this recurring feeling that I was watching the Thomas Crown Affair 2.  "},{"Title":"It was one of the best yet!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I personally think this was one of the best Bond movies yet! Even the opening credits were amazing with the oil in water effect and Shirley Manson of Garbage singing the title song. The only thing that was off was Denise Richards, Although she is beautiful enough to be a bond girl, she just cant act. Bond girls are supposed to be as intelligent as they are beautiful and she could definitely not pass off the part of a nuclear scientist. "},{"Title":"Classic Bond!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so there's a few more innuendos than usual, but it's definitely classic James Bond. David Arnold comes out swinging with his second Bond score. John Barry is and always will be the original, but Arnold keeps the sound true to the music of the Bond series as a whole, while still managing to throw in his own flair and some modern sounds, as well. I hope he is retained to do further scores in the Bond series.Pierce Brosnan is definitely more comfortable in the role of Ian Fleming's James Bond than ever before, and I hope he stays on for more movies. He can act, he can deliver the one-liners, and he can also do the action. He IS Bond. . . James Bond, that is.The bad guy is a three-dimensional character, there's some nice continuity with previous Bond movies (like Bond's family motto from On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and references to Mrs. James Bond), the action is awesome, the effects are spectacular, and the Bond women - both of them - light up the screen.It's a 10!!! "},{"Title":"My favorite 007 of the 90's","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough returned my faith to the 90's generation Bond adventures. The film was stunning and filled with Bond cliches like casino, beautiful girls, witty oneliners and high speed chases. Bonus points were awarded for exotic locations. Storyboard itself lacked originality which was quite a disappointment. Whatever people may say about Denise Richard's appearance in 007 I think she did not belong there. OK, she might be gorgeous, but way too girly and young for James's taste. "},{"Title":"Typical Bond","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What's the deal with Christmas Jones?  She was completely out of place, unbelievable, and useless.  Typical Albert R. Broccoli eye candy.The movie overall moved very well in spite of her.  The chase scenes were exciting and well choreographed, and the story line was good.  For the Bond fan, this won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"another great James Bond movie","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The latest film in the James Bond series is the best of Pierce Brosnan as James Bond flicks yet. They have changed Bond they have made him the way he used to be before Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies. Q is retiring so he is training a replacement named R played by John Cleese from the Monty Phon franchise. Elektra and her dying lover Renard wish to blowup part of the world for reasons I won't mention. James Bond teams up with the beautiful Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) who is an expert in nuclear physics. M is developed more in this film we get to different side of her. Money Penny is the same as she always was. Delivers all the action and sex we come to except from the James Bond series. The opening teasers have been getting longer and longer but that has aloud them to give us more insight into the story. James Bond will return it says so in the ending credits I wonder if it land on the same year as Austin Powers 3 does again.   "},{"Title":"Tired Rehash","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Was I just in a bad mood?  Or was this a tired rehash of all things Bond? Bond in an oil pipeline.  Bond in a submarine.  Bond in love.  Don't get me wrong, I am a Bond fan.  And I did enjoy the film.  But it really seemed that The World is Not Enough was just a string of silly situations that Bond has been through before.There were some clever plot points.  And LOTS of potential.  In Tomorrow Never Dies we saw Pierce Brosnan add some depth to Bond.  We saw Bond switch from killing machine to regretful human to killing machine.  With 007 and M both operating out of revenge, this film had even greater potential to dig into the psychology of our favorite secret agent.But it didn't.  Instead it put Bond on skis or in a boat that can't stay in the water, begging me to ask, Haven't I seen this before? "},{"Title":"19th time Lucky...","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I personally think this is the best of the James Bonds.  Brosnan is rapidly laying a claim to be the best ever Bond, although I suspect people old enough to have seen the Connery films in the cinema might disagree with me.The rest of the cast are all great choices, although Denise Richards struggles a little at first and it's always nice to see female characters who actually have character.It manages to balance action and actual story perfectly and particular mention goes to John Cleese who will make a superb replacement Q when Desmond Llewelyn finally calls it a day. "}{"Title":"Worst Bond movie I have ever seen.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the first night in Southport last night and was so disappointed.Brosnan is wooden, his eyes don`t sparkle and the way he smiles gives the impression he has had surgery to his face - only the corners of his mouth move. That aside - unlike all the other Bonds he adds nothing to the character, there is more to acting than just running around in front of a special effect screen. What a far cry from when he played the assassin in The Long Good Friday when he could convey menace with just a glance.Dench is wrongly cast as M. M should be a civil servant, slightly bored with the whole affair and waiting for his/her pension. If you want to know what a British civil servant is REALLY LIKE watch the Ipcress File.Robbie Coltrane with his stick-on beard, wig and phoney accent was ridiculous.The other main flaw was the continuity of the film, there is no feel for the action scenes and it is obvious they were filmed at different times and dates. I enjoyed the river chase down the Thames until the end sequence when it became silly.What a shame that this sequence of films is steadily going downhill, a mere shadow of former glory. "},{"Title":"00-Disappointment","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most anticipated movies of the year has become the most manipulative movie of the year. Pierce Brosnan is back as 007 in TWINE. He looks comfortable for the third round, but I wasn't. The film opens in Bilbao, Spain. Our hero is making a deal that invovles an oil tycoon and a bunch of rich scum. After this, it leads to a boring boat chase. When viewing this facist stunt sequence, I thought the movie was going to get better. Oh boy! Was I wrong. Trying to critique this movie wasn't hard. It's not as lurid as 'Goldeneye', but its no 'Tomorrow Never Dies'. The only merits this film has are the pipeline sequence and Sophie Marceau. Denise Richards, the second to worst Bond girl in history. **1/2  "},{"Title":"NOT WHAT I EXPECTED","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  WOW!! - thats all I can say about the latest James Bond movie!I thought 'Goldeneye' was OK and loved 'Tomorrow Never Dies' but this one is definitely the best of the three Pierce Brosnan movies (who by the way - I think is the best James Bond EVER). Heres why - For a start it doesn't depend on action scenes and stunts alone, it's more like a thriller. Don't get me wrong, it has loads of action (check out the 20 minute opening scene BEFORE THE OPENING CREDITS!) and comic scenes but the story just seems more Grown Up than the previous two movies. Also Brosnan is really comfortable in the part now, its taken two movies for him to find his footing but now he IS james Bond. Next is the actor who plays the villain  Renard - Robert Carlyle is THE best Scottish actor ever. In this movie his character is almost underused - but maybe thats a good thing, at least by the movies climax you want to see more of him - by the way - this movies ending is nothing like Tomorrow Never Dies - its much more personal and character driven rather than Guns and Grenades, but still absolutely spellbinding. Also look out for Sophie Marceau as Elektra King - she is fantastic!! Overall a fantastic Movie! "},{"Title":"Bond, Dull Bond","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Call me crazy but I wasn't that impressed with this latest installment in the James Bond series.  I thought the plot was pedestrian, the action scenes dull, and the 2 Bond women delivered  completely inept performances.  Well Sophie Marceau was o.k but Denise Richards was really bad.  The only thing worth watching when she was on screen was when she was in a tank-top or wet t-shirt.  The villain played by Robert Carlyle was underused and one of the only things that managed to save it was John Cleese, for the brief time he was on the screen.  I know a lot of people who think this is the best Bond ever but everyone says that about something that is new.  If I were you I'd wait for the video because there are so many other good films to see before going to this one.  Here's hoping the Bond franchise dies.  But this one is making a bundle so tough luck for that hope!   "},{"Title":"Bond film a mixed bag, with stronger characters, weaker action.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, is a mixed bag as far as Bond films go....in many ways it is a cut above other entries in the series.  Brosnan is better than ever as Bond, this time adding darker shades to his portrayal of the legendary agent.  Fans expecting the thrill a minute action sequences of the last two films (GOLDENEYE, TOMORROW NEVER DIES) may find this Bond disappointing.  Director Michael Apted (The Coal Miner's Daughter, Thunderheart), takes a low key approach to the material ensuring that the characters are fleshed out more than is customary for this franchise.  This doesn't mean that Brosnan's third outing is lacking in excitement, the opening sequence is among the most gleefully inventive set-pieces of the series!  Other scenes also deliver, high octane thrills....but the recurring emphasis on character sometimes clashes awkwardly with these more Bondian moments.  This is the most interesting and ambitious Bond film in years, although it does not succeed on all accounts. Robert Carlyle makes an impressive villain but is not given enough screen time to really make the most of the role.  Sophie Marceau is appealing in the role of the millionaire oil heiress who Bond is sent to protect...The only real weak link is Denise Richards cast as a NUCLEAR SCIENTIST!?.....As beautiful as she is, she seems out of her element here with a performance that comes across awkward and embarassing in contrast with the sophistication of the rest of the cast. Still the movie is a lot of fun, and worth the price of admission....if only to hear that final line of dialogue. "},{"Title":"100% Bond, and 100% fun","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As is expected, there's more action and stunts in the first 10 minutes of The World Is Not Enough than in most other action films in their full length.  Loaded with gadgets and gizmos, beautiful women and excessive innuendo, The World Is Not Enough is 100% Bond, and 100% fun.There are a couple of puns that rate high on the groaner' scale, and the pseudo-science of the last scene requires a pretty big stretch of the techno-imagination.  Still, ardent fans will find Mr. Bond ... Mr. James Bond ... very, very cool. "},{"Title":"Not even the voices in my head survived this film...","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Alternate Title I guess 2 hot chicks and a British buy DO make a movie!Alternate Title #2 I can't believe I gave them $7 and 2 hours of my life...Obviously the product of some alien intelligence so twisted that the concepts of good or bad taste simply cannot be applied.  This was beyond bad, above bad, outside of bad it cannot be classified with current language. A new branch of phenomenology would have to be established to attempt classification.  Any serious scientific effort to classify this film should be undertaken with the utmost caution; its power to suck all intelligence from living matter viewing it is awesome to behold.This was a Bond flick with all the elements skiing, weird vehicles, gratuitous use of submarines, hot chicks, and villains who can't actually figure out how to just shoot this guy...  Unfortunately, none of these elements could save this film from its pretentious abuse of traditional Bond motifs; motifs that made earlier Bond films great (or at least not quite so mind numbing.)  Never in the depravity of the late Moore years did Bond sink to these depths!Tired dialog, complete lack of pace, (another) tired story line, and some very bad acting all contribute to the stink pot factor of this movie. Stay away!  Don't let this movie stab you with a tiny little knife and siphon off 2 hours of your life!  Hello?  War and Peace? Read a book! "},{"Title":"Tomorrow Never Dies still wins","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies still wins by a hair, in my opinion.  Sure, in TWINE, the boat chases and ski shots were great, but nothing new, and the plot, which at first, seems simple, turns puzzely.  The lead song The World Is Not Enough was WEAK compared to the awesome Tomorrow Never Dies song, which I still remember by heart. This movie had a lot of the Bond aspects of it, but it didn't FEEL fresh.  When I see this on the shelves for DVD at the mall a year from now, I will pause, turn it over, shrug, and move on.   "},{"Title":"What A Performance By Pierce Brosnan!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I Just came home from seeing TWINE After seeing Live Wire i thought Brosnan just wasn't an acting person but he sure proved me wrong here. Bringing emotion and character to Bond that nobody else could. And the Russian accent worked perfectly. The supporting cast was great. M, with an extended role was just astounding. Sophie Marceau stole the show and Robert Carlyle proved himself a worthy actor. But what about Robbie Coltrane, reprising the role of Valentine Zukovsky. He was absolutely brilliant The only problem, Why the hell did they cast Denise Richards ? She just ruined the whole thing. Overall a good Bond. Good complicated plot. Sure it isn't the best Bond but hey, it's sure up there. Shaken, not stirred... 9/10 "},{"Title":"Undercooked, underdeveloped...in short, not enough.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say, I enjoyed this movie only in bursts.  I enjoyed Sophie Marceau, but the story wasn't nearly up to previous Bond efforts.Female Bond Baddie?  Great idea.  Overdue.  Putting M into the main story? Great idea.  Long overdue.  There were even moments where I saw the original Bond of Ian Fleming, working his License to Kill without conscience.  But I thought this movie was overlong, causing it to drag for significant portions.  I also thought it was sloppily edited, particularly during the opening Thames-River Boat chase.  Some of the action scenes had no rhythm and flow to me.  And frankly, the ending left a lot to be desired. "}{"Title":"Classic 007 Humor","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This latest James Bond movie was a good mixture of new changes and classic similarities. It has more of the Bond humor that was missing from the previous two films as well as a more in depth plot, although I thought that they could have improved the fight scene with Renard at the end because it really didnt show how superior he was to Bond because he could not feel pain. The new character R played by John Cleese should be a good addition to the cast although maybe not as good as Q. I think it was good that M had a larger part but I dont think they should do this often, the women were both good characters and gave Bond a good chance for the classic sex puns. Robbie Coltrane was a good character to have to and played the part well. The action scenes were as good as always, the boat scene just got better and better and the gadgets were also good, like the X-ray glasses, all in all this was a great addition to the series.   "},{"Title":"Same Usual Format !!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's pretty good. Same usual story, terrorist wants to blow the world up, 007 saves the day, and gets the women (only 2 this time though !!).Was a bit slow in places, but got there in the end - not the usual explosive, shoot-em-up ending though - rather dramatic !!Definitely worth watching.Total Immersion Cinema doesn't get much better !!  "},{"Title":"Time to hand this franchise over to the Americans","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond films should be rollercoaster rides with a brutal leading man and menacing baddy. The baddy in this film was about as menacing as my window cleaner. Why didn't they exploit the fact he felt no pain? At the end, he could have grinned with that nuclear rod sticking out his back.The action was as weak as an episode of the Persuaders. That ski chase? Please. Boats, one of them a toy, whining around Docklands? The action was 200 times more exciting in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. And how did a director who brought us the wonderful Coal Miner's Daughter fail to exploit the Bond music? And the script (oh do pipe down 007)...Sorry, but it's time to hand this franchise over to the Americans who know how to use technology, sound and vision. I have in mind Armageddon and Speed. Wonderful cast wasted. How could a director manage to screw up John Cleese's timing?  "},{"Title":"It's the best of the new batch!!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough is an excellent action thriller and a great great Bond film.  It used all the same formula from the original Bond films and tries to polish it up.  It is a good complicated story, with bad villains and great, I mean GREAT stunts.  Out of Goldeneye(8/10), Tomorrow Never Dies(8/10) and The World Is Not Enough....T.W.I.N.E is the best Bond out of the new batch.  I have always been a James Bond OO7 fan, and this one is not only a great Bond film--but a great film period.The soundtrack is excellent!RATING-(8/10)***1/2 "},{"Title":"Bond as usual","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, what is there to say Bond still drinks his Wodka-martini shaken and not stirred, he still hasn't lost his touch with the ladies and he beats the bad guy and girl eventually. So nothing out of the ordinary, but that's just the fun of it! Some new technical gadgets of course and some predictable but nevertheless funny jokes.  A solid movie "},{"Title":"I give it an A... for awful.","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be the worst film I've seen this year. There's a little thing that's often important while watching a film called suspension of disbelief. This one made it impossible. By the end of the opening sequence I was almost ready to leave. The dialogue was weak at best, the most amusing thing was laughing at those who actually laughed at the many single entendres throughout the film. Denise Richards was... well, let's just say she looked good in a wet tanktop.I'd have to admit that Brosnan, Carlyle and Marceau did credible jobs with the awful script they were given, but overall, this movie stunk.  "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Should have stayed in bed, tried to sleep after an hour but kept being woken by some irritating loud noises.   zzzzzzzzzzzzz I remember bond films as having a fair amount of suspense, this thing had none.  They should've axed bond like they did with Dr Who, and us seventies children could have lived with the classic memories.   "},{"Title":"Its Bond, sure, BUT DAMMIT ITS GREAT!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  So I've just returned from the latest Bond film, The World is Not Enough. I gotta say, it was great. Not on Goldeneye level, but it was great. it was great because the action was excellent, and the tense moments were ACTUALLY TENSE. i was amazed. Also, the disarming of the bomb on the speeding car thing was one of the best in recent memory in terms of just plain excitement. Ok, as I said, it wasn't perfect. A few good examplesSome terrible dialogueBond films tend to be written pretty well, but much of the dialogue here sucked. Bond films usually are better then most action films. This really wasn't. Denise Richards, while absolutely gorgeous and sexy, was terrible. She spoke like she was checking over the script. She sucked. Sophie Marceau is a beautie, and she managed to give her role much more feeling. I really thought this film did muchwell, rather attempted much to try and create more character development, but thats not as necessary in a bond film. We know what to expect, and altering it isn't on our dance card. But,its a nice idea, but isn't always well done. Another point. Aside from the 20 minute chase, the first hour was almost a bore. The skiing scene really was plain boring, and offered very little in terms of excitement. However, it was again, a attempt at character development and built up that, although wasn't 100% effective, was a nice attempt. and Q's departure-NO GOOD! Now the good. Pierce Brosnanthe best Bond since Connery left the act. He's terrific. The last hourterrific action, especially Valetine's factory shoot out. The womenBeautiful, but only one could act. MJudi Dench was excellent, and GIVEN a ton of more screentime just to prove she's as great of an actress as people say she is. JUST THE FACT THAT ITS BOND HELPED!The middle range The villainReinard, played by Robert Carlyle, wasn't much of a villain. He seemed somewhat uncomfortable doing the part, and it takes a long while to see him as the villain, but that could be because he bursts onto the scene so aprubtly. He just kinda showed up. John CleeseThe new gadget guy. I'm not sure how that's gonna work.Overall, A great Brosnan film, nearly as good as Goldeneye, and better then tomorrow never dies *** 1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"PIERCE GETS BETTER WITH TIME","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen all 19 of the Bond films in the history of the MGM/UA catalog. I have even seen the bad sony bond movie Never say never. But I must say this was the best of the pierce movies it seems like he finally got relaxed and into the role of bond so I must say Pierce gets better with time. I just hope he will resign and do a couple more I would hate to see him go out with only three movies under his belt. This movie was a non stop action movie go see it. "},{"Title":"Trailing away from Connery","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was not a disappointment. TWINE was, however, not as good as they, meaning Bond films, get. Pierce Brosnan gives a simple performance to a movie with a simple plot where he sleeps with everyone and the blowing up of buildings takes up half the movie. What happened to the Connery days? Goldfinger, Moonraker, even most Roger Moore performances topped this. In fact, Goldeneye, Brosnans freshman Bond appearance was much better executed. Too much action, not enough suspense, not enough code breaking and mystery, and a very predictable happy ending are the main things that separate this from the classic 007 flicks. 6 out of 10 for me.   "}{"Title":"An Addition That Lives Up To Bond","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Gadgets, cars, action, the opening chase sequence, and of course, the women.  All these words comes to mind when someone speaks about a new Bond film, and The World Is Not Enough has a great combinations of all to make this one of the better of the 19 films.  This being his third outing, Pierce Brosnan just gets better and better as the legendary spy.  Brosnan has all the looks and charisma that make James Bond come to life.  As always, Sean Connery is the quintessential Bond that no one can ever top, but Brosnan comes as a very close second in my book.Much praise must be given to Dame Judi Dench for her reprise as M.  I was pleasantly surprised and pleased to see her role was an integral part of the film instead of the standard one/two scene M typically has.  Dench is great as M and I must commend the person(s) responsible for casting Dench in this role four years ago.  Great choice!Sophie Marceau and Robert Carlyle are good as the villains of this film.  Both play their respective roles with the subtle ferocity that make their villains almost redeemable and have the audience sympathize with these characters.  Robbie Coltrane was excellent as Zukovsky; great transformation from foe of Bond in Goldeneye to his ally in TWINE. Desmond Llewelyn is great in his 17th outing as Q, though this is most likely his last time telling Bond to return all his gadgets in one piece.  The film itself is beautifully shot; the skiing sequence was probably the best looking scene in the entire movie.The only problem I had with this film was Denise Richards.  I have nothing against her, but there really was no point to her or her character to this film.  But, I guess they wanted another Bond girl as the female ally that Bond would wind up with in the end.  On the whole, a very enjoyable picture that is definitely one of the best Bond films to date.  "},{"Title":"There is never enough Bond!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The name's Bond. James Bond. And he's back from his coma that was Tomorrow Never Dies. The Girls are hotter then ever, and Denise Richard's acting is not 'that' bad. The Intro Scene was as cool as can get, but some of the action scene were a bit confusing on the editing, but coming from Mr. Apted, that wasn't such a surprise. The movie however, is really good. And Renard kicked ass(es). Slightly better then Goldeneye. By the way, Harry Knowles is a sell-out.I Give this movie a 80% (8/10).P.S. One Point just for Sophie Marceau.. she hot or what? And Bond with bruises... "},{"Title":"This in my opinion was really quite disappointing","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I felt that first off, the movie didn't even follow the overall track of a bond movie. It had the opening scene, which really wasn't as action packed and breathtaking as the other movies. It did not introduce the gadgets(which is usually a fun part of the movie). The first half was pretty OK...but after that i felt it was based solely on the wet T-shirt contest winner and a ton of bland action with mostly explosions. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A bit better than Goldeneye, but not quite as good as Tomorrow Never Dies. Renard was not the best villain, but if it's one thing the current Brosnan Bond needs, it's a worthy villain with a good motivation to rule the world, or some other interesting goal. Still, Elektra as a villain was well done, and the action scenes were good. And the Bond humor is always fun.  "},{"Title":"Great action and story, overboard on sex focus","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the best Bond's in recent history. It has good characters and a story that doesn't immediately reveal itself. However, I felt there was too much emphasis on sex in this movie. I felt the directors did everything they could get away with and still keep a PG rating, and this isn't necessary to please Bond fans. Nobody goes to see a James Bond film for the sex. In their favor, however, the script wasn't riddled with profanity, which is rare today.Okay, so James Bond has always been a sex symbol. But when was the last time he slept with 3 women in a single movie? And it wasn't the usual kissing, some movement under covers and then an Oh, James! either. They had significant focus on the time spent with bed with Elektra, which I felt was totally unnecessary. Children are going to want to see this film, and there's no reason to encourage them sexually. "},{"Title":"Musically a loser","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the weakest musical score of any Bond movie  to date -- nothing at all memorable.  I wonder if  they were just trying to  cut expenses?  Remarkably  enough, they still haven't run out of new gadgets.   Plenty of action, but occasionally too drawn out.   The premise had promise, but the script was weak in  accomplishing it.  Brosnan good, but appears to be  aging less well than Connery or Moore.  "},{"Title":"New Millennium Bond","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First things first - as James Bond likes to say This is definitely the best 007 - movie wannabe-action star Pierce Brosnan made so far. Having that said is frustrating enough. Because The world is not enough is probably one of the most best examples for a waste of good ideas. Everybody knows that Bond movies are per definitionem formulaic. They don' t want to be creative, and they don' t want to have a reasonably coherent story. That' s fine, but does that mean that a Bond story have also to be as confusing as stupid?Maybe the answer is yes. At least, if someone looks at the immense success at the box office. Around 35 Mio. $ in just three days. That' s still impressing. Sadly enough neither director Michaerl Apted' s efforts to serve the needs of the worldwide Bond fan society, nor the actors' attempt to hide their boredom and embarrassment with their roles justify this figure. In fact, with a cast that includes three of the top ten character actors - John Cleese, Robert Carlyle and Judi Dench - and half a dozen other famous showbiz faces from all over the world, I had expected to finally see a movie with real life personnel in a believable story. Instead, the producers got stuck somewhere between the silliness of the Roger Moore legacy and their constantly failing attempt to modernize a cold war figure which is seemingly outdated. The Broccolis have to face the fact that after the fall of the communist systems they have been left with no real story idea. To make things worse they even used up almost every single Ian Fleming novel. The result is that we basically are presented with a revisited version of GoldenEye. Well, not quite. The screenwriters Neal Purvis and Robert Wade tried to be as original as a Bond movie can get, including the first hitwoman who chooses to kill herself instead of being saved by Bond' s strong charms. Maria Grazia Cucinotta, the beautifuil love interest from The Postman plays that nameless Cigar Girl and is the first of many actors and actresses to waste her talent in a movie that makes no sense whatsoever. Not even the action sequences seem to be logical, not to mention the exotic locations. One tradition of former Bond movies was that there were great action scenes shot at pittoresque locations. But that time is over. Nowadays the cities and their skyline become interchangeable to a degree that the only thing we get to see from Istanbul is a fading skyline in the background. But the most disappointing thing about this movie is how people are introduced and develop. For the first time M is personally involved in a case, and what happens? She is locked away in room which barely can hide the fact that it previously was used as the prop storage unit for another, most certainly better movie. There is no point in her kidnapping, especially because Bond doesn' t really know about it, until he rescues her in the end. He also are presented with a villain who - because of a bullet in his head - can' t feel physical pain. But does the movie make use of this fact? Needless to ask, of course not. In fact, Robert Carlyle is one of the weakest Bond villains ever. This seems to be a new rule of the Brosnan Bond Era - he is not allowed to have a real match. Certainly, the previously villains characterized by Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce were as Carlyle driven by anger and political disbeliefs, but they all are missing the smartness and charme which all the old larger than life characters had. There is no Goldfinger, no Blofeld, no organisation like SPECTRE. Only a few bad men who fight a lonely fight against a system without having possibly the chance to win. This time Renard, the bad guy, has a real bad girl - Sophie Marceau as the greek-orthodoxe Elektra - at his side. But what a big deal! Elektra, we are told, is suffering from the Stockholm Syndrome and that' s the reason why she sabotage the legacy of hr own father - not mentioning killing him in the first place. But then we are informed that she wanted to free her oppressed people from him, the western oil tycoon. What people? Who knows? Her body guard at least is black and almost invisible in every big action sequence, and the only way we can tell that Elektra is a religious fanatic from Aserbaidjan is the picture of an orthodoxe priest next to her bedroom door. That' s all we get to know about her background. Renard' s background is even more obscure. He is an anarchist terrorist - but would anarchists really help to rebuild a new oil monopoly? I doubt it and so surelyy will everybody who ever had a second thought about the ideals of anarchy. Worse, Renard is in love with Elektra who claims that he turned him - as her previous kidnapper - around and made him into a willing instrument of her intrigue. Unfortunately, we never see prove for this statement. Instead we are confronted with a collage of confusing action sequences which are loosely bound to each other by flat sex jokes and hot bed scenes which remind the viewer at real cheap soft porns from the 70s. One of these star the sister of Kristin Scott Thomas as a Dr. named Molly Warmflash. Other scenes involve the much too young Denise Richards who is actually ten years older than the roles she played in previous films, but nonetheless not convincing as a nuclear weapon expert. So is there anything enjoyable about the whole new Bond experience? Indeed, there is. The boat hunt over the Thames is one of the most inventive stunt shows in Bond history. But even here we are disturbed by repeatedly used close-ups of Brosnan who obviously did only one long take. Cutter Jim Clark who previously did such great jobs with movies like Copycat does his best to hide the fact that Brosnan again did no stunts whatsoever due to insurance policy. But even he can' t hide the fact that the Brosnan scenes in the Pyrenees were shot on a different day under different weather conditions than the rest of the ski hunt. And even Michael Apted whose much more interesting documentary 42 up premiered at exactly the same day than this routine job can' t hide the fact that his cast was constantly confronted with ridiculous dialogues and logical story mistakes. He did his best to make this movie the best Brosnan Bond and he succeeded in doing so. But that is simply not enough. The world has changed since the first 007 adventure. There are more actuion heros out their than in the 60s, and much more convincing ones, too. The world is not enough at the end looks like a movie which pretends to still know how Bond' s world works. Even so this world doesn' t exist any longer. It was replaced by the belief of the new Bond producers that only the most common sense formulas bare the least risk to fail the box office. The result is a brainless action spectacle with one dimensional characters who fail to provoke any emotions in the audience. I went out the theatre and almost had forgotten half of the movie. Moreover, I had an immediate need to watch my favorite Bond movie again - For Your Eyes Only. I even can remember the lines of the title song to that one.  "},{"Title":"Typical Bond Formula","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of James Bond and liked this movie for what is was, a James Bond movie.  This was one of the best Bond movies in a while.  Pierce Brosnan was born to play James Bond.  With that said I think the movie as with each new bond film goes further and further beyond reality.  I think its amazing that Bond can drive a boat through an open market and restaurant without killing anyone.  And where do they get the bad guys from?  They can't aim a gun to save their lives. Robert Carlyle did a good job as Renard.  I was just disapointed with his character, they could have done a lot more.John Cleese, R,  was a welcome addition to M16 headquarters.  I hope he will become a regular character in the future.  He and Desmond Llewelyn play well off each other in this one.The bond girls were great.  Sophie Carlyle gave a great performance as Elektra King.  Christmas Jones, played by Denise Richards, was fantastic.  Whoever thought a nuclear physicist could look so good.In summary if you like the James Bond series you will like this movie.  There are no Acadamy wards in this one and the plot and actions sequences are a bit far fetched.  Take it for what it is and you will have an enjoyable movie experience. "},{"Title":"COOL","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw TWINE yesterday, and I must say I thoroughly enjoyed it. As most people should know by now, the Bond series has been around for so long that it's developed its own set of rules. Plot credibility can sometimes be thrown straight out the window during the action sequences. In short, the more suspenseful and over-the-top, the better. As long as the latest Bond flick plays by the rules and makes things interesting throughout its running time, it deserves a thumbs up, and this one certainly fits the bill. Because we can judge Bond movies by totally different standards, it doesn't matter that the ending makes absolutely no sense. In fact, the one most obvious flaw in THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is the villian. Renard is pretty cool, but he suffers from lack of sufficient screen time, and he's simply not as memorable as Alec Trevelyan (Goldeneye) or Elliot Carver (Tomorrow Never Dies). Thus, I could almost feel myself asking for more in the climactic struggle, which falls short of the material that leads up to it.      But anyway, there are many good things that significantly outweigh that villian-related shortcoming. For one, the action is all top notch. We have a speedboat chase, a ski slope sequence with go-kart-like vehicles, a high-speed bomb defusing chase in an oil pipeline, and a very well executed sequence featuring Bond on the attack from helicopters with tremendously oversized buzzsaws. The energy level is consistently high throughout. Also, newcomer R was quite amusing, and M has her biggest role to date. Pierce Brosnan is excellent as usual, only this time, Bond seems more cold and ruthless than in the previous two outings. Both Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards are attractive and deliver solid performances (the former had some truly memorable scenes, I must admit). All in all, this latest Bond outing applies the traditional formula and delivers the basic goods that audiences crave, and thus I rate it a 7.5 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"A Cut Above the Rest.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Director Apted has crafted an excellent movie. Present here that was lacking in the previous 2 Brosnan Bond movies is an element of psychological depth. Pain is the cold shadow that lurks behind each of the characters involved, including the antagonists. Attachment, dedication, love are jewels that are dangled in front of the mind's eye, only to be pulled away by derision, back-stabbing, evil schemes, and greed. With so many hearts broken and lives shattered, it would not be a long shot to label the movie as a tragedy. World provides the intense action, crude comedy, and scenic locations to suffice the average movie goer but its extra element of emotional anxiety will charm the more dedicated fan into perhaps a second viewing.FlawsOne-liners many are not funny, and the old Bond. James Bond. is passe. Shaken, not stirred makes me roll my eyes.Closing scene too superficial and upbeat for this dark, moody film.Denise Richards her lines are delivered horribly. Serves no purpose other than for eye candy. Little is revealed about her character, or past.Maria Grazia Cucinotta ah! Her screen time is too short! I was praying that she would come back in the film, but she never did.Overall, a cut above the rest. Enjoy. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Denise Richards was worth it","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If not anything, this movie is worth seeing because of Denise.  What can i say, she's the greatest.  The movie itself has average dialogue and above average special effects.  The plot was somewhat hard to follow, as scenes shifted from location to location in the world losing its audience really fast.   But the one saving grace of the movie was Denise Richards in a wet t-shirt.  I mean oh my gosh!! I was on the edge of my seat during the submarine scene where she flaunted herself ... o h yeah, gotta go "},{"Title":"Brosnan Finds a Home Between Fire and Ice","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After Roger Moore left the 007 franchise, MGM approached Pierce Brosnan for the role in The Living Daylights.  Brosnan could not get out of his Remington Steele contract and they went with Timothy Dalton instead.  The franchise has been trying to find itself ever since.  When Brosnan finally came aboard for Goldeneye, the film was dark and bereft of a central plot. Tomorrow Never Dies went in the opposite direction, featuring more gadgets and explosions than we've seen in a long time, with cardboard supporting roles and no development for the Bond character either. Bond splits the difference with The World Is Not Enough, and returns to the genuine mix of action, intrigue and character that made classic Bond so memorable.  Brosnan is going a long way in crafting Bond in his image, mixing the intensity of Dalton with the carefree panache of Roger Moore to find a consumate image we've not seen since Sean Connery.  Sophie Marceau is the blueprint Bond girl, equal parts sexiness, elegance and at the same time both fiercely independent and a slave to Bond's charm.  Desmond Llewelyn makes his likely last appearance as Q, and introduces his up-and-comer John Cleese.  Judi Dench shines as M, and has a larger and deeper role in this film than Ms of the past.  The plot moves along smoothly, the action scenes are intense, the actors are smashing, and the characters are (mostly) well-developed.  The climax, with Bond and Dr. No #19 fighting aboard a sinking submarine, is vintage Bond. Now the downside.  First of all, MORE Q!  You can never have too much Q, and his appearance in this particular film is painfully short for a swan song.  Robert Carlyle's character is well set-up, both in his complex character and in the standard exotic debilitating injury, but like many Bond fans, I miss SPECTRE-type villains for whom the world is TRULY not enough. He's good, but he's no Goldfinger.  The central premise in general, control of oil flow through south central Asia, falls a little short of worldwide domination, though admittedly it's better than domination of the TV rankings.  Denise Richards is ENTIRELY forgettable as Dr. Christmas Jones, which I find a doubly ironic name, not only for the obvious Christmas puns that emerge, but also that Sean Connery did a half dozen Bond films, then went on to play a Dr. Jones of his own (Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade). She is one of the hottest Bond chicks ever but absolutely unbelievable as a nuclear physicist.  Her character is flat and exudes little real intelligence, and she is followed through the film by her companion Captain Obvious.  Case in point, as Dr. Jones and Bond work feverishly to defuse a nuclear bomb, Bond notes that the screwheads on the warhead have been stripped.  Her reply, Someone's been tampering with the bomb.  REALLY?!? Those screws didn't strip themselves?!?  I guess it DOES take a nuclear scientist to figure these things out.  Also, the action sequences are all drawn out interminably, particularly the warehouse scene.  We all like chases and explosions, but the director didn't seem to be content until every conceivable prop had been blown up, which seems to take up to ten minutes in certain instances. All this aside, this is one of the best Bond films to come down the pipe in a LONG time.  That delicate balance of action and story works nicely, the characters are outstanding, ESPECIALLY Bond and M, but I give credit to Elektra and Renard for doing a great job with what they were given. Brosnan himself finds that happy medium between cold-hearted agent, fiery lover and a boyish charm that masks the scars from years of pain and loss that are etched into his face.  A home between fire and ice. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's third go around as Bond.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a HUGE James Bond fan!  I can name all of the James Bond films backwards and forwards in chronological order (that includes the non-Albert Broccoli James Bond films). Now Bond is back again in his 19th film, with Brosnan playing the superspy his third time around.  I had very high expectations on this film.  Usually a actor's third time around as Bond strikes with excellent results, (i.e. Connery had GOLDFINGER, and Moore had SPY WHO LOVED ME, both of each third Bond film). Sadly, THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH didn't reach my expectations, but no surprise I did enjoy it. This film has James Bond trying to protect a beautiful oil tycoon named Elektra (Sophie Marceau).  Elektra's life is being endangerd by a madman named Renard (Robert Carlyle), a man who has a bullet stuck in the bottom of his brain, causing him to not feel anything, and to go faster and stronger than most men. Bond discovers that there's more than meets the eye with Elektra, as he discovers what her intentions really are.  Then enters Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) a nuclear scientist (probably the most attractive scientist in the world) who knows what Renard's real secret is. Since this is a James Bond film, there are really no big surprises, so I'm going to analyze the film the reason on why people see the films for over 35 years. TEASER  And what a teaser!  I think that is why I was slightly disappointed in the rest of the film.  The opening teaser has not one but two spectacular action scenes, including a intense boat chase scene on the River Thames.  I personally think that this it the best opening teaser since THE SPY WHO LOVED ME. 10 TITLES A o.k. song by Garbage, but nothing really memorable, no Live & Let Die or Nobody Does It Better but it is good. And seeing drops of oil turning into shapely female figures. 5 PLOT Renard wants to control the world's oil supply and destroy a few cities in the process.  A so-so plot, with too many character detail scenes. 5 LOCATIONS Spain, London, Adjenzten, Caspian Sea, and Turkey. Spain and London are only for the teaser, the rest of the locations are where the story takes place.  Nothing spectular. 3 GADGETS The BMW is back, with some upgrading missiles, which is a nice touch.  The coat that turns into a balloon, the excellent speed boat, and the very cool x-ray glasses that detect weapons. 8 GIRLS The sexy doctor (Kristin Scott Thomas' real life sister) is pleasing.  Sophine Marceau's Elektra is very sexy and actually gets a acting role this time.  And Denise Richards, Christmas Jones is also a eye catcher.  They are all fun and great, but they still are no Paris Carver or Major AnyaAmasova. 8 VILLIANS Renard is a excellent idea for a villian, yet he is rarely seen.  There are some good scenes involving Renard, yet they should have shown more. 6 FIGHTS, CHASES, EXPLOSIONS The skiing chase scene turns up tobe a little dull, until the end.  The action scene in a missile silo does work better, and the climax is o.k. but again, nothing as good as the opening 15 minutes. 6 DIALOGUE & DOUBLE ENTENDRES  There are some very good lines that Bond gives in the film.  He mocks a heavy who has all golden teeth by saying, put your money where your mouth is. And towards Christmas Jones, Christmas only comes once a year. Good lines. 7 BOND Brosnan is fitting into Bond a lot more comfortably than in GOLDENEYE, and is twenty times more relaxed than Timothy Dalton ever was.  Bond does have some symaphetic scenes that are quite moving and do reveal Bond a bit more.  A great scene is when Elektra asks Bond, have you ever lost anyone that you have ever loved? Which leads to Bond changing the subject right away, covering up the lost of Tracy, several Bond films ago. 9 Overall, I THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is not as great as TOMORROW NEVER DIES, but is as good as GOLDENEYE.  There are plenty of spectular action scenes, beautiful women, and cool gadgets.  Like what most of my friends say, you know, it's ausual James Bond film.  This isn't one of the best Bond films, but it isn't the worst.  I would rank this one, out of the 19 films, about 12th, (between FOR YOUR EYES ONLY and THUNDERBALL). It is indeed a good Bond film, but not his best. My review compare to the other films out now **** (out of five) My review compare to the other Bond films *** (out of five) "},{"Title":"One of the good ones... is there a bad one?","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I'm biased since I'm a big Bond fan. So let me just start off by saying I thoroughly enjoyed this film. Its got all the elements of any other of the series with a few new ones.  Definitely worthy of an adition to the already fantastic series of films. Of the 3 Brosnan films though I liked it third behind Tomorrow and Goldeneye.  Don't know, just REALLY liked those films more. It's probably within the 7 of them all however. Its got all the plot twists and racy one liners you'd expect, the only downpart is, it didn't have enough cool toys and the villians weren't as developed and... I don't know... cool as they usually are. All in all though its a Bond movie, therefore good. "},{"Title":"Its not Enough","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While I was sitting in the theater awaiting the start of TWINE I started talking to a little boy perhaps 8 or 9 and told him that I saw my first James Bond film when I was 7  actually I was 6  and I began to recall my first Bond film experience which was Goldfinger in late 1964. The boy was astonished at my remark and asked which I proffered the older or newer ones ? I quickly replied the older ones and my viewing of TWINE greatly reinforced my opinion.   In fairness to the producers the objective reality is how many times can you create the same product and consistently make it good !? When Goldfinger was released there was nothing remotely close to compare with it. It was fresh dazzling fantastic entertainment. Like the mustang in the automotive world there was no competition.  So after 37 years 19 EON productions and a few others, spin-offs & spoofs perhaps we should be a little forgiving and accept what we still get from a Bond film good fun entertainment most often still better than anything else out these days but as a life long Bond fanatic I say no ! I want more I waited two long years and I still hope and yearn for at least one great Bond film. To start with the pre-credit sequence is getting to be far more exciting than the lackluster climaxes and TWINE has one of the weakest of the series. I was also wondering what happened to the 1 or 2 great fights we used to see that seemed to have slowly vanished and are completely non existent in this film !? I also long for the great Ken Adam sets that gave the films a visual look that separated them from anything else. The most glaring omission is where is the sadistic henchman that Bond must dispose of before killing the lead villain !?  Most film critics site that this like most others follow the same formula of all Bond films I strongly disagree. The formula has changed or perhaps they're just mixing different ingredients. The formula I want has elaborate sets, great fights and a rousing climax.  TWINE also has more dramatic scenes than I have ever seen in a Bond film and they seemed awkward and out of place. I was most annoyed by Q's exit. The introduction of his replacement was obvious and a good choice but his decent from Q Branch made me feel like they were lowering him into a tomb for burial.  I cannot complain about Pierce Brosnan who is a terrific James Bond and Judi Dench equally excellent as M but Pierce who is beginning to show some age is only committed to one more film and I hate to see his talent wasted as we all know how difficult it will be to find a good replacement. Most of the action sequences are satisfying my favorite being the helicopter raid on Zukovsky's hideout and the exterior shots for the ski chase look fabulous but they don't have the fury or pace of some of the better action pieces in the past  . The Bond girls include a good acting so so looking Sophie Marcuea as Electra a laughable Denise Richards as scientist Christmas Jones who is a knockout unfortunately Maria Grazia Cucinotta the most awesome looking woman in a Bond film in years is killed off in the pre-credit sequence. Robert Carlyle is an adequate villain but again the absence of a menacing henchman is inexcusable. As far as gadgets they don't make or break a Bond film for me but I did love his glasses. One big positive was the return of David Arnold whose score is nothing memorable but his consistent Bond themes throughout help ease the absence of the irreplaceable John Barry. TWINE is not bad but its not one of the better Bonds either and now I must wait another 2 years hoping that the next one will bring back the excitement of the past.........  "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the Bond films.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Such a bad Bond film has not been seen since Licenced to Kill.The World is Not Enough is not only slow moving, but is also lacking in action scenes and in all aspects that are critical for a good Bond film - class, style, action and gadgets.Not only this, but the story line is feeble, with characters failing to be built up. In earlier parts of the film, the plot is somewhat hard to follow, and this is later fixed with a corny and unprofessional explaination from Denise Richards.This film also has the worst Bond girls yet - Denise Richards being a smart bimbo with an annoying accent and manner.Completely lacking style. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  To all other IMDB reviewers out there Please explain to me why I disliked this film.  I have seen every Bond film (repeatedly, I might add), and I have thoroughly enjoyed every one of them, except for Never Say Never Again (Gus Van Sant from Psycho must have been inspired by that one--a virtual carbon-copy of Thunderball).  So I am wondering what's wrong with me, because this film disappointed me.It certainly wasn't the actors or performances--they were first-rate. Brosnan is rapidly becoming my favorite Bond (the perfect hybrid of Sean Connery's ruggedness and wit and Roger Moore's style and class).  Robbie Coltrane was awesome, albeit underused.  Sophie Marceau was great, Robert Carlyle actually brought a new dimension to the Bond Villain by earning a degree of sympathy for his character, and even Denise Richards wasn't bad (for what was expected of her).But the film seemed to jump all over the place, and didn't bother to explain itself.  I found myself wondering why I couldn't follow the story, even though I've had no trouble following every other Bond flick, not to mention countless movies with plot structures far more complex.And the action sequences were so tired.  The skiing sequence seemed absolutely boring compared to the ones in The Spy Who Loved Me and For Your Eyes Only. The boat chase at the beginning was okay, but I expect more than okay from a Bond chase, especially when the boat chases from Moonraker and Live and Let Die were better than okay.  And why did this scene seem so darn sleepy compared to the hyperkinetic boat chase in Face/Off?And what about all the sexual innuendos and witty comments that usually come from Bond's mouth?  They seemed lacking in this one.  In fact, this film was a downer compared to every other Bond movie, with the exception of On Her Majesty's Secret Service.  And they killed Bond's wife in that one, for God's sake!So I ask all of you--please tell me what is wrong with me, because this is the only Bond film I've ever disliked, and I don't want to dislike it!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Christmas should never have come at all.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A forgettable installment into the venerable yet wonderfully absurd series. Brosnan is devoid of any real Bond edge, unlike in Tomorow Never Dies, which should include self-deprecation and overt sexism, yet the real weakness of the film is the inclusion of Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones.  Her blatant lack of acting ability is only rivaled by the thin excuse of her inclusion in the story.  Her role in the film would've been better filled by a really cool Bond gadget, yet she is dragged along, literally and figuratively, through the story with no other rationale than to show off her various augmented body parts.  Her character isn't nearly intelligent or interesting enough to to justify her existence in the already banal plot.Bond needs Mel Gibson.  Period. "},{"Title":"Now this is the Bond I remember...","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw TWINE this weekend and was very pleased.  This is probably as close as Brosnan and Co. will get to replicating the great Bond films of the Connery era. Most of the previous comments get into the film, so I will not duplicate their work.  But I will tell what I liked about TWINE and a couple of the things I didn't like.What I liked 1. WOMEN - This has really been at the core of the Bond series.  This is why 99 percent of the guys who see Bond go.  And TWINE has plenty of them from beginning to end.  And this Bond lets Brosnan have fun with them with witty interplay and sexual double entendres. There are some classic Bond lines that will give Mike Meyers plenty of material for his next Austin Powers movie. Sophie Marceau was excellent and I thought Denise Richards held her own (memo to critics who cares if Denise is unbelievable as a nuclear physicist - she looked fantastic) 2. OPENING SEQUENCE - One of the best Bond opening sequences.  Words cannot describe the opening chase scene.  This alone was worth the 9 bucks I spent to see it 3. GADGETS - Some good believable stuff.  The BMW was amazing although I wish we could have seen it in action a little more. Good addition of John CLeese as R, his dialoque with Bond was very funny. 4. STORY/DIALOGUE - A pretty good story.  Considering the world is running out of evil communist dictators, the Bond script writers have done the best that they can (it's better than the evil media baron of the last film).  Nice to see M involved in the story although I wish they had given her something more to do.  Finally Bond had some of his wittiest dialogue to date. 5. DIRECTOR - This was a good looking movie that moved along at  a nice brisk pace.  The locales were pretty cool and the stunt photography was fantastic.Now what I didn't like 1. EVIL BAD GUY - Maybe I've been spoiled by Austin Powers but I go to a Bond film to cheer for the bad guy (Goldfinger, etc).  The bad guys in this film weren't really that bad.  Even the guy who felt no pain was pretty lame. And the henchmen were boring to.  We need a new TopJob or Jaws Please!! 2. CASINO SCENE - It was great having a Bond casino scene but I thought this one was a bit wasted.  In the next Bond let's get James in the casino playing a few hands of something. 3. EVIL SCHEME - I thought the evil scheme wasn't clearly laid out and the stakes weren't high enough.  You never really felt like the world was in danger.So there is my critique. Overall an great Bond film with a few problems that don't get in the way of it being very entertaining. Definitely check it out. "},{"Title":"A fine addition to the series...","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This had all the elements of a really good traditional Bond film, and I feel it could stand up to well in comparison to any of the others. The great gadgets, fast action, super chases and, of course, exceptionally pretty women. It seems to be the majority vote that this was equal to Brosnan's Goldeneye and better than Tomorrow Never Dies. While I adore Connery's James Bond, I can see Brosnan coming very close if not surpassing Connery as THE James Bond in time (but it's going to take some time...calm down people...I'm sorry!) "}{"Title":"Great special effects","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't been a big James Bond fan however, this movie was very well done. The special effects were fantastic and the famous one liners in these flicks surely didn't disappoint even the most critical of James Bond films.  The only thing I would have done differently is to see it a better theater. This is definatly a movie to catch at a more up to date movie house who has updated their technology.Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"Good bond, but...","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I still remember the early bonds of the 70's... That wasnt it! Brosnan makes the best bond since Moore. His tasteful arrogance plays great for the character, his accent and style are all Bond. Sophie, aside from beeing a total vision thing, is also great as a vindictive and immature daddy's girl. Denise is not bad, somewhat bimboish role, good one liners for the comedy side of things, and of course, DropDead Gorgeous!!!The BEST role goes to Robert Carlyle for renard! His cold evil flame burns through his every expression with dark accuracy! Truely GREAT performance...Now the but! I have seen many instances of commercial movies and product placement but this is ridiculous! This is a 2 hour TV commercial! Not sponsered by Visa, caterpillar, BMW, etc. Plus, you see a Cat988F totally clean after 3 weeks of digging, you see a Visa platinum that Bond would never carry! (British Banks do exist) and you dont see the new Z series BMW. One country ride, one pop out HS missile and two halves...Oh well! That what happens when you make movies for the money, you will let a pair of boots and such break the story...Great bond though. "},{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't like this movie much.  Michael Apted doesn't seem gifted for action sequences.  Denise Richards can't act.  Robert Carlysle was good but wasn't in it enough and not evil enough.  He felt more like the frankenstein monster than a world terrorist.  Sophie Marceau was good, in fact, very good.  Robbie Coltrane was excellent and so was Goldie as his driver.  Judi Dench was decent.  Pierce himself... I like Pierce Brosnan.  He was fine. Everything in it had been done in another Bond movie. It felt like a rehash. Except for the scene at the cavier factory.  That was good. "},{"Title":"too much Denise Richards, lazy writing","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Fabuous opening scene, some twists and turns, a terrific role with Sophie Marceau, and of course Brosnan is increasingly charming! BUT --- Denise Richards is awful, awful, awful. Her acting is terrible, her character (Dr. Christmas) is without purpose and completely unbelievable, and her scenes with Brosnan are pretty tough to watch. It's not that she's too young -- Goldeneye's beautiful Russian computer programmer was young, too, but she was delightfully snappy, smart and quick-witted. And the stupid, stupid throwaway lines -- Bond movies are always full of them, but this one had more than its share, and they weren't worth the groans they elicited.  "},{"Title":"Do not blink...","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For one thing, this movie has plenty of action. Enough action in fact that blinking could have made you miss a crucial point in the movie (especially in the beginning). Bond could not stop an important man from being murdered, yet makes it his job that daughter Elektra King (Marceau) does not suffer the same fate. Is it just me, or do the writers have a trademark for using submarines? Brosnan and Marceau are excellent together, while Richards' role is extremely obvious. Yet two thumbs up for John Cleese! Seeing him in the Bond saga makes it all my worthwhile to return to the screen next time. "},{"Title":"A strong script that provides more romance, seduction, betrayal, psychological tension and espionage intrigue than we've seen in any of the recent Bonds.","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is three for three.  Since helping to revive the James Bond series four years ago, Brosnan has not only become my favorite 007 (for me he combines the best elements of both Sean Connery and Roger Moore), he's also starred in three of the best Bond films.  The World Is Not Enough is a bit of a departure from Brosnan's first two outings and but is still destined to be a 007 classic.The 19th installment in the series is not as visually slick as GoldenEye, nor does it have the non-stop John Woo-style action of Tomorrow Never Dies.  But it makes up for it with a strong script that provides more romance, seduction, betrayal, psychological tension and espionage intrigue than we've seen in any of the recent Bonds.  This time out the mood is darker and more serious.  But the outlandishness of the Bond universe is still in effect.  As for the action scenes -- there are more than enough of them to satisfy Bond fans.  The highlight is probably a chase down a ski slope with Bond and a woman pursued by bad guys in para-gliders.  The World Is Not Enough also features one of the most excruciating torture scenes in any Bond film.  It's worthy of Ian Fleming.  The script also contains some of the funnier double entendres in the series -- the last line is a killer. "},{"Title":"One of the Weakest Films in the Series","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite top flight production values and solid performances by Pierce Brosnan, Sophie Marceau and Judi Densch, this is one of the weakest Bonds in the series.  Chief blame must fall on director Michael Apted, who seems incapable of directing a single unconfusing action sequence.  This is also one of the longest Bonds, though the editing makes it move pretty fast despite Apted's inept directing.  The producers erred in their casting, however, since all three of the young female characters all brunettes.  Most impressive is Maria Grazia Cicinotta is the assassin Gulietta.  She's beautiful, awesomely constructed, and has terrific screen presence.  Stupidly, she's killed off early in the film.  Guessing she delivered her lines phonetically, she still makes the most of the few she is given. Had she been cast in the role of Christmas Jones, rather than Denise Richards, the movie would have been tremendously better. Richards might as well have delivered her lines phonetically. She gives them no conviction, the worst line readings of a Bond Girl since Talisa Soto in LICENCE TO KILL (And Soto was also delivering her lines phonetically).  Richards, unlike Cicinotta, appears artificial in at least two other ways as well.  Sophie Marceau is fine as Electra King, but Robert Caryle is a weak villian.  Better luck next time for the Bond franchise; and, please don't use Michael Apted again.  "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah yeah yeah! same stunts, same one liners (Bond. James Bond)but it still works. I liked the ski chase in the French Alps. Also, there's good understated british humour, like when Bond fixes his tie under the water, in the middle of the action. Pierce Brosman is very charismatic and classy, and overall, he makes a good James Bond. One thing wasn't right though Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist? I know I'm not the only one to say this, but come on! And did you notice how she mispronounces atomic? No, there's definitely not much credibility to her character; Fortunately, gorgeous Sophie Marceau gives a very good performance as the villain-seductress whom no man can resist to. She should give some acting classes to her co-star. I don't understand how there was so much credit given to Richards in the US, considering that Marceau IS the Bond girl, DR being just the sidekick... So, in conclusion, you should see that movie;it's worth the ticket.  "},{"Title":"Just saw the movie and loved it!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, the James Bond team has done it again!  This movie has tremendous action and suspense.  It passed quickly though it is approximately 2 hours long. Brosnan, Marceau, and Richards all do a very convincing job in their roles.  Denise Richards is beautiful and as usual, her name Christmas Jones provides the biggest laugh of the movie.  I will admit to being a strong fan of Bond movies since the very first one that I ever saw.  It ended with a full theatre applauding and cheering---something you rarely see and hear anymore. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, but barely.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I wouldn't call the latest Bond movie is complete loss.  One person commented on the way of the movie that 007 movies are like having sex... even when it's bad it's still better than none.That said, the action sequences are few and not very memorable, the plot is thin and completely uninteresting, Denise Richards might be the worst actress to appear in a Bond movie (it's a tough call between her and Tanya Roberts), the villian doesn't seem threatening at all, and the climax just happens- no suspense at all.On the other hand, Brosden seems to really be getting into the role, he gives one of the best performances this side of Mr. Connery.  And even though his screen time is very short, John Cleese looks like he will fill Q's part perfectly.  The exotic locations are interesting and... well, it IS a Bond movie.  Fans of the series will see it no matter what, but I think this movie will quickly be seen as one of the most forgettable of the 007 offerings. "}{"Title":"It wasn't all there.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had great potential. The first action sequence of the movie was unbelievable. It captured me into the film. However, as the movie continued on, I began to lose interest. The characters were very one-dimensional. The submarine scene had so much potential, but it wasn't all there. Something was missing.  "},{"Title":"Best Pierce Brosnan portrayal of James Bond.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As an James Bond fanatic I would catergorize this as the best James Bond flick that Pierce Brosnan has done. It may not be as good as some of Connery's Bonds but that is hard to beat. This movie provides a sufficient amount of action in conjunction with an interesting plot to go along. My only complaint would be that the new car, the BMW Z-8 roadster, that we were all physced up to see was inadequately used. From some non-Bond fans that I have talked to this movie brought out a new love for the James Bond saga. I highly recommend this movie, and believe me I have seen all the Bond's this ranks up there as one of the best.  "},{"Title":"Not the best, but still great Bond","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to go as far as others have and say this was the best Bond movie (My personal favorite is Moonraker, though I'd never argue that it was the 'best').  This is a fun ride, and, alongside Tomorrow Never Dies, helps to prove that Pierce Brosnan is excellently cast as Bond.For all those reviewers saying that the Bond franchise is getting old, that Bond's attitudes are out of place in the (nearly) 21st century, and that the series needs a huge makeover if it intends to survive, I say BAH. (and I wave my paw at them...)  All the Bond movies have been fun to watch, some more so than others, and this one is near the top. "},{"Title":"The old Bond is back!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing Goldeneye and being disappointed by the uncharacteristic political correctness of Bond... well, they fixed that in The World Is Not Enough.  Bond is back with his charmingly womanizing ways...Pierce Brosnan performs his best as Bond, playing the cool, suave agent perfectly.  Sophie Marceau is fabulous as Elektra King, but I think she should have played a more prominent role toward the end.  Richard Carlyle is a bit disappointing - despite the fact that he is made more powerful with his inability to feel pain, he is too much a typical thug to really pull off the final show down.  Denise Richards does a bang-up job with sticking out her chest (if you like that kind of thing), but she cannot act at all... though I suppose she is much more in line with the original Bond girls.Despite its flaws, The World Is Not Enough is a great movie.  Perhaps not the best of the Bonds, but definitely entertaining, with some rather funny, if a tad predictable, one-liners. "},{"Title":"For Bond himself, the world is not enough. For this movie, however, it is.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, lets start out with the intro.  Bond movies always have the traditional glitzy intro sequence leading into the title song.  This seems to be the longest yet in a Bond movie, and outshines not only all previous bond intros, but sadly the rest of the movie's action sequences as well. Enter the title screen, with a theme song by Garbage up to par with Tomorrow Never Dies...however the visuals I found to be less impressive.  The intro girls usually tie in with the movie plot, so girls in oil was the theme here.  Definitely did not work as well as the computer graphic fest of Tomorrow Never Dies.  Now to the movie itself. Loose plot being oil tycoon wants to take over the world's oil supply.  Not much new there, except for they actually don't want the world itself...The title of the movie seems a bit too grandiose when lined up with the goals of the villains.The 2 traditional Bond girls, this time played by Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards, are a mixed bag.  Marceau plays her part beautifully, but Richards, a nuclear scientist who dresses like Lara Croft from Tomb Raider, delivers her lines in a straightforward corny way, much like Heather Graham from Austin Powers II.  Robert Carlyle's villain, Renard, is a good portrait of a sad Ex-KGB agent, but he seems too weak when lined up against other Bond baddies.  He doesn't have much screen time, and that might be a good thing considering his average appearance and personality.  He can feel no pain, but this 'special' trait is never utilized enough for it to matter.I won't divulge any twists, because this is one of the smarter Bond movies as far as plot goes.  Unfortunately, this is had at the sake of pretty action sequences.  While Tomorrow Never Dies may have had a weaker plot, it did have some awesome scenes that are surprisingly lacking in TWINE.  One thing to be noted, however, is Bond's traditional ending quote. It is of the best I've heard in a while, and it had me chuckling all the way out to my car.  "},{"Title":"Denise Richards as a nuclear expert?? OH PUH-LEESE!!!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With a drama director (Michael Apted) instead of an action director, there was more character development in Bond, and also in 'M'. This, however, slowed down the pace a little, especially in the middle. But Brosnan did an excellent job in his portrayal of a more 'human' Bond.There were many corny jokes, but I wasn't bothered by them. There was less gadgetry used in this movie than in Tomorrow Never Dies, and I swore I could feel my heart break when they sawed the BMW Z8 into two (I thought it was made of titanium?!).The Cigar Girl was great in the opening sequence. She made Renard (Robert Carlyle) sound like a REEEEAAlly bad guy, but when we finally see him, he isn't half as bad as Electra (Sophie Marceau). I felt that Electra King is the perfect villian here cos she's sooooo manipulative and cunning. The biggest turn-off of the movie was Denise Richards as DOCTOR Christmas Jones. Ugh! Stiff acting and totally unbelievable as a nuclear weapons expert. But I guess all of you out there are willing to forgive her on the account of her body (I couldn't stop staring at her boobs). The 'Christmas' jokes at the end of the film were so corny but funny. HAHA!As a Bond movie, it is a tad bit disappointing (Renard, Christmas Jones and the imminent retirement of 'Q'!) but I'm impressed by the way it broke new ground. On the whole, I preferred Tomorrow Never Dies for all its action (AND Michelle Yeoh!), but The World Is Not Enough is still entertaining and enjoyable. I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"All in all, a solid Bond film!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A phenomenal opening sequence --don't even blink,  great gadgets and gorgeous eye-candy (Sophie Marceau, Maria Grazia Cucinotta & Denise Richards).  No surprises there.Poor Denise Richards, every time she was onscreen the audience snickered.  Thankfully, they didn't give her much to say - she's absolutely awful. On the other hand, Sophie Marceau more than makes up for Denise in the acting department. But it's a shame the femme fatale, Maria Grazia Cucinotta, (the Italian babe from Il Postino) doesn't have a bigger part...Pierce Brosnan looked great, was funny & he seemed more comfortable as Bond in this one.  I don't see how they can replace him when he decides to call it quits. "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better.","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When you want action, thrills, women and gadgets, there is only one name to turn to Bond.  The  World Is Not Enough brings back Pierce Brosnan as the highly resourseful 007.  After a wild  boat chase on the Thames, Bond attempts to find out who is behind the bombing of MI6  headquarters.  From there, we're whisked away to exotic locales where Bond must contend with  a foe who cannot feel pain.  Robert Carlyle is perfect as Renard, who is not your typical Bond  villian.  Not content with just taking over the world or controlling it, Renard wants nothing but  Chaos.  Of course, no Bond film is complete without beautiful women.  In this one, Bond gets two.   The beautiful Sopie Marceau and Denise Richards bring an air of mystery to the latest Bond  caper.  As a way to usher in the new era, the last remnants of the Bond franchise bid adieu with  Q's final appearance.  Which I will miss.  Q's scenes always got a laugh from me and his utter  disgust with 007 breaking his equipment will be missed.  Can't wait to see what's next for Bond.      "},{"Title":"Solid, but not remarkable","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Date Viewed 11/19/99After having unwittingly aided in the murder of one of M's acquaintances, James Bond is sent to protect the victim's daughter, Elektra (Sophie Marceau) from suffering the same fate.I believe this was a solid Bond film but, as with any of them these days, there were a few areas where it fell a bit short. First, it was ridiculously easy to figure out the plot twist very early in the movie. I'm not used to figuring out things before Bond does.Second, I'm not really sure what the diabolical plot was supposed to accomplish beyond making gobs of money and satisfying an ego. Maybe you can't save the world from nuclear destruction at the hands of SPECTRE every other year, though. I will say this film has a better story than the ridiculous greedy media baron story of Tomorrow Never Dies.To be honest, I think the movie could have been 30 minutes shorter because I really can't remember huge chunks of it. Even while watching, I would sometimes notice that Bond and nuclear bombshell Dr. Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) were in a tight situation and for the life of me I couldn't remember how they got into it.Richards (Starship Troopers, Wild Things) is another story. She is very attractive and that fact is flaunted in every outfit she appears in. Facially, she has character, and her body displays what I call the hard curves of the 90s. Her acting is coming along. As for Marceau, I never really did find her that likeable, although she was sort of a throwback to women the early Roger Moore Bond films. I give it a 50/50 chance we find out she used to be a man.Now for the good. Richards was thoroughly pleasing to look at. Sometimes it was to distraction and I missed a couple of explosions, but it beat having to look at Teri Hatcher. The performances were solid, with Judi Dench having a larger role as M, and Q introducing his replacement (played by John Cleese) who Bond nicknames R.The opening action sequence probably ranks among the best of the Bond films, the credits were classic and the title track was performed very well by Garbage. The locales were in that alphabet soup region of the Mediterranean that most people really aren't that familiar with, but Bond did find time t o both escape on snow skis AND hit the casino.The supporting players performed admirably, although the henchmen aren't as interesting or fleshed out as in the past.Overall, I feel a little like a dinosaur in that I find the modernization of James Bond films to have sacrificed a little of their lustre. Evil, insane, wannabe dictators have been exchanged for corporate CEOs; the Bond women not only fly the helicopter but almost become equal partners in the hair-raising situations. Maybe I'd like to go back to the days where the female's tactical usefulness consisted of her secreting the solex cassette down the back of her bikini bottoms while Bond creates a distraction.This was a solid James Bond film ... not as good as Goldeneye, but definitely better than Tomorrow Never Dies. Brosnan again delivers the goods and Richards adds a freshness that would, frankly, be nice to see in future Bond films. I'm just not sure the stories are good enough for Brosnan to really break out as the best Bond since Sean Connery. I believe he is, but a little more story work would make these films nearly as memorable as Connery's.And, in the name of all that is good and just, bring back the hollowed-out volcano lairs. - AJH "},{"Title":"Not one of Bond's best","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was lucky to get to see The World Is Not Enough on opening night with a theatre full of die-hard James Bond fans who applauded when the opening gun-barrel iris shot came up.  Sadly, I found that the rest of the film didn't warrant that sort of ovation.  While the film has the slick visual sheen of all the best Bond pictures, the plot seems rather hurried and muddled; I often found myself having to piece together crucial details in my head.  Bond first-timer Michael Apted does a good job with the more terse, serious dialogue sequences, but shows something of a lead foot when it comes to the comic interludes, and his action scenes seem rote and rather uninspired.  Apted's work lacks both the suave elegance of Martin Campbell (Goldeneye) and the  over-the-top action finesse of Roger Spottiswoode (Tomorrow Never Dies).Fortunately, Pierce Brosnan helps to fill in a lot of the deficiencies with another solid, tough performance as Bond.  He plays the role in the Sean Connery mold, and it works well.  Sophie Marceau is also quite good as Electra King, an oil magnate's daughter who finds her life under threat, and Judi Dench brings her wonderful patrician snap to M.  Sadly, Denise Richards just ain't cuttin' it as Dr. Christmas Jones (!), a nuclear physicist (!!) who helps out Bond.  She's a sweet enough girl, but she can't act her way out of a brown paper bag.  A few more wet T-shirts and a few less lines of dialogue, and we'd all be better off.  Robert Carlyle's villain also seemed to have been short-changed of some screen time, and he lacks the heft and true monomania of Jonathan Pryce in Tomorrow Never Dies, the best recent Bond villain.Still, there's enough of the old spark here that Bond fans will find some things to enjoy.  It's worth checking out for any aficionado of the series.     "}{"Title":"What Were You Expecting?","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen TWINE yet, but I need to comment on one thing the press has reported some people think Denise Richards is all wrong for the part of Christmas Jones, saying that nuclear physicists don't look like that, and it's an unrealistic image.Well, heaven knows the Bond series has always been about strict accuracy as far as the whole espionage business... "},{"Title":"...this space is not enough...","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"     well, here we are....the number 19th Bond movie. And it was a shock !!! The opening it takes you like a storm... by surprise and totaly unexpected. The action starts to build up from minute one and about 15 min. later you realize that you haven`t even seen the opening credits. Now, there was a little turn off....the opening music. I, personaly would have fast forward it. I`m not sure about the 2nd turn off, but i believe, it happens around the middle of the movie. Too much sensless yapping...    As for the cast....you have to see them to apreciate their role. What can i say? Everybody is this movie did a great job. I will definitly add this movie to my 007 collection, when will became avaiable. For me, this movie did 9 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"One of the best and most complex Bonds","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There's a lot to like about this Bond. Brosnan has finally grown comfortably into the role. And his is one of the best turns of the series. Bond isn't a superman here. He's mortal. He feels pain. Often.Also showing her stuff is Sophie Marceau as heiress Elektra King. She easily stands apart from most Bond girls, ranking among the most memorable, alongside Honore Blackman, Diana Rigg and, more recently, Michelle Yeoh. Her chemistry with Brosnan is palpable, and the developing relationship between the two during the film is entirely believable (a rarity for a Bond film).The only real weak link is Christmas Jones, portrayed by Denise Richards. She is fine in the part, but the character itself is entirely wasted. She's given little more to do than stand around and look like Denise Richards. It would have been nice if she could have come in handy by the end of the film, but there's very little that she does that Bond could not have done for himself. After all, he has deactivated bombs before (Octopussy).However, the plot is a real knockout. It's not your typical point-and-shoot Bond plot, where he somehow seems to miraculously know who the bad guy is right out of the gate. Instead, he finds he has his work cut out for him, as well as a surprise or two in store along the way; not only for him, but for the audience as well.The opening sequence is also a stunner. It's probably the longest opening sequence in the franchise history a chase covering air, land, and sea. Unfortunately, the rest of the film never manages to reach the same level of intensity in its action, but there is real character development to be had, a sacrifice I, for one, was more than glad to make.If you're at all inclined towards seeing this film, I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Looks great, less filling","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the latest incarnation of Agent 007, starring Pierce Brosnan as James Bond.  Rounding out the female leads are Sophie Marceau as Elektra King and Denise Richards as Christmas Jones.  In recent years the themes of these thrillers seem to have downsized goals.  It used to be nothing less than world domination, but we've gone from that to merely controlling the world's news (Tomorrow Never Dies) to this one's plot for domination of Asia's oil supply.  After an assassination at MI6 headquarters, Bond becomes involved with the beautiful heiress of a British oil tycoon.  The convoluted plot leads to far-flung locations throughout Europe and the former Soviet Republics.I always look forward to the latest James Bond film and the excitement and escapism it provides.  However, recent Bond installments have left me feeling only half-satisfied, and this one falls into that category.  They are all entertaining, to be sure, full of non-stop action and special effects.  But as each one tries to top its predecessor it falls further down the credibility scale, especially in the affronts to basic science and physics.  I hate it when they get the science all wrong.  I know that these films require a suspension of disbelief, but there are limits to what I am comfortable with.  If you can get past these issues, and I suspect most viewers will, there is a good bit to like about this film.  There is Desmond Llewelyn as Q, the witty and sarcastic gadget guru in the organization.  We never get enough of him.  Joining him in a cameo is his bumbling replacement, R, played by former Python trouper John Cleese.  But for me the real surprise here was the increased on-screen presence of Judi Dench as M, Bond's boss.  She shows a human weakness and vulnerability beneath her cold and business-like demeanor.  Brosnan seems to be maturing comfortably in the role of Agent 007, and we finally have a worthy successor to Connery.  We also get to explore exotic locations, though I suspect Bond secretly has in his possession a teleporter device to whisk him throughout his domain quickly enough to participate in all the action.  Sophie Marceau gave a good performance as Elektra, but Denise Richards' Dr. Jones was not at all credible as a nuclear physicist.My summation of this film would be `Looks great, less filling'.  So it gets a lukewarm recommendation of 6 out of 10.  Most others will find it quite satisfying.  "},{"Title":"The World Has Had Enough","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   Seeing a James Bond film is like going to an Rolling Stones concert.Like you were expecting something original?When this reviewer was watching another film in another theater,The World Is Not Enough was just starting and it had its' opening with Bond in a boat chase.The problem was the chase and the music was so loud you wondered if this film was going to be one long car chase film.All you could hear was loud corny bond music.   Pierce Bronsan is handsome enough and decent enough an actor,but after all these Bond flicks,one misses Sean Connery more and more.The other talent in the movie is wasted by the need to rely on special effects and car chases.The casting of Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist is an exercise in desperation and parody.No one goes to a Denise Richards movie for her acting.   Has it come to this then? Out of place actors in what was once one of most famous movie series of all time,the James Bond series.Has the Bond genre run its' course? Yes it has.Too many things can be predicted on one's watch before they see one scene of a new Bond flick. Been there done that.Most action films have that kind of feel about because of what they ripped off from James Bond movies.You shouldn't have to feel that way about a Bond film itself however.But what was once stylish is now commonplace,and I think the James Bond franchise ,or at least its' filmakers should quit while they're behind. "},{"Title":"Nothing New, but who cares?","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough blazes no new trails in the Bond series, but who cares?  Seriously, in an attempts to be objective I would give it three stars on a four star system, or maybe 7.5 on the imdb rating.  In other words, it was good but not excellent, but since I like Bond movies so much I may end up seeing it again.  Bond music is great as usual, and as I am a Garbage fan, I like the new theme song a lot.  Sophie Marceau was great, but Denise Richards just seemed like she belongs in TV instead of the real movies.  How old is Desmond Llewellen?  100?  If you're a Bond fan I think you'll like it, though it's not one of his best in my opinion.  However, if I see it again, which is very possible, my opinion my change.  I get sorta tired of the one-liners, but Brosnan is a great Bond.  If you've heard about the boat chase, it's fantastic. "},{"Title":"Decent Bond Movie","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is pretty good!  Far more character motivated than the previous movie, at the expense of plot.  Not that much action, except for the pre-credits sequence which was great, as it just kept on building, and you forgot that you haven't even seen the opening credits yet!Brosnan is effortless as bond in this movie - the role is now his.  Robert Carlyse is a bit of a dissappointment as Renard, but Sophie as Elktra King was good.  But Denise Richards as a nuclear Scientist - luckily she's not in it that much. "},{"Title":"Exciting, action-filled and well acted 007 adventure","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond is Back Again for the 19th time in `The World Is Not Enough'. This time out Pierce Brosnan is directed by veteran filmmaker Michael Apted (Gorillas in the Mist, Coal Miner's Daughter, and Nell). The Broccoli family have surprisingly chosen the director of serious dramas and respected documentaries (14 Up, and currently 42 Up). Apted has acquitted himself well. He has actually squeezed more juice out of the old 007 franchise by coaxing some fine acting out of the principals, and yet adhering to the staples we have all come to expect from a Bond adventure.In the current opus, Bond is trying to stop the explosion of a nuclear device in Istanbul. The villain is Viktor Zokas (AKA Renard), portrayed by Robert Carlyle, who has kidnapped the  daughter of an oil mogul (Sophie Marceau).  Ms. Marceau was the beautiful headstrong princess in Mel Gibson's `Braveheart'. Here she holds her own in a very atypical Bond-girl role. Lovely Denise Richards is a nuclear bomb deactivator who adds some feisty intelligence to the character that could have been just another Bond beauty. Judi Dench repeats her stint as M, this time in an expanded capacity including her in the action. John Cleese plays R, Q's assistant and probable successor.However, in the end it all comes down to the several action sequences peppered generously throughout the film. They are super! At a pre-release screening Apted explained how almost all of the stunt/action scenes are done live, not using CGI. The pre-main title motor boat chase zips in and out of the canals of London. Other action set pieces are no less rousing and include a suspenseful battle in an underground nuclear bomb bunker. Brosnan has hit his stride as Bond and has no excuses to make to Connery, Moore or Dalton. After the plot has run its course those persistent words fade in on the screen James Bond Will Be Back. Well, why not? He's so much fun!  "},{"Title":"Bond looks better than his girls","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To tell you the truth, I did not expect a lot from this movie. I liked GoldenEye, but I thought that Tomorrow never dies was a complete miss. With Robert Carlysle on board this third Pierce Brosnan James Bond movie looked very promising. Boy, was I wrong.The first hour is very entertaining, though. James Bond is assigned to investigate the murder of Robert King, a rich industrial whose company King Industries looks for oil in the Black Sea. There is reason to believe that the assassin will also eliminate his daughter Electra (Sophie Marceau), who's now the woman in charge. Bond falls in love with her (really!), but cannot disregard his feeling that something is wrong. Enter the bad guy. Robert Carlysle is bald in this one. His character Renard survived an assassination attempt by agent 006, but still has a bullet in his head. As a result, he's immune to pain. His introduction is great a little man appearing out of nowhere in a dark forest.Okay, the game is set. Bond has a wonderful load of one-liners during the first half (often with a sexual undertone). There's a lot of action (a speedboat chase on the Thames ending on top of the Millennium Dome) and Robert Carlysle looks a great opponent. And there's also this new element Bond really looks in love when he falls for Electra. But is she to be trusted?The second half of the film is very disappointing. Robert Carlysle hardly has any screen time and Bond ally Denise Richardson is just another irritating Barbie doll. Her boobs look great, though. Only Sophie Marceau has her moments. Still, this Bond movie is much better than the previous one and I predict it will be a great hit all over the world. I think Pierce Brosnan is at its best and, surprisingly, he looks better than the Bond girls. I doubt I will go to the cinema to watch Bond number 20 in the future. A new Indiana Jones adventure is more my style. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great film. Brosnan was great. Renard is maybe the best Bond villain ever. But what impressed me the most was how deep and involved the plot and characters were. There is a lot of meat to this story. It's wonderful. I loved DR.NO, FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE, GOLDFINGER, THUNDERBALL, FOR YOUR EYES ONLY, THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS, GOLDENEYE, and TOMORROW NEVER DIES. I'm very tempted to make this new film my favorite of all the Bond films. I just need to see it a few more times before I make up my mind for sure. This film is well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Brilliant...almost.","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Michael Apted was chosen as a man who would direct a Bond movie because they wanted to add more complexity and emotion to Bond. Did the succeed? The answer is almost. This movie,in many ways seems to be similar to On Her Majesty's Secret Service-a movie where Bond marries. they both feature skii chase sequence,TWINE opens in swiss bankar's office and there is a similar scene in OHMSS as well. This movies also gets its title from OHMSS-Bond family motto The World is Not Enough was first mentioned in that movie. But most of all they feature a relationship that is more genuine than usual. the are many similarities between Tracy and Elektra-both are excellent on skiis and seem to be strong women while deep down they are vulnerable and insecure. Of course-we think that of Elektra before we find out she is in fact a villain. It's a great twist-heck,a brilliant one. Elektra for my money is an absolute best character that ever graced the series. At first we see her as a strong young woman who has the opinion that there is no point in living if you can't feel alive. But when she gets traped she goes through a panic attack. Bond starts to sense she is a remarkable person but a badly damaged one. The story hints thay her and Bond are attracted because they are both wounded. Bond hids it under his boyish charms. We actually see more dimensions of Bond in this one. At its best moments movie shows Bond caught up between his duty to protect the heiress and his own growing attraction. The love scene is for my money the best one there ever was. The screen just cracks with energy every time Sophie and Brosnan are together. Apted commented on the love sceneThere are no light quips and puns. This is the real deal. Bond seems to be quite tender with Elektra. At one point I got the impression he wants to cuddle. He genuely wants to know how Elektra survived the kidnapping. He seems to be affected by the story. When she asks him what does he do to survive he answersI take pleasure-in great beauty this was first and foremost a compliment for Elektra at that point but Bond takes great pleasure from beauty of life- luxury. He escapes the sense of danger that way. It's a wonderful line spoken during a wonderful scene. Aside that we have a great pre-title sequence and opening in swiss bankar's office. Bond is cool,highly skilled professional with sophistication and charisma that just needs to be admired. Brosnan is brilliant. So the first hour is fantastic. but then the problem comes. Denise Richards as nuclear scientist. Named Christmas simply so they could make a pun at the end. A huge huge mistake. Even though Bond is supposed to be hurt deeply by the revelation that Elektra is more than she seems the ending simply undercuts any truly emotional and complexed feeling. I beg Apted to explain himself. It's like he wanted to do something different but he wasn't smart enough to make the ending right- Bond actually being affected by it all. Just like her name implies Elektra's death should in one hand be a tragedy. Her behaviour was a product of things she went through. It seems if she received proper help and care she wouldn't got the point she came. Even M seems to acknowledge that much when Renard says how Elektra is worth fifty of him. Elektra is an incredible character-truly unique and truly fascinating. She is so sure Bond wouldn't kill her because he would miss her. But Bond does kill her-in cold blood commentingI never miss it's a stunning scene and the moment after that is like that as well. Bond comes closer and touches her face like her mourns over her. M vitneses it and Judi Dench is incredible. But Christmas Jones and the ending undercut any sense that Bond truly cared or was affected by her even though earlier in the film and in the last moment between Bond and Elektra it seems that way. The ending is in Roger Moore style- Bond being caught with a girl and doing a pun.Michael Apted needs to explain this tonal mismatch. A shame because for my money this could have been THE VERY BEST Bond movie ever. That's right. For performances-Brosnan IS Bond,Sophie is incredible and Judi Dench is great- as always.Denise on the other hand is awful. There is absolutely no other room for any other Bond girl aside Elektra in this movie and the presence of a supposedly brilliant nuclear scientist who wanders around in hot pants showing her tattoos is one fatal mistake-it could only be described like that. and the torture scene was brilliant. You should have killed me when you had the chance-but you couldn't not me not the woman you loved. But the movie provides a secondary designated Bond girl...Apted...I am waiting for an explanation. "},{"Title":"Underrated great Bond adventure","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To begin with I'm not going to argue about Denise Richards because we all know she wasn't right for the role, but she doesn't have a lot of screen time or even bother me that much. And definitely not enough to ruin the movie heck The World Is Not Enough. We have a great and thrilling pre credit sequence that is also tide with what is about to come. A great boat chase along the river. It kicks the film of to a great start. The introduction that the villain gets is great, he doesn't arrive until 40 minutes in and its done nicely to build up for the character. Elektra and Bond have a great chemistry that gives this movie so much for the ending of their relationship, or more even the ending that she gets. And when Bond finds out that she is truly on the wrong team was nicely done. It was also good to see Robbie Coltrane re praise his role in the movie, he had more to do here than in Goldeneye and that was appreciated as was John Cleese cameo. Bottom line is this is such a well told story that makes sense and with some great performances from all the main cast except for yes i don't have to say it. This movie is very under appreciated, it certainly belongs among the best in the series. Some people complain that there is to little action but the action is there for a reason this time! we don't need more. People have also commented on that it has little to do with Bond, heck we see who Bond really is in this film. How cold he is when he kills of Electra.. its one of the best scenes in the history of the franchise. Bond has had the enough and the world even is not enough.. he even said it himself. Elektra King is a very strong character in this film how she fell in love with her kidnapper and is angry with her father for not doing more to get her back, M even gets tied more in to the plot than in other films except Skyfall and gets kidnapped and i that was interesting. "},{"Title":"Good but unexceptional Bond film","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan was unfortunate that his best Bond film was his first and afterwards there was nowhere really for him to go. 'The World is Not Enough' (the Bond family's rather grandiose motto) is not bad but doesn't come up to the high standard set by Goldeneye.The Good? The opening scene in Spain is rather dull although the subsequent chase along the Thames is terrific, we finally got some value out of the Millennium Dome. Although you rather wonder if Bond had torpedoes on his jet boat why he just didn't fire them earlier and finish her off? Great to see Robbie Coltrane back as Valentin (always love continuity where they bring back a character you've seen before rather than just introduce someone as an 'old friend') and a real shame that they chose to kill him off. Very topical with the storyline of pipelines bringing oil from the former Soviet empire, you could expect to read it in The Economist. Very touching to see Desmond Llewelyn's final scene, especially as he died shortly later. She gets huge abuse but I like Denise Richards as Christmas Jones, she's maybe the sexiest ever Bond girl in a true pornstar way, very Lara Croft (certainly more memorable than the ones in 'You Only Live Twice' or 'The Living Daylights' and 'Thunderball'). We also have a female villainess for the first time and Bond ruthlessly guns her down, once again showing the steel beneath the wit and charm. Rather like the relationship between Alexa and her henchman, you wonder who is beguiling whom and it seems certain he genuinely cared for her if not the other way around? The bad? John Cleese was a big mistake, you get the impression that he was just paying for his latest divorce. The film is too long and it's a little unsettling that Alexa's billionaire father seems to be able to use MI6 as his personal muscle? So okay, but not brilliant. "},{"Title":"Never let them see you bleed, always have an escape plan!","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Time flies, eh? It seems like only yesterday that Pierce Brosnan was 'James Bond' ( in fact, 'Die Another Day' was ten years ago ). With 'Goldeneye', the handsome Irish actor established himself as the screen's most popular 007 since Roger Moore. 'The World Is Not Enough' was his third ( and, as it turned out, penultimate ) outing, and a strong entry it is too. The title is Bond's family motto ( first revealed in 'O.H.M.S.S.' ). The movie gets off to a cracking start with the murder of oil tycoon 'Sir Rodney King' ( David Calder ) at M16 Headquarters, London. Bond chases the assassin ( Maria Grazia Cucinotta ) in one of Q's inventions - a souped-up speedboat - along the Thames, in a sequence which outdoes the similar one in 'Live & Let Die' ( and this is before the titles! ). Michael Heseltine's Millennium Dome puts in an appearance ( remember how the Murdoch press worked like stink to brand it a flop even before it opened? How satisfying it is now to see the same Murdoch getting similar treatment! ) Fearing an attempt will be made on the life of King's daughter 'Elektra' ( the stunning Sophie Marceau ), M assigns Bond to be her bodyguard. After her is anarchist 'Renard' ( Robert Carlyle ), who has a bullet lodged in his brain. He is slowly dying, but is impervious to pain, making him one of 007's more dangerous adversaries. Some stunning set pieces including a para-hawk ambush in the Caucas Mountains, a helicopter-mounted buzz-saw pursuit in a caviar factory belonging to 'Valentin Zukovsky' ( Robbie Coltrane, in his second appearance in the role since 'Goldeneye' ), and finally, a struggle in a sinking submarine. There is a 'View To A Kill' feel to the whole thing ( especially when we learn that the villain wants to nuke the oil pipeline in the Bosphorus so as to make Elektra the number one oil supplier. Very reminiscent of Max Zorin's plan in that earlier movie ). Brosnan is great; one wishes he had done more than four movies. The weak link in the cast is Denise Richards as 'Dr.Christmas Jones' - she is beautiful but hopelessly unconvincing. John Cleese appears as 'R', Q's bumbling assistant. Intended to be a regular, he was ditched after Brosnan left.Michael Apted, the director, was not generally known for action movies, keeps it all bubbling away nicely. The title song by David Arnold and Don Black is okay, but needed someone like Shirley Bassey to do it justice. The group 'Garbage' sadly lived up to their name.The film's release was unfortunately overshadowed by the tragic news of Desmond Llewelyn's death. The much-loved actor had played the tetchy 'Q' ever since 'From Russia With Love' ( 1963 ). It is heartbreaking now to watch his final scene; as he doles out advice to Bond, he descends slowly into the floor, never to be seen again. Bonds may come and go, but there can surely be only one 'Q'. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Competent And Classic Bond","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've always looked at the Brosnan period as the last gasp of the Bond franchise before the reboot, with little appeal and even fewer fresh ideas. By the end of the Roger Moore era it seemed that Bond had been sucked dry (no pun intended). He became more caricature than hero, dependent on gadgets and gimmicks, and bore little resemblance to the original source material. But at least Roger Moore still had the Cold War as a backdrop; a cultural touchpoint that all could relate to, and an always-ripe source of intrigue and character motivation for both hero and villain alike. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, however, this all went away, and with it much of Bond's raison d'etre. This, unfortunately, was the world that Bronsan had to inhabit; a very different geopolitical reality AND a character that was becoming stale anyway. Over the course of his tenure, the films did suffer on both.'The World Is Not Enough', however, is the shining exception. It is a remarkably well crafted film, with excellent plot development, colorful and deep characters, and a tremendous amount of style. It is every bit a true James Bond movie, in the very best sense of the term; never ridiculous or cartoonish, always interesting and smart. Brosnan did a fantastic job in the role, and proved that he most certainly was not the problem with the franchise; had the writing and production for his other films matched this one, he'd be remembered as one of the best actors to ever play Bond. It's not entirely without flaws, but honestly it's a fantastic and under appreciated film. Worth seeing for sure. "},{"Title":"Bond is Back","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the dismal Tomorrow Never Dies, The World is Not Enough came with a vengeance. I've always been a fan of Bond, James Bond. TND was disappointing. The plot was ugh...,But TWINE restored the franchise in my view. Whenever, I hear negative critics about the film, I actually go, did these guys really watch the film? First, the pre credits opening is one of the best I've ever seen. It ranks right up there with The Spy Who Loved Me, The Living Daylights, Thunderball, Octopussy. But the strenght in TWINE was that the pre credit sequence had a strong relationship with the main movie.Judi Dench as usual gives her riveting performance as M, sometimes eclipsing even the indomitable Bernard Lee. Here, she was given a more active part as she actually was compelled to go into the active field with Bond. One of the best moves by the Bond producers post Pierce Brosnan was to retain her as M.I hope she still appears in more Bond movies.The surprise here was Sophie Marcue who is the main villain, the first for a woman (that is if you discount the chilling Rosa Klebb of From Russia With Love). The woman is breathlessly beautiful. I could see why Bond would fall in love with her even though he does not hesitate to kill her.Why she has not yet become a major star is what I don't understand.Supporting roles by John Cleese, and the Russian broker(Can't remember his name) were top notch. The sad exit of Desmond Llelywn was one of the most endearing parts of the movie. He is one of the most enduring characters in the Bond Franchis and always had a semi confrontational but ultimately loyal relationship with 007. I nearly cried when he left the movie.Elektra's henchman Renard was diabolically played by the British actor of The Full Monthy.His screen presence was chillingly felt. The only drawback was that he was underutilized,a serious minus for the film.Another serious minus was Denise who played the heroine,Dr. Christmas Jones,a nuclear scientist. Her acting like Halle Berry's embarrassing one liners made me cringe.Then there is Bond himself.Our saviour.Pierce Brosnan has shown that he is capable of carrying the legend of Bond on his shoulders. Forget the appalling TND and Die Another Day. The screen writers were obviously sleep walking when writing the scripts. It would have been great if Brosnan had bowed of the Bond movies with TWINE instead of the DAD.The action sequences apart from the lackluster snow scene were worthy of Bond. My best snow scenes in the Bond movies have always been in this order, OHMSS,TSWLM,FYEO,AVTAK,TLD.TWINE snow scene just lacked a lot of energy.I won't be surprised if that was the last scene that was shot and by then the crew was already tired.Still, TWINE is one of Brosnan's better Bond outings. And a solid ride of entertainment. "},{"Title":"A pretty good modern 007 thriller","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is the nineteenth official James Bond movie. It's the one with the boat chase down the Thames, the flying snowmobiles, the x-ray sunglasses, Denise Richards, the oil pipeline, Q's farewell, the highlands castle headquarters, the buzz-saw helicopters, and the tipped-downward nuclear submarine.Pierce Brosnan returns for his third outing as James Bond. Denise Richards plays a nuclear physicist named Christmas Jones. Sophie Marceau plays Elektra King, the seductive daughter of an oil tycoon. Robert Carlyle plays Renard, a terrorist with a bullet slowly moving through his brain. Robbie Coltrane, best known today as Hagrid from Harry Potter, makes a welcome return as a Russian mobster. This film also marks the final appearance of Desmond Llewelyn as the beloved gadget master Q. After nearly forty years of Bond films, Q is set to retire, leaving a hapless John Cleese as his replacement.I always kinda liked this film. It's my second favorite Pierce Brosnan 007 movie, after GOLDENEYE (1995). It delivers some great super-spy action, like the London boat chase in the opening sequence and the skiing ambush. (Those para-hawk snowmobile-copters are pretty cool.) Bond has quite a few jams to get out of, and explosions to avoid. The vertical submarine sequence is inventive. I also found the villain interesting. Renard is slowly dying from a bullet in his head and his character has a certain tragic quality to him. He may seem lightweight for a Bond villain, but who's really the master villain?Another interesting thing about this film is that M is given a larger role. In the old days M would give Bond his mission, provide some exposition, and that was that. In THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, Judi Dench's M character becomes a significant piece of the plot. She finds herself involved in the goings on, rather than watching everything from the sidelines. In this movie, for the first time since Dench was cast as a female M in GOLDENEYE, we get a hint of M's maternal instincts. The story makes use of the fact that M is a woman.I was glad to see Robbie Coltrane reprise his GOLDENEYE role, this time as a casino owner and with a goatee. His supporting character adds some humor and fleshes out the Bond universe. It was also nice to see a fitting send-off for Desmond Llewelyn, who'd played Q since the Sean Connery days. (Llewelyn would die shortly after the film's release.) And say what you will about Denise Richards's performance, she knows how to rock the tight tank top and shorts look. Bond girls' acting has been spotty over the years. The main thing is that they're nice to look at.While the film isn't perfect, THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is certainly one of the better James Bond outings. The one-liners range from bad to groan-inducing, but all in all it's a well-crafted film. The acting is top-notch (mostly), the characters show some complexity, and there are lots of exciting James Bond moments to enjoy. It's a serious thriller with twists and turns and great action. I much prefer this adventure to Brosnan's previous film TOMORROW NEVER DIES (1997), which just fell flat for me. It's not in my Bond top five, but THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is a sort of sentimental favorite of mine. It's a modern James Bond adventure in the classic tradition. "},{"Title":"Better upon the third viewing, but still no more than decent, really","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My opinion of The World is Not Enough has varied over the years. When I was 10, I loved it, despite the dull middle part. When I was somewhat older, I watched it again and found it to be mediocre, with long stretches of tedium in between the pyrotechnics, with Pierce Brosnan the only one to really make an impression (my Casino Royale review had a few unkind words to say about it). I've watched it again. I do think it is a little better than mediocre. Although there are some sizable dull periods, the middle part is somewhat more interesting than I remember (as the true nature of Sophie Marceau's character is gradually revealed). The ending is clichéd, the quality of the acting is inconsistent and I still maintain that the movie adheres to the 'Bond plot structure', only to not as detrimental an effect as I remembered.Well, I must say that, no matter when I viewed it, the beginning was always spectacular and, IMO, the best part of the film. Not only does Bond get himself into an altercation within the first few minutes of the film, but after an assassination takes place, Bond pulls out all of the stops in chasing down his killer, including firing torpedoes, going underwater, travelling on the roads...in a rocket-powered boat, no less! The middle part, like I said, does drag for long periods, but there are a few isolated spots of excitement, like when Bond goes and kills one of Renard's top henchmen. The development of Elektra King's character in this part, given what she would become, is also interesting. She appears to be a damsel-in-distress, but as Bond analyses her actions and intentions, her demeanour gradually changes and the facade begins to slip.The fight scenes at the end are entertaining. Given the adherence to the Bond plot structure, this is to be expected. Not much more can be said.The acting was uneven. Renard (Robert Carlyle) was not amongst the best Bond villains, but he was creepy enough, I guess. Coltrane, from GoldenEye, is OK, whilst Sophie Marceau was actually pretty good. She is, IMO, beautiful and she certainly turned on the sex quotient effectively. Indeed, the scene with her and Brosnan when he was tied to a garrote was compulsive viewing. As for Brosnan, he makes for a fine 007, making his character seem suave and self-assured without looking like a knob. Judi Dench too, was actually better than I remembered - she was more fluid and inventive (witness her using an old battery clock at the end) and less stereotypical. Denise Richards, unfortunately, is both a terrible casting choice and unconvincing as a nuclear scientist (I mean, come on...).Ultimately, The World is Not Enough is a decent film. It's no classic - to me, it's just another Bond film. However, it's still worth seeing once (or maybe more if you're a Bond buff).3/5 stars "},{"Title":"Christopher Lee, Ian Fleming's cousin, weighs in on  James Bond ...","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Lee, Ian Fleming's cousin and frequent golfing partner, was Fleming's original choice to play DR. NO. Although the role would finally go to Joseph Wiseman, Lee would go on to play Scaramanga in THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN. Lee was in a position to know about James Bond and his opinion of Bond actors is well worth noting. He was quoted as saying, In my opinion - and I think I know as much if not more about Bond than anyone, particularly about the characters on whom Ian Fleming told me Bond was based - Pierce Brosnan was by far the best and closest to the character.Personally, I always felt that Brosnan's voice, physique, and temperament were much too lightweight for Bond to suit my taste. Although, his interpretation of the Bond character is essentially accurate, he seems miscast. In THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, Brosnan works very hard and he is better than in his first two outings as Bond. However, my problem is that I can still see the work at every turn. Laurence Olivier advised actors that, The audience should never see your limits. Brosnan reaches his limits frequently as Bond, and lacks a real sense of ease. In the last result, his acting seems manufactured.Admittedly, seeing Sean Connery in the early Bond films, beginning with DR. NO in its original release, was a huge influence. Obviously, Christopher Lee is in an almost unique position to have a very well informed opinion. With respect to Christopher Lee, from a an objective point of view I must demure on this point. Based on reading all of Fleming's work several times, as well as biographical material on the author, I feel strongly that Timothy Dalton was far and away the closest interpretation of Ian Fleming's James Bond.Feel free to disagree. "},{"Title":"...but it is such a perfect place to start, my love","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As a reaction to the complaints about Tomorrow Never Dies (too much action, not enough plot), EON hired respected director Michael Apted to add more characterisation and drama. He absolutely does that. The central Bond/Elektra dynamic make this far more of a personal story than the usual 007 flick. Unfortunately, Apted's complete lack of experience with action makes this movie as lopsided as Tomorrow Never Dies, just in the opposite way.Action scenes are generally very weak, slowly paced, badly choreographed and lacking geography. The battle in the missile silo and the opening boat chase are the only decent set-pieces. The buzz-saw helicopter attack on Zukovsky's factory is really rather poor, and the final fist fight with Renard is pathetic. This came out in 1999, the year we saw the Jedi fighting Darth Maul, and The Matrix. In that context it's awful.But with regards to the storyline, Apted adds a lot. The central story of Elektra, the victim being the ultimate villain, is well-played and surprising. Sophie Marceau is a standout, as is Robert Carlyle as Renard. The latter really engages the audiences sympathy as a man who has lost the ability to feel anything. Bond becomes more involved with the storyline and becomes more vulnerable, and this is perhaps Brosnan's best performance in the role. Look for his reaction when Elektra asks him how he survives.The movie is full of the awful double-entendres that plagued the Brosnan years. The cinematography is bland, the locations are rarely attractive. I'd also question the costume design (Brosnan's outfit during the climax is horrible). A scene where Zukovsky flees from CGI rotor blades and lands in a pool of caviar matches the worst excesses of Lucas Jar-Jar Binks slapstick. Denise Richards is a ludicrous nuclear physicist but is perfectly passable as a Bond movie nuclear physicist. It's laughable that almost every shot of her during the finale are at chest level.Though the action is weak, the movie is dramatic and exciting, especially from the half way point onwards. Two of the greatest villains in the series, and one of the best plots, ultimately make this a winner, albeit a qualified one. "}{"Title":"The Best of Brosnan","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" by far this is Brosnsan's greatest movie as bond. I like the action packed beginning sequence as well as a storyline that tied it all together. I feel this movie is terribly underrated. Brosnan is IMO the Best Bond behind Connery. I enjoyed the famous bond lines such as Shaken not Stirred and Bond, James Bond. The glasses were a nice touch to the film. I also enjoyed the storyline between Bond and Elektra as I felt it was a storyline with depth. Glad to see Llewelyn Retire on a good note as well.the only bad parts were Dr. Christmas Jones and a bad guy scheme that we've seen before.but overall its a very good bond film 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Of course this has to be a movie with incredible actions, even fantastic things, because is James Bond. There is a lot of this things in the movie, a lot of scenes where you watch and remain saying Get out of here..........I don't believe it...but this is James Bond, and that is what makes this one an the other ones excellent movies. Pierce Brosnan do an excellent personification of Bond; is perfect because he can be irresistible to woman and also a great killer.....simply brilliant. Other thing very nice is the fact that the bond girl appears in the middle of the movie, like Denisse Richards, and not at the beginning. Very good!!! "},{"Title":"Eh, it's okay.","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have very mixed feelings about this one.First, the characters. Although Brosnan brings the usual style and class to the role of Bond, he's just not a human being. He's more of a super hero who is never in any real danger because he's probably bullet proof. He can fly as well. He can fall from 100 feet in the air and only suffer a bruised shoulder. Maybe if he were dropped from 1,000 feet, he'd get an actual sprain. He's got no genuine humor, not even the slightest hint of awkwardness - ever - he's just way too polished and slick. Then there's Judi Dench as M. - Utterly deplorable. A worse casting decision couldn't possibly have been made for that role. Which brings us to Denise Richards. I liked her in several other movies, but here she manages to be the worst Bond girl ever. Her natural tendency towards conceited bitchiness, coupled with what seems like plain stupidity, just doesn't cut it. And she's a nuclear physicist? That's truly laughable. She's a dopey teenager with big hooters. To be fair, I'm certainly not complaining about the hooters! Then there's John Cleese as the new Q, or R. One would think he could have been quite clever in the role, but such is not the case. The bad guy with a bullet lodged in his brain hardly deserves mentioning.On the other hand, Sophie Marceau as Elektra King is simply wonderful, possessing all the conflicting motivations that makes a person a human being - something everyone else is so noticeably lacking.Then there's the action. Some is good, like the fight in the underground nuclear weapons storage bunker. The attack of the flying snowmobiles is alright as well. So too was the pipeline scene. However, the boat chase at the beginning is truly boring, like something out of a Batman movie, complete with the Batboat jumping out of the Batcave. The whole thing on the submarine at the end is boring as well. It's just not directed in such a way as to have any style, any possibility of our heroes meeting with failure, nor any actual excitement. They're just going through the motions. The attack of the saw blade wielding helicopters on the caviar factory is a waste of time as well; so obviously just an excuse for yet more special effects. It serves no purpose whatsoever.In conclusion, you've got one or two good characters, a few good action sequences, and a vaguely interesting plot. It's surrounded by a lot of other crummy characters, boring over-the-top action sequences, and pointless plot cul-de-sacs. So overall it's watchable and rather entertaining, just not nearly as good as it could have been had it been made specifically for adults instead of trying to appeal to the short-attention-span teenage market as well. "},{"Title":"one of the top 5 bonds","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Far and away the best (non-Bond theme) song - by Garbage. (Nobody Does it Better, by Carly Simon is next). Easily the best female bad guy of all Bond films -- well-written character with lots of depth and issues and who looks better with Pierce than Sophie?Unfortunately, also contains the absolute WORST acting ever in a Bond film from Denise Richards.Who did Richards blackmail to get this role? She is AWFUL!! No one in their right mind would conceive of her as a nuclear physicist! LOL! Robbie Coltrane is awesome as usual. What's with the guy with the metal teeth he doesn't use - are they just trying to remind us of JAWS for some reason? "},{"Title":"a 6.3 because it has Denise Richards in it?","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Because, to be honest, I think it is EASILY the most intelligent, best written Bond film of the Brosnan era. All the action scenes were fairly realistic (a huge plus for me). Which is to say that we didn't have fighter jets spontaneously exploding due to an EM field a la Goldeneye... and we CERTAINLY didn't have the 100 realism atrocities from Die Another Day (which is the worst Bond film ever, fyi, makes Casino Royale look like a work of art). So what do people not like about this one? Was the psychological aspect a little too smart for the casual film-goer? I guess... Was having Denise Richards play the role she played any worse than the performances of Halle Berry, Teri Hatcher, and friggin' Madonna?!!? The correct answer, btw, is no. To conclude, TWiNE is as underrated as Die Another Day is overrated. Which is quite a lot. "},{"Title":"Spoilers","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warning! There may be some spoilers in this review.There is a good scene in 'On Her Majesty's Secreet Service' where Bond is at a University. His Coat of Arms is revealed, and the family motto 'The World Is Not Enough'.In this film, Bond quotes it in front of the villaness of the piece, Elektra King. This is a very welcome nod to the earlier Bond films.Brosnan has, quite honestly, never looked better as Bond than in this film. He mixes the tough action-hero with the tragic, broken figure remarkably well, and also provides us with a few sly laughs.The plot is quite good, with the twist unexpected and quite surprising. Although the Bond series has had it's share of femme fatales and bitchy sidekicks, it's never really had a female villain-of-the-piece (or should that be villainess?) Sophie Marceau is very beautiful, and yet very ice-cold, making her character wonderfully unlikeble.Robert Carlyle is also good as the number two of the plot, Renard. the concept of the 'bullet in the head' is well though out and a nice character twist, though the love scenes between him and Elektra make us pity him in some ways, and turn him into quite a soppy baddie.It's nice to see Robbie Coltrane appearing again, but a little annoying at his death. He would have made a good recurring character.Judi Dench reprises her role of M well, but I cannot write a review of this film without a nod to a evry special person in the Bond films franchise.This is Desmond Llewellyn's last appearance before he died, and it is rather poignant and a little ironic that Q is also thinking of retiring in this film. John Cleese is rather funny as the bumbling apprentice, but the films will never seem the same again without the original Q.There is one major problem with this film - Deniese blinkin' Richards! All right, so she's this really attractive woman who looks great in a tight top and shorts, but honestly! This woman could win the Wooden Spoon award for Wooden Acting! Apart from that, the film is a good entry!7/10  "},{"Title":"After TND, I know what I've been missing...ALL OF IT!","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After waiting YEARS to finally see Tomorrow Never Dies on basic television last night, I finally realize what's been missing here World is Not Enough.TWINE nearly crushed my interest in the James Bond movies (only the games rekindled that interest), mainly because of... ...well, mainly the plot. Viktor Zokas (a.k.a Renard) is out to destroy the world, and what sucks is that we don't know WHY he wants to destroy the world. Don't you just hate it when villains have no real reason to do anything? See, in TND, the villain actually had something to work for...the reason why he wanted to start a war is to have news for his newspaper, and to be able to control all media as a result. In TWINE, Renard doesn't own a famous business, nor does he have interesting Goons (some noteable Goons from the previous James Bond films are Nick Nack, OddJobb, and Jaws), but Renard has NO noteable Goons. So technically, he's just some schmoe with a bullet in his head and a mind to kill people.Then, there's the action and presentation. Bond does have some of his quippy one-liners here, but they aren't as noteable as in most of his other films. The action in TWINE is also sub-par...the gunshots are not any fun to listen too, gunfights drone on with no real excitement, and Bond doesn't engage in his epic car-chase scenes. Remember the action scenes you saw in TND and whatnot? Remember the fast-paced city chase in The Man with the Golden Gun? Don't expect to be wowed as much here.To summarize, TWINE is just candy with no taste to it...a Tootsie-Pop with no chocolately center. It might be nice to look at a bit, but turn to TND and GoldenEye for better plotlines and action.  "},{"Title":"Best Brosnan 007 Outing is Exciting, Suspenseful Thriller...","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There is a legitimate argument that it takes three films for an actor to truly 'become' James Bond. GOLDFINGER was certainly a benchmark in Sean Connery's portrayal of 007, as was THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, for Roger Moore. (As George Lazenby only played Bond once, and Timothy Dalton, twice, they never had the opportunity to test the theory). However, with THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, his third 007 adventure, Pierce Brosnan, 47, would put most of his critics' misgivings to rest, once and for all. Strong, wry, dedicated though vulnerable, Brosnan IS Ian Fleming's dedicated secret agent, and the film stands as one of the most exciting, unusual adventures of the series.From the pre-title sequence, offering a catastrophe and chase that destroys much of Bond's headquarters, and offers the Thames as a spectacular battleground, TWINE turns the standard 007 formula 'on it's ear', and challenges viewers to solve a puzzle that offers more twists than any previous entry.As the identity of a nearly-superhuman villain, dying terrorist Renard (a quite convincing Robert Carlyle) is revealed, Bond is assigned to protect oil heiress (and life-long friend of M) Elektra King (breathtaking French star, Sophie Marceau, 33), who had been once kidnapped by Renard, and appears an obvious target. The chemistry between Brosnan and Marceau is electric, and so powerful that it becomes obvious that Bond, despite his desire to separate 'duty' from his 'personal' feelings, will not be able to resist the sexual bonding they both desire, for long. As the plot develops, revelations about Renard's ultimate goal, his accomplices, and the importance of M (Judi Dench, in her finest performance as Bond's boss) would offer a series of twists leading to a stunning ultimate denouement. I will not give it away, but will admit that it is a 'first' for Bond's screen adventures, and that author Ian Fleming would have LOVED it!Not everything 'works'; the film drags a bit during the final third, the heroics are a bit 'over-the-top', even for 007, and, as 'Christmas Jones', the buxom but dramatically-challenged Denise Richards, 26, easily establishes herself as the WORST Bond 'girl' ever, so bad that she makes Tanya Roberts and Britt Ekland look like Oscar contenders!On a sad note, Desmond Llewelyn, at 81, makes his final appearance as 'Q' in the film, introducing a new 'assistant' (John Cleese). After filming wrapped, the beloved Welsh actor would pass away in a road accident, marking the end of the last link to the 'classic' Bond films of the sixties.THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH would not crack the 'Top Ten' list of U.S. box office hits in 1999, but still did very good business, worldwide, and gave the series, and it's star, Pierce Brosnan, a credibility that had been lacking since Roger Moore's days as 007. While 'purists' would still point to Timothy Dalton as 'closest' to Fleming's Bond, and old-timers would still choose Sean Connery or Roger Moore as the 'best' screen Bond, nearly every long-time fan would now say Brosnan was their 'Number 2' choice in the role...and for a new generation, NOBODY did Bond better!And with the dawning of a new millennium, Brosnan's Bond would still be 'on duty', in DIE ANOTHER DAY. "},{"Title":"Bond--But Not","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond-But Not The film The World Is Not Enough was directed and produced 1999 and was directed by Michael Apted.  This is the nineteenth Bond film that has been produced and Pierce Brosnan is the third actor to portray the character Agent 007.  In this film Bond's assignment is as a bodyguard for Electra King (Sophie Marceau), the daughter of a wealthy oil tycoon who has been murdered at M16 Headquarters.  Bond has unknowingly played a part in his death and now feels responsible for his daughter. Electra inherits her fathers fortune after his death and is now feared to be the next target for the terrorist Renard (Robert Carlyle), a man who can feel nothing due to a bullet that is lodged in his head.  Renard knows he is dying and has only one reason left to live-revenge. The plot of the film was excellent.  Like all Bond films, there are numerous action scenes with the best special effects yet.  Several twists in the plot keep the viewers attention through out the entire film.  Bond is for once the one who is seduced and falls in love, the main villain is a female who wants to control the world, and Bond ends up with a character who was never a villain in the first place. What I enjoyed most about this film was it definitely kept my attention from the beginning to the end.  The true villain turns out to be someone the viewer would least expect.  Someone the viewer and Bond feel extreme sympathy for due to the tragedies which have occurred.Another aspect of the film I liked was the added humor or play on words that was used.  This was carried out through the entire film mostly by Bond with various female characters and all with sexual overtones.  The last words from Bond's lips were `I thought Christmas only comes once a year.'    A must see to appreciate this innuendo . . . of course, the entire film if you are at true die-hard Bond fan!  "},{"Title":"Brosnan's second best, after Goldeneye","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Notwithstanding any future effort that sees Pierce Brosnan, back in the role of Bond, The World Is Not Enough is a fairly accurate picture of how the James Bond series has panned out since 1995. Simply, in the finest traditions of the series, set since 1962. This, the nineteenth official film, features some original and unique locations, an excellent female lead in Sophie Marceau, and an amusing re-appearance from the Robbie Coltrane ally Valentin Zuckovsky, who made a real difference to Goldeneye.Other plus points include the lack of Joe Don Baker, who really out lasted his welcome in Tomorrow Never Dies, a fine send-off for Q, spectacular chase sequences on the River Thames and on a snowy mountainside, some dirty but funny humour, and best of all the climax in a sinking nuclear-powered submarine in the straights of Istanbul. Brosnan by now is synonymous with the role of James Bond and plays the role well, probably his best all round personal effort to date.It has its bad points too - the villain Renard is handled fairly uncomfortably by the normally reliable Robert Carlyle, the henchmen are devoid of any memorable characteristics, and the nuclear physiscist in hot pants, Denise Richards, aka Dr Christmas Jones, is an outrageous and somewhat ridiculous inclusion.Brosnan himself carries on from where he left off in Tomorrow Never Dies, that is to say, as if this is Terminator 2, not a Bond film. Thankfully though, the machine gun battles and huge explosions are not a permenant feature of the film, whose plot high points include Bond getting injured by falling onto the Millenium Dome, M being captured, a great pipeline seqeunce where Bond and Jones are on a cart chasing a plutonium bomb, and MI6 headquarters turning into the frontline after some terrorist action!There's a great cameo from British DJ Goldie as a villain, the only interesting one apart from the brilliant Marceau, and there are enough unique elements, like the helicopter-powered forrestry blades, a bad guy who can feel no pain, and a major Hollywood movie being set in Kazaksthan, Azerbiejhan (sp?), and the Caspian Sea, to make it another memorable entry into the series. The gadgets are present but not overused, and this solid 1999 effort really feels like a great way to Bond to sign off the Twentieth Century.The only minor complaint would be the pre-credits sequence was too long, perhaps the titles should have been brought forward to fit in between the Bilboa Bank scene and the MI6-Thames sequence.Once again, top marks 007.   "}{"Title":"The Best Of Brosnan","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is indisputably the best Bond adventure starring Pierce Brosnan.  In fact I would say that it is the best film for the last twenty years.  The film has an unusual number of twists and the action flows smoothly, much like the oil that is the subject of the 19th James Bond adventure.Bond aficionados may find that the plot seems familiar.  Creating a disaster in order to create a monopoly?  Scenes from Goldfinger and A View To A Kill come to mind.  The acting is not just good but it is very good.  The action complements Brosnan's dynamism well and Robbie Coltrane proves to be a useful ally to 007.One notices that the producers try to establish some continuity between Brosnan's adventures.  Look out for music from Tomorrow Never Dies in the boat chase sequence and Bond's watch containing a grappling hook. More obvious is the presence of characters like Zukovsky, Robinson and Tanner. The pre-title sequence is one of the series's best and title sequence itself shows creativity, albeit if the sequence is somewhat hallucinatory.  One criticism is that the action never moves far from Central Asia, set against a backdrop of grey landscapes and war torn lands.  The full beauty of Istanbul is not displayed to the reader.  Hence the Bond element of glamour is absent.If Tomorrow Never Dies was an uncut rock and Goldeneye a polished jewel then The World Is Not Enough is a sparkling diamond on the necklace of Bond movies.  Hopefully the next entry will be the koh-i-noor. "},{"Title":"The worst yet (with only one redeeming feature)","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK, Moonraker stunk.  It was really bad.  This was worse.  Wow, thought I'd never say it!Bond is a dead horse and how many times can you beat it?  The days of Connery, Moore and Dalton are over, sadly.  Now we have Remington Bond walking stiffly around and tossing off the double entendres that, far from funny, are just sleazy.  They were fine in the 60s and 70s, but lines like I thought Christmas only comes once a year are just pathetic.  Connery's collars and cuffs line in Diamonds Are Forever is much more classy (relatively).  The action sequences are getting more laughable than thrilling.  I was 10 minutes away from the end of Tomorrow Never Dies before I had to shut it off -- it was so bad.But it's not Pierce Brosnan or the screenwriters who are to blame for the mess the Bond franchise is in.  Blame the writers for From Russia with Love, Goldfinger, and The Spy Who Loved Me for setting the bar too high.  And blame the fans who demand more fantastic gadgets and stunts with every new series entry.  It's a sad thing when the parodies of a genre make more money than the serious ones (like Austin Powers).But this movie wasn't all bad.  I give it a 2 for Robert Carlyle, or what we saw of him.  WHERE WAS HE??????  You hardly saw him and he was the only thing in this movie that I liked.  This was a Bond villain who wasn't consummate evil.  He had feelings (emotional, if not physical) and he deserved more character development.  **Possible spoiler*** An interesting dynamic in his relationship with Elektra was who manipulated who.  In the end, he was certainly the more sympathetic character. *END SPOILER*  It was just awful to sit through 2 hours and 10 minutes and keep waiting for him to appear on the screen, only to see Denise Richards once more play the smart scientisty Bond girl in her Lara Croft costume.  That's an idea....Why not put put La Jolie in a Bond movie?  That might take the sag out of the series!I think it's a good idea of get Brosnan out of the series.  I haven't enjoyed a single Bond movie that he's done.  Give me Connery, Dalton, Moore and even Lazenby.  And more villains like Carlyle.  And give them more screen time while you're at it!!!!!!  I honestly can't remember a villain that you saw so little of.  At least you eventually saw Blofeld after all the mystery was built up and he was a compelling villain.  Renard is dead and gone. ,(  I guess I'll just take solace in my Hamish Macbeth tapes, The Full Monty and Plunkett and Maclean. "},{"Title":"A poorly assembled toy from the James Bond factory","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough achieves the difficult task of distilling one of Hollywood's most simple plot formulas.  The story-line is already written, the only task of the film's writers is to add engaging characters.  They couldn't even get 007 right.  James Bond is faster, smarter and better looking than the audience who pays to see him save the world. Pierce Brosnan plays the part like a middle-aged man doing a James Bond impression.  His uninviting persona and detached attitude is strained and inappropriate. Other characters have too much personality. In particular, superbly cast Judi Dench is given a part that is too large for the character.  It is the nature of M to be almost non-existent.  Also, Q's departure leaves John Cleese in charge of the flashy equipment.  While John Cleese may be the only redeeming addition to this movie, his character seems out of place and pasted in to excite certain areas of the plot.  It's obvious that the writers were grabbing plot twists from wherever they could find them. Perhaps this is because the villains were so weak and uninteresting. Denise Richards was the last nail in this movie's coffin (not pun intended). Bond gets lucky with a bimbo and gets in a horrifying final line.  Thank you Ms. Richards.  This is just another product from the James Bond factory. Luckily, it did not pass inspection. "},{"Title":"Not enough.","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film was the least satisfying of all the Bond films. The plot was too convoluted. In a 007 movie, I expect a storyline I can follow without taxing my brain. Just give me the kickass action sequences and a straightfoward plot. Also. the acting was rather weak, excepting Judi Dench and the action set pieces were standard. This was the first Bond picture that truly disappointed me.    "},{"Title":"excellent Bond film, better than most recent ones","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond is back, and Pierce Brosnan really belts his performance in this one.  Unlike the previous two Brosnan Bond films, James Bond portrayed here is more cynical and determined, much like the early Sean Connery ones. Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond next only to Sean Connery. "},{"Title":"the best bond in recent years","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  thanks to great actress sophie marceau (and the moving portrait of robert carlyle) this is one of the best bond installments of the last decade. here the villain has an emotional depht, resulting from a traumatic past. this automatically results in 007 also having to deal with deeper emotions himself than in most of his outings. the only drawback is the part of the science-bimbo which only enhances the contrast between an intelligent woman´s part and the traditional one in bond movies. "},{"Title":"The one that came after tomorrow  Average and almost boring.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Difficult to be next to Tomorrow never dies, even more difficult when you decide to hire Sophie Marceau who is definitively not a world class actress. After a real bad guy as played by Jonathan Pryce, we have a girlie that would like to make a million Dollars (put your little finger in your mouth and you'll look like Dr Evil, BTW) and to maim James Bond for an old oil story. Not really convincing but The only advantage to this film is that the next one will definitively be better. "},{"Title":"Otherwise good Bond movie ruined by bad one-liners and Denise Richard","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I realize that part of what makes a Bond movie a Bond movie are the tongue-in-cheek one-liners, but in this particular outing the one-liners are too many and too corny. With one notable exception; (BEGIN SPOILER) When Bond cracks 'See you at the lodge' and then grins smugly after having tricked one of the snow-mobile type vehicles to drive right over a ledge. The one-liner in itself is pretty standard, what makes this my favourite part of the movie is Bond's 'what-the-f***' facial expression when the bad guy transforms his vehicle into a para-hawk and attacks Bond yet again. Priceless. (END SPOILER)Now... what about Denise Richards? I don't know why, but when I saw 'Starship Troopers' and 'Wild Things,' both in which she starred, I didn't realize what bad an actress she is. Perhaps she just got lucky, perhaps in those films she had a part that was closer to her own personality... Whatever the reason, in 'The World is Not Enough' the poor girl couldn't act her way out of a paper bag. My main complaint with her is the way she says her lines. There's no gusto, there's not emotions. It's almost as if she didn't memorize them, but is only reading them off of a monitor hid out of the audience view.The bottom line is If you like Bond and can stand many, many corny one-liners and extremely bad acting from Ms. Richards (you can catch better performances in day-time soaps) you'll probably enjoy this movie. It certainly has a twisted villain and enough action, gadgets, pretty girls (while Denise Richards can't act, she's certainly easy on the eyes) and nice scenery to pass as a Bond flick. "},{"Title":"Enough is Enough!!!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am not a big Bond fanatic so I probably have no business even writing a review of this film, however, I saw it on a plane recently so I felt compelled to give my two cents.I have not seen all of the great classics, like Dr. No and The Spy Who Loved Me, and Bond fans will cringe when I say that my favorite of the Bond flicks is still A View to A Kill.  The World is Not Enough is the second Brosnan flick that I have seen (this is actually his third) and I have to say, I don't give a damn who plays James.  Brosnan is fine, but if they replace him tomorrow, I don't care.  In this venture our hero must protect an heiress from some nasty thugs that will stop at nothing to kill her.  The typical ski chase plays out, and this time the dome in London, England is a backdrop to some hot action.  Sophie Marceau plays the heiress and Denise Richards is the Bond girl of the day, a smart doctor who helps Bond when the going gets tough. The Iron Curtain has been dismantled for years now but Russian accents still permeate the script.  Nuclear war heads are flying everywhere and James still has an eye for the trashy ladies.  What I did like about this effort was the extended use of the great Judi Dench.  Since her big Oscar turns over the past couple of years I suppose the makers of this Bond felt obligated to take her out of the Charlie Townsend role of giving the assignment, warning Bond not to go too far, and congratulating him in the end for a job well done.  This time she is partly responsible for the events that take place, and she is left to her own devices when she is taken hostage by the bad guys.  As an action film, this one tends to deliver.  As per usual, the stunts are spectacular, the chicks are hot, and of course the plot is secondary.  Bond fans will probably get some satisfaction out of this one, but I wonder how often the closing tag, '007 Will Return', will actually hold true. "},{"Title":"Does this stale movie indicate a new cultural rift between America and the world?","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was showing at the local dollar theater, so I decided to see it recently. I can only echo the critics on this one-- some fine moments, better than the typical James Bond fare of recent decades, but the whole thing is very, very tired. The good parts include a toning-down of the cartoonish aspects-- although there are still enough ridiculously improbable and impossible events to satisfy even the most demanding 12 year-old.The actors did a fine job. The stunt folks certainly executed their tasks with enough skill-- but the movie simply feels flat and dead. I don't think ANY changes or improvements could improve the 007 theme at this point, nor could any change save the franchise. It all still revolves around James Bond surviving because the villains and their hirelings have this fatal tendency (fatal to them) of gloating first, and shooting later. Well duh! Mike Meyers made great fun with this plot gimmick in his Austin Powers movie-- the point seems obvious to all by now. But how come the James Bond copyright holders don't know this?This brings up another point, maybe a disturbing one. If, and it's a big if, foreign movie goers (i.e., non-U.S./Canadian) are still drawn into the James Bond allure, and if they still buy the package and enjoy the recent product, it might indicate that the split between American and European/Asian cultural taste has widened a lot more than the new world order folks would have us believe. Have we become that different? Maybe-- but it is a bit odd to think that the rest of the world is still living in the 1960s. It makes me wonder what other differences might show themselves-- differences on important, real-life topics such as human rights, economics, world peace, etc.???I didn't give this a 1, because it was well made; but it isn't quite up to even average quality for a 1999/2000 movie either. So I gave this a 4. "}{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan returns as 007 for the third time.This time he must stop a madman from setting off a bomb inside a submarine.Non stop action & thrills galore,& humor.Carlyle is an O.K. bad guy. this film marks the final appearance of Q.Rated PG-13 for bond elementsRating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I entered my local movie theater with very high expectations.  A couple of my friends had seen this movie and declared that it was the best James Bond movie since the days of Connery.  THEY WERE WRONG!!!!  I was very disappointed.  The quips were forced and very cheesy.  The gadgets were pitiful, any super boat that takes ten minutes to take out a cabin cruiser is good for nothing.  The two bond girls although quite aesthetically pleasing acted their perspective roles terribly.  Sophie Marceau may be a good actress, but she was supposed to be the daughter of a British lord and she has such a thick French accent.  It seemed at times that she might be trying to fake a British accent but this just slurred her lines and made the character worse.  The villain was utterly ridiculous.  Oh my goodness.... he has a bullet in his head... well, whoopty-doo I am just petrified!  His accent was also pretty stupid.  Valentine, who was quite believable in Goldeneye came off as some sort of chump.  He utterly hated Bond and suddenly he is his ally? I don't think so.  This movie represented the first time I was steered wrong by an Internet Movie Database Rating.  I think that most of the people who wrote reviews for this movie accidently walked into the theater where Fight Club was showing and wrote their reviews based on that beautiful movie thinking it was The World is not enough.  Jolly bad show.   3/10  "},{"Title":"The world is not enough","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond james bond is back again with his gadgets guns and girls!!!!!!!!!!! John cleese is good in this movie as Q's assistant. This movie get's 8 out of 10!!!!! "},{"Title":"Goodbye Mr Bond","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Possibly the most disappointing Bond film I have ever seen. All starts well with a spectacular boat chase along the Thames culminating at the Millennium Dome. However we start to see a darker, more sinister Bond emerging as the film roles on. By that I mean neither Sean Connery nor Roger Moore would ever kill a man in cold blood. However Brosnan shoots Davidoff  (bad guy) in the chest without the former drawing a gun. And if this break from Bond lore isn't enough he deliberately kills an unarmed woman with a single shot to the chest. And my usual complaints about blatant commercialism and product placement still hold.Bring back the real Bond; this film is an insult to Ian Fleming's creation. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best by Far","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love this Bond film  It defintely ranks up there with Goldfinger, The Living Daylights and On Her Majesty's Secret Service as my all time favorite Bond films.  Brosnan is in his best form since Goldeneye (I did not like the approach of Tomorrow Never Dies one bit) but it is sad knowing that this had to be Q's last outing....Interesting how Q-Branch and the gadgets take approach with John Cleese leading that division  A return to Roger Moore buffoonery perhaps? (thankfully only the side character!)  "},{"Title":"What a pile of pants!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen some rubbish in my time, and some rubbish in Bond films, but this was just a cynical money making scheme with no cinematic merit whatsoever.The opening sequence was supposed to be this great action scene showcasing the Millennium Dome and other London landmarks.  In truth it was very uninspiring and yawn enducing, and not a patch on Roger Moore's swamp powerboat chase of the mid 70s (Live + Let Die ??), from which much of the action was stolen.The whole film was very ho hum, down to the boring Robbie Coltrane and the surprisingly rubbish Robert Carlyle - who with his silly scar and huge rollover sweater was a dead ringer for those huge necked aliens out of Doctor Who.  And they were probably giving a better acting performance too!Brosnan was average at best and the only redeeming feature was the gorgeous Denise Richards in several scantily clad outfits - although having her dunked in water just so that she could get a wet t-shirt was a bit off - and even the lines about her name (character's name was Christmas Jones), such as and I thought Christmas only came once a year were predictable from the second that she mentioned her name.All in all a complete waste of time and not one to see again. "},{"Title":"Heavy action, Light fluffy plot","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Very typical Bond-film.  In fact, I think I've seen some of those very same action scenes in previous films.  Are they running out of fresh ideas?How about Bond vs the PTA?... Bond takes on Bill Gates and the evil empire?... Bond in drag?... Bond in the year 2100? "},{"Title":"Best Bond Film Ever!!!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok this film was frankly amazing.  The Brosnan Bonds continue to get better and better.  TWINE betters TND in several ways.  Firstly ther are many times during the film where it has the feel of a classic Bond.  Secondly, and most importantly, this one actually manages to make Bond look like he might be in danger, and not that he has the situation completely under control.  This film was just edge of your seat stuff, combined with some really cheesy moments.  Bond at its best. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just got out of The World is Not Enough and I only had one problem with it, Denise Richards.  When I first heard a year ago that they wanted to cast the two-timing babe of Starship Troopers for this role I thought, nah, never. But they did!  Leaving the fact that she cannot act out of this, she is not a Bond girl!  Bond girls are supposed to have charme!!  Something like Sophie Marceau has, now there was a Bond girl.  As for the rest of the film, it was what I call a holy cow movie (for lack of using words my mother wouldn't want to see), otherwise said, I spent the whole movie saying Holy cow!!!, Holy cow!!! at all the action sequences.  An avid Bond fan I can truly say that this is one of the best because only now, with current pyrotechnic technologie could these Bond action scenes be filmed.  Like the explosive debut which was like it's own movie.  The story was not as good as Goldeneye (006 betraying Bond because he is a Lienz-Cossack) but the action was a lot more fast paced.  As for the bad guy, Renard (fox in french, which no one could pronounce right, not even Sophie Marceau who is French) was excellent but not as good as Trevelyan, someone who forcefully was better than Bond because he was at MI6 longer (006) so the perfect bad guy. Pierce Brosnan just plain did another excellent job with this movie, like Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies and though alot don't agree, he is the best Bond, being more naturally sophisticated, suave and debonaire than Sean Connery (whom I like second best).  I just don't how they'll top this.  "},{"Title":"Bond is Bond","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, it was great fun. Was it the best Bond ever, or the worst, who cares? New Bonds only come out once every couple of years and I'm there to see them! I must admit, I even watch the Roger Moore installments every time they come on TV - so I'm hooked. For me, World is Not Enough was enough. It has all the right Bondisms in all the right places. The plot was a bit thin, but it was also more plausible than some in the series. The gadgets were good and not too unbelievable (where can I get a set of those glasses?). A couple of years from now when I've watched this one 75 times, I'll think about where it rates in the Bond series. In the meantime, I'll see this one again before it leaves the theatres and will probably buy it when it hits the video stores. Seems to me the producers have gotten what they want and so have I.  "}{"Title":"Very Exciting!","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great! Non stop action! I think this is the best Bond movie in years. Pierce Brosnan does a very good job in this film. Timothy Dalton was the worst James Bond ever, I mean he doesn't even look British to start. Plus he was just plain bad. I didn't like Brosnan's first Bond film, Goldeneye but this one more then makes up for it. Lots of the usual Bond charm and wit combined with a lot of cool gizmos and gadgets and not to mention the beautiful Bond girls. This movie has it all. Pierce Brosnan is very convincing and I'd have to put him up to the second spot in terms of whom is the best Bond. He'd be under Connery of course. "},{"Title":"Best of the Brosnan Bonds","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough is the 19th installment of the James Bond series.  Any wonder that the series is getting a little stale?  That said, I wasn't disappointed after seeing this movie.Does it rely on the old Bond formula?  Absolutely.  But although it doesn't break any new ground, it is entertaining nonetheless.  Things blow up real good, nuclear physicists end up being beautiful women, more things blow up real good, Bond saves the world.Unfortunately, the movie's best sequence is its first.  The explosion at the MI6 headquarters and the subsequent boat chase down the Thames is rousing.  The rest of the movie tries hard to keep the pace but never really succeeds.  The ending is also rather abrupt, and Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist is stretching it, even for a Bond picture.Fans of Bond will not be disappointed by this movie, but people looking for something other than exotic (and well done) stunt sequences should look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Definately in the top 5 Bond films","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough is an excellent movie.  Pierce Brosnan seems to have perfected his role and Denise Richards is gourgeous (and believable) as nuclear weapons expert Dr. Christmas Jones.  Robert Carlyle was perfect as the terrorist Renard.The opening boat chase, the para-hawk/ski chase, and the nuclear silo scenes were amazing.  There are plenty of gadgets, suprising plot twists, and of course, Bond says his two most famous lines...Bond, James Bond ...Vodka martini shaken not stirred All in all I gave it a 9 as there were a few small plot holes, and I would have changed the ending.  Definately go see this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond outings EVER!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World has never been enough for James Bond.  Being British myself, I have to say that this was one of the most exciting Bond adventures and ranks right up there with `From Russia with Love' and `GoldenEye'.  Pierce Brosnan is by far one of the greatest of the Bond's.  He portrays the role with such dignity that fans sometimes forget about Connery and Moore.  This was a great victory for Brosnan and also along the way, a similar victory for Robert Carlyle and goddess, Sophia Marceau (One of the best Bond ladies of ALL TIME!)Although I do miss some of the great one-liners of the past Bond films, I did enjoy John Cleese and the gentleman who played `Q' (I never can spell his name correctly).  Dame Judi Dench is fantastic in her role again as `M' and I must say this before I end. Denise Richards....Please don't do another film like this again!Out of 10...............9/10. James Bond will return!  "},{"Title":"Bond is as Bond does.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are lots of criteria for what makes a good bond movie, but on whatever level, this one is a lot of fun.  The innuendo is in top form, the characters are at least as memorable as those from Goldeneye, and the women are nice to look at.Unlike previous bond efforts, neither of the Bond Girls were hired for their acting talent (Marceau does a slightly better job, but no one told her it was okay to overact in a role like this), but the movie looks good, it's a lot of fun, and it makes me want to see the next one, quite badly.9 out of 10.  Too bad about the opening montage. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie from start to finish.  From the opening teaser sequence to the conclusion, the action and intrigue were nonstop.TWINE had all of the elements that make the Bond series great...a great storyline, beautiful locales, beautiful women, and a lot of action at a pace so you don't notice the anomalies in the plot.  This one also was the first Bond movie in a long time to add an air of mystery and true espionage to the plot (is Elektra a badguy or not?).  And the revenge factor, with M's personal vendetta made it very intriguing, given her line in Goldeneye to not make it personal.The teaser scene, as long as it was, was so packed with action that you actually forget that the credits haven't run yet, and that is just a prelude to the action to come.  For my money, this was the best pre-credit teaser in the entire Bond series.Sure Denise Richards is a stretch as a nuclear scientist, but you must remember that this is the Bond universe, where women in powerful positions actually look this good.  Sophie Marceau was stunning as Elektra, and the other women gave us our fill of eye candy.And if this is Q's swan song, a solid replacement has been found.  Cleese and Llewellen have both said Q will be back, but at the age of 85, they had to prepare for the inevitable.  His departure was full of class.Overall a fantastic addition to the series.  I'd say one of the 5 best, but let it sink in first.  I'm likely to end up thinking  so regardless...  "},{"Title":"Great Film Except for Richards","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Truthfully, I wasn't expecting this movie to be as good as it was.  I was riveted on every scene, every word, every Pierce Brosnan close-up.  The plot flowed, made sense and wasn't choppy at all.  Robert Carlyle was amazing as Renard, and Sophie Marceau was just as wonderful as Elektra.  Pierce Brosnan is the ultimate Bond.  So sexy, so charming, so Bond. The only thing that I would've changed is the casting of Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones.  Richards is just not a good actress.  It was blatantly obvious by her wet white t-shirt in the submarine scene why she was cast in the part, though. I found her character dull, almost unimportant.  But the movie, for the most part, was very enjoyable and one I'll probably see again. The theme song, by Garbage, is also captivating.  It's been in my head all day.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"They Finally Got it!","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a die hard fan and analyst of the James Bond Series, I was a little anxious entering the theatre for TWINE.  Goldeneye was not a bad flick, but was hardly worthy of the 007 series.  Tomorrow Never Dies was better, but no better than anything that Roger Moore had done.  As a Bond purist, I expected nothing less than Connery-like greatness. I believe that Brosnan is the best selection for Bond, but in Goldeneye and TND, he was still getting accustomed to the part. I noticed during the precredit sequence that this was going to be a spectacular Bond film.  The always-action Bond that characterised Goldeneye and some of the Dalton films (of which I think very little) had been replaced by the suave, gentleman spy present in the previous episodes. Brosnan finally got the part down, and the writers have finally reverted to Old-School James Bond.  Aside from Brosnan, the rest of the cast is also perfect.  The assassin at the beginning, in the speedboat, is perfectly reminiscient of Fiona Volpe from Thunderball.  Sophie Marceau is definitely the best 'Bond girl' since Barbara Bach in The Spy who Loved Me.  Robert Carlyle is perfectly cast, though a mite underused.  Denise Richards isn't much for acting, but sure is fun to look at.  Even the new Moneypenny has the act down perfectly. This film can proudly stand in the halls of the Bond of the sixties.  It is a perfect combination of Thunderball and The Man with the Golden Gun, with a little bit of Goldfinger and The Spy Who Loved Me on the side. "},{"Title":"A wonderful catch for all Bond fans.","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Having just returned from viewing The World Is Not Enough (TWINE), I must say that it was a wonderful movie.  Pierce Brosnan looks as if he is comfortably settled in as James Bond, compared with his first appearance in Goldeneye.  In fact, the one fault I found with this movie was the casting of Dr. Christmas Jones, played by Denise Richards.  Richards proves herself to be more of a body than an actress in this film, as all of her lines are pathetic (yet carried off with perfect comedic timing, intended or not). In fact, her outfits reveal more about her figure than she ever reveals about her character and personality.  Perhaps the producers decided that in true Bond fashion there had to be a bimbo in distress for Bond to rescue if anything should go wrong.  Sophie Marceau is the complete opposite from Richards, however, as she steals the spotlight of the two Bond women in TWINE, acting brilliantly as Elektra King (a wealthy oil heiress Bond is assigned to protect).  Marceau offers a glimpse back to the days when the Bond women actually had some substance to them.Overall, TWINE is a very worthy installment in the Bond franchise, and a must-see.  With the classic films being released right now on VHS and DVD again, this truly is the season for Bond to take on the world's markets. Not that it will ever be enough. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The latest Bond movie presents an edgier and more vulnerable Bond, with our hero grunting and wincing when hurt, and more than willing to hold and avenge a grudge against those who try to fool him or Mother England.  The action and gadgetry is all there, and the story hangs together -- when the plot twists and turns, you'll believe (almost) all of it.  Still, there's a choppiness that keeps this from being a truly great movie, but lets face it, this is James Bond movie, not a top film of all time candidate.  For those who care, there is a little, but less than usual, of the famous Bond sexual entendre, and most of the women are easily the equal of the men, perhaps the first time that a Bond movie has been quite this egalitarian.  A 7-8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'll admit that after watching the disastrously lame Tomorrow Never Dies, and hearing the same list of responsible parties on tap to write and direct this next installment of the Bond series, I wasn't expecting much.  But as it drew closer to release, the previews looked decent, so I decided I'd probably go see it anyway.  Also, I was pressured by a total Bond freak friend of mine )  So we watched it on opening night.  Suffice it to say, it was a pleasant surprise.This movie wastes no time getting into the action (it takes roughly one minute for it to start, and goes on for about another 10 minutes, all this before the opening credits).  It holds this momentum quite well.  The story, unlike its predecessor TND, is at least quasi-believable and quite well done, and unravels in near-perfect fashion.  > It definitely competes with the quality of the early Bonds (although it would lose, it still would compete )  I won't spoil the plot this time around (like my review of TND did), because this time I don't have anything to complain about.  They did a pretty good job.There are a few lulls in the action, and the plot does seem to lose its way a little when it hits these points, but it recovers quickly.  Action fans won't be disappointed.  The stunts and action scenes are particularly good in this one.  The more dramatic scenes still hold onto enough coherence to keep things flowing (unlike TND, which I don't believe ever had a flow). But the focus is still on action, which isn't my favorite angle for a Bond film, but it works well here.Finally, we have a Bond worthy of the precedent set by Sean Connery.  In his third appearance as Bond, Pierce Brosnan performs extremely well and has finally settled into the role, giving an excellent delivery and performance. All the other acting is excellent as well, just as in the other two Brosnan Bond films (yes, even TND had good acting even with bad plot), although I do agree with several others here that Denise Richards seems to have been contrivedly thrown in merely to increase the film's T&A factor.  But at least she's fun to look at.  Excellent performances by everyone else. Monty Python veteran John Cleese has but a brief role in this film, but his few lines are absolutely hilarious.  I can't want to see more of him as the successor to Q, as this film hinted he would be entering this role.  And of course, all the MI6 usuals are right on target.  M sports a particularly crucial plot point in this film, and Judi Dench delivers it well.Also in a repeat command performance is composer David Arnold, who has fully surpassed the excellence of his previous Bond score to TND.  I bought the soundtrack immediately after watching the movie.  It is nothing less than perfection, featuring another excellent blend of orchestra and synth that we first heard on the TND soundtrack.  Only the vintage Bond scores from John Barry surpass this.  The opening score (co-written and performed by Garbage) is also very good, once again homaging back to the Bond themes of old.  No shortages in the music department for this film.All in all, I think the penance for Tomorrow Never Dies has been paid in full, if not overpaid.  This is definitely a good film that shouldn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a pretty good installment to the Bond series. It was much better than the last two Brosnan was in. Sophie Marceau was electrifying as Electra. What's with all the Denise Richard's bashing. I though she did okay with what she was given. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting great action scenes, a good villian , and James Bond as his usual self but I got so much more.  The action scenes were fantastic and inventive.  The acting was great especially by Sophie Marceau. The World is Not Enough ranks up there with Goldfinger and From Russia with love. 4 1/2* out of 5* "},{"Title":"One of the better Bond films","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better Bond films and certainly the best with Pierce Brosnan in the lead.  The plot, typically, is secondary to the action. Sophie Marceau plays a delicious villainous but Denise Richards, however beautiful, won't win any acting awards. The one low point of the film perhaps is her scenes.  Nevertheless, the rest of the cast, including a short cameo by John Cleese add up to make this a very enjoyable film for Bond fans everywhere. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!!!!!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best Bond movie ever! Great villain, great Bond, great women characters and action, adventure, romance and  humor! Loved it. Pierce is wonderful as James Bond as usual.I enjoyed it so much that I wanted to see it again - immediately. Unfortunately time did not allow that but I will be going back to see it again. Those 128 minutes flew by and what a great beginning - a stunning movie. This is what Bond should be. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Brosnan IS Bond","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  America was in need of a great actioner (since many didn't turn out to see The Messenger, which is my 2nd favorite movie, I might add) and they got what they were looking for. GoldenEye and License To Kill were my two favorite Bond movies, with Brosnan still my favorite Bond (scream all you want, Connery wasn't this good). I thought Tomorrow Never Dies fell short, in both villain and action scenes (except for that car chase, which they could've loaned to GoldenEye and made it perfect).I see many similarities in TWINE that were in GoldenEye, i.e. Valentin, a female weapons specialist, a female bad guy, etc. And I'm not sure which one was better. Martin Campbell has more style, but Apt knows how to do better action scenes. And then there's the villain. 006 had a person agenda with Bond, Reinard had a cool character twist (I sent 009 to kill Rienard-- he put a bullet in his head-- the bullet's still there) and then there's Elektra, toying with Bond's emotions, giving that innocent bright piercing-sweet smile. Who could kill her after she flashes you one of those?The only thing I found wrong was Q's sudden disappearance from the film, and the title. I originally liked Pressure Point, given the extend of Bond's injury. But in the end, this was a great action film-- a tie for the Best Bond yet. "},{"Title":"The best of the best...","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough is the 19th installment in the longest running series in history, and the fact of the matter is that this movie may have followed the Bond formula better than any movie since The Spy Who Loved Me.  Pierce Brosnan looks surely comfortable in his role as Bond and the acting has notched it up under the direction of Michael Apted.  The action sequences in this one were paced and came at all the right times.  Much time and effort was obviously put into creating some of the most outstanding Bond action sequences I have ever seen.  The cast consisted of more than just the protagonist and the antagonist, too.  It contained many vital characters which all affected the outcome of the movie.  Ah, and this had to of been the most engrossing Bond plot I have ever watched on screen.  Strings were pulled and discoveries were made throughout the movie.  Everything went right in this one, and I believe that Brosnan has just came very close to what Connery had accomplished.  I waited a dreary eight months to see this movie, ever since I heard of it's release date and title name.  This movie paid it all off.  Outstanding action, acting, and Bond elements that did, and always will, make the best Bond movies.  This is something only true Bond fans can tell, and I can tell it very clearly in this one.  The only thing I was disappointed to see is Q's mysterious leave in this movie.  Could this be the end of old Q?  He has been with Bond since the beginning, and it would be devastating to see him leave.  Lets hope he'll hang in there.  Bond has came through with a vengeance for the millennium year 2000, and I give it a big, very enthusiastic, 007 out of 007.   "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films ever!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Filled with mindboggling plot twists, insane action sequences and the most sexy scenes and innuendo in a Bond film ever The World Is Not Enough comes out as one of the best Bond Films of all time. The Bond girls are both extremely gorgeous and are superb actors. The villain, Robert Carlyle, Is insanely creepy and threatening. Don't be fooled by the slow paced opening shots, it gets realllllly intense quick. In fact, the best boat chase ever filmed will come after a little dialogue. Brosnan is at his best in The World Is Not Enough, rivaling his great performance in Goldeneye (one of my favorite Bond movies as well). John Cleese is hilarious as R, Q's new replacement sadly. But don't fret yet, Q does appear and has some great scenes. And former Bond enemy Valentine Sokovsky returns and steals the show when he's on screen. Rush to the theaters right away, because it's the only way to experience a Bond film so immense as this. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly plotted.","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie gave me a hope that the Bond series wasn't over.  Tomorrow Never Dies, as everyone knows, was a spoof.  The World Is Not Enough proved that even without Albert Broccoli the job can still get done.  For those who own the whole collection of Bond movies, this one is for sure to be ranked up as an instant classic.  Goldeneye was a classic and now this, TWINE.  Pierce Brosnan along with the rest of the cast, acted their parts  extremely well, and made the movie, original, witty, and classically,'Bond'.   "},{"Title":"I really don't understand all the hate?","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After GoldenEye came Tomorrow Never Dies, and after Tomorrow Never Dies came The World is not Enough! Now GoldenEye was and still is a masterpiece, and Tomorrow Never Dies was not as good, but slightly more entertaining in a way! So is The World is not Enough better than it's predecessor's? Short answer... No. However I still found this movie to be very entertaining and engaging! I liked it very much actually, and I still do! I hear a lot of complaining concerning that this film is bland, slow and boring. To comment on these three complaints this film has got exactly what the other Bond films had. Cool action sequences, beautiful Bond babes, over the top gadgets, memorable villains and sharp humor. How can that result in this movie being called bland and boring? It's a Bond movie for Christs sake?! It is slow at times, but the plot is so actually interesting and engaging that is actually suits the movie best. This may sound a bit dumb, but i'm not gonna pretend that I understands what going on in the long opening sequence. I'm just gonna say that it contains assassinations, explosions, a boat chase, plot and talking!I actually thought Michael Apted did a decent job with the direction in this movie! Seemed as though he was committed to the project! The sound and cinematography is also very well done!Pierce Brosnan is James Bond once again! I've always liked Pierce in the role as Bond and I still do when I watch this film. However is seems like sometimes he is a bit bored, but that's probably just me. Sophie Marceau as Elektra King is very interesting! The audience is let along to believe that she is the main Bond babe, but really she is the main villain! An interesting little plot twist, that Die Another Day sure as hell duplicated! Other than that Marceau is a beautiful woman, a wonderful actress and has very good charisma! She is one of the best things about this movie! When I was a little kid I always thought that Robert Carlyle as Victor Renard Zokas was scary as hell! I saw him as the most challenging villain for Pierce Brosnan's bond at least! My point is that I still like his acting and I still think he is a memorable Bond villain/henchman. Denise Richards as Christmas Jones sucks. She is gorgeous, but her acting is bad, her character is boring and unlike to Marceau she has no chemistry with Brosnan. Judi Dench as M is still good and Robbie Coltrane makes a return appearance as Valentin Zukovsky. However the thing I want to talk most about here is Desmond Llewelyn with his final appearance as Q. After 17 Bond films... One of the best things about this movie is the scene where we last see Q! Always brings a tear to my eye. Q was and will always be the first and best Q ever! Most people won't agree with my review, but you know what... Right now, I've got no better things to do, than to share my thoughts on this film. If you're a hardcore Bond-fan like me, then watch it. You'll either love it, or think it's a decent Bond film (I don't think you'll love it, however). I think it's a decent Bond film, and a worthy entry to the series.7/10 "}{"Title":"Heartfelt Bond movie","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's nice to revisit this end of the millennium spectacular blockbuster made in an age when actual humor, chemistry among cast and romance in movies weren't as maligned as they are today and were actually appreciated.After complaints of how formulaic the franchise had become and the less than impressive reception of Tomorrow never dies, the Bond franchise once again ran the risk of remaining stuck in the past and to look plain ridiculous at a time when movies like the Matrix, the Sixth Sense and the Blair Witch Project explored new ground and wowed audiences all over the world, a deeper Bond movie seemed demanded.The fascinatingly titled The World is not Enough expands on the Bond formula. It's amazing to see action taking place in London for a change and see M -How dared they waste such a class act like Judi Dench in Goldeneye and Tomorrow never dies- Q and the rest of MI6 being more involved not only for the sake of it, like it could have easily been done but actually play an integral part of a convincing story which can be felt wasn't just pulled up someone's ass but actually was worked on and taken time with for it is congruent and pays great attention to detail. The film is further enhanced by exotic, beautiful locations and a mesmerizing score. It's had such an impact, and raised the bar to such heights that M has played a consistently big role in every Bond movie since.This film requires several viewings to comprehend and appreciate. I could write the many reasons why this film is underrated but it's best when discovered personally for it is a really moving experience. Sophie Marceau and Robert Carlyle are mesmerizing. Pierce Brosnan is effortlessly flawless and smoothly effective and is given the chance to show Bond's vulnerable side which he does perfectly and subtly. Robbie Coltrane, Goldie, Samantha Bond and Q provide great comic relief and Denise Richards is just there as eye candy and appears way late in the movie so I personally did not mind her, Pierce Brosnan seems to have guided her and prevented her from being an even bigger disaster. The writers only fault was not expanding her character or even helping poor Denise for she was given cringe inducing dialogue and by far the worst lines in the movie. I honestly believe she could have pulled it off if she had been older.This was a risky and thought provoking bond movie not the bland Casino Royale. "},{"Title":"Two steps forward, one step back...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Peirce Brosnan had made great 007 strides in his two preceding works, but stutter stepped in this soft shoe Bond echoing back to Connery's 'You Only Live Twice' and Moore's 'Moonraker'. And yes, there are worse Bond films than those.The film seemed a little too hard pressed and little too rushed to set it all up. Brosnan played a fine 007, and he was set up with a great cast(Denise Richards makes for excellent Bond Girl fodder, but not as a nuclear physicist), but the story just didn't hold together. Even cool points such as Q's replacement, Zukovski's return and the echo back to 'Univeral Exports' just weren't enough to lift the story in softer places.The disappointment of the Brosnan era, it's still not as bad as 'Man with the Golden Gun' or 'Diamonds are Forever'... so grab the popcorn, and yes, bathroom breaks are allowed. "},{"Title":"Great James bond 007 movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This another great James bond 007 movie and for all the same reasons it has lots of action in it and it has a good screen play for it and pierce brosnan once again does a great James bond 007 the acting in it is good and the actors in it are good and the villains in it are good. I'm sure you will not be disappointed with the world is not enough. I'm sure you will have a good time watching it and you will watch it over and over again. This is a great James bond 007 movie. So make sure that you buy or rent the world is not enough because it is really good.Overall score ******** out of ********** ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Interesting Degrees of Pain in This Bond Film","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough is the 19th entry in the Bond series, with Pierce Brosnan once again as Bond.As the film opens, Bond was on a mission to retrieve a briefcase from a Swiss banker. He's attacked, but not before trying to get some information from one guy, who is killed before he could reveal anything. Returning to MI-6 headquarters, he gives the briefcase to Sir. Robert King, an old friend of M's (Judi Dench). But, unknown to anyone, the money contains a bomb that blows up a nice chunk of the headquarters and kills King. Bond goes after the assassin (Who was actually in the office with the Swiss banker)in an incredibly cool boat chase through the Thames, and into a hot air balloon. During the chase, the assassin kills herself rather than be captured because Bond would not be able to protect her from him. It is during this that Bond injures his shoulder, and possibly pulling him off duty.At the funeral of King, Bond sees his daughter, Electra (Sophie Marceau). We soon find out that the money that blew up King was the ransom to save Electra from a terrorist known as Renard (Robert Carlyle). Bond also finds out that M encouraged King to use his daughter as bait to flush out Renard. Electra was saved and Renard was shot in the head. The shot did not kill him, but it has created an interesting condition he cannot feel any physical pain whatsoever (Although the bullet will eventually kill him as it travels through his head). Thinking that Renard will go after Electra, Bond is ordered to protect her, especially since her late father's oil lines, which she now owns, are being blown up in Azerbaijan. Soon he uncovers a plot in which Renard plans to blow up the King pipelines with a nuclear submarine.In this film, you see many degrees of pain Bond has to contend with an injured shoulder (which could lead to permanent damage), and guilt The guilt over what happened with Sir R. King and what he eventually does to Electra when we find out that she was working with Renard all the time (And what she did to her ear? Yech!). Meanwhile, Renard feels no pain at all (He holds a hot coal with no reaction), but the pain he feels when he loses Electra is a little heartbreaking (After all, he is going to kill thousands of people, including himself, for her). Yet who is better off? One who feels no pain, or one who does? A few more points on the film This was the last appearance of Desmond Llewelyn as Q (He soon died after this film's release), and the first appearance of John Cleese as his replacement (Does this make him R?). Plus, it's nice to see Dench as a flawed M. And I sort of had a hard time believing Denise Richards (As Christmas Jones)as a Nuclear Physicist. "},{"Title":"Promising, but&#133;","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A good plot, as far as Bond films go, and I do think Pierce is thebest Bond since Sean, but&#133; the action (violence) gets downrightcorny and overdone, which I assume is what sells today. LetBond's charisma and the plot carry the film and leave the specialeffects more in the background &#150; perhaps it will then seem morelike a movie and less like an Xbox game. Some of the stuntswere&#133; well, damn silly!  I guess I expected more from the series at this point. Can't theyhire a decent writer for these films anymore? "},{"Title":"Great movie, but just an average 'Bond Movie'","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie is really 'not enough' as a Bond flick. I had dismissed it at first, when I saw it two years ago, but after watching the 20th Bond Movie, Die Another Day, I saw it in a new light.The 19th installment of the Bond genre deviated from the Bond theme in a few key respects. They may not offend the casual movie goer, but could pull a few nerves of the dedicated Bond fan. I must stress here that this is an excellent and absolutely incredible film... just not better than an 'average' Bond movie.M is directly involved. M is supposed to be impartial in all matters. M is supposed to be the decision maker and a good one at that. And 007 never really undermines M. Even when his own judgenment call defies that of M, he silently absorbs M's decision.And Bond is always assigned to save the world. Although he ends up doing just that, his initial assignment is to 'protect Ms. King'. Unacceptable.And a nuclear physicist of Denise Richard's youth, figure, bad acting and animation...please!Brosnan gives a good performance, and I rate him the second best Bond, second only to Connery. And don't give me that cra* about You people prefer Connery cuz you saw him in your teens and stuff. I'm 22, and though I find Brosnan's movies to be better due to better VFX and better acting by supporting cast, I maintain that Connery was the best. Hell, He IS Bond. You just have to time orient yourself before you watch his movies and allow for the lack of VFX and all. He IS the best. Brosnan comes close. And personally, I think his best Bond movie was Tomorrow Never DiesGetting back on track, on the whole, The World Is Not Enough is pretty good.Sophie Marceau gives a wonderful performance, the Bond dialogs still has it's charm, Brosnan gives his share of good acting, and that always helps. Desmond Llewelyn's (Q) final performance went without a hitch, as it usually does. The title sequence is spellbinding. The story base is good. Robert Carlisle easily bags the credit for a magnificent portrayal of the villain, although I confess that the underlying theme behind the villain, Renard is too far fetched for words.. A living corpse with the slowest moving bullet in the world, killing off all senses in his body before ultimately completing the execution in a span of a couple of years!!! Really? Utter nonsense... But you know what? I love it. And topped with interesting gadgets, fitting punchlines, tolerable puns, and good direction moves it up to be an average Bond movie.And don't let's forget the theme music from garbage... And the animation during the title sequences were spectacular. Certainly the best to date. Compare with the non traditional opening credits of Die Another Day, and the myth that the opening credits sequence gets better with each Bond movie, gets shattered.Hoping for better Bond movies, I remainJoy, Hamish Joy "},{"Title":"high aim, hard fall (spoiler warning)","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the James Bond films, The World Is Not Enough reaches the farthest toward genuine character exposition, particularly for a villainous character. Regardless of whether this goal is appropriate to a movie series that strives primarily for fun, it's a solid attempt to provide dramatic weight for more adult, discerning fans. Despite such aims, however, the movie ultimately bogs down in several flaws implausible action, a poorly drawn heroine character, a bid to give high-caliber actors more screen time, and an unsettling exploration of dark minds. In short, the movie's not as good as the producers tried to make it.Implausible action occurs in several places. On the ski slopes of the Caucasus mountains, para-ski vehicles fly precisely and elegantly until, foolishly and implausibly, they fly into a forest. In a missile silo, Bond stays just in front of (or just within) perfectly timed and choreographed explosions. A factory is destroyed by tree-trimming helicopters whose saw blades cut precisely along the exact center of objects in their way. A fight aboard a submarine is a chaotic jumble of silly technical contrivances.More importantly, there is a drastic difference between the character development of Christmas Jones and that of Renard, M, and Elektra King. All three of the latter roles are played by excellent performers, and the producers commendably tried to give them more meaningful screen time than would normally be the case in a Bond film. This is not successful because it is at odds with (but unfolds within) the pervasive, core Bond formula Bond, the central character, will triumph with a heroine by his side. The Christmas Jones part would have to be far better written to match the depth of the other three characters, and Denise Richards, game and spunky though she is, does not transcend her character's thin dimension or lame dialogue. The viewer is simply less involved with her than with Renard or Elektra. It's possible that the Christmas Jones part was written as an afterthought.Boatloads of villainous character are on display in The World Is Not Enough, but darkness is not the same as depth. The twisted psychology at work is erratic and unconvincing. The moment when M receives a perverse gift is so jarringly inappropriate that it's uncomfortable to watch. And the idea that two kindred spirits, equally sociopathic as they may be, could form a loving, tender alliance to commit mass murder is more creepy than over the top. All told, the movie means well but falls fairly hard, proving how difficult it is to pull off a Bond movie that is fun and exciting, with a successful balance of fantasy and realism.  "},{"Title":"Not exactly my favorite Bond-movie...","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond film commits the greatest sin ANY movie can commit It's boring. Yep, the boat chase is a nice start, but after that it goes downwards... lot's of talking, very little action. You know, I can forgive the casting of Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist (Now, can I suspend my disbelief, or what ?!? ) ), 'cause she's really easy on the eyes. What I can not forgive is that Robert Carlyle's villain is badly underused. If you've got such a rally cool bad guy like Renard with lots and lots of interesting possibilities, and then you really do nothing with him, that's just a shame. The showdown is just lame, too. However, Brosnan's fine as Bond, it's just the movie around him that sucks. Final pun is atrocious, too... Bond Rating *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The Latest James Bond film is a good one!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough is a good Bond film as it has lots of action like it prequels.The villain(s) are good this time around. Pierce Brosnan is good as always Bond, James Bond and Samantha Bond as Moneypenny was good.All James Bond fans should like this one.Die Another Day should be another great Bond film when it arrives in  theatres November 22nd, 2002.NotesThe theme song is a great one by Garbage. I love it when she says The World Is Not Enough.Its just perfect for a 007 film!The video features a special look at Desmond Llewelyn as the James Bond 007 character Q. It is a sad feature indeed. "},{"Title":"Best Pierce Brosnan Film","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  IMHO this is the best bond film of the Brosnan Era, Sophie Marceau Was Fantastique..... The only problem with this film is the role of Dr. Christmas Jones should of been protrayed by a more competent actor then Denise Richards.    "}{"Title":"No plot, but still good","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  well, I can't say much for the plot of this movie, but I still think it was a good movie. I never found myself much of a Bond fan probably because I just didn't like the idea of Bond, but I still liked this movie. James Bond becomes the body guard of Elektra King, who is like the leader of Azerbaijain (my favorite country name) after she is kidnapped and her father gets killed. Should this movie have had no SFX or no Denise Richards, it would have been a hopeless flop. However, it did have lots of acting and SFX. Lots of guns, explosions, and whatnot. And, of course, it had Denise Richards.Denise Richards is the perfect woman, I believe. Look out for the wet shirt sequence because it's one to remember.This movie is a good one to see but you needn't worry about missing something with the plot. If you find that the plot seems to be useless then don't worry, you aren't missing anything. That's just the way it is. Just sit back, relax, and enjoy the wet shirt scene. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a shame.  Bond is left as nothing more than a set piece--everything that made him Bond seems to have been left out of this hollow and dull film.Brosnan is good and does what he can with the role, but there's not much there.  The script is plodding and transparent, Robert Carlyle is wasted, and the whole mess has gotten an unhealthy dose of stupidity.  The redeeming qualities are Judi Dench, John Cleese, and a terrific performance from the other Bond girl. "},{"Title":"The best bond in a long time","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've grown up with the James Bond series.  My brothers were always watching them when I was as young as 5 (now 18) and thanks to that, it made me become a fan just like them.  My favorites are The Spy Who Loved Me, For Your Eyes Only, On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Goldfinger, and Licence to Kill.  The World Is Not Enough will most likely be up there on possibly one of the best bonds, easily on the top 7.As we all know, Sean Connery is the best Bond.  He set the standard, said the one-liners first, got the women first, got the gadgets first, did the stunts first, etc.  Following him were George Lazenby (honestly not that bad, but far from Connery), Roger Moore (much different from Connery, but one of the best), Timothy Dalton (didn't have the looks but definatly had the role down cold), and now Pierce Brosnan.  After seeing Goldeneye I figured damn, he really does looks like Bond.  Then Tomorrow Never Dies he was more comfortable with the role but of course, the film lacked in many ways.  But after The World Is Not Enough, he not only has the part down perfectly but he's the best Bond since Connery.The way I look at it every Bond film is truly a good film.  Some lack quite a bit like Moonraker or A View To A Kill where as they either get to corny or try to do to much.  You always are thrilled when you are watching the Bond films, however.  But From Russia With Love and On Her Majesty's Secret Service had very suspenseful plots that added the tension that was needed to make them great Bond films.  This tension lies in The World Is Not Enough thanks to a strong plot and stronger acting.  The ones I liked best were for there own reasons.  On Her Majesty's Secret Service because it was very suspenseful and dramatic ending.  For Your Eyes Only because it had the best action sequences of the series.  The World Is Not Enough has both these aspects that make an excellent Bond film.  It's sad to see Q leave, but it's great to see that Bond is back on track. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Third Bond is His Best","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough (1999) *** (out of 4) Pierce Brosnan's third appearance as James Bond is the best to date as he's put in charge of protecting an oil heiress (Sophie Marceau) who is wanted by a terrorist (Robert Carlyle) who feels no pain. Soon Bond realizes that the terrorist is actually after a nuclear weapon for the sake of owning all the oil in the world. THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH features a lot of very good stunts that you've come to expect in a Bond picture but I think even better is how serious the material is handled by director Michael Apted. There's no doubt that Bond still has that cool nature but this film takes it a step further and also builds a very entertaining story that doesn't contain any pulp material. Instead of just coolness, the story actually builds up some pretty nice tension as we slowly figure out what's going on with this terrorist and who's actually helping him. I think some of the best moments happen during the finale as Bond finds himself on a sub trying to stop the nuclear attack from happening. I won't spoil anything but there's some real excitement here and some great nail-biting action. Another major plus is that Brosnan is extremely effective as Bond. Yes, he was born to play the part but I think his performance here ranks among the very best of the entire series. I won't spoil everything Marceau does in the film but lets just say she plays everything perfectly and is quite memorable. Carlyle is also good in his part but it's a shame he didn't get more screen time. Denise Richards plays a scientist and while she's not believable in the part, she at least looks good in it. THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH features an excellent opening stunt, a terrific one with skis and the before mention climax. This here is certainly entertainment at its finest. "},{"Title":"Better than Tomorrow Never Dies but still pretty weak","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, the Bond franchise coasts on Pierce Brosnan's ability to play Bond as opposed to giving him a good storyline.Bond is out to avenge another friend's death and protect that friend's daughter, unaware of the huge plot he's getting mixed up in. Sophie Marceau is a good bad girl out to control the world's oil and it's easy to believe that she could tear Denise Richards apart. Denise just doesn't fit in with the Bond girl crowd, you know?Ironically Serena Scott-Thomas, Kristen Scott-Thomas' red haired little sister, who has a cameo here as a doctor, shows much more class and finesse that a Bond girl should have and would have made a much better on screen Bond girl companion for Pierce Brosnan. Alas, we must settle for the skirt the issue scene where Bond, though injured, is quite fit enough to seduce Serena first by removing her white lab coat, then by unzipping her navy blue skirt, pushing the skirt down and straightening out her light blue shirt only to pull the shirt up to reveal Serena's very naughty black panties, then unbuttoning her shirt and getting it off so we can get a look at her cleavage. Had the camera pulled back, we would have seen her 5'7 body in at least most of it's glory, but we'll have to settle for the individual close-ups of her derriere and her cleavage. Hard to believe Serena was 38 when she got cast for this.  "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Movie Ever","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was the worst bond movie i have ever seen.  I saw this movie in theaters and could not stand the cheesy lines and the boring dialogue. Plus the villain of this movie was completely stupid.  He did not seem very evil or intimidating at all.  He was just a guy who was of a small challenge just because he can't feel pain and is gonna die anyways.  This guy did not compare to any bond villain in any of their movies.  The only thing that was remotely good about this movie was the action.  And even that lacked. "},{"Title":"Revenge is not hard to fathom for a man who believes in nothing.","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not Enough is directed by Michael Apted and adapted to screenplay by Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and Bruce Feirstein, using characters created by Ian Fleming. Music is scored by David Arnold and cinematography by Adrian Biddle.Bond 19 and 007 is required to protect a female oil magnate from potential assassination, but it soon becomes apparent that something far bigger and sinister is around the corner.Pierce Brosnan returns for his third turn as super suave secret agent James Bond and all the crucial elements for the franchise are firmly in place. From the exhilarating pre-credit sequence down the river Thames (14 minutes worth) to the glorious over the top explosive finale, this is a Bond film for those that enjoy the cheeky action led mania over thought and depth. Into the Bondian mix are the usual stalwarts; Judi Dench as M, Samantha Bond as Moneypenny, Desmond Llewelyn as Q (bidding a sad farewell to the franchise with a poignant moment) and Robbie Coltrane joyously returns as Zukovsky. Bond girl duties fall to Sophie Marceau (beautiful and solid) and Denise Richards (sexy, elfin like, but out of her depth) and the psycho for hire role lands at the considerably fine feet of Robert Carlyle, even if the latter is badly underused.The World Is Not Enough (the Bond family motto) is a whizz bang entry in the series and finds Brosnan well settled in the role; nailing the multitude of traits that make Bond a man that women want to bed and a man that men want to be. Locales are lovely and interesting (Turkey, France, Spain, Azerbaijan), the plot carries some intelligence (with a decent mystery element for a change), characterisations are high end and Arnold's score is a safe accompaniment; as is the title song by Garbage. It is, however, all too aware of wanting to appease Bond fans across the spectrum. Thus the comedy moments come off as saggy and the more scientific aspects (as gloriously ridiculous as they are) feel more like auto-pilot plotting. Still, you get what you pay for with 90s Bond, and the action sequences are terrific. After the mixed Tomorrow Never Dies the makers were clearly intent on taking the fans on a ripper of a ride, and no doubt about it, they achieve that in spades; with the two hour running time just flying by.Eon of course would take things one step too far three years later with the nadir that was Die Another Day, thus making this the last good Bond film before Daniel Craig's fabulous re-invention arrived in 2006. 7/10 "},{"Title":"This World is Quite Enough for Anyone Who Remembers What Bond Used To Be","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough (1999) is an impressive film mired in problematic story telling &#150; at least insofar as a Bond film goes. Rules are rules, and the rules of a Bond film say that the villain will always be male, that the Bond girl will usually be scantily clad, and that James Bond is the hero of the day. What occurs in this film then is a subversion of these time honored elements that have made the series such a huge success. Bond (Pierce Brosnon) is not the elevated hero, but a hapless accomplice to the diabolical machinations of Elektra King (Sophie Marceau). Seems several years earlier, Elektra was kidnapped by a rogue nationalist, Renard (Robert Carlyle). During that tenure, Elektra developed a romantic yen for her captor.The first half of the story is riddled with interesting vignettes and exciting chase sequences that hark back to the very best in Bond tradition. But the latter half &#150; in which the full wrath of Elektra is exposed - plays more like a melodrama steeped in elements of the Greek revenge tragedy. Through it all, Bond seems to be along for the ride. He is first made Elektra's complicit dupe, then the second string guy on the side to savvy Bond girl, Christmas Jones (Denise Richards), who always seems to know more about what's going on than Bond does, and finally; made the victim of torture by Elektra. Michael Apted's direction keeps the pace fast moving, perhaps enough to make one forget what a Bond film really should be. The chase sequences, to be sure, are visceral, but lack any memorable moments to place them among the best in the Bond canon. The absence of any scantily clad Bondian vixens throughout this excursion is sadly missed.The MGM/UA anamorphic widescreen DVD is absolutely stunning. Fidelity and color saturation is absolutely first rate with solid blacks, pristine whites and excellent rendering of fine details, even during the darkest scenes. There is an absence of film grain and digital grit for a presentation that is smooth on the eyes. Sonically, this Bond flick packs a wallop with lots of directional effects and explosions to rattle your bass. The one shortcoming this DVD has is its sudden lack of extra features. An all too brief making of, audio commentary and theatrical trailer is all we get. "},{"Title":"Superb performances and high quality production make up for a slightly lack lustre plot","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first fifteen minutes, the excellent pre credits sequence in Spain and especially in London (the only useful thing the Millennium Dome has ever done!!) are probably the best ever of the Bond series, coupled with strong performances as ever from Pierce Brosnan and Sophie Marceau and this really should have been a winner.Desmond Llewlyn's farewell appearance as Q was especially poignant I felt and it is clear from his brief appearance that John Cleese as his successor (although he could never really totally replace Desmond of course) is as Bond himself &#145;Highly suited for the job'.But there are weak points, the plot is a bit flimsy, Robert Carlyle is so so as the main villain and there is the usual host of background heavies, few of which really much of an impact except when the hit the floor.The worst points however are Denise Richards as Dr Christmas Jones (if she is a Nuclear Physicist, I'm Arnold Palmer) who seems to deliver her lines AT THE TOP OF HER VOICE for no readily apparent reason as well as frequently stating the very very obvious on a number of occasions.  Indeed most of the time she just struts around and pretty much lets her breasts do the acting &#150; well it is a Bond film I suppose.Also badly done is the editing of the climatic submarine reactor sequence &#150; we seem to jump from having to do something to the reactor to stop it blowing to evacuating the sub without actually having done anything.  It is so badly cut and chopped in this bit that it jars badly.Thankfully all of this can be overlooked with the excellent high production values and David Arnold's magnificent haunting soundtrack which has now moved on from his wonderfully very much Barry-esque style in Tomorrow Never Dies to a more distinctive style of his own.So with this high note in the Bond series (although in my opinion not quite as good as Tomorrow Never Dies and Goldeneye) what the hell went wrong with the next instalment Die Another Day?  "},{"Title":"A darker, more emotional Bond","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not EnoughIt would seem that rather than slowly fading away over time, James Bond films only continued to improve in film-making quality and sheer entertainment value as time passed. The World is not Enough, the last Bond movie of the 90s certainly seemed to prove this point, being arguably one of the strongest installments of the franchise ever made. Director Michael Apted proves to be an inspired choice, as he brings out a darker, more emotional side to Bond while still maintaining the light hearted, underlyingly comical feel of the series... not an easy feat to balance the two, but Apted pulls it off with considerable skill and ease. Despite some story elements seeming like they should be too overtly fantastical (a villain impervious to pain) instead don't seem unbelievable at all, and only serve to give the story an added edge. The World is Not Enough also serves as much more of a thinker than the gratuitous action feel of the franchise, with more difficult ethical dilemmas, not to mention elements such as personality disorder Stalkholm syndrome for viewers to mull over. The notion that Bond is less of a superhero and more of a real man, with actual difficult decisions to make and real emotional consequences to suffer comes into play much more prominently than in any other 007 film, for which Apted and screenwriters Neil Purvis, Robert Wade and Bruce Feirstein should be commended for, as well as turning out one of the absolute best Bond scripts to date. Do not be deceived into thinking that the film suffers in the action department due to the more serious, emotional storyline - fear not, this is still, after all, a James Bond movie, so there are still explosions, gunfights, chases and romance aplenty. Apted has also shown his stripes as a superior action film director with such memorable setpieces as attack on a caviar factory by helicopters with giant sawblades dangling from them, a huge confrontation aboard a nuclear submarine, and an explosive ski chase down snowy mountainsides - more than enough to keep the most action sated viewer well entertained for their 2 hours. On the whole, The World is Not Enough also sports one of the most impressive rounds of acting ever seen in a James Bond movie. Brosnan gives arguably his finest performance as Bond here, and it shows well that rather than coasting along on the role, each performance he has been discovering new aspects to the character, and adding to it to improve his performance. His Bond is much less cavalier and more serious and realistic here, with more of a ruthless cruel streak than usual - an excellent performance for which he deserves far more credit than he is bound to be granted. Sophie Marceau also proves to be easily the most complex and intriguing Bond girl to date with her exquisite performance as Elektra King, the troubled daughter and heiress to an extensive oil pipeline. Robert Carlyle is also one of the most menacing and memorable villains of the Bond movies, and in recent action movies at all. His Renard is not merely a homicidal terrorist, but also a fractured and seriously disturbed and reflective man, balancing the menacing overtones with a philosophical streak, making him a truly compelling villain. The film also builds a much larger character for M, Bond's boss, and it gives Dame Judi Dench to show what an incredibly fine actress she is - her normally hard as rocks demeanor is shattered by wonderfully portrayed feelings of uncertainty and guilt, and Dench brings M to life with a passion never before seen. It's also great to see Scottish actor Robbie Coltrane reprise his Russian mobster character Valentin Zukovsky, and he gives yet another wonderful performance in the role, this time under the pretense of being a legitimate businessman. It is also unbearably tragic to see Desmond Llewelyn give his final performance as gadget guru Q, but his last time inhabiting the role proves to be one of his best performances on record, and John Cleese enters the scene in a brief cameo as Q's second in command, and proves to be a fine replacement for the beloved gadgetmaster. There is, in fact, only one real weakness to the film, and she answers to the name Denise Richards. While Richards may easily look the part of a Bond girl, however hard she tries, the poor woman simply cannot demonstrate acting talent anywhere close to matching her looks. At best she seemed to be reading her lines in a monotone off cue cards, sticking out embarrassingly in an otherwise incredibly quality film. Overall, the World is Not Enough is one of the strongest, and most complex Bond films to date, without sacrificing the entertainment value, which is there, strong as ever, as well as giving the viewer something genuine to think over... a rare feat for 007. For any Bond fans, or fans of well made, quality action movies with a little something more to think over, The World is Not Enough is one of the best films on the market - definitely worth a viewing.-9/10 "}{"Title":"Explosive excitement a bigger impact than Bond.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not being a 'died in the wool' 007 fan, I watched this movie as if it was not a James Bond movie. I found it interesting and fun to watch. Bond as a bodyguard; well, how dangerous can that be? And what beautiful rich girl does not have two faces? A few plot twists, rampant gun fire, loud explosions and...you know the formula for a Bond flick.Compared to other 007 movies Pierce Brosnan needs to work a little harder for total acceptance as Bond. Forget replacing Q and respect what he has done through out the years. And why Judi Dench as M? I just don't care for her. As a Bond movie, this one is only above par compared to the last two. As an action/suspense movie THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is pretty enjoyable and will keep you in your seat.Sophie Marceau, as the CEO with a secret agenda, is nice to look at and not mean enough to be a good villain. Robbie Coltrane turns in a very fine job. Serena Scott Thomas as Dr. Warmflesh is my physician of choice for a full complete physical! Robert Carlyle was menacing enough, but not memorable. Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones...'humina-humina-humina'! Criticize her all you want. But I really found her charming and sexy.Bond will be back and just maybe this his first step on his journey to match former glory. "},{"Title":"Each Bond movie seems to get worse","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I'm just getting older, but it seems like each Bond flick is getting worse than the last one.  I think they just add up the total tonnage of the explosives that they use, and if it's more than the last film they figure they've got a winner and go with it.  The plot lines are so thin that it is ridiculous and the characters are so super-human that there is no tension that harm could come to them.  I went with a group of 5 and not one person would rate this movie above '2'; one 30-something woman said she had a hard time staying awake except for the explosions.The new female 'M' (I think she has been in the last 2 movies) is about as convincing in the role as my grandmother would be. When the bad guys threatened to kill her I cheered hoping we might get a stronger actress.I sure would like to see a Bond flick that was actually a 'spy' movie rather than just a gadget/explosion exposition. How about some real suspense instead of invincible success?  "},{"Title":"Though Christmas may come only once a year for lesser men . . .","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" . . . Noel rolls around anytime James Bond whistles, as THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH illustrates. Though Agent 007's originator, novelist Ian Fleming, bit the dust before the third Bond flick--GOLDFINGER--hit America's big screens, JB has proved to have a life of his own. Other charter members (and those nearly so) of the close-knit Bond film family began dropping like flies around the time NOT ENOUGH--the 19th Eon Company spy flick--was released in 1999 (most notably, producer Albert Broccoli and gadget-man Q portrayer Desmond Llewelyn). However, their demise was NOT ENOUGH to derail the seemingly endless train of new Bond actors driving new Bond vehicles. Once again, America's paying film fans rewarded James for bedding a woman, then shooting her dead. (As Ray Rice found out this week, Blacks are afforded much less tolerance for much milder domestic violence incidents.) As always, 007 has a back-up girl waiting in the wings, so that the closing credits can go off with their customary bang. I think JB's offed at least one female per flick. When he's billed as every man's role model and every woman's dream, what does that say about us? "},{"Title":"Fun but forgettable Bond","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the opening scenes Bond recovers a quantity of money but when it is returned to tycoon Sir Robert King it explodes and kills him. Chief suspect is psychotic terrorist Renard; who had previously kidnapped King's daughter Elektra. She had managed to escape but Bond is convinced that she is still in danger. Having taken over her father's business, Elektra is in Azerbaijan when Bond catches up with her and it isn't long before an attempt is made on her life by attackers using para-gliders which bear the markings of a Russian security agency. A consultation with former KGB officer Valentin Zukovsky, previously seen in 'Goldeneye' leads him to an old Soviet missile site in Kazakhstan where weapons are being decommissioned. Here he finally meets Renard&#x85; before he can escape with a stolen warhead. He also meets up with scientist Dr Christmas Jones who joins Bond to hunt down the weapon before Renard can detonate it and engineer an oil crisis.This is a fairly average Bond film but even average Bond is quite entertaining. The story is obviously far-fetched but it is still entertaining and has a good twist part way thorough. As one would expect there is plenty of fairly spectacular action; the best being when the para-gliders attacked Bond and Elektra as they were skiing&#x85; Bond films do seem to like featuring great action scenes on the ski slopes! The pre-title boat chase is also pretty spectacular. Robert Carlyle was quite menacing as Renard although he is nowhere near as frightening as when he played Begby in 'Trainspotting'. By this, his third film as Bond, Pierce Brosnan is clearly comfortable in the role and does a decent job even if by this point in the series the character has become a bit of a caricature. Sophie Marceau makes Elektra an interesting and seductive character but I couldn't believe in Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist&#x85; this is largely the fault of the costume department&#x85; she may look great in a tight singlet and hotpants but she doesn't look like a nuclear expert! Overall this is a fun but ultimately forgettable Bond film; worth watching but by no means a classic. "},{"Title":"Running on some interesting ideas, but all too eager to submit to action genre tendencies; The World is Not Enough is frustratingly only really mildly diverting.","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 1999 James Bond franchise entry The World is Not Enough treads a fine line between espionage inspired pulp and dumb, guilty action flick. Its somewhat overwhelming narrative to do with double crosses, use of alias', terrorism, kidnap and estranged relationships is balanced somewhat effectively by director Michael Apted, who combines these elements with a number of action set pieces that aren't really interested in anything else but blowing something up. The film, a polished and reasonably well done thriller, sets this stall out from the very first frame when a break-neck exchange between the hero of the series and a Swiss banker transpires in the Spanish city of Bilbao. It sees the men banter furiously about something during the exchange of some money before having everything transpire into a punch-up-come-fight scene-plus-getaway.A similar mixture of dialogue, which plunges you head first into a confusing exchange all linked to a much bigger picture, plus chase infused action occurs again shortly afterwards when an unexpected explosion occurs at MI6 HQ and a boat chase down the River Thames occurs; a chase which submits to the desire to encompass not only the typical iconography of the water-side set The Houses of Parliment, Tower Bridge and The Millennium Dome; but even finds time to shoot off river to encompass a red bus. So very early on, the film sets out its stall; its desire to cater to a younger, more expectant crowd in terms of what it is they've come for as well as a more mature audience looking for narrative and character, two things Apted does well given the demands to incorporate into the two or so hours he's working within.The World is Not Enough sees Pierce Brosnan in his third of four outings as James Bond, the British spy of book and film fame, doing his usual globe trotting; women encountering & guns and gadgets utilising act. Bond's nemesis this time around is Renard (Carlyle), a nifty little villain who cannot feel pain and is a physical ticking time bomb of both rage and slow burning death, as a bullet lodged in his head slowly kills off his senses - although sight and sound are still incidentally prominent. An additional element arrives in the form of Elektra King (Marceau), the daughter of a very rich business tycoon whose industrial speciality is pumping oil through Western Asia. Elektra is recovering from a kidnap ordeal which she suffered at the hands of Renard. Without giving anything away, Marceau's ability to play two different sorts of roles is impressive.There's a lot more to the film's narrative than the previous entry, 1997's Tomorrow Never Dies, and that in turn aids in giving Bond a rougher, more hardened edge because of what transpires &#x96; something Brosnan puts across in an impressive manner as the screenplay compliments his aggression. Given this was the first Bond film produced after the release of Mike Myers' Bond spoof, the first Austin Powers film, I got the feeling the production team wanted to go for a little more than the prior entry's droll structure of episodic set pieces and Bond clichés, and they just about pull it off.This is most prominent when identifying the number of ideas the film actually has, none of which are sadly ever really fleshed out to a point of pure satisfaction. I think the fact that the item of oil acts as a means to get most of the characters to clash is somewhat interesting; as is the nature of the intimacy regarding two certain characters' relationship. Without giving too much away; two characters will engage in rather-a stripped down, borderline sado masochistic affair, in which self-harm and what one can truly 'feel' is the catalyst for its existence. The few scenes between the two that we are given evoke a sensual tone just as much as they evoke a violent, self-harm infused and jolting one; built on a prior record of captivity and mind-games between the two and further inflicted on the opposition. Let's be hounest, more scenes in which characters are lying on a four poster bed whilst running ice cubes down their body as thematic ideas of a sensual; sado-masochistic nature are played out is infinitely more interesting that flying snowmobiles crashing into trees and blowing up.But the film is not without faults; Denise Richards' female, scantily clad nuclear physician Christmas Jones is somewhat vile and acts solely as an obligatory love interest, nothing more &#x96; I acknowledge all of the criticism that's come before regarding it and agree. Looking at the film a number years on, it feels somewhat nostalgically stuck between the old guard and the newer guard, or what we've been getting in recent years. The elements of Judi Dench's female 'M' character and a physically scarred, sadistic villain are counter balanced with a colourful display of cinematography as well as some slapstick shenanigans in the form of the character of R (Cleese), Q branch's replacement for the character of Q (The long standing Desmond Llewelyn). Some ideas have been maintained, those of which were not present in decades ago entries, while others that bring to mind a more 'classical' image of a Bond movie have all but been banished in recent Daniel Craig additions. This is why The World is Not Enough feels stuck, not in a negative sense, wedged even; between two Bond aesthetics. Overall, however, it works. "},{"Title":"Enough Already!","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the 19th entry in the series and the third with Brosnan, the super agent becomes involved with an oil heiress and a super terrorist impervious to pain. Marceau and Carlyle as the sullen heiress and boring terrorist, respectively, are not only underwhelming as characters but the actors lack the star power these roles had in some earlier films. Richards is not terribly convincing as a nuclear scientist. While Tomorrow Never Dies was one of the better entries in the series, this followup is pretty ho-hum. Perhaps we have had enough of this series, as the filmmakers continue to recycle the same old formula. Sadly, Llewelyn's last appearance as Q. "},{"Title":"falls flat on its face","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A Bond movie which admirably aspires to insert the 'neo-noir' concept into the Bond genre and ultimately falls flat on its face thanks to an ultra-convoluted plot that is not as interesting as it sets out to be, an over-appliance of technological idiom that regularly leaves the audience baffled, and a couple of inadequate villains who provoke more pity than dread. Director Apted's technique of never deviating from the storyboards doesn't give the film enough air to 'breathe', often rendering it suffocatingly uninvolving. Consequently, the film gets its greater impact during the interactions between Bond-Elektra-Renard and sleepwalks through its action sequences. Brosnan, on the other hand, overdoes the smooth to not always good effect talking to ladies in the silky sexed-up voice is absolutely fine but talking to Q in that same manner is probably not such a good idea. As a whole, though not successful, this has to be respected for its ambitions and an admittedly spectacular pre-credits sequence. "},{"Title":"The Frigid Bond !","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My first Bond to attend in a theater. And not one of the best Bonds (or the best movies I attended in a theater !).Firstly I hated Brosnan ! I didn't experience an atom of acting, attractive presence or wittiness (he thinks that fixing his tie is a funny move??!). HE'S AS FRIGID AS A STATUE. So when Q advised him don't let them see you bleed I was shouting he doesn't have blood for god's sake !!. The interpretation of Bond as a sex and violence *machine* has never been more truthful ! With portraying the role 4 times, being one of the least interesting Bonds, Brosnan presented here his worst Bond performance !I hated, with the entire world, Denise Richards! She can't act, now she can't act or look slightly sexy too ! She used to be frigid, but to tell you the truth not that frigid ! I hated the goofiness that runs in this movie's veins. For instance HOW none of Elektra's henchmen, or Elektra herself, knew about the disappearing of the bomb's microchip ? Or HOW none of the workers in the nuclear factory knew about the most wanted international terrorist who works among them without any disguise (having one apparent bullet in the head) ?!! And I didn't understand, and I think nobody ever did, HOW Bond figured out that the briefcase of Elektra's father is going to explode??!! Actually the question must be how dumb the characters in a Bond movie, or the viewers in front of it, can be ?!I hated that Bond was the one who left the Russian nice assistance to be murdered; he gave up him, ran away with the girl, then had been caught ! (So he was cowered, with No manly ethics and yes, that clumsy to be caught as well !!), let alone how M's feelings caused the complexity of Elektra's kidnapping, or how M was so naive to be kidnapped (The dignity of the MI6 was never more insulted !). I hated the idiot BIG sequence when the evil guys send a helicopter, one that chops off trees, to kill Bond ; OK, you'd find situations like that in the franchise, but less provocative, because this round I was What The Hell?? They gonna chop off the house that Bond is in it, the whole harbor, then chop him??!!.. I think there are easier, faster and more secretive ways to kill the man ! This showiness killed the sequence already !By the way I didn't hate the climax, where Renard/the evil man puts in the large crankshaft of the nuclear rocket out of its activation duct then Bond puts it out, then Renard puts it in, then Bond puts it out again; as that was comically amusing like a Laurel & Hardy's routine ! But I hated the scene where Q got to leave for good. Not because the event itself, but for replacing him with totally uninteresting buffoon who would take off the importance of being the earnest Q in front of reckless 007. And also for Desmond Llewelyn's performance. He looked a bit tepid (the Brosnan effect? Maybe !) and his eyes didn't show was he sad? Or the opposite ? It seemed like he didn't act !I hated that the movie gives one historical intro then fails to give anything like it, or as huge, after. I hated that Sophie Marceau wasn't convincing enough (or sexy enough !). And ladies and gentlemen I hated the repetition of another usual Bond's last moment where he-has-a-girl in hot-position while his-superiors-watch-in-shock with wicked-punch-line always said-by-Q ! I know that Bond is formulaic and as much as the moment was catchy I felt that I've watched all of that before; now that's boringly formulaic ! So, what could be loved about this movie ? It's simple  the intro chase, the glasses that can see EVERYTHING !, couple of lines (one about Christmas Bond had!), the shot in which Robert Carlyle as Renard smiles before Bond Kills him (or out of the joy that someone will end his misery), Dived Arnold's imposing music (especially the memorable piece while the boat chase), and the title's song; it's certainly more effective than the movie itself.Add to that the surprise behind Elektra's character. Aside from being so unpredictable event it was the unprecedented step to finally turn the evil guy in a Bond movie into evil girl. Well, it was about time and in fashion too after M becoming a woman in (Golden Eye). 4 years later the killer machine at the Terminator series will become a woman in (Terminator 3). As you see women became more influential, evil, and metallic ! I didn't ask what Michael Apted is doing here ?! I kind of asked what the real action princes were doing away from it?!. It is only a special movie for the serious Apted, though I didn't feel anything special with the movie itself, so why to bring him in the first place ?!! He made a good movie, but averagely entertaining and without real funny feel (or intended seriousness !). When Bond, riding his advanced boat, bursts in a peaceful restaurant I imagined Connery, in a case like this, giving cynical magical smile, Dalton screaming go away, Moore stopping to taste a glass of wine then gives an opinion to continue the chase! Unfortunately, Brosnan disappoints any hope with severe features and silent eye ! This frigidness, which you feel that Brosnan intends it to be distinct among the other Bonds, separates between him and the funniness of the character on one side and the admiration of us on the other side. He makes the silly Bond real silly to say the least.Generally (The World Is Not Enough) got a face like Brosnan's; I hated that the most ! "},{"Title":"Good plot, nice action sequences but somewhat bored Brosnan","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion this film had the best plot for a Brosnan Bond film. It opens with an impressive pre-credits sequence which gets your adrenaline pumping. Bond wears his heart on his sleeve in this film as he has to deal with betrayal. Sophie Marceau looks stunning and plays the femme fatale. Denise Richards is unintentionally hilarious in the role of a nuclear physicist(!). The usual ingredients in every bond film are present here in equal measure. Unfortunately, Brosnan also appears to be visibly tiring of playing the same character in every film. This hurts the film but it remains quite watchable. Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Very Slick Bond Film","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The third installment of Brosnan as Bond is a very fine movie, with a good story with plenty of plot twists to keep one on one's toes. Brosnan is probably at his most comfortable as Bond in this picture.The story starts with the assassination of an oil executive who is close friends with M and others in MI6. Bond is assigned to protect the murder exec's daughter, Elektra (played by Sophie King). Elektra has already previously been the victim of a kidnap and ransom plot, held by the notorious international terrorist, Renard (played by Robert Carlysle). Renard is known for his inability to feel pain because of nervous damage from wounds he has received in his crimes.Bond must unravel the plot against Elektra, and in his work uncovers a nuclear plot to destroy a major oil line, which just happens to be owned by Elektra King. Bond gets assistance from several characters, including Valery Zukovsky (Robbie Coltrane- reprising his role as the ex-KGB agent from GoldenEye), and Dr. Christmas Jones (Denise Richards- in a stretch) as a CIA nuclear physicist. Richards is weak in her role and once again, the Bond movies go for boobs over brains in the least believable role in the movie. John Cleese is introduced as the new Q, taking over for Desmond Llewelyn (who is also in the movie).As stated, the story line is solid and the script is consistent, with some surprises that really make the story stand out. The espionage work is there along with the action and drama, really making this movie stand out for Brosnan. After GoldenEye, this is his best Bond movie. The only drawbacks are that the film is a little dry at times, the humor forced, and many performances range from poor to stilted (Richards, Carlyle, and even Marceau do not challenge as top supporting cast for a Bond Movie here). Also, there are a few too many scientific bits of misinformation-regarding nerve-damage and radiation that weaken the story a bit.The story and the work of Brosnan carry this from a potentially average to a very good film. Sadly, Brosnan seemed to alternate good Bond flicks (GoldenEye, The World is Not Enough), with bad ones (Tomorrow Never Dies, Die Another Day). "}{"Title":"A good third Bond film with Pierce Brosnan, even if it's not as good as his first","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This nineteenth official Bond film, Pierce Brosnan's third of four, and the last one before the turn of the millennium (yes, even taking into account that the beginning of this millennium was in 2001, not 2000, as the next Bond film was released in 2002), apparently got mixed reviews upon its release, but I think it's pretty good. Maybe not quite as good as Brosnan's first, GoldenEye, but a bit better than his second, Tomorrow Never Dies, and I may not have expected it to be any better than that one. It doesn't appear to be any more popular than its immediate predecessor, but my opinion still remains.In Bilbao, Spain, James Bond manages to retrieve money that belongs to oil tycoon Sir Robert King, and bring it back to the MI6 headquarters in London, England. However, this money turns out to be explosive, and as soon as King touches it, it detonates and kills him! After this, Bond is sent to protect King's daughter and heiress, Elektra, who is taking over her father's oil business. Renard is a man who is now living with a bullet in his head, and can no longer feel physical pain! He is responsible for the death of Sir Robert, and plans to have an oil pipeline destroyed! Bond is joined on the mission by Dr. Christmas Jones, an American nuclear physicist, and they must work together to foil Renard's plans, which happen to be more deadly than originally thought, and whose side is Elektra really on?! Without a doubt, this nineteenth installment in the official James Bond movie franchise has a very steady beginning, starting with 007's mission in Spain, and going from there to London, where Bond chases after an assassin following the explosion, which is very exciting and sometimes humorous as well. After the theme song, the film continues steadily, and includes another humorous scene with Q, where he talks about his retirement, and introduces his apprentice, played by well known funnyman John Cleese. After that, there's a suspenseful and memorable ski chase (even though this certainly wasn't the first time they included a ski chase in a Bond film). Despite all this, the film sometimes goes downhill a bit, and picks up again after a while. Other suspenseful highlights include the trip through the pipeline, and M learning the truth. For the most part, despite the stumbles, The World Is Not Enough is a thrilling romp with quite a bit of humour.After playing Q for decades, this film finally marked the end for Desmond Llewelyn in the role, and he sadly passed away soon after this film was released. Although he lived well into his eighties, he still died tragically in a road accident. He played Q in the vast majority of the Bond films made in the 20th century, through five different actors playing James Bond, and while he only appeared briefly in each film, his scenes tended to be humorous and memorable, so he is definitely not forgotten. Sean Connery and Roger Moore certainly didn't finish in the franchise as Bond with very good films, and neither did Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny, who started right at the beginning with Connery and went out with Moore, but I would say at least Llewelyn made his last appearance as Q in a decent movie. R.I.P. In conclusion, while The World Is Not Enough is one of the polarizing Bond films, I certainly can't say avoid it like the plague. "},{"Title":"A Good Bond Adventure","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the second time I had gone to the cinema to see a James Bond adventure, first when I was 9 when I went to see GOLDENEYE. That is a film I hold close to my heart, and its follow up that I had rented back in early 98 when it was released on VHS, TOMORROW NEVER DIES I had enjoyed very much. Though watching this film it was very different to the previous two entries. It had a different look about it, and it was a little more intense compared to TND. The opening sequence was great fun, making sure the film hit the ground running. After the credit sequence the film slowed down for a short while but this allowed character development and the plot to move forward, something I wished the fun but chaotic film that is QUANTUM OF SOLACE had. Pierce Brosnan is once again fantastic as Bond, I love his portrayal as it as a bit of everything. Sophie Marceau as Elektra King is one the best Bond Girls in the series, she's a fantastic actress and there's really great chemistry between her character and James Bond. Denise Richards has Christmas Jones isn't as great, but by no means is she bad. She's given little to do when she's finally introduced in the film apart from being there so Bond can rescue her, abit like the main Bond woman in A VIEW TO A KILL. Robbie Coltrane plays Valentin Zukovsky, and he does a great job playing a man who feels nothing at all. He doesn't go over the top with the character which keeps it grounded considering his character as a far fetched story of being shot in the head but the bullet hasn't killed him, instead he can push him harder, faster and stronger to the day he dies. Judi Dench as M is her usual fantastic self, given more screen time here compared to the previous two films. And its a sad farewell to Desmond Llewelyn (Q) and the film says goodbye to him in the perfect way. This is a great adventure, a solid film, its just a shame that Pierce's Brosnan's Bond era ended with the silly DIE ANOTHER DAY. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Slick thriller in which the actors shine","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond (Brosnan) is sent on a mission to protect the daughter of recently deceased Robert King and is soon finding clues to who was behind his murder.After two impressive enthusiastic performances as Bond in Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies, Pierce Brosnan added more drama to the character in this tense if slightly over-informed thriller.Brosnan again cements the character to the ground with some delicious acting worthy of praise with cheeky puns and great on screen relationships. The adding of the drama was a necessity to the character to create a more human feeling over that superhero cover he previously conveyed. The dramatic reflection on the plot is executed well by Brosnan and has only been bettered by Craig's recent reprisal of the British agent.The actor is given great support by an exceptional performance by Sophie Marceau (Braveheart) as Electra King. Marceau is able to create a vulnerable character and create a sense of mystery about her, a sad sense of sophistication. She is easily the best Bond girl of the Brosnan era and is right up there with the best characters in the series.Denise Richards (Starship Troopers) is disappointing in her role as Christmas Jones, a rather ordinary and plain character who seems just to be along for the ride. Unlike King's mysterious elegance, Jones just feels like an ordinary person caught up in an adventure and is there to just to make up numbers.Two of Britain's finest actors are on screen together after their famous partnership in hit TV series Cracker. Robbie Coltrane and Robert Carlyle are easily the most interesting actors to watch. Coltrane's Zukovsky adds humour to the plot where Carlyle creates the best Bond villain of the Brosnan era with a cold hearted character in Renard, a man with a bullet in his head. Carlyle adds that extra something to the narrative with a strong and dominant protagonist and is one of the main reasons to watch.The opening to the 19th Bond is a very exciting affair with Bond chasing a villain in a speedboat with the then newly constructed Millennium Dome in the background. Fast and action packed with gadgets, this opening sequence will please audiences of any age who will simply smile when we see the straightening of the tie moment.The plot balances the action well alongside the events of Elektra's pipeline business. The political agenda alongside the heavy use of character history is distracting and will have you scratching your head trying to recall the past but like other Bond films you don't need to know who is who and what is what as the action and intensity give the overall picture. "},{"Title":"Good but not Brosnan's best","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" No way is it better than Goldeneye, but it is light years ahead of Tomorrow Never Dies and Die Another Day. I liked the theme song. Opening scenes were a bit long, though the part with Bond leaping onto the rope dangling from the hot air balloon is spectacular. The actors who played Renard and Elecktra (sorry I can't remember their names right now) are very good. Especially Renard. Who is more intimidating than a man who feels no pain? Valentin Zukovsky had some great lines (to Dr. Jones, Who are you? And how did you get in? Let me call Security, and congratulate them! and to Bond, Why do I have a feeling I'm not carrying enough insurance?). MoneyPenny had some great lines toward the beginning too. This is not a weak script folks. If there are any weak parts it is weak acting. I don't know why so many people are tough on Denise Richards. I loved her in this one. So shes not convincing as a nuclear physicsist.....so what? since when did Bond girls have to be smart all the time, and when did smarts come before looks for them in the series? If you are going for technicalities or serious subjects, this is not for you, go watch In The Line Of Fire or Dances With Wolves.Parts I didn't like included where Bond and the others are talking in Scotland about Renard. Again I find it not to be a weak script, no, it is weak acting, particularly by M. Also the one-liners get a little tiring like at the end with the scene of Bond and Christmas.Not a bad film,especially after watching the entry before and after it. "},{"Title":"BOND#19 He Feels Nothing,She Feels Too Much","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN blow up competing Russian oil pipelines. By the time of this 3rd Brosnan Bonder, one gets the impression that Bond really needs to start being careful with women. Whereas the Bonders finally acknowledged women's liberation in the late seventies, the nineties seemed to present women's liberation gone mad - for example, one of Bond's most lethal adversaries was Onatopp in GoldenEye. This sense is further validated during the lengthy pre-credits teaser in this one, where-in most of the action and chasing revolves around a female assassin (whom Bond innocently flirts with before she starts the mayhem). Then, of course, the main femme fatale here, Elektra, transpires to be not all she appears to be - the female is the deadlier of the species in the nineties, for sure. Bond's advantage has always been his way with women; this strength can be subverted into a big weakness if he runs across one who is even more cunning than he is. Brosnan's weakness has always been that he was slightly more bland than Connery and even Moore, who projected strong charisma. In this one, he needs to be more intense because things get more personal and iffy all around, involving even M in some unexpected jeopardy. This works towards the film's advantage; unexpected plot twists are rare in a Bond thriller by this time. It's the interaction between Bond and a few key characters, both good & bad, that elevate this Bonder, not the now-standard chases, which definitely have a by-the-numbers feel by this point. The only saving grace to these is an early big chase which takes place on Bond's home turf of London, England, which is rare, and MI6 HQ is directly involved.Speaking of MI6, the regulars get a good workout in this one, which always makes for a more entertaining Bonder. Besides M, Moneypenny and a couple of key staff are fairly well involved with this latest mission. This is the final appearance of old Q, who has been played by the same actor since From Russia With Love 36 years earlier. We are introduced to Q's assistant and planned replacement (played by Monty Python alumnus Cleese). The credits are an eerie kaleidoscope of trippy color, as if we're back in the sixties, accompanied by a rather mournful title song by Garbage. The tone is somewhat dark throughout the film, with much of the plot and villains involving terrorism and the theme of betrayal. The main villain, Renard, has a bullet lodged in his brain, and he doesn't feel sensation like the rest of us, but this isn't really played up, even in the final fight. Besides, Renard has to take a back seat to Elektra, who gives an entirely new and twisted meaning to the femme fatale term. She turns the tables on Bond, who has always been in control of such situations before, and proves to be that woman who Bond can't really handle. On the downside, casting agents for the Bond film series aimed low yet again with the latest Bond girl meet Christmas, nuclear physicist. The actress Richards was in her late twenties at the time, but comes across like a 19-year old. Coltrane, as Valentin, was a welcome return in the role he created in GoldenEye. There's also a unique weapon, foreshadowed in an earlier scene, a series of spinning blades deployed from a helicopter. The way Bond's newest set of wheels is dealt with is painful for auto buffs. The climax with the sinking sub was kind of weak; I'd considered the story already ended 5 minutes earlier with Elektra's final scene. Bond would return in Die Another Day. Bond8 Villain6 Femme Fatales9 Henchmen6 Fights8 Stunts/Chases8 Gadgets7 Auto8 Locations7 Pace7 overall7+ "},{"Title":"I thought Christmas only comes once a year.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Some consider Goldeneye as the only Brosnan film worthy of acclaim. Others felt that The World is not Enough was his best film. And there are a few who are willing to give that honor to this film.While Brosnan and Sophie Marceau light up the film, there are some that think that he is really the supporting actor here. And there are many who believe that Brosnan and Denise Richards make a lousy couple.Marceau stands out as a romantic actress, not an action hero. She was Princess Isabelle in Braveheart and she shines in the French films La Fidélité and Chouans!. So, it is natural that Bond would fall in love with her - who wouldn't? Now Denise Richards (Christmas Jones) is the action star, with credential from Wild Things to prove it. Hoever, she is compared to Jill St. John and Tanya Roberts as one of the worst actresses ever to appear in Bond films.The pre-credit sequence is probably the best ever done. The World is Not Enough theme song done by Garbage is outstanding.Bottom Line there is no bad Brosnan film. "},{"Title":"A Nice change to Bond","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough is the 19th James Bond to be released and once again, starred Pierce Brosnan as the secret agent for the third time. Each Brosnan Bond film really has a different feel to the previous one. Possibly thanks to the change of director. This film feels very different to the last two. The movie seems more character based than action based. The story is actually an interesting story, but might not be to everyones taste. Some of the stars are a nice addition, but i don't think there is enough character to the villains to make them iconic. If someone asked you to name 10 Bond films, you wouldn't really remember characters called Renard and Elecktra King. Robbie Coltrane makes a welcome return, with a much larger storyline, but there are points in the movie, in which his Scottish accent does slip through. John Cleese is a breath of fresh air as Q's assistant, and speaking of Q. The producers were wise not to include him in any more scenes after his speech and departure in the film. Desmond Llewelyn who sadly died not long after this release, gives a touching and emotional exit to the franchise.The action which is included isn't as big as other Bond films, with one exception. The boat chase across the Thames with one of the best chases seen in the recent Bond films.If you like action, you might want to check some other Bonds out first, but if your prefer character development and a great story, see this.James Bond will return in Die Another Day "},{"Title":"A brilliant Bond.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is not Enough is another high-octane, action-packed addition to the James Bond legacy. It is just your average Bond, with lots of big explosions, nasty villains, cunning plans and pretty ladies, but at least it is enjoyable, and the menacing Renard keeps everything nice and evil on the villains' front. The bullet through his head and his rather rough haircut and face tell us from the start that he is going to be a nasty piece of work, but in the case of Elektra King, we, like Bond, are easily deceived. It is predictable, with Bond having sorted out everything in the end, the villains all dead and a nice explosive action sequence to round everything off, but who ever complained about that? Bond isn't meant to die after all - he's meant to keep coming back for more. The opening scenes in the Swiss bank are very interesting - another great escape is made by Bond. The opening 15 minutes are all action, and the Millennium Dome chase sequences are truly unmissable - did you see that huge gun that blew everything up? Spiffing. The traditional Bond formula is - thrilling opening, a new case, lots of action, lots of romance, lots of villains, all villains dead at the end and Bond having a very happy ending with some beautiful woman, and The World is not Enough is no different. However, if you are happy to basically watch this knowing it is no different to the formula, then The World is not Enough shall provide you with a brilliant fast-paced ride. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Another Brosnan Classic","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From its Wham-Bang opening action sequence to its tacky double-entendre ending, The World Is Not Enough is a vintage Bond formula. Indy diva Shirley Manson belts out a classic theme song, Robert Carlisle makes a reliably unpleasant villain and the Bond Girl slots are amply filled by sultry Sophie Marceau and buxom-but-slightly-wooden Denise Richards. Judi Dench's 'M' gets rather more to do than usual and Samantha Bond makes the most of Moneypenny's opportunities to take the micky out of her favourite '00' agent. Robbie Coltrane makes a welcome return to the franchise and D&B maestro Goldie is good value as a bling-encrusted henchman.Pierce Brosnan clearly has fun with the clichés that are now part of his role and the rest of the cast goes along with the wild ride engineered by screenwriters Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and Bruce Fierstein. Director Michael Apted and his team show their flair for drama as well as action and the whole mad farrago hardly seems to stop for breath.The late Desmond Llewelyn made his final appearance as 'Q' in this movie and it's a touching cameo from a seasoned Bond veteran. Llewelyn had to appear in some creaky old guff during the wilderness years of the franchise (late Roger Moore through poor old miscast Timothy Dalton) so it's good to know that he was able to bow out with Bond back on form.Don't even think about the plot because you've seen it so many times in previous Bond films. There are a couple of neat little twists in TWINE but in the main this is pure high-octane 007, chilled to perfection and served straight up in a tall glass. "},{"Title":"Fair effort...","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Brosnan's third film can be criticized for a lot of things, but one thing that it can't is for actually trying. The film actually tries to create something meaningful, it tries to be compelling and different and it tries to have an interested gimmick villain.It's a shame that it falls rather short given the effort. The film stands out for its many ups and downs, but is not as compelling as Brosnan's GoldenEye even by a long-shot. The extremely long pre-credits sequence comes off as more excessive than anything else.Also, I felt the ethnic flair of this instalment was more derailing than interesting. Compared to the utter bore that was Tomorrow Never Dies, this one makes the effort of trying to be different, but gets blown flat by the studio's attempts to compete with other big budget action films.I'm not saying peril isn't necessary for a Bond-film, quite the contrary. It's just that there happens to be a fine line between necessary and excessive. "}{"Title":"TWINE - Least inspiring Bond movie","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's not that The World is Not Enough is a bad movie (none of them are), but it just doesn't inspire me the way the others do. I have them all on video and tend to watch them reasonably regularly but after having watched this one once, I've no desire to see it again because it's just too bland. Sure, Sophie Marceau is gorgeous, and, as good an actor as Robert Carlyle is, his villain doesn't have the charisma of a Scaramanga, or Blofeld.Anyone else feel the same?p.s. I also think Tim Dalton as possibly the most authentic Bond so you might want to treat my opinions with care. p.p.s. Can't wait for Daniel Craig as Bond (particularly with the AMV8 Vantage). Maybe they can dispense with the over the top special effects for a decade or two. This plea comes after having witnessed the ZX81-style CGI effects of Brosnan windsurfing on Die Another Day, Oh Per-lease!! "},{"Title":"Good James Bond","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I just got done watching The World is Not Enough, and i have to say it's a pretty good James Bond. I wouldn't give it a 8-10 score range like Golden Eye but it definitely held it's own. Sophie and Pierce did excellent jobs in the characters as well as their dialogue. It was also a surprise to have Sophie as a villain and also to be this James bond first women villain type. It was also interesting to see how James dealt with her at the end, i have to admit i didn't see that coming. Renard was OK as a villain, but his condition didn't really make him more powerful, it seems that the writers could have done much better job with his type of condition. Finally Denise Richards was pretty much horrible. Her lines that just point out the obvious and her high pitch voice was grade c. The director or casting should have expected to get this type of quality from a Grade C at best B actress. If they wanted to give the audience something like that then they should have her do something like WILD THINGS. The movie could have done fine without her. She seems to have no real purpose in the movie, especially the question of why the hell was she helping to make a nuclear bomb? Second question is why change her mind all of a sudden? To make it worse is you can really see the quality of actress talent between Sophie and Denise. Having them both in the same movie is like having Harrison Ford and Ben Afleck on the same screen. Luckily there's not to many plot holes in this movie. Overall though this movie is one of the better James Bond types but don't expect it to be on the same level as Golden eye. "},{"Title":"Grim. Gritty. Great.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond can still kick ass if you don't give him his toys. And he damn does. I think it's the best of the series, as it's dark and quite realistic for a James Bond movie. The superspy is forced to act quickly, hide in shadows and think fast. Doesn't have his miraculous gadgetry (apart from the warehouse scene, when he uses the hidden Stinger to take out the helicopter), so the plot is automatically less cheesy. The pipeline chase and finale might be over the top, but apart from that, the film is well made. We even see M herself recalling old operative tricks.The actors play their parts well, even Goldie (who's a DJ, not a professional actor) isn't bad as Zukovski's clumsy aide. Anyway, when you have Pierce Brosnan, Sophie Marceau and Judi Dench, they simply can't screw up.Action is well-balanced too, as some directors tend to go overboard and blow stuff up through 3/4 of the film (John Woo, anyone?). Even the villain isn't THAT cliché - I'm gonna die anyway, so I'll better do it with a bang. I don't recall many movies with a plot like that.9/10. Own a DVD, because this film owns. "},{"Title":"NEAR-PERFECT BOND, GREAT BOND GIRLS","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSTHE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is a near-perfect combination of plot, action, character, and emotion.  It has uncommon depth for a Bond film.  In a nutshell Bond finds himself protecting oil heiress Elektra King after the murder of her tycoon father.  Inheriting the family business, Elektra determines to finish constructing an oil pipeline through Turkey from the Caspian Sea, which will provide the west with an untapped resource for oil.  Unfortunately, she has also inherited the attention of her father's killer -- Renard, a terrorist who cannot feel any pain because of a bullet lodged in his head.  As the plot thickens and dangers multiply, Bond finds an unexpected ally in Dr. Christmas Jones, an aloof American nuclear physicist who has witnessed Renard's theft of a nuclear warhead.  Eventually, the film climaxes with all the leads converging in Istanbul, where a nuclear disaster is in the offing, unless Bond and Dr. Jones can stop it. All in all, this was a rich and satisfying flick.  All the characters are given some dimension.  Even the admittedly underwritten  and underutilized Dr. Jones (her part was reduced somewhat in the rewrite phase to give center stage back to Bond) is given a hint of complexity when Bond asks her, What's your story, what are you doing here in Kazakhstan?  Her reply, Avoiding those kinds of questions.  Just like you.  Why is she avoiding these questions?  Was she hurt too, like Bond.  Did she take the job in Kazakhstan to forget something -- or someone?  It's never explained, but I appreciated the writer's efforts to give her some depth.  I wish they could have elaborated on that point though.  And yes, Denise Richards is miscast.  The role needs someone older and with more gravity.  However, Denise does what she can with the reduced role that she was given. However, if Dr. Jones appears somewhat underwritten, it's because Elektra King, the other BOnd girl, is so well-written.  As the good girl who goes bad, Sophie Marceau turns her character is dazzling combination of seductive intelligence, sexy wit, and haunting vulnerability.  The combo of the European ELektra and American Dr. Christmas Jones is a good one.  Although, I think Denise Richards was alright, I wish the role would have been given to Carrie-Anne Moss or Daryl Hannah (as rumored).Still, a great Bond flick. "},{"Title":"Worth Buying(or seeing) just for the Opening Scene","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My Rating *** out of ****.Spoilers The opening scene of The World is Not Enough is brilliant. It is easily the best opening of any Bond film I have ever seen. Bond escapes from a Bank in Spain, goes on a wild and crazy boat ride through the Thames River(chasing a villain of course), and then hangs from a hot air baloon and falls. Then comes the theme song. My words may not make it sound exciting but it cannot be described, it must be seen. If you saw it on the big screen like I did, than you experienced something awesome. The theme song, which I think is one of the best, only adds to the greatness. So how does the rest of the film hold up? It holds up well but its not quite brilliant. Yes, the rest of the action scenes are (for the most part) expertly executed. I was also entertained from start to finish. However, the film is a bit uneven too. For the most part, the score was excellent. However, there were times when the score sounded like soap opera music(especially during the sex scene between Bond and Elektra). Also, the final action scene was disappointing. Bond getting away was the only satisfaction. Pierce Brosnan is in top form. He was a little rough around the edges in Goldeneye but those disappeared in Tomorrow Never Dies and there not in evidence here either. He is the 2nd best Bond(behind only Sean Connery). Sophie Marceau is completely belieable as Elektra. Denise Richards is not as successful. She is not a good actress and her performance is terrible. Robert Carlyle is effective as the villain, but he will not go down as one of the most memorable Bond films. Robbie Coltrane is delightful as Zukovsky.The World is Not Enough does not add up to a brilliant Bond Film but it is an accomplished one in its own right. It is worth seeing if only for the opening scene. It may not be on the same level as From Russia with Love and Goldfinger, but there is no doubt that it is a worthwhile Bond film.  "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In this great entry to the series, 007 must find out who is trying to kill the daughter of M's close friend who has been killed. Bond discovers that there may be a connection between the daughter, Elektra, and the terrorist who captured her once, Renard.An exciting movie that should not disappoint 007 fans. This is, of course, Desmond Llewelyn's last performance as Q. He was killed in a car accident a month or so after the movie was completed. It's a bit striking to me really, In this film we are presented R, John Cleese. His character was right there to pick up where Desmond's characvter left off.none the less, At least we got Q one last time. He provides Bond with the standard gadgets and a few surprises.recomended. ***/**** "},{"Title":"Electrifying","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is not Enough, Pierce Brosnans 3rd outing as the British Secret Agent, is a vast improvement over the slightly disappointing Tomorrow Never Dies in my opinion and is his 2nd best to date (end of 2003). The story, as simple as it seems in the beginning has more layers to it than one would expect in the beginning and that, along with some good chemistry between the main characters, good action and good wit, make this film enjoyable and entertaining as a whole. I was especially impressed by Elektra's character and Sophie Marceau's great acting, which makes her my 2nd favorite Bond-girl right behind Famke Janssen. Speaking of acting, I must say that I found Robert Carlyle's acting to be somewhat disappointing, along with the whole character itself. I was not just disappointed about what Carlyle did with the &#145;freedom' he had, but in a way I was disappointed in the entire character, who in my opinion could have been worked out better and in more detail. Carlyle wasn't the worst actor in the film though. The worst in that department was Denise Richards, who despite pulling of a good Christmas Jones, failed be credible as Doctor Jones. This was particularly evident in the last 15 minutes of the film, the worst part of the entire experience, in which she seemed rather misplaced. I must say that I found it astonishing that she was so bad, since she had managed to portray her character so well the entire part before that, but maybe that's all she's good at then, looking good and making chit-chat conversation. Concluding I would say that this is a pretty good James Bond film, featuring a great Sophie Marceau; a mediocre villain; a pretty but; bad Doctor Jones and an overall uninspired ending.7,25 out of 10post scriptum Last Bond with Desmond Llewelyn due to the fact that Mr. Llewelyn died only a month after The World is not Enough premiered. His replacement had been introduced in the film however, something of a macabre coincidence. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best 'Bond'","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Upon my first viewing of this movie, I could only say one thing positive about the movie John Cleese's addition as Q. Not to say that Q was represented poorly by Desmond Llewelyn. He was a tremendous Q, and he is already missed. I do, however, believe that John Cleese's placement into the role was a rather smooth transition, and I think that there are definitely weaker choices than John Cleese that the role could've been given to. Other than that, the movie really had no redeeming qualities. Once again, this is upon its first viewing.After attempting to recover all of the 007 movies on DVD, however, The World is Not Enough decorated my shelves once again. No matter how hard I attempted to avoid the movie, my love for Bond movies forced me to view the movie again. The reason I didn't care much for this movie upon its first viewing is that I felt that it wasn't as fast-paced as the previous Bond films, Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies. With age, however, the tastes mature somewhat, and one realizes that glorious explosions with massive deaths isn't necessarily the formula for a great movie, especially a great Bond movie. This also happens to be the growing trend for Brosnan's Bond movies (even though I think he's an exceptional Bond), much like Roger Moore's Bond has a fascination for utilizing as many gadgets as possible.In this movie, we get to see some excellent character development, plus there's quite a few references to On Her Majesty's Secret Service. There's also the very scenic locations in the film, which Bond-lovers have grown accustomed to. Of course, the opening sequence has an adrenaline-rushing escape from an office building. Then, we get to see a fabulous boat chase through London. For those people that are the fans of Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies, or Die Another Day (which are all very good, but in a different method), the action scenes will be more than satisfying, but they'll be fewer and further between than you're accustomed to, so you probably will not leave a viewing of the movie feeling as gratified as you would from the 3 mentioned, but for those people who love the formula of previous Bond films, this will be an extremely pleasant surprise. Not to mention, Bond's wit in this movie is some of the most clever dialogue that has been witnessed in a Bond movie, since early Roger Moore. This movie is quite excellent. All-in-all, I'd give the movie a strong 8.5/10.  "},{"Title":"One of the darker entries","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Along with OHMSS and License to Kill, TWINE has a darker tone than most entries in the series. Brosnan acquits himself very well and the villainess has a poignant story though the villain seems like a regurgitation of Bloefeld, at least physically. The gold-toothed henchmen adds some subtle comic relief. Thankfully he isn't overused. As for the much maligned Christmas Jones (Richards), what law says a nuclear scientist can't be a knockout? I will concede that Richards is not the most gifted thespian but then again in this role she doesn't need to be. The stunts are good but not the best in the series. The pre-credit sequence at the bank and the escape from the underground tunnels being the best. Overall solid entertainment, 7/10. On an aside the Nintendo 64 version of the game is very good though not in the class of the seminal Goldeneye also for that system. Unlike its N64 counterpart, the Playstation version didn't appear to be a labor of love. It seemed to be rushed onto the market to capitalize on the holiday shopping season.    "},{"Title":"Third Time's A Charm","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sean Connery's third movie as James Bond is considered by many as the best in the series, Goldfinger. Roger Moore's third movie, The Spy Who Loved Me is on many people's top five list of the series.Pierce Brosnan is the third person to play James Bond and reach his third movie. 'Third time's the charm' they say, and it's certainly proven in the 19th James Bond movie, The World is Not Enough.From the pre-credit sequence with the boat chase down Thames River, you can tell you are in for one heck of a Bond movie. The title song performed by Garbage is one of the best Bond songs you'll hear in a while.The World is Not Enough lives up to the action, but brings much more storyline and twists than you would expect in a Bond movie. This is one of the reasons why it is in my top 5.Many people are turned off by this movie, and I can't blame them knowing that Denise Richards is the Bond girl. I agree, there are several other women that could have played the nuclear scientist, Christmas Jones.The villian is quite different than the recent Bond villians. Renard the anarchist has a characteristic that makes him different from other villians altogether he feels no pain.The World is Not Enough is great to watch, no matter how many times you've  seen it. Out of the four Brosnan movies, this is my favorite.BOTTOM LINE One of the better Bond films- 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Average","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think Pierce Brosnan is a great 007, but I think he's made two great Bond films and two... well not so great Bond films. Goldeneye and Die Another Day are two top class 007 flicks, but I think Tomorrow Never Dies and The World is Not Enough are not two of the better films in the series. In fact this one just might be my least favourite in over 40 years of James Bond Movies. It just seems to going through the motions, Denise Richards was very poor in this film, although she does at least look great. I was very excited when I heard Robert Carlyle was going to be one of the baddies but he was wasted in the role just like Christopher Walken was in A View To A Kill, the Bond producers get a great actor to play a villain but don't give him anything to play with, I suppose he wasn't as bad as the god awful villain in the previous film. John Cleese makes an unfunny appearance as R, and follows it up with an unfunny appearance as Q in Die Another Day. At least I got to see Robbie Coltrane getting killed though! he's an actor I can't stand, I hated his Cracker TV series. This film had the longest pre credits sequence in the whole series and it feels like the longest when you watch it, why couldn't they get 007 to blow up the Millenium Dome? That would have cheered me up. Thank goodness Die Another Day was great when it appeared 3 years after this.  "},{"Title":"This Bond film was Enough for me and I mean that in a good way","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't consider myself a die hard James Bond fan. But I did like The World Is Not Enoungh. I found the last Bond movie to be a little slow and had my reservations about this one. I was pleasntly surpised that I enjoyed this Bond movie. The action sequences are cool and the very sexy Denise Richards and Sophie Marcau make good Bond girls. All in all a fun film "},{"Title":"best bond movie to date","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  i found this movie to be the best of all the bond films.  not only did it have a great plot (which thickened as you went along, with the whole elektra good-evil storyline), but the stunts were awesome (as they always are in bond movies) and different.  the ski scen and the boat scene were among my favourite parts in the movie. and it didn't hurt that denise richards was the bond girl, and for once bond had to work at her to get her to fall for his 'charms'. "},{"Title":"Solidly Entertaining 007 Episode","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World Is Not Enough is another entertaining James Bond adventure. Pierce Brosnan's third outing as Bond is a good one. He has eased into the role and this film, although possessing all the traditional Bond elements, manages to exist as its own movie. The usual supporting cast is back, including Judi Dench as the female M and Desmond Llewelyn as Q. The World Is Not Enough opens with a thrilling boat chase along the Thames River. Bond does all sorts of extraordinary things while piloting the boat. Some of the action scenes in The World Is Not Enough are somewhat clumsy and awkward. However, there are still a couple of fantastic stunts.The female leads in this one are played by Denise Richards and Sophie Marceau. Marceau is delightful as a seductive villainess who forms a kind of love-hate relationship with Bond. Despite the evil nature of her character, she still manages to exude sensuality. Denise Richards has a more tame role that makes her nothing more than eye candy. This particular film also returns to showing the cold-heartedness of Bond's job and reverts to some of the seriousness of GoldenEye that was completely absent in Tomorrow Never Dies. As for the plot, it's the usual world domination shtick. Robert Carlisle was an acceptable but far from noteworthy evil mastermind. In addition, the finale of this picture is among the weakest of all the films of the series. Nevertheless, Brosnan is once again in top form as Bond and the action, humor, and beautiful women make this movie well worth 2 hours of your time. 3.5 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A general review of the entire Bond series","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'd rather just do a review of the series as a whole than on each film (as there is too many). My review may seem slightly biased as i am a fan of the series.The first ever action film was introduced to the world when Dr No was released in 1962 staring Sean Connery who made an absolutely great performance as bond (1962-1971) in his other bond films such as From Russia With Love, Goldfinger, Thunderball, You Only Live Twice and Diamonds Are Forever. In these films we got great characters like Pussy Galore - A more head strong woman than most, Odd Job - The hat throwing Korean Wrestler, Dr No - The Metal Handed Maniac and Ernst Blofeld - The lead tyrant of Spectre. The earlier films had a distinctive style to them. A 60's style of filming. The films were classics and so was Connery. The only break he had was when Australian model George Lazenby was offered and accepted his single role as bond in the 1969 film On Her Majesty's Secret Service. The film was entertaining but it seemed that maybe he wasn't such a good bond as Connery, who returned to the series in 1971 to do his final Bond film Diamonds Are Forever. Overall, the Connery films were golden. People always remember the gadgets and girls that he had. The films never failed to entertain even 41 years after the first film was released.Connery eventually quit the series in 1971. He only returned as bond in the unofficial film Never Say Never Again in 1983. It was Roger Moore whop was to replace Connery in 1973 with his debut Bond film Live And Let Die. The syle had changed slightly but not in any bad way. Moore proved to be a good replacement as bond and made the biggest number of films in the bond series totalling seven. His other great classic beside Live and Let Die was The Man With The Golden Gun. A brilliant film that is probably one of the most famous of the films made in the series. Like the Connery films, Moores era brought some memorable people into it. Unforgetable people like Tee-Hee - The large claw handed black man, Scaramanga - The man with the golden gun and Jaws - The Giant metal mouthed strongman. After the first two films, moore went on to appear as bond in 5 more films called The Spy Who Loved Me, Mookraker, For Your Eyes Only, Octopussy and A View To A Kill. Roger Moore's films were again classics but one or two seemed rather rushed. Overall his era was very good and his performance was excellent.Moore gave up in 1985 after being the longest reigning actor as bond (1973-1985) and was replaced 2 years later by Timothy Dalton. Though Dalton only made 2 films in the bond series (1987-89), he was a brilliant actor to play bond. Dalton's first film The Living Daylights was the better of his 2 films. This was followed by License to kill in 1989. Dalton was a dark horse in the film series. Someone who I believe could have easily of gone on longer to be an even greater success. His two films were probably better than other past bonds films like Moonraker and For Your Eyes Only.The series had its longest break of 6 years before it was decided to bring it back again. Though Dalton may have still been young enough to do the series, they opted to go with a new star. His name was Pierce Brosnan. Someone who the role fitted perfectly. His debut film Goldeneye was released in 1995. His other films include Tomorrow Never Dies from 1997 and The World Is Not Enough in 1999  He, as we all know, is the current bond. His recently released fourth film Die Another Day has proved to be a great success like so many of the other films before it. From the films hes made so far, Pierce is definately a top well made choice for a bond actor. It seems that he'll be missed once he does eventually leave. Its hard to imagine exactly who could replace him afterwards. His films have made the bond series more energetic and highly explosive. Classic charatcers have returned in such forms as Boris - The computer wizard, Zukovsky - The limping Russian fatcat and Renard - The bullet-brained mad man.This Great British film institution will go on to fill more pages in the book of film success and be an even greater success in World Cinema History. London's Pinewood Studios doors will always be open for use and hopefully Bond will still be working for MI6.James Bond, the Icon of Action Heroes. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as the first two Brosnman films","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is dissapointing. Very dissapointing. After two very well Bond films, Pierce mucked up badly. The acting is sour, the action scenes are dull and tasteless, and the characters are poorly represented. The plot was interesting, but screwed badly, and the only really redemming feature(s) about the film was a) the great starting chase, b) The performance of Electra, and c) the character development. The villain, who had a lot going for his character, wasn't acted out well enough. He had the ability to survive anything, but he just didn't seem well written enough. And Denise Richards was terrible here, she has no talent. This review is short, I know, but there isn't much else I can say. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Re-review","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My views on TWINE are the same as they have been.  This is one of the best Bond flicks ever.  Gripping, forceful, to the point, great human drama, cool to the hilt, tightly wrapped, etc, etc, etc.  The action isn't great (except for the openers) and the gimmicks are kept to a minimum so stupid reviewers bash it.  My advice to them would be to go back and watch ALL the Bonds.  Not just the Roger Moore Bonds.  I have many other things to say to these jokers but I want my review to be posted so I will refrain.  Above all, Bond is an ENGLISH hero.  This a cool English style movie and most American idiots will miss the point.  So bash it in your ignorance and to back your own biased ideology if you like.  This is a TREMENDOUS Bond because it is REAL.  I have to post again due to the bias against it and because I will not see this modern Bond classic subjected to getting compared unfavorably to garbage like DAD and the completely overrated TND.  I'm a Bond devotee since I was a kid, tutored and educated on all of the movies, and I pull rank here.  Take your garbage movies and go.  But leave this one alone.  (Message to IMDB Please accept this or send me a message why not.)   7.5/10   "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best Bond film. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has it all. The villains, Elektra and Renard, are the bestvillains to appear in a Brosnan Bond. The girls. . . Well, the villainis terrific. The Bond girl is Denise Richards. She's not exactly themost talented actress in the world, but I didn't come to see her act.Fun action, fun gadgets. . . The best Bond movie since The LivingDaylights. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Brosnan is NOT enough!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Why anyone would imagine that Brosnan was born to play James Bond is beyond me. True, he works very hard. He is a talented and skilled actor. However, since I have actually read Ian Fleming's books and saw the Bond films beginning with DR. NO in it's original release, I feel compelled to say that I strongly believe that he is miscast.Brosnan comes across as a nice guy playing tough. Roger Moore had somewhat the same problem. Brosnan does not possess the physique, the vocal equipment, or temperament for the role. Yet, he works very hard. Well, some people like lite cigarettes and lite beer. Some people seem to like Brosnan's lite Bond.For my part, I recommend that you read Ian Fleming's books; watch Sean Connery in the first three Bond films; and see Timothy Dalton's two films. Then maybe you'll begin to perceive the difference between the lite version and the real thing. "},{"Title":"Enough already!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the tell-tale signs of a dying franchise is the way the deck chairs get shuffled around as the ship slowly goes under - so far we've had Tomorrow Never Dies (what on earth DOES that mean?) and now Die Another Day..get the idea? Hopefully the producers will also cotton on and let the whole enterprise Die In The Corner Somewhere..(now there's a title! No, wait, we can have Patrick Stewart as Blofeld finally on trial in the Hague for crimes against humanity, and, and- ). Please guys, let Pierce Brosnan be the last incarnation. They don't make Aston Martin DB5 's anymore, but we can all recognise a classic when we see one. "}{"Title":"Bland, boring, slow-moving, preposterous","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a DISAPPOINTMENT;  after Goldeneye (which was excellent) they made Tomorrow Never Dies and then this(which manages to be the worst of the three).Brosnan looks so old, he could be Bond's grandfather.Richards makes a fool of herself.  Only she can pronounce the word ass using two syllables.Marceau is frigid and pale.  Where's the sex appeal?Everyone else is there just to collect their paycheque.And I thought Christmas only comes once a year is one of the most pathetic lines I've ever heard.  A real groaner. "},{"Title":"Kill this series now !","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'll keep this review short, because I don' t think this bland homogenized mess of a movie deserves more.The casting is just plain bad  Not one of the bad guys is convincing for a SECOND and, sorry, but Brosnan simply doesn't convince me in the lead role. His bland, blow-dried good looks put me more in mind of an car salesman than a ruthless assassin.Pretty much every major stunt and set-piece is utterly, utterly ludicrously over the top. I'd heard great things about the opening boat chase, but it came off as thoroughly unbelievable and derivative. Things get worse  the ski chase is extremely tedious (how on EARTH can you mess up a Bond ski scene so badly?), and the sequence with the helicopters/rotary saws at the harbour is just plain childish.I grew up with the Roger Moore movies, and for me he epitomizes what Bond is all about  class, wit and sly cunning. TWINE is nothing more than 'made for TV' style rubbish. *Please* don't waste your time and money on this... "},{"Title":"A depressing entry, especially for Q.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this movie, the first thing I noticed was that Brosnan was frighteningly thin and weak-looking in this movie. Physically, I think Brosnan has run his course as Bond, but the movies ran their course over 30 years ago and are still going, so why should Brosnan stop? Now the MI6 headquarters have higher technology that the Starship Enterprise. The action here is unspeakably banal, and the numb villain is possibly the most forgettable yet. The saddest part about this movie is the terribly depressing scene involving Q. In his final appearance in a Bond movie, Desmond, as Q, is given the most ridiculously repetitive lines, which he had been saying over and over again and had gotten stale by 1965. Being so stupid as to think he had another 30 years left, the writers did nothing to give him any more reason to return to the Bond set than to ramble to the childish Bond. The writers continued to let Q pointlessly hang out to dry, and his final shot, in which he is lowered under ground, is just too depressing. I felt that way even before Desmond died.    "},{"Title":"Has it's good and bad points","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Concluding the Bond era before the millenium is TWINE aka Bond 19. The movie gets a C rating from me. Here are the good points. Pierce Brosnan makes his return to the role for the third time and as always, does a great job. French actress, Sophie Marceau plays lead Bond girl Elektra King. Sophie does a good job as Elektra. Elektra has a big secret in the end of the film and has no one, not even Bond suspicious. I really enjoyed the action sequences such as the speedboat chase on the Thames in the opening and the ski chase in the mid point of the film. Micheal Apted does a great job with the action being the first action film he's made. I really enjoyed the fact that M has a much larger role in TWINE then in GOLDENEYE and TND.Now here are the bad pointsOne of the really bad points to TWINE is all the sexual themes and scenes like the doctor's office, Elektra's bedroom, and the ending scene with the heat and color detection device that finds people based on their body heat. Another bad point is the wanna be Blofeld, Renard. Renard looks WAY too much like Blofeld that when my friend saw the previews for the film she said Hey, Blofeld is comming back to the films. Thats so cool!. Robert Carlyle stills gives a great preformence as Renard. But the biggest problem in the film is Christmas Jones. I just don't understand the whole Lara Croft Tomb Raider get up. Anyway the part was badly written out for her. Elektra is supposed to be 21 in the film. So whats Dr. Jones, 12?In 2002, James Bond will return, hopefully in a better film. "},{"Title":"Neither really good nor really bad","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well I've just watched this movie on pay per view and like everything associating itself with the Millenium Dome, it proved a disappointment. I have read other user comments and think the ones that love it are sadly deluded and the ones that hate it are not. That's not to say I hate it, or that it's the worst movie in the series. I too, like others disappointed by this was begining to believe Brosnan had a future in the Bond series, that he might prove better than the hammy Roger Moore even, but this effort changed my mind. It's time for a new Bond again isn't it? Or maybe it's time to end the franchise altogether.Basically I will some it up in the following sentenceWe have seen Brosnan do his Connery in Goldeneye, his Moore in Tomorrow Never Dies and now (gasp!) his Dalton in The World is Not Enough.He doesn't really know who he wants to be does he? Of the three I think Goldeneye is the best. Why they chose to follow the frankly (always lame) 'this is personal' line of the laughable Lazenby in OHMS and the dire Dalton in his two 1980s outings is beyond me! And why critics seemed to think this movie is the making of his Bond is also beyond me.To sum up, this, like License to Kill, does not even LOOK like a Bond movie. Whatever happened to the Bond girl as well, and decent villains?But, bizarrely, I still don't hate it. It's not dire, it just isn't Bond. The previous two were Bond movies, this was not. SO if you want to see a good Brosnan Bond, I suggest the underrated Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"Not the worst Bond, but the worst Brosnan Bond so far","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" OK, OK, it's good enough to satisfy the Cult factor. But where Tomorrow Never Dies does not claim to be more than an action movie (and, in my opinion, succeeds quite effectively), this one pretends it has a story (oh well...) and characters (does anybody believe Elektra's motives? Or the M-in-a-cage scene?). Christmas Jones? Oh well, I can accept her as a tongue-in-cheek caricature of Bond Girls that were, and acting was not why Denise Richards was hired. John Cleese was a disappointment for me. It's not his fault, but I do not think Q's successor (if any) should be portrayed as a bumbling idiot. Valentin Zukovsky was more believable in GoldenEye (still one of my favorite Bond movies, anyway). As others pointed out rightly, the action is simply misplaced in some cases, so the whole thing comes out too incoherent to make me really like it. Better than the worst Roger Moore entries, but worse than most other 007 films. "},{"Title":"Great Bond movie; poor title","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The James Bond movies must be the longest-running film series there is, with more than 10 sequels on its list. With enough explosions, gunfights, hot chicks, and the suave, glib Pierce Brosnan at the helm as 007, this film is guarenteed to please most Bond fans. The main problem about this film that I have is the goofy title. The World is Not Enough? My God, that sounds so dumb!Anyhow, Bond is out on assignment again, this time to protect a rich heiress named Electra King (Sophie Marceau), whosefather, an oil tycoon, was killed by a bang. It seems that a psychotic Russian terrorist named Renard (Robert Carlyle of The FullMonty) wants his grubby hands on King's rich oil pipelines for his demented purposes. With the help of an American scientist named Christmas Jones (the hot Denise Richards), Bond must track down and nail the criminals before all hell breaks loose (as if that didn't happen already!)Brosnan plays with gusto and smoothness as he usually does inthe Bond flicks, and he does it well, too. Richards provides anice Bond girl, but the girl has problems with her actingskills! What, is she only good for her looks but not for herthespian skills? Carlyle does a good turn as Renard, whosespecial feature as a Bond villain makes him precisely unique (sorry, I don't want to give it away!) "},{"Title":"Bond is back-in the best Bond film since Goldeneye.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best Bond film since Goldeneye. The action never lets up (seriously it really doesn't.) I particularly like Q's assistant. 5 stars out of 5, and definitely recommended to James Bond fans. You can also read the novel of the film by Raymond Benson. "},{"Title":"Bond films get dumber and dumber.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan Bond-films are getting weaker and weaker every time. I loved Goldeneye. Tomorrow never dies was okay but not very good. The world is not enough is the most dumbist bondfilm ever made. There were to many explosions. The ski-scene where james on ski's takes on about 4 snowmobiles was to funny and stupid.  The explosion in the pipe......? There was one bom in the pipe moving and when the pipe blew up there were 2 explosions. Robbie Coltrane was very funny. To bad he died in the film. "},{"Title":"Why Can't They Find a Descent James Bond?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Man, it should be a simple thing to come up with a sexy charismatic leading man for a film.  Maybe I'm missing the point.  Perhaps James Bond is reknowned for the way he delivers a subtley suggestive line to beautiful woman like a totally disconnected cold fish.  There was no energy or chemistry like there used to be with Sean Connery nor has been since. - Outrageous  special effects - a handsome, daring, agile hunk  of a man coupled with gorgeous, temptresses exuding sexual electricity that keeps you at the edge of your seat -  What a great concept for a movie series - how hard can it be? They just can't get it right.  "}{"Title":"Once you get past Denise Richard's pathetic performance, this is well done action flick","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As far as the Pierce Brosnan era goes, this film is much better than the generic Tomorrow Never Dies, but falls short of matching Goldeneye.I've read that this film was original 160 min. but was cut to 128min. after some initial press screenings. That may explain some of the pacing problems that the films exhibits at times. The action sequences are extremely well done and choreographed but there are some lulls when the dialogue sequences get started.The main things this film suffers from is a weak villian, and Denise Richards. After watching this it's clear she didn't get hired for acting ability (which she doesn't possess).Granted, she fills a tank top and daisy dukes quite nicely but she just seems out of place among such an otherwise stellar cast.While not as well done as Goldeneye, this film definitely puts the series back on course after the lackluster and highly derivative Tomorrow Never Dies.rating8 "},{"Title":"Not enough is right.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    James Bond used to be cool. Watching the Pierce Brosnan episodes reminds me of the invasion of the body snatchers- He looks like James Bond. He talks like James Bond. He even likes the same drink as James Bond... But this is just not the 007 I've grown to know and love. T.W.I.N.E. was just another vacant, forgettable action movie with lots of guns and 'splosions. I honestly didn't care about anything that happened in the movie, or if any of the characters lived or died. (Except for valentin -he was cool.) For what the 007 movies have gained in budget and violence in recent years, they have lost an equal amount of class and wit; all the things that made James Bond so likable in the first place. "},{"Title":"Any James Bond fan will love this one.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you like James Bond (007)movies you look for three things - the most evil criminals, the beautiful girl, and lots of action, action, action. The World is not Enough has all this, and a great Digital Dolby 5.1 sound track, so I rate it 8 of 10.  But only for those three things - the story is pretty lame, but that never matters.My one complaint - as pretty as Denise Richards is, she did not demonstrate that she can act. Maybe she can't. And she made the most unbelievable nuclear scientist I've seen. When she delivers her lines it's like she's thinking, I wonder if I sound 'dorky' talking about plutonium and runaway reactions? Unlike the fine job Jodie Foster did as a scientist in Contact.Also in contrast, in The World is not Enough Sophie Marceau was perfect for her beautiful girl, villain role. And what can we say about Brosnan? He'll never make us forget the real Bond,the young Sean Connery, but in this his third Bond movie has become a very appropriate 007!The DVD has some worthwhile extras. Borrowing from the Matrix DVD, where you could follow the white rabbit to get behind-the-scenes of some special effects, this DVD has a follow the 007.  When you see 007 displayed on the screen, you click your remote and the movie jumps to a short making-of section, then jumps back to the movie.  Another is a 15-minute making of which is really a series of interviews, plus a couple of different commentaries.  All welcome extras when so many new DVDs are being issued with *no* extras.  "},{"Title":"the spy who bored me","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes. THAT should've been the name of this film. And I thought the series couldn't have an entry worst than Live and Let Die. But they finally topped that one with The World Is Not Enough.Bond is not Bond. Instead, he's John McClane working for MI6. Brosnan continues the downward spiral of the Bond franchise that began with the last film, Tomorrow Never Dies. Not a single character in the film is interesting (and was actually wishing everybody would be killed so the film would hurry up and end), and Robert Carlyle is quite possibly one of THE worst Bond villains in history.I don't think I can say anything about Denise Richards that hasn't been said before, and Sophie Marceau is just as bad. I still hate the new M. Kill her off. Bring in Patrick McNee as the new head of MI6. And get ride of Brosnan (who I do like, but not as Bond anymore) before he ruins the series even further. Get Adrian Paul. Much better choice. David Arnold's score is one of the ten worst soundtracks ever written in the history of film scores.Avoid like the plague!!THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH 0/5 "},{"Title":"This film is a blatant failure","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Where did the proper feel of the james bond movies go ? Ever since that Brosnan bloke appeared the movies went from bad to worse.You may call me old fashioned but he is just too modern. Surely james bond is meant to be a classic suave british agent, not some run do as you please character. If bond is to survive in the next few years people ought to buck up there ideas. As spectre once said WE DO NOT TOLERATE FAILURE. "},{"Title":"The worst Bond-film ever!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst Bond-movie ever! I just can't get what everyone finds so entertaining about this movie. The opening sequence is the only good sequence in the movie, after that it's just downhill - straight to damnation.The opening credits are the dullest and silliest ever. And the plot throughout the whole movie lacks confidence, credibility and suspense. We've seen it all before.The badguy is the silliest and less credible ever. And the chicks are too stupid too. Whatever happened to the vicious badguys from the early films. The badguys now are just nerds and badguy wanna-be's. You're not worried about Bond's safety at any point, as you were before. This movie doesn't work as anything...GoldenEye was terrible, Tomorrow Never Dies worse, but this is the lowest a Bond movie can sink (I hope), I don't find anything good to say about the film, except that there was a tiny tiny feel of entertainment and good old Bond-thrill in the opening sequence.2/10 - 2 because of the opening sequence. 1's are reserved for the films actually worse than this one, such as Lost In Space and The Postman... "},{"Title":"And now for Bond #20?","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All I have to say about TWINE is that it was the humanizing moments that made it watchable the complexity of Elektra King, Renard's weary fatalism (did anyone else notice the look of gratitude on his face at finally being released from a life of sensory deprivation when Bond offs him? Or the way Carlyle even made his character walk like someone with no sense in his limbs- heavy, clumsy even, as some  people with leprosy and nerve damage or strokes do?) I wish there had been more of these character-defining moments and less clichéd set-pieces. Great pre-credits sequence, though. For Bond 20? Take the franchise back in time. We already have Jack Ryan and zillions of other 90s techno-thrillers. Bond is quintessentially a Cold Warrior, and placing him in the fractured political landscape of the 21st century isn't really his territory. Setting the next few films in the 50's-60s would place Bond in the kind of world we saw in the classic Connery flicks. A John Le Carre or Len Deighton world. If anyone's seen Funeral In Berlin and The Ipcress File, you know what I mean. Seeing 1950s Italy in The Talented Mr. Ripley makes me think this sort of reinvention of the Bond series would be not only viable, but necessary to get back to the root "},{"Title":"Interesting and Entertaining.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bonds 2000 entry is certainly an interesting and entertaining film. The acting is moderately good, with a surprisingly well done Villian in Renard, and Judi Dench is also good as M, providing a nice detour from the toughasnails guys we seem to get lots of in the Bond series.The story is pretty simplistic, more thrown together and piped out than really done cleverly and well. The actors do a nice job of pacing it out, though, and even with his ridiculous accent, Robbie Coltrane made me laugh a little. But this movie is heading away from what Bond should be even more than Tomorrow Never Dies did. Its a bit of a bummer, when you look at it. Its more of a Dr.No than a From Russia With Love, or Thunderball (my favourite Bond).Perhaps without Albert R. Brocolli heading the team the 007 series is beginning to become too much of a 90's action series than a true International Spy series. His gadgets, while cool, are a little over the top... too coincidental and contrived, I remember that we used to watch Q spout out some of the weird and wonderful things, such as the keychain in 'The Living Daylights' and we'd see them used in really neat ways. Now its all Laser Guided this, and EMP protected that.I'm not old, far from it, so excuse me if this sounds like Nostalgia. But I really liked Sean Connery as Bond, he was dangerous, edgy, and flawed. Brosnan is little more than a cardboard cutout Bond, like the interchangeable and generic roles we always see Arnold Schwarzeneggar and Sylvester Stallone in.All in all, I liken this movie to Batman Forever, it was good and fun to watch. There was plenty of excitement and thrills, but the original lead characters were better and the plot just doesn't hold up to historical criticism.  "},{"Title":"Solid Effort","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I saw The World Is Not Enough in it's opening weekend and what can I say? I, like many men, enjoy the Bond flicks. This being the latest, I was pretty satisfied leaving as the credits started to roll. It felt for a lack of a word ... stronger ... overall than the last entry (Tomorrow Never Dies). As usual, Pierce Brosnan is in full form turning in a satisfying performance and the supporting cast is effective especially Robert Carlyle. Many people don't understand or appreciate how much a good villain can elevate a film, but especially a Bond one. It amps up the game.With the time and money invested in such a franchise, it goes without saying the direction and writing in the modern era of Bonds film is above board. The same goes for the visuals. Special effects, action sequences. Of course, no graphic violence and scenes revolving around the infamous Bond girls remain steamy and suggestive by name or otherwise, but not revealing (as they've always been) retaining a certain level of class. A good watch for Bond fans although it pulls no punches. It's slick, glossy, but not particularly revolutionary. It hasn't surpassed Goldeneye in my eye either. The first and best of the Pierce Brosnan / Bond era. "},{"Title":"I had to fight sleep","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The sloppiest Bond I've ever seen. It would have left a good impression if I had left the cinema after the opening sequence, which contained nearly everything one can expect from a Bond movie. What followed was more of the same, only less convincing. Towards the end the sound system was the only thing that kept me from falling asleep. I noticed that some other people in the audience had less problems with the noise though. "}{"Title":"A Blasphemy","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the 19th Bond film and the most dragged out feature ive ever seen. Pierce Brosnan is not Bond, and many know that (including him). Q finally retired, even he saw how ridiculous it all was (and sadly, died several weeks later). Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist? ok, that was kinda funny. But the annoying scene where Brosnan shags his doctor at the beginning, come on! We get the message, James Bond likes vagina. I think most of us figured it out after the first few films. No need to keep bringing it up. Sophie Marceau is attractive, but enough is enough. And the tacky line at the end of the film about how christmas comes once a year, how low has this series stooped?? I did pay to see this in the theatres, and knew that it would reek, so I guess I don't deserve a refund.  "},{"Title":"Illogical and sloppy","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not Enough has its good parts and its bad parts. Unfortunately, the good are few and the bad are many.Let's start with the good. The opening title sequence is visually beautiful, with liquid ripple effects, girls, seamless blends of 3d animation and people.Brosnan also gives it a good try, although he has little to work with. French B-movie queen Sophie Marceau does quite a good job. And you get to see Desmond Llewelyn in his final role as Q.But the film is sloppy and doesn't add up at all.The opening boat chase scene, for example, has Bond acting so reckless that it's a miracle dozens of innocent bystanders aren't killed. Bond might take risks, but he isn't stupid, and wouldn't do things that would be almost certain to kill bystanders, unless he was saving the world and had to sacrifice a few. But in this chase, he's just trying to catch a suspect. Illogical.Then there's a ski chase scene, supposedly taking place on a pristine mountain in the middle of nowhere, but in a great many shots, you can see that people have been skiing all over the slopes, and the treads of grooming machines are visible everywhere. Sloppy.Then there's the lack of bothering to check fundamental facts. Denise Richards, in a stunningly bad and completely non-believable turn as nuclear physicist Dr. Christmas Jones, keeps handling plutonium, keeping it in her backpack, and says that weapons-grade plutonium is safe, but tritium is dangerous.In fact, as anyone with the slightest knowledge of the subject knows, tritium is relatively safe and the tiniest particle of plutonium is basically guaranteed to kill. Carrying around six kilograms of plutonium for a few minutes is also guaranteed to bring death from radiation sickness within a few hours.Yes, there's action, but the film is a sloppy piece of work, constructed by people who appear to be just doing their job, with no passion and little creativity.  "},{"Title":"Luckily License to Kill Was Worse","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let's start with what was good about this movie the theme song by Garbage, the opening action scene and Pierce Brosnan.  Besides these three elements, this movie ranks as one of the worst Bond films.  Anyone with even average intelligence could predict the entire plot line within the first 15 minutes of this movie.  Bond movies are supposed to be simply entertaining, not some cinematic masterpiece.  However, even entertaining movies have to make sense and have decent actors/actresses.  This Bond film recycles old Bond action scenes, makes them completely unbelievable and ridiculous, and then packages all this in an inane story line that has been done a thousand times.  First, the action scenes are absolutely over the top.  We have the skiing and boat action sequences reminiscent of other Bond films, just more outlandish.  We have the action scenes that don't make sense.  The helicopter with the rotating blades for cutting down large trees in a forest is an example.  However, last time I went to Istanbul, Turkey, I didn't see any forest within the city limits.  But, maybe I wasn't looking hard enough.  Then, we have M, who can't even manage to reach out and grab an electric clock off a stool a few feet away.  She is the mastermind/boss of James Bond, but literally, couldn't make a cup of coffee if required. Without giving anything away, this must be the worst ending yet for a Bond film.  Although the film would like to directly lift the ending of Hunt for Red October, this ending is much worse and just falls flat.  Besides the action scenes, the acting, except for Pierce Brosnan, is poor.  I loved Denise Richards in Wild Things and even, thought her acting was passable.  However, in this film, it is atrocious.  She's playing a scientist who can barely pronounce scientific words.  Most of the time, she simply stands by James Bond and says nothing.  Smart move by the producers!  When she does speak, you (as did the audience in my theater) just bursts out in laughter because she is SO SO BAD.  Her character's name was obviously chosen to set up the final sexual double entendre at the movie's end. Sophie Marceau is not much better either.  And, the primary villain is some sorry figure not worthy of a low-rated B movie.  The only decent character was Rob Coltrane, the Russian figure from previous Bonds.  Finally, although I usually love the sexual innuendo found in James Bond films, I was amazed at the sheer number of such innuendos.  Nearly every word uttered by Pierce Brosnan is a sexual innuendo.  Even in near death experiences, James Bond cares less about saving himself from harm than trying to get his groove on.  The writers have practically turned him into a sexual predator.  I am no prude, but this dialogue was getting ridiculous.  My advice wait for video! "},{"Title":"The bad defeats the good!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye was an interesting return of the famous agent and the first Bond film I got to see in the theaters. Brosnan's first was not exceptional. Tomorrow Never Dies showed improvement with a more colorful Bond-type story. The World is not Enough, however, does absolutely nothing.First of all, the opening sequence seemed way too long. There's action, then a pause, then an explosion, finally a lengthy chase. For a moment I forgot that the opening credits had not been shown yet. Second of all, the movie follows the Bond formulas too closely and it just appears to jump into them. Bond is hurt. Bond needs a to pass a medical exam. Bond sleeps with the doctor. Finally, it is just a series of disappointments stringed together. The one thing that stands out in TWINE is that absolutely nothing stands out. A villain with a bullet in his head that eliminates his feeling of pain - an excellent idea for a bond villain. This is barely even developed. In fact, Renard (the villain) hardly appears as a powerful character at all. He seems to have very little control over what is going on, and his handicap is never really used. Judi Dench's portrayal of M is useless in a Bond film. It's just another way of killing the sexist elements present in previous films in the series. She's just an old grandma that gets duped, kidnapped, and spends most of her time trapped. What kind of a Secret Service boss is that. Although, the idea of getting M more involved in the situation is interesting, it looks pathetic here. Get rid of the female M, please!There are several other small disappointments. The action sequences are too elaborate and emit little excitement. There should be more thrill and pure tension just from the situation Bond is in (The rock climb in For Your Eyes Only, the plane fight in The Living Daylights). Action scenes in TWINE just move from one to another with little intrigue. Some of the best stunts in Bond films have been done on skis. There is nothing interesting about Bond's 5 minute snow ride in this flick. And the conclusion to the film proceeds with little drama and ingenuity. Additionally, the series of one-liners along the way are some of the worst ever, with only a couple at the end standing out. And the appearance of the title in a conversation is ridiculous. It's as if the filmmakers are trying to make unnecessary sense of the title in one line.Not everything is awful though. The acting is some of the best yet in the Brosnan era, especially Sophie Marceu. Brosnan himself is quite good. The film is very stylish and is set in beautiful and colorful locations. There are some good scenes like the one in the casino. Although she's a poor actress, Denise Richards is hot. After all, this is how some of the past women in the series were as well. Not every woman needs to be an independent 90s role model. While there are a series of disappointments, TWINE is still better than most action movies out there and is not the worst Bond film. I disliked some of the action sequences, but other ones lived up to the Bond genre.Overall, I wish more was done with this film. I am a huge fan of Bond films and I would always defend any careless elements, but this time I could not. Anything that can be annoying in a Bond film just jumped out at me here. I could not ignore my feelings. Brosnan is a good Bond and I hope he will make an improvement in the next film. A return to the colder, smarter, and more stylish Bonds like For Your Eyes Only (my favorite bond; a great job by Roger Moore following the disappointing Moonraker) would be welcome. I thought I would never do this to a Bond film, after all they represent the best action/adventure movies out there. Overall, I give it a 6 out of 10. Most of the points go to the acting, the settings, the decent plot, and the appealing Denise Richards. The other elements were just too annoying to ignore. "},{"Title":"ALMOST BUT NOT QUITE ENOUGH.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan has now made the role of 007 so indelibly his own that he is now better than Sean Connery.He is indeed the best of all the actors who have portrayed Bond.This latest and very satisfying adventure is far superior to GOLDENEYE but is not in the same league as the towering TOMORROW NEVER DIES which now seems unlikely to be equalled let alone surpassed.The story in WORLD is more complicated than usual and extremely well told with crackling direction and performances but there is a lack of hand to hand combat in this one which was where TND scored.Bond is at his best when slugging it out mano a mano with the bad guys and no amount of explosions,gunplay and assorted mayhem can compensate for a lack of fight action.Those who do not see that this element is as important as I do will probably think this movie one of,if not the best of Bonds.It has style, panache,a great pre-credits sequence but one of the poorest and least memorable title songs.Musicwise David Arnold has failed here as spectacularly as he succeeded in TND. The action in this movie does not come as often as it usually does but when it arrives it is well worth the wait.Sophie Marceau is excellent in her role,Denise Richards less so in hers and Robert Carlyle and Judi Dench do sterling work here but the movie belongs to Brosnan.He is rarely offscreen and his performance is a commanding and charismatic one.Long may he reign as the star pupil of MI6. "},{"Title":"Disappointing; Stacy Sutton is back!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan has become the best Bond since Sean Connery.  I  saw Tomorrow Never Dies to get into the mood for this film. That, in my opinion, is one of the best Bond films.  This,  sadly, is not.  There are some great action sequences, but that's all.  After 2 films where the Bond girl had a relatively substantive role, especially in Tomorrow Never Dies, we're firmly back to Stacy Sutton.  The only purpose for Denise Richards' character is to have large breasts and wear tight T-shirts.  (I guess we should be happy she has more dialog than James! James!) Oh yeah, her T-shirt even gets wet in a scene.  This film features an almost tragic Bond villian!  That's fine for a serious film, but this is Bond. Goldfinger Renard is not.  John Cleese was disappointing as R, but Q gets a respectable exit.In the positive side, it's nice to see M with a more substantive role.  "},{"Title":"Spend your money on a pre 90's video tape - not the theatre.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film simply shows the lack of Albert R. Broccoli's kin to follow in his impressive footsteps.  The plot is weakly held together by half-handed dialogue and is incredibly confusing to those outside of the oil-shipping industry.  Since this was supposed to be an equivalent film to previous Bond films, we see four saving graces in this film1) Key performances by talented actors (Judi Dench, Sophie Marceau, Robert Carlyle, Pierce Brosnan) in that order.2) Great Stunts and special effects. (Which have always been a staple of Bond films past)3) Always welcome throwbacks to previous films. (Desmond Llewelyn as Q, Bond vs. MoneyPenny, Bond. James Bond., etc.)4) A good pre-opening-credit warm-up. (Practically a good movie short in itself)Of the many faults this film thrust into viewers' eyes, the most prevalent was the use of Denise Richards as eye candy. Her scenes were obviously cut in post-production to give more dialogue to Sophie Marceau in an effort to draw attention away from her mispronunciations and forced Russian.  Both of which destroyed any small belief her character was college-educated or even knew simple Russian phrases.  Impotent super-villains left a bad impression as well.  They haven't been too smart in the past, granted, but they weren't discovered this easily or defeated by such small means either.I hope better writing and better casting will make the next installation worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Stop watching after 1 hour","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I'm not a Bond fan. This being admitted, I still think this film was chock full of cheesy one-liners that sounded awkward coming from such a suave actor/character. I suspect Connery was better at the cheeky humor.I was at a loss for real value in developing the characters; I am told this depth is not usual Bond-movie style. Judi Dench, John Cleese, and drawing a blank--the guy from Trainspotting & Full Monty seemed half baked.Redeeming factors were that Sophie Marceau was absolutely beautiful, and the beginning of the movie is slick and fun--especially the sequence before the credits. But as the film progressed, I had to find amusement in counting Denise Richard's wet t-shirt closeups. "},{"Title":"Standards are going down","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When you have grown up seeing james bond in action, its hard to accept the fact that after years we still havent improved much. Neither the stunts nor the plots have become grander. After TWINE I rented out Moonraker. My god the stunts were much better and the plot was totally awesome. I mean the villains had an attitude and they thought big. May be the previous Bond movies set too much of a standard that we are struggling to maintain it. We now have a charming Bond but no good plots, stunts, punch lines to support it. May be not enough money is being poured in or are we running out of ideas?  "},{"Title":"Gadgets, Women, Action, Jokes, ....and Emotion?","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a diehard Bond fan, having seen every one in the series (except that upstart Never Say Never Again.)  This one does not dissappoint.  Brosnan is the perfect Bond.  He mixes all the best elements of the other Bonds Connery's ruggedness, Moore's humorous hedonism, Dalton's vulnerability. I was amazed at how many shades of grey there were in this, especially for a Bond movie.  M's judgement is called into question (Judi Dench is an acting GODDESS). The bad guys are presented sympathetically.  Bond shows more emotion than I am comfortable with . . . and that makes the movie all the better. The action was all I could ask for.  Some reviews (not on this site) I've read said it was a rehash of old Bond stunts.  Some were.  But some was quite original, loveably over-the-top, and high on adrenaline. Sophia Marceau was excellent.  Her character is so complex (for a Bond flick).  Robert Carlyle was the most sympathetic sociopath I can think of. Denise Richards, though, is a terrible actress.  She said all her lines absolutely flatly, like she was reading from a cue card.  But, then, one doesn't looking for acting ability in a Bond girl. Overall, an excellent continuation of the best escapist series ever. (Although I did groan at the last line, which I won't give away.  See the movie.)  "}{"Title":"Best Bond Film since Connery","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The writing is exceptional in this film.  The spirit and energy of the whole OO7 series is evident in the wit and witticisms, the gadgetry, pithy comments, non-stop action and truly sinister villains.  Climb aboard for the ride of your life!  "},{"Title":"A Subpar Entry in the Bond Canon","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike many, I have enjoyed Pierce Brosnan as Bond.  He appears to have more fun with the role than any of his predecessors since Connery.  But The World is Not Enough was a disappointment.  It lacked the creativity of Brosnan's two previous efforts, and instead pieces together action sequences from other Bond films.  We get souped-up versions of the boat chase from From Russia With Love, the skiing scene from On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and the old we've-got-to-deactivate-the-bomb gimmick from Goldfinger, and A View to a Kill, amongst others.Both Goldeneye and Tomorrow Never Dies had wonderfully grandiose villains intent on striking fear in the hearts of everyone on earth.  But the bad guys in T.W.I.N.E. are rendered impotent by their lack of ambition.  So while Robert Carlyle gives a chillingly malefic performance as Renard, it is wasted in a film which felt more like a Timothy Dalton Bond flick than the two brilliant throwbacks to the heyday of Sean Connery that Brosnan previously made. "},{"Title":"A Low Point in Bond History","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TWINE was definitely a disappointment.  Yes, it has great effects, great action, and great gadgets, but certain elements of the movie were just off. The normally sharp and wry Bond quips are too-cute and a bit more over the line than the norm, and there were so many one-liners that by the end the audience that I was a part of were groaning (note the final line of the movie).  The good Bond girl was overly one-dimensioned (but very much 3D).  It was very much a Bond movie, even innovative in the villain department (who was the worst bad guy in the film?), but the parts they messed with made this a disappointment, with GoldenEye and TND being super movies.  Go see it, but keep your expectations low and you'll enjoy the blank-minded laughs and cool action/effects.   "},{"Title":"Better than Tommorow Never Dies But Goldeneye better","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Saw it it today, it was worth getting up and watching it. Not the best Bond ever but definately worth watching if u are Bond fan. It felt a bit different, the opening sequence was really different, it actually had to do with the movie, it was a long opener as well. But that didn't seem to bother me, Brosnon was good as usual in this one, Elektra King was a good villian for a woman, and well Robert Caryle could've been better. He wasn't evil enough. As for the Bond girl in this one, she hardly meant anything to the movie, she didn't even have to be in it, M had more of an involvement and I actually liked that, something different for a change. Overall the movie was definately worth the wait, and I thought was worth seeing but nothing to make a huge thing about. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Tomorrow Never Dies","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For a Bond movie, this is quite a laid back show. Sure, there are the usual action sequences, but they don't come on in a non-stop burst as Tomorrow Never Dies; nor are the sequences as creative.The villains are not as sinister, and the overall ambience of the movie is not as intense. Seems to me also, that if you can't feel pain, then damage to the medulla oblongata would likely be so severe as to make sex highly difficult/meaningless. The theme song is uninspired and uninspiring. Even the incidental music doesn't stand out.Overall, a watchable 007 movie, but not something that will make me watch it again or wait in agony for the DVD release.  "},{"Title":"It's a solid Bond film","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When I was a kid Tomorrow Never Dies was my favorite Bond film that had Pierce Brosnan in it. But my perspective changed after growing a bit older. This is actually a solid Bond movie and I just don't get why it got quite a bit of hate from reviewers. The pacing and direction is actually quite fun. It's a fun popcorn action flick that is fast- paced for the most part and has a story that is good enough to make it a solid entry. I am not quite sure of Denise Richards playing a nuclear physicist and one of the Bond girls. But she didn't bother me, I think she gets quite a bit of hate because she just doesn't seem like a nuclear physicist because of the way she talks and dresses. Denise Richards to me is basically one of the scientist or physicist that are in comic books. Betty Swanson from the Deadpool comics being one of them. Plus she was a nice eye candy throughout the ordeal as James Bond's guide. This is still a campy Bond film, but just not as corny as the previous ones with Roger Moore. However the actress that really nailed it was Sophie Marceau as the sexy and seductive femme fatale, Elektra King. Despite the fact that most movie buffs will catch onto her motives very early on. It was also nice to see M (Judi Dench) play a bigger role this time instead of just the boss that gives out the mission information. The action sequences are done really well and when I say action there is quite a lot of action set pieces in this that is fun to watch without it going way over the top. Overall, this is a solid entry with Pierce Brosnan as Bond.8.3/10 "},{"Title":"bond .. james bond","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" the 19th installment, has an Oil Tycoon murdered at a bombing of MI-6 headquarters,, and Bond is sent to protect the daughter who has just inherited millions.. our villain, Renard, a man who is adverse to pain because he has a bullet lodged in his head, decides that he wants to interrupt the building of an oil pipeline,, and get a monopoly on all of the oil in Europe. Pierce Brosnan does a fairly good job in this one.. Denise Richards as Christmas Jones is Bond's reluctant partner in this to try and stop our evil villain. Richards is very beautiful, sexy, and very hot, but let's face it people she can't act worth a darn. this isn't a bad movie at all , I enjoyed the opening song  the world is not enough, great action sequences, and thrills,, "},{"Title":"A good Brosnan Bond","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond carries out an errand for M which has a tragic end when her friend oil magnate Robert King is killed by explosives planted in the money Bond recovered on his behalf in connection with his daughter Elektra's kidnapping. It is feared that the kidnapping, from which Elextra escapes on her own, is by terrorist Renard (who is dying due to a bullet, shot by Bond, lodged in his brain and gradually shutting down his senses). Bond travels to Elektra's oil pipeline base in Azerbaijan as well as being somewhat taken by Elektra, he also encounters busty short shorts-wearing physicist Christmas Jones...The third of the Brosnan Bonds benefits from having a plot which (mostly) makes sense and is somewhat more credible than usual, an interesting and unusual villain in Robert Carlyle's Renard, and an attractive, textured and conflicted character in Sophie Marceau's Elektra.Of course, in the largely unnecessary Christmas Jones it also has a character who ranks high on the not-inconsiderable list of Most Preposterously Named Bond Girls.... "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH has to be my favorite James Bond film. It seems that Pierce Brosnan's Bond films have the longest teasers (pre-credits sequences) in the series and the River Thames chase was a brilliant start, not to mention well-filmed with the London background. The action scene that stands out from them all in the film is the helicopter attack on the Caspian Sea. The plot is very interesting with twists and turns with all the oil involvement, and Pierce perhaps gives his finest Bond performance in his four outings.Robert Carlyle makes a chilling villain as Renard (he's already dead and can't feel pain), but the biggest highlight of TWINE is the two leading women Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards. Marceau is very well-cast as villainess Elektra King and is perhaps the best Bond villainess since THUNDERBALL's Fiona Volpe. Richards is a gorgeous actress and she's very charming and fun as heroine Dr. Christmas Jones. These are two of the most beautiful and sexiest Bond girls in the series; you are going to love both of them.With its well-staged action, epic plot, Pierce's wonderful performance, and two brilliant Bond girls, TWINE is a Bond adventure both Bond fans and non-Bond fans will treasure. **** "},{"Title":"Bronson finally gets it right","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, better than the last 2, and the last one was a step backwards.  The humor, charm, and seriousness Bronson portrays, melds into a combination that creates the Bond character.  The story is strong, but no one would survive an explosion in a pipeline.  The shockwave would be too great, but its Bond anyways.  The lead bad guy plays a great role, but Denise Richards get across more like a dingbat, then a nuclear physicist, when she delivers her scientific line.  She's there for fluff.  Not a bad story, or cast, and Bond actually acts as him, a turn in the right direction "}{"Title":"Stop the series!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond has seen better days. There are no bad communists any more. James Bond has been everywhere. He can't improve any more. The last Bond movie is a desperate try to mix the old-fashioned elements the audience likes about Bond and necessary modern elements that should make the movie at least a little bit believable.Since Roger Moore there has been no good Bond movie any more. Only &#132;Tomorrow Never Dies` had a few good scenes. The rest, including &#132;T.W.I.N.E.` was boring and worthless. Stop the series, producers! Pierce Brosnan doesn't want to do it anyway! Put an end to your obsession with &#132;the James Bond of the 21st century`! We can't go back to the sixties, I'm sorry! If you are nostalgic, a new Bond only hurts and makes you wish Connery and Moore back. Go and watch the old classics.  "},{"Title":"The movie was a sad epitaph for Q","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should have been a joyful experience for all in that Q was going into retirement. As we all know now, sadly Desmond Llewelyn was killed after making the movie. The whole movie, from Pierce Brosnan to the villains seem to just be reading lines. Maybe Pierce has grown tired of Bond and very evident are signs of age on his face. Rememberable villains to gadgets have been a mainstay of the whole series but did not leave a lasting impression in this film.  The only memory I will have of this film is the final time we see Q descending and leaving us with a glimpse of a hero drifting into the sunset. Goodbye Q and thanks for the memories. "},{"Title":"The Plot is not Enough","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Who needs a plot when you have explosions?  And really neat gadgets?  In earlier Bond films, the gadgets were made to fit the story.  In this one, the story is made to fit the gadgets.  Did anyone else feel like the flying snowmobile scene was totally contrived?  I can imagine one producer saying to another, Hey, I've got this great idea, we can have these snowmobiles on parachutes.  So we better write in a skiing scene, even though it has NOTHING to do with the story.  Not only that, but Denise Richards has to be the poorest excuse for a nuclear physicist EVER.  Sophie Marceau is beautiful, but did she have to spend 3/4 of her screen time wearing nothing but bedsheets?  Does James Bond have to sleep with EVERY woman in the movie? I'm surprised there wasn't a love scene with him and Judi Dench.  I always thought Pierce Brosnan would make an excellent James Bond (and he does), but these poor excuses for scripts they are using are ruining the Bond series. Unless you are a die-hard Bond fan, do yourself a favor and avoid this one. "},{"Title":"For non-Bond fans, barely worth the rental fee","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Unless you are a die-hard James Bond fan, this movie is barely worth the rental fee.  Without Ian Flemming's storywriting, this movie failed to leave the runway.  Its action scenes were recycled, Pierce Brosnan's 007 was unremarkable, and the plot and acting were simply uninteresting.  Though later Bond films have never been especially noted for their plot and character development, they have always been rescued by sfx, 007's toys, and beautiful women.  Unfortunately, all we are rewarded with is some sort of armored miniboat and a pretty car that only costs a lot more than mine! Don't misunderstand me -- the women certainly are beautiful, but they do not fit their roles.  Sophie Marceau simply does not possess the edge, while Denise Richards lacks the on-screen persona of a scientist to allow me to disregard my disbelief even for a moment!  Alas, I am forced to watch Dr. No for the 20th time and wonder what might this movie could have been. "},{"Title":"This movie is more than enough!","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's pretty obvious that the makers of this film are pandering to teenage boys, one of the largest groups of potential ticket buyers according to demographics. The problem is it's too obvious! From the wooden performance of buxom bombshell Denise Richards to the huge holes in the plot-big enough to drive 007s BMW through-these  movies are beginning to look more and more like cartoons . Never mind that the plot is totally unrealistic and ridiculous. After all, this is supposed to be mindless, escapist entertainment. But how about a little verisimilitude just to keep us from total disbelief!Case in point-don't read further if you don't want a couple of  plot points ruined, not that it would really make any difference to your enjoyment of the film! OK, here is the scenario our perpetually suave spy beds one of the leading ladies in the first half of the film. As he should and as we expect. This is the beautiful Electra King who turns out to be one of the baddies later on in the film. James supposedly makes love to this woman. I say supposedly because of what entails in the second half of the film. Now don't you think that the world's greatest spy/lover might touch his conquest's face during their lovemaking? And if he did so, don't you think that his hand might graze her ear; in fact, is it too much to imagine that he might nibble on her ear or at least whisper sweet nothings into it?Well, apparently not-at least from the filmmaker's viewpoint. We learn in the second half of the film, when we get to see her evil side, that Electra has self-mutilated herself by cutting off part of her ear. She shows this to Bond as if for the first time, brushing her hair away from her face to reveal it. Now, if Bond hasn't discovered this already, I dare say that he's not living up to his image of the prototypical lothario! But I blame this on the filmmaker's and not on poor James who is just a pawn in this teenage game of commercialism.Second case in point-this one really makes me laugh. Bond is on a sub. There is mention of the depth at 100 feet. That's when the sub takes a nosedive and plunges straight down. Taking a conservative guess at the speed of the sub, maybe 20 knots or so, and the duration of the scene, I would say that when they hit bottom they would have to be at about 700 or 800 feet. Not only is that deeper than any scuba diver has ever been (as of 1995 the record was 437 feet) but coming up to the surface-in a real world scenario-entails lots of stops along the way to equalize the pressure to keep one from dying or at the very least getting the bends.But for our fearless Bond, along with his buxom sidekick-now in her very wet t-shirt (teenage boys take note-the women all wear bras in this film) swim to the surface holding their breath, seeming hardly winded when they reach the surface! I'm sorry, this point alone was too much for me to swallow. And I'm no professional diver either but I do know that if they came up to the surface from that depth as quickly as they did they would explode-literally!Here's the last reason I gave this movie a three. In keeping with the Bond tradition there is much casual violence, mostly aimed at the bad guys ofcourse, and the obligatory suggestiveness of the beautiful women without really showing much of anything. This last point wouldn't haven't bothered me at all when I was a teenager myself but now that I'm pushing 40 it bothers me. And the reason it bothers me is that they have managed to bring down the rating of the film to PG-13. Maybe they've been that way for awhile but I just noticed. And I can't help reflecting on the fact that they can show all that violence, granted-without the blood and guts-but violence nonetheless, and it is verboten with that rating to show even a woman's nipple through a wet t-shirt much less a bare breast. There's something disturbing about that..not the lack of nudity but the permissive, matter-of-fact violence.So, if you want to see yet another Bond movie with the same old formulaic plot, the same old cliches and no new surprises, you'll love this film. "},{"Title":"I don't understand the 9+ star reviews on here","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really don't understand the large number of 9 and 10 star reviews here on IMDb for this movie. Having seen all of the bond films multiple times, this one may not be the worst, but it certainly is not the best.After seeing this several times, my opinion has not changed. I (and many others) found the writing to be some of the most immature and juvenile of bond series of movies. The acting was spotty and the casting ill fated. The action scenes (outside the well done opening sequence) are poorly choreographed and cheesy looking. The male villain was ... tame and not very threatening. It just didn't do too much except deliver lots of action - poorly done action, but lots of it.The shining part of the movie is Sophia Marceau playing the sexy victim/villain. she shines in the movie, and plays all the facets of her part well - childlike victim, sexual plaything, sexual predator, conniving bitch, and slightly insane maniacal killer. I do give Brosnan some credit, this is probably his best Bond film, but he was never right for the role. Denise Richards was in no way convincing as a scientist of any kind, let alone a nuclear physicist. No-one bought her in that role. Her acting was terrible and her wardrobe didn't help - walking around in a tank top and shorts almost the whole movie. I enjoyed the view but wasn't seeing the character - only her well displayed body.A few of the many many examples of poor writing and directing- the banter from Christmas and Elektra about the other woman was ridiculous. I know women swoon for Bond, but as soon as Christmas sees Elektra she makes a comment about Bond sleeping with her. And it was the same the other way around. Here are two smart and powerful women (one who was clearly just using Bond) and they suddenly get all jealous at the sight of another beautiful woman? Totally out of character and poorly written.- the list of goofs in this film must be the longest of any Bond film &#x96; this shows a very poor job of directing, writing, and editing. Continuity was very poor in many of the scenes. Yes there was lots going on, but that is no excuse for the switching of guns, body directions, and clothing, as well as injuries disappearing or moving, objects in rooms moving, and many other mistakes that are throughout the movie.- the fight scene in the sub near the end was the ultimate in bad directing and choreography. When Renard knees Bond hurting him badly, his knee obviously goes next to Bond not into him. Throughout the movie punches and kicks clearly miss the target yet Renard is somehow knocked out briefly and Bond is later writhing in pain. And when they are choking each other with hands at the neck, they basically have a conversation &#x85; while being choked.- The scenes of the fight at the caviar factory and it being being destroyed &#x85; where do you start. None of it looked remotely realistic. The helicopters carrying saws cutting through everything, while a cool idea, just looked so hokey. The way the buildings were cut, the way the car was cut in two, the saw chasing Brosnan down a pier, etc, etc. Every part of the scene was poorly done and looked silly. I know there is a comedic factor to these movies, but this belonged in the Peter Sellers spoof, not a real Bond movie.I could go on and talk about all the scenes where Brosnans stunt double is clearly identified, other examples of really bad writing, and the horrible plot, but you get the idea.There is a reason why - Denise Richards got the Razzies award that year - for Worst Supporting Actress. - Rotten Tomatoes ranked this #21 of the 25 Bond Movies (right behind Die Another Day and Tomorrow Never Dies - two other Brosnan Bond movies) - Both Rolling Stone and BuzzFeed rank it #20 out of 25 - Entertainment Weekly named Denise Richards the worst Bond girl of all time in 2008 (even worse than Tanya Robers in A View To A Kill) - and EW ranked this the worst bond movie of all time (but that was before Quantum of Solace and Die Another Day which is now ranks lower).I will say one more thing though, when M is captured and locked in the cell. I expected her to pull something out of her broach or a hairpin that she would use. I mean come-on, she runs the whole organization and she had nothing to work with and couldn't even pull a clock into the cell? "},{"Title":"part 19 is better then the first 18","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is part 18 not the James Bond movies and it is better then all the ones that came before it. There is only one James Bond movie that is better. And it is one that came after. Die another day is better. This a is the second beast James Bond movie. Sean Connery and Daniel Greg are great as James Bond. But Pierce B.r.o.s.n.a.n is the beast James Bond. This is a great movie. Great acting. Great story line. Robert Carlyle is one of the scariest Bond villains. All the Bond girls are good actresses. Denise Richards is one of the prettiest Bond girls. This movie as great sound t.r.a.c.k. Live and let die as the beast sound t.r.a.c.k. Paul McCartney did that one so it has to be good. See all the James Bond movie except for Casino r.o.y.a.l.e (1967) staring David N.i.v.e.n. That one is not a real James Bond movie. Other then at see all of them. They are great. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzz","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Unbearably tedious, muddled, instantly forgettable Bond 'thriller' that tries hard to introduce a deeper, darker, more emotionally flawed hero to the audience but at the expense of narrative cohesion and entertainment value. Right from the start things weren't looking too promising as it's not very often I find myself sensing boredom setting in with a film before the opening credits have appeared but that is certainly the case here thanks to an interminable boat chase sequence that, unusually for a Bond outing, contains a prelude to the subsequent plot but unfortunately very little in the way of entertainment. Plus points ? Coltrane, Marceau (Although her character, similarly to Tiffany Case in 'Diamonds Are Forever', does get progressively sillier) and the fact that this is marginally less awful than the truly ghastly 'Die Another Day'. Negative ? A disjointed, utterly tedious screenplay, a feeble villain who posed about as much threat as The Hooded Claw, mind-numbing 'action' sequences and the less said about Ms Richards, the better. A glossy and vacuous pile of drivel. For masochists only. "},{"Title":"Where are the days of Doctor No?","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Where are the days of Doctor No and Goldfinger and the imposing presence of Sean Connery or the unmistakable twinkle in the eyes of Roger Moore? The initial Bond movies centered on the personality of 007 and apart from action offered us good old tongue-in-cheek fun.Pierce Brosnan has transformed Bond into a cold steel-like android who admittedly corresponds more to what Ian Fleming probably had in mind when depicting him in his novels but who becomes a rather lifeless personality when we see him on screen.The entire movie is a never ending succession of pursuit and violence which could just have well been portrayed by a group of professional stunt men or women with no acting experience at all.The main characters are totally irrelevant and serve exclusively as unavoidable tools for mere visual effects.Breathtaking indeed, but after a while as one starts to grasp for breath due to too much intake, one experiences the virtuosity of the visual feats as a kind of on-going animation.Maybe it's the right time for the producers of the next Bond film to reconsider how far they can go without completely destroying the appeal of the basic 007. "},{"Title":"Good,but Brosnan's weakest","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Goldeneye revived the Bond series,Tomorrow Never Dies proved to be even better. The World Is Not Enough,sadly,is a step back. The intention here was to have stronger characterisation and a touch more realism,but this was slightly botched. Bond supposedly falls in love with villainess Electra,but not enough is made of this,losing the opportunity for real emotions. By contrast,rather too much emphasis is put on Electra's perverse relationship with the other major villain,Renard. There is a concerted attempt to get away from traditional Bond glamour,but visually the film is dull. Even the locations are uninteresting.Acion wise,the film has one of the best opening sequences ever in a Bond film,a long boat chase around the Thames. A pipeline escape setpiece and yet another ski chase are fairly memorable but the climatic fight in a submarine is a letdown. The villains are unmenacing and,while Brosnan is more relaxed as Bond,some of his edge is gone. At least it's good to see M in jeopardy and Q's last appearance is poignant,if not poignant enough-as with much of the film,the attempt's at emotion are half hearted.David Arnold provides a terrific score-John Barry with breakbeats!-and overall the film still delivers enough of the traditional Bond elements. Generally a bit overrated,though. "}{"Title":"Believability","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have always been a huge Bond fan. I don't think there is any way to rate the Bond Actors. Connery's movies had a consistent writer--Maibaum--(might've even written for Lazenby and Moore) and could use more of Flemming's source material. The writers and directors make up Bond's movie world, not the actors. This isn't the only uneven Bond film; Roger Moore's episodes suffer the most. And, ask yourself, is Denise Richards worse than Grace Jones? Sophie Marceau has her own problems; her character belongs in a Spanish soap opera. My rating of 4 is in comparison to other Bond movies (10 going to Goldfinger; 1 going to Die Another Day). In one word, this movie is frustrating. There are many great elements for a Bond story here, but they are messed up by the wrong kind of action elements (later half of the movie). Bond becomes Rambo--shooting two guns without cover, then he outruns explosions (more than one), then he is attacked by a helicopter with a giant saw/weed whacker. I can't help wondering if that saw device even exists--that is too distracting (and I can accept Bond driving around Paris in half a Renault (AVtoaK), because it was a throwaway gag, not a significant plot device). If EON Productions still exists, they should stop using the over-the-top action set pieces (enough with outrunning fireballs). I'd like to see them make Casino Royale. It also wouldn't hurt to have Bond rescued by his friends in the C.I.A.; this has always been a part of the Bond universe. "},{"Title":"An unconvincing Bond and a great villain.","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Michael Apted and produced by Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson, it has script by Bruce Feirstein and Robert Wade and is the nineteenth film in the franchise. In this film, Pierce Brosnan plays 007 alongside Sophie Marceau, in the role of Electra King, Denise Richards, in the role of Christmas Jones, Robbie Coltrane, in the role of Valentin Zukovsky and Robert Carlyle, in the role of Renard. In this film, Desmond Llewelyn made one of his last appearances as Q, alongside his replacement, John Cleese, in the role of R, his assistant.In this film, James Bond will protect the life of Elektra, the young and seductive daughter of an oil tycoon, murdered by the construction of a pipeline in the Caspian Sea. Despite the orders received, Bond will discover that the girl keeps dark secrets from her past, and isn't as angelic and helpless as she seems.Its not the first time that James Bond gives attention to problems related to oil or energy, we already saw something similar in The Man With the Golden Gun. However, its this film that focuses more directly on issues related to oil industry and the control of oil production, either by countries or by certain firms. Sophie Marceau deserves congratulations for her excellent interpretation in this film, where she had a deeply complex character. Indeed, Brosnan's time's movies, despite its serious flaws, gave some of the most remarkable and memorable villains of the franchise. As for Brosnan himself, he continued to make his role unconvincingly or unsurprisingly, warm as a bread without salt. The film is full of errors, paradoxes, continuity failures impossible to disguise and blatant advertising of various sponsors. The machines are also worth mentioning in this film, in particular the helicopter with saws which, in the most striking sequence of the film, chases Bond cutting a BMW and a caviar warehouse as if they were butter. The opening theme of this film is the longest in franchise so far. Sung by Garbage is excellent although its too long. "},{"Title":"Improvement Since Last.","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A truly shake-up since ...dies, this was. A lot more dedicated Pierce Brosnan, some more interesting story, and better casting. (Except the annoying Denise Richards, who does it better on a photo shoot than as an actress.) A female shape named Christmas Jones can't be taken seriously....Solid story, besides the usual greed theme that always is the temptation for villains in 007 movies. (A woman deceives her own family for total control and absolute power over the family business.) The excellent Judy Dench got a little more space, which is very welcomed, and the supporting actors are mostly well picked for the job in hand. Some good action scenes on snow, and an action-packed ending with thrilling moments.When I first watched this movie on a theater in the 90's, I left quite relieved, thinking they were back on track with the Bond movies. This 19th movie adventure of one James Bond moved me in some good way, never to know there was a sadly bad 21st century opening for 007 to come...Pierce Brosnans last show delighted many, not me. With the cards now already on the table, this should have been the last chapter of James Bond Mk. V.But the producers did want to spoil the whole thing, and raze it in a very strange way. "},{"Title":"Flash Bang Boom... Bomb !","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's fast! It has a lot of explosions! It has many big big flames and running around and shooting. It starts with a terrific water and land chase around London mostly on the Thames. It even has a torture scene if that's your thing. BUT !!! It has so many of these action devises that the story and the who is who and why are they chasing each other get rather lost.Pierce Brosnan is pretending to be Bond in this one but he really IS Remington Steele so it doesn't quite work. Judi Densch as M and Desmond Llewelyn as Q are their usual excellent selves.Outstanding character was Robbie Coltrane as a rather Sidney Greenstreet like semi-villain. Odd to see Hagred in a Bond film. If you want to see all of the Bonds you may like this one. As a stand alone watch only if you like explosions and hard to follow story. "},{"Title":"Bond is Not Enough.","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not Enough (1999) Dir Michael Apted / Cast Pierce Brosnan, Sophia Marceau, Denise Richards, Robert Carlyle, Robbie Coltrane Title can symbolize the attitude of the villain who wishes to conquer until there is nothing left to obtain. Plot regards an international power struggle over the world's oil supply. 007 agent James Bond is sent to protect Sophie Marceau, the daughter of a murdered oil tycoon. Christmas Jones is a nuclear scientist whom assists him. Explosive stunts and action delivered in full by director Michael Apted. This is an interesting choice film for a director famous for Coal Miner's Daughter and Gorillas in the Mist but he seems comfortable with the material. Pierce Brosnan's third outing as Bond and his best moment arrives in a vital scene where he is faced with the possibility of shooting a woman. Marceau is a wonderful in a mysterious role. Denise Richards as Jones is a terrible miscast that nearly sabotages the whole film. Robert Carlyle is effective as a villain with a bullet lodged in his brain that affects his nervous system so that he can feel little pain. We know that a physical confrontation will surface but that is among what loyal fans expect. Robbie Coltrane appears as a former Russian mafia boss who now dwells at casinos. Well crafted entry with its share of creative gadgets that should please fans who cannot get enough. Score 8 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"It had good ideas but the execution was of mixed results.","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm happy that The World Is Not Enough decided to tweak the Bond formula rather than go with the tried and true. I like how the story is complex, with thriller elements, and with twists. I appreciate that it has a different kind of villain.There's a conflict of tone. Brosnan goes for a dark intimidating performance while writers went for a goofy script. And there's Denise Richards (ugh...). It's over the top, filled with chainsaws, heavy machinery and bullets. It has kind of an industrial feel to it. It could've used a different director but when all's said and done, the good outweighs the bad. "},{"Title":"Always have an escape plan!","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan slows down a bit in this Bond effort,but the movie is still likable.I like the idea of a villain who can feel no pain,and Bond being betrayed by someone he set out to protect.M is also involved in the storyline a little more than usual,which is also enjoyable.A sad fact about the film is that it's the final bow for Desmond Llewelyn as Q.I find it strange that Llewelyn died not long after completing the film,as they certainly made it seem like it was his last turn in the role regardless,and that John Cleese was being groomed as his successor.Denise Richards,although a knockout,is not a very good actress,and was not a smart choice as Christmas Jones.While overall,the film is likable,I am afraid it's not among my personal Bond favorites. "},{"Title":"Bottom of the Pierce Brosnans","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you love as much action as this film has got in it, then you will enjoy it. although it is easily the bottom of the Peirce brosnans, mainly because it perhaps has a little to much action in it. I mean well there's a difference between bond using his gun to much, and not having one at all, like he did in Moon raker. although I do quite enjoy bond, a lot and I never got that sick of this film, although the gadgets were not used a lot, mainly referring to his car which only last one minute, before it was teared apart by a helicopter blade. they must have ran out of ideas when the cold war ended, but the war on terror should give a new direction in the bond franchise. sometimes I wonder whether also run out of names for the bond girls, mainly referring to the nuclear weapons scientist, 'Dr Chrismas Jones'- the silliest name I have ever heard for a bond chick. although it may not be the best bond ever made, it is still highly enjoyable, so you had might as well give this a try. 7/10 "},{"Title":"..what a pretty little movie...","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" How many decades ago did I see a James Bond film? I don't even remember if I saw Diamonds are Forever. Oh, I've been aware they are still being made - as one commentator wrote, plastic surgery.......and it's due for Pierce Brosnan before the next episode. Will he be in it, you reckon, or will they find some OTHER dark-haired, handsome male to make the men feel all empowered? As you can tell, I am not a James Bond fan. BUT - I did like all the pretty colors of the explosions - and thought the cinematography for the skiing sequence was great. I'm STILL trying to figure-out what the part with all the fires and hot coals was about. Only to show that one of the characters didn't feel pain? Can't give any opinions about any of the actors/actresses, as they were all new to me except La Dench. WOW ! Was I surprised to see her in there. She must make a mint for that role, because she's totally wasted. And, I need someone to explain to me how that little skiff with the rocket-powered engine kept right on scooting down London's streets, but no wheels were visible.The most impressive characteristic of the entire film is the many suits that Mr. Bond goes-through. Has it ever been explained how he affords them ? - never has any luggage ! I guess he has them stashed all around the world, huh? Am I to understand the pipeline had never been used to pump oil from way over there to way over here? So clean inside, but then I guess you really need to use your imagination for Bond films. I tried! Laughed a lot, anyway.........most admit I had to read some other commentaries to get even a smidgeon of what the plot was about; was there one? Some wrote about protecting a girl. The automated smart-car was pretty cool, but that cutter hanging from the 'copter was stretching it a bit much - however did they get it from country-to-country without it getting shot-down ? Oh - I forget this IS James Bond and you don't ask any questions.As I've written about other movies, it's just entertainment and I WAS entertained - still laughing. You see, I didn't actually buy this DVD - although the colors in it are fabulous - I got it as a bonus from a credit-card. So, it being free and funny, I guess I lucked-up. Has Pierce Brosnan done any other work? Might have to run him through Google........ "},{"Title":"Bebe Loncar, actress is also in this film. (born 1943)","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Reference a request by a fellow member over at http//www.autographfinder.com for her name, I went Google exploring and found over at http//digitallyobsessed.com/showreview.php?ID=4951 that she was also in this film, having appeared as the Viking Pricess Gerda in the 1963 or 1964 (depends on whose website you're reading), The Long Ships (with review of not too good a movie), this Bebe Loncar, one of the Film Fatales as noted over at The digitally obsessed, my project in trying to get her address for an autograph too, like maybe to co-autograph The Tales of Norse Warrior Gods book, by Anne & Elisa Keary, ISBN 0486440532 of 256 pages For sale over at Dover Publications, me just purchasing a great Annie Oakley and Buffalo Bill's Wild West of this wonderful behind-the-scenes story and over 100 photographs, posters, etc. ISBA 0-486-24120-3 also for ten bucks + five bucks postage. The Norse Warrior book specifically at http//store.dover.publications.com/0486440532.html this not an advertisement, as I have no connection with the company other than as a customer, just relaying that if you'd like further information about this actress they might have contact information, or if you do too, then please contact me or us here. I think a reunion of the stars from this film would make for a nice autograph signing event, like here in New England we have the Bayside Expo in Boston every Thanksgiving time. Yours truly, MrTideman. "}{"Title":"With each movie the series goes further downhill","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While Pierce Brosnan fits the mold perfectly. However, why do the scripts force him to essentially hate his job. Previous Bond characters enjoyed their job, and disliked aspects. The tables appeared reversed here. So in trying create a sense of realism, they have ruined the character, but made the scripts more preposterous (though Bond's increasingly lame quips belongs in a bad cartoon). And the scripts are dreadful. The bad guys are wimpy and stupid. Judi Dench is not good as M (and this movie and the beginning of Die Another Day prove it). She had hope in the first flick, but that fizzled out fast. It is a shame the script and direction have both taken away from these two quality actors (Brosnan and Dench).Christmas Jones? The Bond women were plausible in their roles even as they were attractive. Denise Richards doesn't come close to pulling this off. The dialog between the two is so contrived. She looks and acts like a the ultimate sex robot/doll.And when no one thought it could get worse...here comes Die Another Day. "},{"Title":"A near miss (SPOILERS)","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With GoldenEye and Tomorrow Never Dies being huge hits, producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli decided that they would try a more realistic and character-driven piece for their next film, The World Is Not Enough. Hired to direct the movie was Michael Apted, who they hoped could merge a complicated story with action and deep character. While two aspects more or less worked, the action never quite gels with the rest of the film and what we get as a final payoff isn't as interesting as the beginning sets it up to be.The World Is Not Enough gets off to a fantastic start, this much is almost unanimous. Even though it's the longest, this fifteen-minute section of the movie is expertly handled and edited, probably being the best pre-title scene out of the whole series. After escaping from a Spanish bank, Bond (played again by Pierce Brosnan) brings in a briefcase full of money belonging to Sir Robert King, an oil magnate. Unfortunately, the money is booby-trapped and King is killed in an explosion at MI6's HQ.This leads Bond on a wild boat chase on the Thames that ends in a surprising plot twist. Then we're treated to the best Bond title song in a long time, performed by Garbage. After that, well... Not to say that the rest of the movie isn't as good, but it's not as fun. While we get a fresh and unique plot device introduced into the world of Bond, oil, it's used as just that a plot device (to be fair, most films in the series have the same problem).The action scenes in TWINE are easily the biggest cracks in the movie. Aside from the thrilling start, they suffer with the problem of not being as interesting as they probably were on paper. The ski chase is the most glaring example of this. And though they add to the plot for the most part, they seem superfluous. Take the attack on the caviar factory. Couldn't the bad guys just have sent normal assassins instead of those unwieldy helicopters?Making up for the lackluster action are the characters and overall plot. Elekra King, the daughter of Sir Robert, is one of the best developed people in the series, and Sophie Marceau plays her with the right mix of seductive innocence and toughness. She's made even better when we find out that she's in fact the villain and has been playing everyone to just nuke Istanbul and receive a massive oil monopoly. Judi Dench's M gets involved in the action, and because she's been in the past two movies and shows some genuine competence, I can say that she is a great boss.Returning from GoldenEye is Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky, being even better here than in his previous appearance. He gets the best lines of the film and helps the plot in numerous ways. His final fate is touching and we have the sense of really getting to know this man who's always stood on the line of an ally and villain. Then there's Brosnan, who gives a good, but not quite great, performance as 007. This version of Bond is fairly dark and conflicted, and the actor gets into that side pretty good, even though some scenes could've done with a retake, like when he confronts Elektra in Baku. He still gets one of the best scenes of all the movies, where he kills a woman in cold blood.Two performers struggle a bit, though. Robert Carlyle as terrorist Renard doesn't grab the audience's attention the way Marceau does, and the character manages to fade into the background after it's revealed who's behind everything, even though he still gets a few good scenes. The other Bond Girl, Denise Richards, isn't as awful as most people say she is. She gives in a fair effort as Christmas Jones, an inferior character when compared to Elektra, and her being a nuclear physicist doesn't score high on the believability charts.There are a few miscellaneous comments David Arnold's music isn't as good as it was for Tomorrow Never Dies, being a bit too techno in some scenes, but he still scores a few decent cues. The plot is refreshingly realistic, probably being the deepest of Brosnan's four films, and it still manages to be suitably complex. A nice nod to Fleming's novels comes from the title, which is Bond's family motto. A final touch comes from John Cleese as R, Q's assistant. This would be Desmond Llewelyn's last Bond film, and he's as great here as he was in From Russia With Love. Cleese is actually more of a distraction and doesn't come close to Llewelyn when he takes over the role.Overall, The World Is Not Enough, despite the best of intentions, just misses the mark and falls into the average category, when it could've been much more. The hard-edged thriller is sometimes unsuccessfully merged with more light-hearted gags, but I'll recommend the film if you can overlook the lesser aspects. At the very least, it's better than what comes after it. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"When you just want to have some brainless fun this isn't a bad movie","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm not the biggest fan of Bond movies, simply because most of the time it lacks any realism . It's true, the makers have tried to incorporate some actual facts in the movie (terrorists who try to get nuclear material to make a dirty bomb, problems about oil and pipelines,...), but it isn't enough to make this movie more realistic. A Bond movie has never been and it never will be realistic it's just impossible for one man to do what James Bond does. He cheats death time after time, he avoids bullets and explosions, knows everything about anything and always knows to stop the bad guys at the last moment. So, if you are looking for any realism this movie isn't really the one for you. However, when you just want to have some brainless fun this isn't a bad movie. There are plenty of pretty women to enjoy, a lot of action in different environments (in a submarine, in the mountains, London...).In fact this is quite good for a Bond movie and I give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"One Bond Film Is Never Enough.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another good entry in the series has Bond (Pierce Brosnan) trying to protect the rich daughter (Sophie Marceau) of a murdered British oil baron. It seems that the crazed Robert Carlyle (who actually has a bullet lodged in his head which keeps him from feeling any physical pain) has a devious plan to cripple Marceau's oil pipeline which would allow her to provide oil to the whole world. But is she really what she seems? Denise Richards ends up as the specialist who tries to help Bond figure the mystery out. Robbie Coltrane and Judi Dench each have solid amounts of screen-time here. Desmond Llewelyn makes his final appearance as Q and does go out appropriately (he died shortly after production in a car accident). We have our introduction to R (John Cleese) as well though. Let's start preparing for Die Another Day. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Holy Toledo, that was awful...","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Holy Toledo, I can`t tell you how disappointed I was when I left the local cinema... . This is surely the worst of all Bond films  with no plot (or did you call that a plot?), no villain (or do you call that poor and miserable wrench a villain for a BOND film?) and a total lack of action (ok, I admit the river chase was cool, but the rest?) I can`t understand why apparently so many people seem to like it (I guess they saw a different film!), there is nothing at all that is interesting or breathtaking in it. I am a Bond fan and I like Brosnan as 007, but this film and Goldeneye are really disappointing. 2/10 ! No kidding.  "},{"Title":"The worst Bond ever","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What is this? A bad romance movie? A bad example for disastrous special effects? A guide line how to kill good actors in a lousy script? I ever though that The man with the golden gun and Diamonds are forever were the worst Bond movies but this one is now at the bottom of my list. "},{"Title":"unbearable","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  That movie was SO bad and the acting (namely by Denise Richards) was even worse.  Also, although I love Robert Carlyle, his Russian accent sounded a bit too Scottish.  And what was with Sophie Marceau's accent?  Was she supposed to be British or Russian?  She sure sounded French, to me.  Basically, only go to this movie if you're a diehard fan of 007 or Pierce Brosnan...otherwise, stay far, far away! "},{"Title":"Bad dialogue, terrible plot.  Need I go on?","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I like Brosnan and I like Bond.  Too bad there was nothing here to enjoy. When I go to one of these movies, the last thing I expect is to be bored. Unfortunately, this movie drags.  Not only have we seen the ski sequence, water sequence, etc. before, we've seen them done better.  What's to like? Pierce does wear his clothes well.  3/10. "},{"Title":"Snoozefest. Unoriginal action scenes. Forgettable characters","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Boy was this movie boring.After watching this Pierce Brosnan snoozer, I thought back to From Russia with Love, Goldfinger and even Moore's The Spy Who Loved Me and remembered such memorable characters as Red Grant, Pussy Galore, Odd Job, and Jaws. This movie has nothing close.The new villain, Renard, whose description, though quite menacing, (he's an anarchist who feels no pain!) is actually a huge dud, not unlike Darth Maul. He is not particularly scary, nor evil, nor intelligent, nor strong, nor villainous.  Hell, I didn't feel an ounce of suspense in this movie at all. He gets no dialogue, has minimal interaction with Bond and lacks any of the diabolical traits possessed by Dr.No, Goldfinger or Blofeld.  We do, however, get the return of Valentin Zukovsky, performed with zest by Robbie Coltrane.  He brings a sense of life and personality to a film that so sorely needs it.  It is unfortunate that his role was not more substantial. He was the only redeeming feature.Although I was a big proponent of Pierce Brosnan getting the role, back in the Timothy Dalton days, I have been horribly dissatisfied with his performance as 007.  I don't know if its the writers fault or what, but he is awfully boring.  He lacks the charm and personality that both Connery and Moore possessed in spades (though I felt Moore was a tad goofy as well). Brosnan, while certainly very handsome, suave and debonair, is *not* charming in this role!  I don't know what the deal is, because he was excellent as Remington Steele, but as Bond he is like a talking corpse. Michelle Yeoh was a god-send in Tomorrow Never Dies because she added a sense of excitement and originality to the series with her astounding fight scenes. Her humorous banter with James Bond (especially when Bond tries to put the moves on her) was very refreshing and brought personality to the film. But there is a total lack of it in this latest film.  It feels like your standard, plain-jane secret-agent film, with actually very *little* espionage!!The action scenes were also very ho-hum.  The best action scene in the whole movie was a high-speed boat chase scene involving a VERY cool futuristic speedboat.  However, this scene occurs in the introduction leading to the opening credit, and from then on it is all downhill.  We get a downhill ski chase that is so frightfully unoriginal.  If anybody wants to see a truly exciting, funny and original ski-chase sequence, check out Jackie Chan's First Strike, where he ends up falling in a lake (hilarious).  The ski-chase in the Bond film is par for the course.  No excitement, no suspense, no humor...  The rest of the movie drags on with no action whatsoever for about an hour.  We get a couple of scenes where James Bond manages to outrun fiery explosions (anyone else tired of that defiance of physics?) and has to dodge a tree-trimming helicopter.  Not too exciting...I also got the feeling that they were trying to work Judi Dench into the film more, because of her recently vaulted status after winning Best Supporting Actress last year.  The problem was, her role was pathetic! She looked like she was acting in her very first movie for christ-sakes, what happened to the performer who played a delightfully delicious Queen Elizabeth in last years Shakespeare in Love? I guess she didn't show up for work...Finally, what happened to Bonds cool gadgets? Except for the cool speed boat, we get very little high tech wizardry.  A pair of x-ray specs, a credit card lockpick, and man-sized beach ball is all we get.  Even the new Z-8 seems frightfully humdrum.  It doesn't do anything, except drive! yuk.All in all, a very average, plain, forgettable movie with a wooden performance by Brosnan and company and some tedious dialogue.  Catch it on bargain matinee...  "},{"Title":"One of the worst of the Bonds","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Having been a Bond fan for more than 20 years, I never thought myself capable of hating a Bond movie as much as I hate this one. The plot is confusing and the dialogue is terrible. Oil flows through my veins like blood! Give me a break! Robert Carlyle is wasted. The writers give him a great gimmick by saying he can feel no pain, and what is the biggest thing they do with it? Let him get all frowny-faced because he can't feel a kiss. (And if Renard can feel no pain, why does he grunt when Bond hits him?) Pierce Brosnan trudges through like he's trying to win first place in a frowning competition. This Bond is so lame even the action sequences are boring.Now I know how Trekkers fans felt after seeing Star Trek V. "}{"Title":"Stale","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Here's why I've never put much stock in the Brosnan era We got one great movie, two flavorless action flicks and it all ended on a series low point. I liked him as Bond, but one for four is no way to go out.The World Is Not Enough runs on the same auto-pilot as the previous movie - same stock ingredients - and it's not nearly as exciting as it was back in '99. It moves from one setpiece to the next with filler in between. The filmmakers flirted with shaking things up (remember the fan outcry when word got out that Bond would be injured?), but after an x-ray, he's back to business as usual.I will say this the entertainment value spiked when Denise Richards showed up. Not because of boobs, but because she's jarringly awful. And working alongside her more skilled fellow actors somehow (I'm not sure how) actually spices up the professional but bland soup. It's completely illogical how a weak link like this can make things better, but there it is.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not great Mr.Bond","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The world is not enough opens with a great pre title sequence that while going on too long is one of the best of the series. However after that (and a dire opening song) the film for me never recovers.The plot is wafer thin in places and then too chaotic the next. Bond spends half the time running around or making overly lewd sexual comments.We are blessed with a stellar secondary cast this time around though (after the so-so line up for Tomorrow Never Dies) with Judi Dench getting more to do and both Robbie Coltrane and Robert Carlyle on top form. In Sophie Marceau we also get a very attractive Bond girl and I didn't find Denise Richards half as bad as some reviews state.However I didn't enjoy this film that much, purely because there were lots of bells and whistles, but not that much of a decent story. "},{"Title":"Frequently Thrilling and Preposterous At the Same Time","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you want a feel for how conflicted The World Is Not Enough is then just take a look at the cast, writing and acting. It is not the most consistent Bond film and yet if you are willing for a daft, fun and fast ride it delivers on these fronts, just don't expect it to be believable by any accounts.Bond is tasked with protecting Elektra King whose father died in a tragic accident; his heritage and legacy transfers to Elektra who becomes in charge of a powerful oil company. Meanwhile, Elektra's former kidnapper the deadly Renard makes another appearance and Bond must stop him from hatching his nuclear plot.Possibly containing the longest and most spectacularly entertaining opening; The World Is Not Enough undoubtedly knows how to wow its audience. We don't catch our breath until this sequence is over, fifteen minutes in. The action is swift and the stunt team gives their best shot for Pierce Brosnan's third outing as Bond. I would pick The World Is Not Enough as a showcase for Brosnan's remarkable talent. This guy knows how to play Bond; in fact he was born to play the role! With off the scale charm and sophistication Brosnan owns every moment, sly quip, gadget, kill and girl that he claims for himself.It's admittedly disappointing when of all the people to play a Bond girl Denise Richards steps in after an hour to ruin all the fun. You'll laugh when I say this. She is a nuclear physicist. I'm not lying! There is some compensation in the fact that she is dazzlingly pretty, but all the good looks in the world cannot undo dreadful acting. Just try not to laugh when she says Are you here for a reason or are you just hoping for a glimmer? Who even says that? Well Denise Richards does in The World Is Not Enough.Still to counteract Denise Richards as Christmas Jones we have Sophie Marceau. She somehow manages to bring a sense of realism to this stupendously unrealistic film. As Elektra King her performance is nuanced and granted enough depth to make her feel like a three dimensional character. Add Robert Carlyle to the cast as the dastardly evil Renard. Who considers Bond a mere mortal to himself and we have a terrific cast, minus Denise Richards of course. Renard even gets a kick out of taunting Bond about Elektra how does it feel to know that I broke her in for you? It's ultra-satisfying when Bond manages to outwit him in the end.The World Is Not Enough is a conflicted film that would rank as one of Bond's best outings if not for the presence of Denise Richards. Still as Bond films go The World Is Not Enough is one of the most preposterous, witty and knuckle clenching of them all. You cannot deny that Brosnan is Bond, James Bond. "},{"Title":"An interesting and easy to admire Bond film","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond Review. Title Bond's family motto apparently and it does sound classy.Pre-Titles Bond recovers a large sum of money from a bank in Bilbao and escape out the window. At MI6 headquarters the money blows up, killing its owner, while Bond pursues the killer along the Thames and she ends up blowing herself up. This is by far the series longest pre-title sequence and it is a great one. It is a bit too long, but it actually has a connection to the main story and the Thames based action is truly fantastic.Theme Song Garbage provide an enjoyably atmospheric and seductive theme. It has a great main melody, while the electronic elements mixed with the orchestra allow it to standout. Shirley Eaton's gloomy vocal performance has the classic Bond sound as well.Plot Bond is sent to protect oil heiress Elektra King after her father is killed as she builds a pipeline across the East. Bond finds out that Renard, a terrorist who can't feel pain due to a head injury, has plants to detonate a nuclear bomb that involve Elektra. This is a very interesting story for a Bond film to tackle, with the themes of terrorism and revenge being used effectively. It all plays out in a very serious manner and there is a real sense of tension building up throughout. It all flows surprisingly well, as there is a danger and a humane tone that so many Bond films sorely miss.James Bond Pierce Brosnan is brilliant in an edgy and vulnerable turn as Bond. His likable charm and suave persona are still here, but his Bond feels more ruthless and emotional here. This is all fantastic as we get a look into Bond's emotional state and he actually acts like he may be in danger. Brosnan really nails some tough scenes and he looks great too.Bond Girls Denise Richards is easily the weakest aspect as Christmas Jones. Looking good is all she has going for her. She doesn't know how to show emotions properly, her delivery is extremely wooden and trying to sell her as a nuclear scientist is beyond unbelievable.Villains Elektra is basically a Bond girl/Villain hybrid and she is wonderful, easily one of the series best and most interesting characters. You never know her true intentions, she has a good backstory and her motivations are complicated. Sophie Marceau is simply excellent. She plays both good and bad perfectly, looks incredible and is so believable in the more emotional scenes. Robert Carlyle does a solid job as Renard even if he is underused. He fills the role with a subtle creepiness, has a sinister look and gives the character an understandable coldness that works well.Support Robbie Coltrane makes a welcomed return as Zukovsky, who's now Bond's ally, bringing some much needed humour to the film. Judi Dench is excellent as her role as M increases. Desmond Llewelyn gets a wonderful sent-off in his final Q performance, his final scene is quite touching.Action The action is pretty solid. We get a ski chase which is enjoyable and a fight inside a missile base that nicely intense. Bond racing through the pipeline to stop a nuclear bomb is goofy but still entertaining, as is Bond having to avoid a helicopter with a razorblade extension. I like how in most cases the action connects to the story. The climax is a weak however as Bond's confrontation with Renard is suitably rough, but it lacks tension and excitement.Score David Arnold's score is superb. It features some fantastic moodier pieces than previously that fit in perfectly, whilst the up- tempo compositions are fun of energy. He pretty much strikes the perfect balance between soft and aggressive, with many memorable arrangements.Production Values Michael Apted does a solid if unspectacular directing job here. I actually think the plainer and less slick style suits the tone of the film, with so many scenes of dialogue and intense action it works rather well. The writing is a strong point. Nearly every character is well fleshed out and they have motivations that are believable, both villains are given plausible reasons for their actions and even Bond is written like someone conflicted. The editing for the most part is very good too, only a few parts of the film become boring and it all flows along nicely. The stunt work is impressive, although it's a little too obviously stunt doubles in certain scenes. The locations are excellent yet again, using Eastern Europe as the backdrop gives the film a feel of both danger and exoticness.Conclusion The World Is Not Enough is usually seen as a boring and confusing entry, but it is far from that. It is one of the most interestingly written and real of all the Bond films, it is a surprisingly sombre and vicious film at times which might be what puts many off. Brosnan is excellent in a more grounded performance, Sophie Marceau's Elektra is just superb, the action is as enjoyable as ever, the dialogue is good and I love how the film uses its gritty themes of love and vengeance. In fairness Christmas Jones is dreadful, most of the visuals aren't that inventive and the climax is poor, but change these elements and you have a really impressive film here. In many ways this feels like Bond at its realist, but without completely forgetting to entertain. "},{"Title":"A great return to form after its lacklustre predecessor","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Much like Sean Connery in Goldfinger and Roger Moore The Spy Who Loved Me, Pierce Brosnan delivers his best performance as Bond in his third film. He is effortlessly charming, stylish, suave and funny in equal measure and makes for an extremely engaging and entertaining 007. In both Connery and Moore's cases, I considered their third films to be the best of their respective tenures. While my favourite Brosnan film is still GoldenEye, this is nevertheless a great film which is far more entertaining than its predecessor in spite of a rather ill-judged casting choice.Sophie Marceau is excellent as Elektra King, the first female main villain since Rosa Klebb in From Russia with Love 36 years earlier. The victim of a highly profile kidnapping case several years earlier, she is one of the most intriguing Bond girls. Elektra is cold and ruthless, having no compunction about murdering her own father whom she blames for robbing her of innocence. She uses her intellect and sensuality to manipulate men into doing her bidding but, even when pretending to be as pure as the driven snow, she presents herself as a strong woman rather than a victim. Her relationship with Bond is one of the most interesting of any Bond girl and the backstory, clearly inspired by the kidnappings of Patty Hearst and John Paul Getty in the 1970s, is wonderful. She's a fascinating character and her death scene was handled very well. Robert Carlyle is likewise excellent as Renard, Elektra's erstwhile kidnapper turned lover. As she tells Bond, Elektra was able to manipulate Renard while his captive and he fell madly in love with her. It is never expressly stated but I'd be amazed if Elektra felt anything for him, especially since she takes delight in mocking the fact that his condition has put a bit of a damper on their sex life. Speaking of which, the fact that Renard has no feeling of any kind due to having a bullet in his head is cool and everything but I'm sure how much it actually adds much to the plot beyond that. That said, Carlyle plays him as an at times pitiable villain, which was interesting. The aforementioned dubious casting referred to Denise Richards, who played the tank top wearing nuclear weapon expert Dr. Christmas Jones. I'm afraid that she simply can't act. Her delivery of most of her lines &#x96; not just the technical ones &#x96; is rather awkward and she has virtually no chemistry with Brosnan, the only one of his Bond girls so far where I felt that was the case. Christmas Jones is one of the least credible Bond girls in the series' history, not only because of Richards' performance but because she's about three decades too young to make for a believable nuclear weapons expert. Hans Blix, she ain't. The Christmas joke at the end was rather obvious and cringeworthy but I have to admit that I smirked at it. From the ridiculous to the sublime, Judi Dench is phenomenal as M, who is afforded more screen time than in any previous Bond film. For the first time in Bond history, M's backstory plays a crucial role in the plot and the MI6 chief is placed at personal risk. I've said before that I think that Dench is the best actress alive today and, unsurprisingly, she excels at playing all facets of M in her third of seven Bond appearances. I can't praise her enough. She is the best thing to happen to Bond films or film in general in decades. Samantha Bond continues to be very impressive as Miss Moneypenny and likewise gets more screen time than in her first two films. In one of the film's funniest moments, she gets extremely catty with Dr. Molly Warmflash, played very well by the underrated Serena Scott Thomas, when she gives Bond a clean bill of health after conducting an unorthodox physical on him. In his 17th and final Bond film, Desmond Llewelyn is still as wonderful as ever and his last briefing is very poignant considering that he died in a car crash only a few weeks after the film was released. The scene is played very well by both Brosnan and Llewelyn as it demonstrates the affection that has always existed between Bond and Q in an understated manner. Out of the rest of the supporting cast, Robbie Coltrane was the clear standout as Valentin Zukovsky, one of the most interesting and charismatic allies to ever appear in a Bond film. Coltrane's performance is excellent and his death scene is perhaps the saddest moment of the film, even though his last act is saving Bond's life. It's a great demonstration of how far these characters have come. Michael Kitchen and Colin Salmon were once again extremely good as Bill Tanner and Charles Robinson respectively. The cameo appearance by John Cleese, who succeeded Llewelyn as Q in Die Another Day, is one of the comic highlights of the film. While the opening sequences starts in a rather low-key way, it eventually becomes one of the most exciting in the series' history. The Q-Boat chase on the River Thames is simply wonderful and is second only to the tank scene in GoldenEye as my favourite action scene in any of the 1990s films. The rest of the action scenes are excellent as well but none of them are able to match it. Michael Apted may not have been the most obvious choice to direct a Bond film but he does an absolutely brilliant job. Many people have criticised the plot for being convoluted but I can't really see why. It's a comparatively straightforward one and a very strong one, even if Elektra's plan is somewhat derivative of Goldfinger and A View to a Kill. It's certainly far easier to follow than Octopussy.Overall, this is an extremely good film and a great return to form after the lacklustre Tomorrow Never Dies. "},{"Title":"A Bond that lacks a great plot, but Brosnan excels","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-6/10The World is not Enough is a Bond that although doesn't lack the style we have come to know from the series in the 90's, it just isn't good enough and although also not bad, still lacks the incentive it really could have taken in the end. It has good parts and bad, mostly positive in my opinion but I do really really think that some will hugely dislike this. It even has good acting by the main man, but he can't work on his own and is let down by all the others working alongside him, in the end I felt it was strongly kind of OK, and here is why below.The story isn't the bad thing about this film, it is fine, maybe reminiscent of a Connery or Moore Bond with it's hugely improbable overtones, but yet it still holds well and lots of fun can actually be had with this. It plays out well and goes at a nice pace, never staying in one place for too long as to not completely bore the viewer. Not all the story is good here, too much ridiculousness plagues this movie and just random gadgets and scenes unneeded really hinder this, and in the end the film is really not near being a good one.Pierce Brosnan is good here, as said ruined by others but he keeps the type of Bond we expect to see form him and he really try's hard with this film. Cast members such as Denise Richards and Sophie Marceau are not bad but don't contribute much to the film and in the end become useless characters, disliked Robert Carlysle as the villain as I felt he didn't put enough in to it and looked unbothered, nevertheless he is still deadly to deal with for Bond. I especially liked Judi Dench, she gets to actually act in action scenes in this rather than just in an office and she brightens the darker scenes with her fantastic humour. It isn't written well really, not terrible but poor and if done better would have made this film maybe just a little better, the world choice of the writers never works and I felt the directors touch could not save this and make it good, it just seemed too over the top. I enjoyed the effects, yet again a step up from previous instalments and the film never seemed to lack effects, they actually make this movie better though. The gadgets are cool and new, obviously quite insane but they can be enjoyed and Brosnan yet again uses them with slick suaveness. The main criticism isn't actually the story, it's the half worked atmosphere that is felt around this film, it just seems too undone and like they wanted to make about a quarter of a film but then decided they couldn't be bothered and just filled the rest of it very very quickly. The acting isn't top notch, it is up to the viewer whether or not this brings the quality of it down but what I will say is that, they don't bring much new or fun, Brosnan left without his wings in a sense.Those who are fans of the Bond franchise should enjoy this, I don't think near as much as films in the past or the future, but can be enjoyed though(I did). If you are less accustomed to the series or Brosnan you may feel this is typical popcorn action in the 90's and hugely different to say Connery or even Daniel Craig. One reason I actually would recommend this to people is that, if you ignore the rest of the cast and just watch Brosnan, he is good and he delivers what you want to see from James Bond.Overall a 6/10, this is a Strongly Pretty OK movie, not quite OK and far from Good, although it is also far from Poor and you may think I criticised this more than complimented but it generally is Kind of OK. Good fun with this movie can be had, well at least for those who can easily get lost to the charm of Bond and the slick action, otherwise you may not enjoy this so much but I think you will agree with me that Brosnan in no way ruins this, Don't miss this film out if watching them all in order. "},{"Title":"Bond Month #19 One that is much better the second time around","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Before I review the film, I was influenced to write my Bond series by watching the online reviews of Calvin Dyson. He is very smart about what makes a good Bond film, that sometimes my view changed about some of the Bond films I never particularly cared for. Now I do present my own opinions on these films, but a few times he has changed my mind. Nowhere did this occur the most than The World is Not Enough. I watched it once when I was a kid, but never really cared or remembered it. Its actually good from what I remember.The plot of this film involves Bond protecting the daughter of recently assassinated oil tycoon Robert King, Electra, from a sick dude known as Renard. He discovers thought that she was the one behind her father's assassination and plans to drive up her fortune by creating a nuclear meltdown to destroy a rival pipeline. M actually gets something more to do than be the king (or queen in Judi Dench's case) of exposition and nothing more. She gets captured and must face a mistake that Elektra hasn't forgotten This, with the exception of Denise Richards, is the second-best acted Bond film of the Brosnan era, extremely close to GoldenEye. Pierce gives his last real hurrah as Bond. He is humorous, but becomes angry and betrayed by Elektra, to the point when he kills her in clod blood, he could really care less.Elektra, who goes from being an innocent heiress to a really sinister and hateful villain, but she is gorgeously and brilliantly played by Sophie Marceau (who scored another hit a few years earlier with Braveheart) Renard is also something of an enigma in the canon, as I forgot what he really was, but when I rediscovered him, he was cool. He has a bullet lodged in his brain that is slowly killing him, but makes him impervious to pain. He does comes of as a sick twisted, deranged lunatic, but he is not really prone to bad lines or over the top acting. I can buy him as a villain, but not on my top ten.But there is one serious flaw in an otherwise near-masterpiece this film is. Denise Richards. Oh producers, WHY???? She has no shred of talent, no convincing character traits, and above all, she is annoying. Her name is Christmas Jones, because I think they just wanted to make jokes about it. Are we really supposed to take DENISE RICHARDS as a NUCLEAR AUTHROTY/PHYSICIST? So yeah, she really is awful.Other than that, this film is very well developed and executed. We have new writer,s with Bruce Fierstein's last involvement, in Neal Purvis and Robert Wade. Both have crafted a really good story, and would become the best writers of Bond in recent years. FOr me it was much better the second time around, and worth a watch for those who either didn't get it the first time, or haven't seen it at all.Brosnan would now close with one of those films that is controversial in the Bond fandom, Die Another Day. "},{"Title":"Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist should tell you all you need to know about this one","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I consider myself to be a James Bond fan. I enjoy quite a few films in the series, but this movie is way too dumb for its own good. It would help if it had good action scenes like Tomorrow Never Dies did, but the action scenes aren't anything that special. First and foremost&#x85; if you expect a good movie going in with Denise Richards as a nuclear physicist, then you need to get your head checked. It also tries to be cutesy by giving her the name of Christmas Jones (Yes. There are lame Christmas jokes as well, in case you wondered) The only real enjoyment I got out of this movie was gawking at two gorgeous woman, Denise Richards & Sophie Marceau. Sophie's vindictive performance is probably the best thing about this crappy movie. Pierce Brosnan is good as usual, but he has to work with mediocre material. Robert Carlyle is OK, but makes for a rather bland villain. Denise Richard's laughable character doesn't change the fact that she's drop dead gorgeous. You won't catch me complaining about her! That's for sure. John Cleese takes over for Desmond Llewelyn (Q) He's actually pretty funny. Too bad it's not a better film. This isn't quite as bad as the worst Bond film, A View to A Kill, but it's definitely the second worst. Final Thoughts Guys have Denise Richards & Sophie Marceau to fawn over. There really isn't much else. It's just a very mediocre Bond movie with not much going for it. 4.3/10 "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but not enough","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The most frustrating thing about this third Pierce Brosnan outing is that it does a few things right, starting with the lead performance. Brosnan was always a charming presence, but here he also dispenses with the smarmy smugness which marred his performance in the first Bond film for me and seems comfortable and assured in his role. There's a nice sense of jaded world-weariness to his Bond in this film. Sophie Marceau is another highlight as a seemingly good Bond girl who turns out to be an arch-villain of the film in a nice twist. Her Elektra is a pretty complicated character as far as Bond girls go and the sensual Marceau makes a great femme fatale, seemingly vulnerable but all steel inside, smart and manipulative to the nth degree. One only wishes that these two characters appeared in a better movie.The World is not Enough is not it. The film starts off nicely with a spectacular boat chase down the river Thames, completely over-the-top in the best Bond tradition but great fun to watch (unfortunately it also serves to highlight just how tedious and robotic the action scenes are in the second half of the film). Sadly, the first alarm bell came as soon as John Cleese's R bumbling character appeared on the scene. I love John Cleese but his slapstick turn here is just plain embarrassing.Robbie Coltrane is ultimately wasted in the reprisal of his role as Valentin Zukovsky; Robert Carlyle is equally disappointing as Renard, the villain who cannot feel pain courtesy of the bullet imbedded in his brain. He is not intimidating or scary or memorable and his fights with Brosnan have an unintentional comic effect to them because Carlyle just looks so damn puny. And wouldn't you think that the screenwriters would try and do something interesting and creative with a villain who is immune to pain other than showing him pick up a red-hot rock in one scene? Nothing however prepared me for the sheer godawfulness of Denise Richards as Dr Christmas Jones, the least believable nuclear scientist in the history of motion pictures. Apparently Miss Richards won a Golden Razzie for her stint here and all I can say is that she thoroughly deserves it. Her character was like a black hole sucking the lifeforce out of the movie whenever she showed up on the screen. Worst of all, she didn't even have the grace to put on the sort of entertainingly bad performance you could enjoy watching. She's bad, and she's Dull.The plot is so ho-hum and unmemorable I have problems recalling the details. Something about the oil, nuclear device, and the city blowing up if Bond doesn't act quickly enough... oops I'm snoring already.In the end, this film I think has roughly the same problem as Goldeneye did. It tries to have it both ways have silly puns, campy over-the-top characters and slapstick comedy on one hand while at the same time trying to inject some serious drama and human emotion into the proceedings. Which unfortunately doesn't work at all and results in a picture whose mood swings erratically all over the place. One minute, Brosnan's Bond caresses the face of a woman he's just shot in a chillingly cold-blooded fashion, in a moment of clear anguish. A few minutes later, he's cheerfully smooching Denise Richards's bimbo scientist and cracking awful tacky puns about Christmas in Turkey. But where Goldeneye at least had a decent story and a great cast of supporting characters, The World is not Enough is just mediocre in almost every way. "},{"Title":"REALLY THE WORST JAMES BOND MOVIE EVER.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Thank goodness for Die Another Day. Pierce Brosnan has never been at his worst has James Bond. But I don't totally blame him. I mean it is not his fault the character in this film was poorly written. In most of James Bond films he seems to be aware of everything. But in this one the character seems to be pretty clueless. The action did'nt seem to fair any better. Nethier does Denise Richards poor acting. The only one good is Robert Carlyle has the main villian, seems to be only one interesting in this film. Watch Die Another Day instead. "}{"Title":"No excitement","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Probably the least exciting Bond movie ever made. Nothing happens that is worth mentioning. There's a scene with a pipe or something that is good for about 2 seconds. The rest is an unbroken succession of bore after bore after bore. How on earth the filmmakers thought that audiences would be entertained by this is a mystery to me.Robert Carlyle is so unscary he belongs in Sesame Street. Denise Richards is a nuclear scientist (!) who wears tight fitting tops and hot pants instead of the white coat. Director Michael Apted seemed an odd choice to me and he has succeeded in making every single scene as dull and leaden and unimpressive as it is possible. Watch this movie only if you are a Bond fan. If you watch them just like any other movie though...do NOT waste your cash. "},{"Title":"Special effects, sex and sap.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Is it me or are the Bond films getting sappier.  I found this movie almost unwatchable due to the sappy scenes.  It had the emotional depth of a Popeye cartoon, at least I believed Popeye liked Olive. The original Bond movies had lots of Babes and love scenes but they never seemed as stupidly sappy.  Must be the background music that is telling you what you're to feel in the scene.  Special effects were good, not great, lots of running away from flaming blasts, typical.  Denise Richards was good as the babe but totally unbelievable as someone with intelligence.  Predictable lightweight Bond movie.  Stuff blowed up real good. "},{"Title":"best bond since from russia with love","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I could hardly beleive it. A bond film in whitch one does not have the opportunity to go get popcorn during the boring bits,WHY ? Well their just aint any. The director ,APTED has taken bond to a new era,whilst also paying appropriate homage to its past. The ; writers, actors,and producers all deserve the upmost praise .the only negative in THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH Is the song -Lets face it,,, its GARBAGE.  "},{"Title":"Silly but enjoyable","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The plot's forgettable, the acting (except for Brosnan) pretty bad and the dialogue is laughable (favorite line I don't know what a madman wants to do with a gallon (or something) of plutonium, but it doesn't sound good!).  Still, I was never bored!  These Bond films are escapism--pure and simple.  This one offers nothing new, but Brosnan is very comfortable in the role of Bond (still, he's no Sean Connery!) and things move at a fast pace.  I've already forgotten the plot (not that the plots of Bond movies are memorable!) but this is a movie to just sit back for two hours, turn off your brain and enjoy a big amount of action and explosions, and whatever.  Perfect holiday movie after a long day shopping. "},{"Title":"Best Of The Brosnan Bond's","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After two highly successful films, it was clear that Pierce Brosnan's James Bond had definitely caught on with both the public and critics alike. But Brosnan's second film had been criticized for its lack of plot and, perhaps taking this criticism onboard, brought a change of pace for Brosnan's third Bond film, The World Is Not Enough. Bringing onboard acclaimed director Michael Apted, better known for dramas and having not directed a full blown action film before, this film would be a more character driven but no less action packed affair all around.The change starts with Brosnan's 007. While Brosnan had certainly proved he could handle both the action and more acting moments in his previous films, Brosnan is given the chance to show his acting chops in this film. This Bond hearkens back in some ways to Dalton's Bond a tough but vulnerable man of action caught up in a world where nobody is quite what they seem. The vulnerability is partly physical (the shoulder injury incurred at the end of the pre-titles sequence) and partly emotional as witnessed in the film's last hour or so. Bond here is no less tough or action capable but Brosnan finds the right balance between the two, excelling throughout and proving he is more than an amalgamation of his predecessors. The result then is perhaps Brosnan's best performance as Bond.Far less successful is Bond girl Christmas Jones, played by Denise Richards. While Richards definitely has the looks (and indeed wardrobe) to be a Bond girl, she lacks the acting talent to pull off the nuclear physicist role believably. The character of Jones is given a ton of exposition and Richards, try though she might, simply spits them out as fast as she can as though she might forget them at any moment. It's hard to tale if the role is badly or written or if Richards is simply the most mis-cast Bond girl since Tanya Roberts in A View To A Kill, but Richards' Christmas Jones is the one bad spot on an otherwise good cast.Far more successful is Sophie Marceau as Elektra King and Robert Carlyle as Renard. Marceau in particular shines throughout, given one of the best written female roles in any Bond film and quite possibly the best since Tracy three decades earlier. One imagines that, in the hands of a lesser actress like her co-star Richards, the role of Elektra and the plot twist that comes with her would simply fail to be convincing. But Marceau makes the role believable as she plays two very different versions of the same character, switching for the film's back half. It also helps that she shares some good chemistry with Brosnan which also allows her to outshine Richards as well. Carlyle also shines as the film's villain, the character being built up until his first appearance when the film is almost half over. But while he might not be physically impressive at first, Carlyle proves himself to be more than a match for Bond in both brawn and brain. Like Marceau, he makes an unlikely twist (his own injury) seem not only credible but cool as well.The supporting cast is strong as well. Judi Dench's M is given her largest role yet and is given far more of a character than either of her male predecessors. Robbie Coltrane returns as Valentin Zukovsk and is given far more screen time than in Goldeneye and he makes the most of it. Also of note are Serena Scott Thomas as Dr. Molly Warmflash, Ulrich Thomsen as Davidov and John Cleese as R. Last but not least is of course Desmond Llewelyn, making his final appearance as gadget master Q and he is given a proper send off with one of the film's most memorable moments. The result is an overall strong cast.Unlike the previous 007 film, which was action driven to a fault, this film is a far more character driven story. Both the script and Apted's direction bring this out following the film's opening credits with the film dealing with both vulnerability and trust. As a result, this film presents us a Bond who is perhaps at his most vulnerable and, as a result, more than willing to be cold blooded. The characters around him (minus Christmas Jones) feel far more fleshed out just at a script level than those in Tomorrow Never Dies. Also, the film's plot, with its focus on oil and terrorism, is incredibly relevant thirteen years after its release and, combined with the character focusing, feels like a test run for the Craig films that were to follow in a few years' time.That isn't to say that this film is any less action driven. The film's pre-credit sequence alone contains not one but two stunt filled sequences featuring both Bond's escape from a Swiss bankers office in Spain, a terrorist attack at MI6 and a boat chase up the Thames in its aftermath. It's both the series' lost opening sequence and quite possibly its best as well. From there we are treated to a ski sequence echoing On Her Majesty's Secret Service and numerous firefights ranging from a missile silo to a caviar factory. The film ends with a fight sequence with echoes of the climatic fight from Thunderball, though not quite as memorable. These sequences, combined with the more character driven moments, makes this one of the best paced of the Bond films.So where does all that leave this film? It features Brosnan at his best as 007, it has a strong cast for the most part and it finds the right balance between its characters and its action sequences. As a result then, The World Is Not Enough is easily the best film of the Brosnan era. "},{"Title":"We know when to kiss, And we know when to kill.","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH Though it is the Bond family motto, (Orbis non sufficit), it sounds more like the title of a Harlequin romance novel. By no means world class, but still good enough. 6 points.Pre-Credit Teaser Two teasers for the price of one James confronts and escapes from some bad guys in Spain, but on his return to MI6 headquarters in London he almost immediately gets involved in a boat chase down the Thames. The boat chase is very well done, but more importantly it is one of the few instances where 007 brings his unique style of mayhem to his home shores. Good show, Old boy! 9 points.Opening Credits Icky is the best way to describe Daniel Kleinman's contribution here. His artistry is evident, but his choice of images is suspect. Past Bond openings have used motifs of gold and diamonds, but Kleinman's theme is oil, a valuable, though not particularly precious commodity. His images of naked women wallowing in or being drenched by gooey black crude is about as sexually exciting as mud wrestling. As well done as it is, it nonetheless leaves you wanting to take a nice long shower -- and not in a sensual way either. 4 points.Theme Song If you're going to name your group Garbage, you had darn well better be very good. I can't comment on their other music, but the Bond theme they provide here is less than rousing. Indeed, if Sheryl Crowe's Tomorrow Never Dies was sleep inducing, this song is likely to put one in a coma. The words and music don't seem that bad; it is Shirley Manson's drowsy performance that proves to be Garbage. 3 point.Bond, James Bond Once again Bond is in a vengeful mood and that means that Pierce Brosnan is doing his Gloomy Gus shtick. There is nothing sadder than a man who can't seem to enjoy his work -- Bond or Brosnan. 4 points.Bond Babes A poll named Denise Richards' Dr. Christmas Jones as the worst Bond Girl of all time. That's hardly fair considering her competition would be Rosie Carver from LIVE AND LET DIE and Mary Goodnight from THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN (not to mention Madonna's cameo in the next Bond adventure). She's not that bad, though it is hard to believe she can spell nuclear physicist, let alone be one. But she is totally overshadowed by Sophie Marceau as poor little rich girl Elektra King. Having been kidnapped by terrorists, who then apparently kill her father, she is the damsel in distress Bond comes to protect. But he little realizes that she is more than even he bargained for. Worth 8 points, because it leads to ....Bond Villain The Bond films have never been great for unexpected plot twists, so having the audacity to make the Bond Girl not just a villain, but the criminal mastermind is a real kick. We assume that Elektra is under the spell of the terrorist Renard, but it ultimately proves otherwise. Elektra seems to have two fatal flaws however, she overestimates her feminine allure and underestimates James' willingness to use his licence to kill. 9 points.Bond Baddies As the film's nominal villain, Robert Carlyle's Renard is rather banal, but as a mere henchman he is a bit more colorful. His quirk is a bullet lodged in his brain which inexplicably makes him immune to feeling pain -- which should be a detriment, not an asset. Somewhat more entertaining and comical is Robbie Coltrane's Valentin Zukovsky, returning from GOLDENEYE. The duplicitous ex-Soviet agent keeps us guessing throughout whether he is friend or foe. 7 points.Sinister Plot Recycling the plot of GOLDFINGER, the dastardly villains hope to increase the value of their oil by using a nuclear explosion to contaminate their competitors' pipeline route -- killing a few million innocent people along the way. It is not as original as the filmmakers pretend, but a proved premise nonetheless. 7 points.Production values Slick and colorful, THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH is certainly an admirable addition to the series. It's only major disappointment is Brosnan's faltering enthusiasm for the role. 7 points.Bonus Points It's a fond farewell to Desmond Llewelyn's Q. He makes an elegant departure, and his subsequent death brings to an end the continuity that marked the first 19 films in the series. But, happily, he introduced a replacement in the form of John Cleese as R; his Pythonian sense of humor is certainly welcome -- and desperately needed. 5 points for the passing of the torch.Summary It is an interesting evolution for the Bond Girl from hapless victim to cunning sex object to skilled professional to nefarious foe. For all of his lustful talents as a womanizer, Bond in his various incarnations has always had an uneasy relationship with women, an odd mixture of distrust, contempt and desire. Bond women -- feminist objections aside -- have usually been something more than mere sex objects and, considering the chosen profession, Bond's attitude toward them is understandable. Other than the desire, he views men the same way, with distrust and contempt. In a way, he has viewed women more honestly than feminists as something to be enjoyed, but not underestimated. Elektra King was a long time coming -- no pun intended.Bond-o-meter Rating 69 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"Can't live up to the usual high standards","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I wanted to love this film, believe me. I wanted to embrace it and like it as much as Pierce Brosnan's first two Bond movies, which were nothing short of spectacular. I remember all the anticipation leading up to opening night back in 1999. I thought this was going to be great. Then the day came, the film played, the credits rolled, and for the first time since I began to watch these films, I was disappointed.Granted, there are other duds in the history of the long-running franchise, as conceivably would be in any that reaches twenty installments. Diamonds Are Forever, Live and Let Die, and The Man with the Golden Gun are some examples. The World is Not Enough, while still earning a recommendation, lacks the magic carried from The Living Daylights to Tomorrow Never Dies.At first I felt I was not being completely fair, that maybe my expectations were too high after Tomorrow Never Dies, one of the best constructed and most exciting action films ever made. In fact, License to Kill and GoldenEye before it were also top five efforts. The more I analyzed it, however, the more I realized that the problem did not lie with my point of view, but with the movie itself. It is not without its successes, but its shortcomings overshadow them.Bond feels responsible for the death of oil tycoon Robert King (David Calder) after unwittingly delivering the murder weapon. After initially placing Bond on injured reserve, M (the always reliable Judi Dench), assigns him to protect King's daughter Elektra (Sophie Marceau). Mi-6 suspects that Renard (Robert Carlyle) a terrorist whose only goal is chaos, is responsible for King's murder and will target Elektra next. Thanks to 009, Renard has brain-imbedded bullet nullifies pain, but will eventually kill him. There is great potential there, but it is only exploited three times when Renard holds a scolding rock, when he is shot in the arm, and when he punches porcelain furniture during sex. When he is shot, he takes notice, but should not since he has no sense of touch.The positives are many. Pierce Brosnan gives a tremendous performance once again. He is now playing James Bond with great ease, and he uses his brand of Bond ruthlessness more than usual. The special effects are pristine, and the same can be said the stunts coordinated by the legendary Vic Armstrong. The action is mostly enjoyable, except for the underachieving Istanbul climax. There are strong supporting performances and it is nice to see Robbie Coltrane reprise Valentin Zukovsky, whom he played in GoldenEye. David Arnold, my favorite composer, turns in the best score in the series. It ranges from beautiful, as Bond skis down a mountain slope with Elektra, to tense, as Bond and a companion shoot down the inside of a pipe at 65 miles-per-hour, to emotional, when Bond sees a computer reel of Elektra crying and reaches out as if to wipe her tear. Desmond Llewelyn arrives for one last time as the legendary and beloved gadget master Q.The World is Not Enough easily contains the longest pre-credits opener in the series, including boat chase on the Thames that is the highlight of the movie. One could argue that it is too long for its own good, but the problem lies even before that. Prior to the chase, a good deal of plot is covered using Backwards Storytelling, a tactic where the filmmakers know the whole story, and create the scenes backwards from there. The problem is that the audience does not know the story yet, so the references are too overwhelming to remember. The rest of the plot builds on them, but the poor structure leaves a shaky foundation.The plot does not unwind smoothly in the first hour. The action does not fit in with the ebb and flow of a movie, seeming to be added in because too much time had passed without an explosion. Somewhere in the mix we meet Dr. Christmas Jones (fluffy-girl Denise Richards), a nuclear physicist in shorts. I remember shaking my head when I first saw her on screen. Richards is hotter than the Afghan sun, but taking her seriously requires effort.However, the film's biggest problem is the character moments that director Michael Apted was so staunch about. Most of them involve Elektra and her vulnerable side. All too often they occur in bed, where Elektra has this annoying habit of handling ice cubes like a child testing a new sensation. There is one particularly repulsive sex-scene involving Elektra and the ugly Renard. It ends with Elektra whispering Remember, pleasure, as if it were an advertisement for promiscuity. Raunchiness in Bond movies is not normally a problem, but in this case it distracts and detracts. Had Apted toned this down, the film would immensely improve.Then there are the characters themselves. Of course we like Bond and Valentin, and Judi Dench is always great as M, but the poorly planned villains do not meet standard. Making Elektra draw our sympathy is a good idea at first, but the feeling falls apart when her true colors are shown. Her whole life is a cruel vendetta, so she deserves hate, not sympathy. The same applies to Renard. Apted at times tries to create pathos because of his death sentence, yet Renard is so despicable, we cannot possibly garner a thimble-full of commiseration for him.Should the film be seen anyway? Possibly, some good action, acting, and the great soundtrack provide enough enjoyment; just don't expect it to be anywhere near the quality of its predecessors. I considered withholding a recommendation because it nearly topples under the weight of its many mistakes. It will thrill you early, disappoint, recover, and then bury itself with its poor finale. Don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Worst of All","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've been watching Bond films since Dr. No. World was a major disappointment. Special effects and beautiful women alone can't carry a film. Plot and acting horrible. Of course, I cannot wait to spend another $7+ to see the next installment. "},{"Title":"The WORST Bond film I have ever seen... and I've seen License to Kill...","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Oh boy, where oh where to begin?  First off... the she-assassin in the opening sequence... she was awesome, then she died.  She took her terrible secret to the grave.  I think she's the only one that knew why anyone would want to be in such a horrible, horrible movie, and now she's dead.  Secondly, Christmas Jones.  Denise Richards is beautiful, she was great in Drop Dead Gorgeous, but in TWINE, she proves that you do need to actually act to be a Bond girl, a decent one that you don't yell at in the middle of the auditorium wishing she would get blown up...  You can't just show up on the set, say I'm a Bond Girl! Do my make up and now tell me how far you want me to bend over in my tubetop and short-shorts!!!  Oh yeah, do I have any lines today?  A good Bond girl is, well... not Christmas Jones.  I don't know if it was the character of Christmas or the acting of Denise which sucked.  I doubt it's only her dialogue that blows.  Third, the dialogue/witty puns/stupid, stupid jokes.  There were too many to get into... I thought the innuendos in Bond movies were supposed to be intelligent, obscure... not blatantly obvious and focused on like a US spy satelite focuses on Mararet Thatcher naked on a cold day.  They were too obvious, is what I am trying to say... just look at the memorable quotes for this movie and you'll get a sense of what I am talking about...  FOURTH... A WASTE OF ANOTHER FABULOUS VILLAIN AND ACTOR... Robert Carlyle plays Renard, and as the trailer gets us all excited about... he's got a bullet lodged in the part of the brain which, as we learned from The Waterboy, is responsible for our aggressive behavior, and at the same time, Renard can't feel anything.  Now, after watching the trailer, one would expect to see an incredible fight between Bond and Renard, with Bond repeatedly like, stabbing, shooting, punching, crotch-kicking, something... but, we get nothing.  Renard gets some glass stuck in his hand and doesn't realize it...wow.  NEAT.  I could drink a bunch of vodka and do the same damn thing.  This aspect was one of the most disappointing, almost embarrasing... I have never been so upset.     Now, the only saving grace in the movie, beside John Cleese and the farewell to Q, is Sophie Marceau... she's attractive... Yay.  There's at least fifty or so attractive women in the world.  AT LEAST.  Why her?  Oh, she's French.  At least she's not Canadian. Don't see this one.  Rent Goldeneye, or, my personal favorite, Octopussy.  "},{"Title":"Garbage in a shiny new wrapper","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, I just don't get it.  Something went dreadfully wrong in the production of this film.  Dame Judi Dench, Mr. Pierce Brosnan, Robert Carlyle, Sophie Marceau... all these good actors and actresses... not to mention a well experienced supporting crew... what had to happen to create such a horrid finished product?The movie had no drive.  Bond seemed to be lacking his self-collected coolness.  The stunt work was anticlimactic.  The FX were horrible, simply horrible.  All things being equal, I feel the answer lies in the writing. If you note, the writers' credits are very long.  Too many cooks spoiling the soup.  The dialogue was vapid.  The scenes all past the opening are empty.  Plausibility is tossed out the window-- even to the extent of making some of the stunts seem ludicrous.  Half of the dialogue serves as narration for the action-- which gets frustrating in about 5 minutes.  Why do we want to be TOLD exactly what we see the actors doing?  I found myself yelling, Don't SAY it,just shut up and DO it.Go see it just to say you did, but if you are a classic Bond fan you will truly hate this movie.  Let's hope they do better on the next one. "}{"Title":"Incredibly underrated, second only to GoldenEye as the best of the Brosnan Bonds","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am a fan of James Bond, and I have to say I love The World is Not Enough. It mayn't be the best of the Bond films like I consider a film like Goldfinger, but it is easily one of the better Bond films with Pierce Brosnan in the title role. I also think it is incredibly underrated, for as I have said this is really good and second only to GoldenEye as the best of the Brosnan Bonds. I loved that The World is Not Enough was a welcome return to the gritty glamour as seen in From Russia With Love, and that the story is quite hard-hitting as well as suspenseful and thrilling. The stunts are truly spectacular, as is the action which is enough to make your adrenaline pump up, with the opening speedboat chase complimenting it perfectly. The cinematography is effortless and the scenery is splendid, while the music and theme song are certainly memorable. The acting is very well done, Pierce Brosnan is very likable and clearly comfortable as Bond, while Sophie Marceau matches him perfectly and her character Elektra King is for me the best and sexiest Bond girl in ages and Robert Carlyle is perfect as the vicious and chilling villain. And I actually didn't mind Denise Richards that much, admittedly she isn't brilliant, but I certainly didn't hate her, and Judi Dench once again proves what a fine actress she is and even gets to go out into the Middle East battlefield and show off her gadget ingenuity. Overall, this is really underrated and quite an excellent film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The worst of the Brosnan Bond films","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I don't know what the writers were smoking when it came to this Bond film, but the result clearly shows that it wasn't doing much good for them. Come on, if the best they can do is a plot that involves the worst villains (Renard, a man who feels no pain- we are not in comic book land here, and the rest that don't really make an appearance, apart from Electra who was reasonably good) and the worst Bond woman (with the worst name, Electra is a Villain so can't be counted as a Bond woman in my opinion). The action was reasonably good but ruined it when M got involved too much (you would think that Bond being her best agent would count as something, but she still doesn't listen to him, in my opinion she deserved to be shot by Renard then at least he would have done something rather menacing). On the other hand, there were some good points, like Brosnan getting more comfortable in the role and Valantin making his second and last appearance (even though I thought it was a disappointment that he was nicer he was rather funny). So to sum up bad film but it could have been like Casino Royle. If it was my head might have exploded. "},{"Title":"Beyond Lame","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad I didn't waste money to see this movie at the theater. And am disappointed that I even rented it. Why was Denise Richards dressed like Laura Bancroft of the game Tombraider when they first showed her in this movie? The least the producers could have done was to change the colors of her outfit so it would not be so obvious.I think if they plan on having other bond movies they need to start appealing to more intelligent people or they should just scrap them all and just not bother making any more trash. "},{"Title":"Bombast, James Bombast...","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Overblown, disconnected, confusing...at times even boring.  Brosnan has the look and, apparently, the backing to be the best Bond in quite a while.  Too bad there's nothing else to help him out.  This film made little sense, the acting was mailed in (although the lead villain, Renard, was much ado about nothing), and the gadgets and chase/action scenes are almost lifeless.  Sadly, Brosnan does not come off well here, either.  Frankly, what the series needs is a return to fundamentals - strong plot, few gadgets, BELIEVABLE women (Denise Richards is extremely attractive, but her acting...UGH!), and a sense of the struggles (Bond's internal one and those of the other central characters and their respective organizations) that Fleming wrote into the novels.  I've seen every Bond film except the last Roger Moore effort (I just couldn't take it anymore), and the producers need to really think about where they're going.  They've got a good Bond, cash, technical advancements that are mind-boggling, plenty of girls if they need them...this product should be MUCH better.  Also, please can the comedy, and put more dramatic punch into the plot.I'd rate this a 1.  Rent From Russia With Love or Dr. No.  They're cheaper and more enjoyable.N.B.  I generally enjoy Michael Apted films.  This was a BIG disappointment from him. "},{"Title":"The worst Bond in years","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the mediocre GOLDENEYE and the great TOMORROW NEVER DIES, Pierce Brosnan is back for the third time in the character of James Bond.  And he is the only good point of the film.The plot is unbelievable, Denise Richards is the worst Bond girl ever, Sophie Marceau should stay in France.  Don't try to make american films, you lost your chance in LOST AND FOUND, now it's worst than ever.  We are far away from MANON DES SOURCES ...  Robert Carlyle rocks in TRAINSPOTING, funny in THE FULL MONTY, in THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, he prooves to everybody that he's not good playing the bad man.  His character his not use that much.After all we heard about the BMW Z8, why have they done this ???? You'll understand when you see one of the most boring film of the year.  We are far away from GOLDFINGER and DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER.Sorry, you missed your shot ... 1/10 "},{"Title":"Danger. Suspense. Excitement. Not This Time.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The World is Not EnoughI have tried to sit through this Bond film multiple times, and I only did so the first time I viewed it. I figure that you should stick with a movie, through good times and bad. First of all, I don't like wasting money on something. Secondly, I like to see it all just to say I saw it. Third of all, I see it all so I can review it.So I sat through this film the first time, but it was painful the second and third, and I found myself going over to the computer and typing up some reviews instead. The movie isn't all that bad in the beginning, other than having a few outrageous stunts (even for a Bond film), but it's from the midway on that bores me. It just becomes dull.This Bond outing features Pierce Brosnan going after some baddies bent on doing something somewhere, for some reason or another. All I could make out was that there is a guy with a bullet in his brain that slowly eats away his pain receptors, making him immune to pain. That is the excuse for an indestructible bad guy who stands a chance against Bond.Bond teams up with Sophie Marceau to track down the bad guy, but soon finds himself with Bond Girl Denise Richards, playing Christmas Jones Short pants, tight shirt covering big breasts, and big lips. Oh, yeah She's a nuclear chemist out in the middle of nowhere with a bunch of other chemists--all stupid men that dress decently and actually look like someone who would have gone through years of chemistry instead of vogue class. Now, I can accept beautiful women in most Bond films It's the franchise's strongest trait. Or one of the strongest traits. But having Denise Richards play a nuclear chemist is beyond belief It's truly laughable!Pierce Brosnan once again proves to be a great Bond runner-up I'll be saddened when he stops playing the character. But hey, he's in his fifties--let's be thankful he even lasted through one of the films much less 1...2...3...4...etc...Sophie Marceau is nice as a Bond girl, but she is wasted at the sight of Denise Richards, who does not even know the meaning of acting, much less contain the charisma to become a Bond girl. Not that she's a horrible actress, but you have to see her in this movie to understand where I'm coming from.This is probably one of the worst Bond films I've seen. My favorites include Goldfinger, Dr. No, From Russia with Love, Moonraker, Goldeneye and a few others. If you like any of those Bond films, I suggest you stay away from this painful excuse for a Bond film.The first half is pretty good, but the last half is miserably slow-paced. I always turn it off half way through. I suggest you do, as well.Perhaps the only other point of seeing this film is to say a fond farewell to Q played by Desmond Llewelyn (1914-1999). By the way, John Cleese takes over Q's position as R. Unfortunately, not even he can save this film.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The World is Not Enough to make me watch this film twice!","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My comments are quite simple this is quite possibly the worst Bond film ever. Yes, with Bond films we are used to outrageous plots, unbelievable (though always entertaining e.g. Christopher Walken in A View to a Kill) villains, but at least there would be something like a story. The director and writers would get together to give the inevitable car chase/sky diving/skiing etc etc scene some relevance to the plot, but not this one. Tomorrow Never Dies was poor, but this was awful. Bond will be back, I do not care. "},{"Title":"A step back","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I knew this would happen, and I was prepared for it. This is far from the worst Bond - but it's equally far from the best, too. The plot is a bit lame, but there are some great characters here. And the Bond chick is back to normal - a big-breasted 22-year old expert on atomic research. Sounds about normal to me.I also like that we get to see Lady Dench a bit more, because she performs stunningly. "},{"Title":"Lacks depth and kind of uninteresting","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan's third turn as James Bond and again another modern day Bond movie that I am only seeing for the second time and for the first time since seeing it in the theaters! (Unlike Connery & Moore Bond movies which I've seen 3 to 6 or 7 times each!) The story is lacking here. The main villain uninteresting. He had very little depth. Bond Girl Sophie Marceau also. And then there's Denise Richards. Just a terrible casting choice. Additionally where was the Bond Theme? It was not as prevalent as in the previous movie. The score here also subpar. But as we enter the 21st Century, the action scenes seem to get better. I am more and more impressed with Brosnan as 007. He was bent on revenge which took him to a slightly darker place, not as dark as Timothy Dalton's Bond, but up off the cheeky goofyness Roger Moore brought to the character while maintaining the cool Connery exterior. He is really possibly becoming my favorite Bond. Overall not a spectacular unbelievably awesome movie but still worth seeing again!7.4 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"functional Bond movie and nothing more","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan returns to play 007. This time, he faces terrorist Renard (Robert Carlyle) who killed an oil tycoon in MI6 headquarters. Bond is sent to protect his heir Elektra King (Sophie Marceau). Valentin Zukovsky (Robbie Coltrane) is a casino owner with questionable motives. Dr. Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) is a nuclear scientist decommissioning nukes. Bond must stop a dastardly plan from Renard.This is the contribution from British director Michael Apted to the Bond franchise. It has a lot of the trademarks of that franchise. It has the convoluted plot, sexy ladies, and exotic locations. What it doesn't have is anything new, unexpected, or original. It delivers just enough so that we can call this a Bond movie. Pierce Brosnan has never been one of the stronger Bonds. Robert Carlyle doesn't show up in the movie for the first half of the movie, and he isn't a memorable Bond villain. Sophie Marceau has the more juicy role. And Denise Richards has her boobs. The action isn't anything spectacular, and the final fight is too confused. The exotic locations are weakly exploited. It's a functional Bond movie and nothing more. "}{"Title":"Seriously Underrated","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am the first to admit my slight bias for this Bond outing, since it was the first Bond that I ever watched. However, it has so many awesome elements that make it, in my opinion, one of the better Bond flicks out there. Firstly, the villain (or villains) in the movie have an evil plot that is not a world-domination plot, but about oil, which I found to be clever. Pierce Brosnan's performance in this one is equally as good as in GoldenEye, particularly in the scene where he kills Elektra I never miss. Pure awesomeness. Judi Dench as M is at her best in this one, with the subplot about her guilt over Elektra's kidnapping. As for the Bond girls, Elektra is obviously the better one in the movie, but Denise Richards isn't completely terrible. I know, I know, people hate her performance in the movie, but the reason why I don't mind her so much is simply because this is the only movie I've ever seen her in. That's right, I am the only male on the planet that has never seen Wild Things. All in all, this is a strong Bond outing. No where near as good as Goldfinger or Casino Royale, but strong. "},{"Title":"Below average","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I went to see it in the cinema when it first came out and I was pretty impressed. Looking back on it now it is a mediocre Bond movie which suffers from a bad plot and lack of decent villains. It starts off magnificently, the opening sequence was simply breathtaking but it all goes downhill from there. Denise Richards as a Bond villain was good to look at but nothing more, a bit like Halle Berry as Jinx. Robert Caryle was poor as Renard whilst Sophie Marceau was damn sexy but made a poor Bond villianess. To make matters worse there is that old chestnut involving Bond and the Bond girl being caught in a comprising position by M. Unfortunately Bond fans know that the worst was yet to come in the form of DAD. TWINE is a forgettable entry in the long running franchise and one I would like to forget. "},{"Title":"A slight misstep","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a soaring success with Tomorrow Never Dies, the series suffers a slight misstep with this uneven entry.Bond Pierce Brosnan is so comfortable in the role now that it is pointless to complain. He is no Connery, but he ranks higher than his other predecessors and has definitively proved that he is a worthy addition to the actors who have played the role.The villain The film spends much time building up Robert Carlyle's assassin Renaud, who we are told due to an injury is unable to feel pain. It is all for naught as Carlyle is surprisingly unmenacing and not especially interesting once he takes the screen. More of the problem rests with the writing rather than the performance, as Carlyle does manage to be the only villain in recent memory to elicit some form of audience sympathy in the latter act.The women Sophie Marceau is the epitome of everything a Bond woman should be. Classy, elegant, sexy, enigmatic and complex - her Elektra is one of the more fascinating Bond characters. By contrast, someone in central casting must have been having a hoot when hiring the light years beyond ludicrous Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones, a brilliant nuclear physicist. Not only is she entirely too young for the role, but the buxom Richards becomes an increasingly unintentional source of laughter as she struggles with her lines and poses prettily in her tank top and shorts.The film opens with a protracted slam-bang action sequence, but none of the further action scenes equal it - leaving the film with an oddly anti-climactic feel. The plot twists and turns around, but most will see a two-thirds act bombshell coming from a mile away. Judi Dench has much more screen time as M, but I feel she should have been made more proactive rather than the relatively passive onlooker she wrote here. The late Desmond Llewelyn makes a bittersweet swan song as Q. Not a total misfire - the film has enough interesting elements to distinguish it - but not a success. Garbage provide this entry's dismal title track. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to all Bond films.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    This movie was, by far, the worst Bond movie I've seen. The acting was bad, the plot was horrible, there were almost NO GADGETS, and the cast definitely needed some work - Denise Richards...a nuclear scientist?? I had a laugh over that (In fact, there were only a handful of people I enjoyed watching.)  What else can I say? It's worth renting for the sole purpose to say that you've seen it.    "},{"Title":"A disaster","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a long-time Bond fan it is just terrible to see where the series is heading. TWINE is flat and uninteresting with the classic Bond elements turned into cliches (for example David Arnold's bad musical score and the horrible script). Brosnan does his best with the role but the unexperienced action-thriller director Michael Apted loses his grip of the movie already in the pre-credit sequence.Apted, Arnold and screenwriters Purvis and Wade are returning for the 20th Bond movie. RIP, 007. "},{"Title":"One of the worst Bond-movies","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is truly one of the worst bond-movies ever made. The action scenes are totally screwed up, and the dialogues are too cliche and predictable. The only thing what is good about it is the soundtrack by Garbage (I usually don't even like that band). "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of the Year","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily the worst movie of the year.  Once again the filmmakers tried an exhausted plot and throw in some not-so-original characters.  This is the most invigorating Bond film ever, as well.  All involved should be ashamed. Especially Judi Dench.  Luckily Michael Apted has an award winning documentary coming out this week as well (42 Up) so maybe he can keep some artistic integrity.  All things considered, this movie should have never made it out of pre-production, let alone be able to make almost $40 million opening weekend.  A true disappointment. "},{"Title":"A waste of good money","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see The World is Not Enough with less than great expectations - having seen and not been impressed by Goldeneye (the only other Bond movie I've seen).  I was hoping for at least a somewhat interesting action movie, boy was I wrong.  This movie flaters in all respects - story (Blowing up Istanbul with a nuclear sub - boring!), casting (Denise Richards! Need I say more), acting (John Cleese is totally wasted and again Denise Richards!), humor (In the theatre I was in almost no one laughed at any of the jokes), villains (bland and uninteresting), and most importantly action (except for the boat chase at the begining the rest is just explosion after explosion and don't even get me started on the submarine squence).Don't bother with this waste money, wait until its on the permium cable channels so you can just turn it off when see how bad it is.BTW - If this movie is supposed to be normal for the series then I won't be bothering with any of the other James Bond films.  "},{"Title":"I'd settle for a good film...","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" **Warning Spoiler Information Inside**After the continued success of the Post cold war formulae that was felt in Goldeneye (1995) and Tomorrow Never Dies (1997), the franchise quickly moved forward releasing The World is not Enough (1999).Bond is on assignment recovering funds from a botched kidnapping extortion scheme in Spain.After the money is recovered it explodes at MI6 HQ ,killing one of M's personal friends. 007 is held at distance by M However eventually finds his way onto the case.After so many movies , and the simplification of the Bond schema you would think no one could ever get it this wrong. Not so. This chapter of the bond saga is rivaled only by 1974's The Man with the Golden Gun. The script is a jumbled mess focusing at times on the interpersonal so much you lose track of the storyline. Then there is the incredibly lame tie in sequence, with bond girl Christmas Jones (Denise Richards).The emotion of the character Renard (Robert Carlyle) is enough justification for a nap. To be clear , just as with Golden Gun, the Director (Micheal Apted) and actors can only work with the material at hand , and the writing here is a complete fail.On a personal note I did rather enjoy Robbie Coltrane in this film.This Film also marked the departure of Desmond Llewelyn (Q) from the franchise. he passed shortly after it's completion. John Cleese picked to be his successor fit well with the character who so often is the victim of Bond's field antics.Not Good.Two Stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"Watch if you just like explosions.","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I give this a generous 3 vote due to the fact that the actors are good. The script, however, is extremely poor. the actors did what they could with the script given them. I think this was a time that Hollywood thought people just wanted to see explosions and no plot or dialogue. I would not even classify this as an action movie. It it just a bunch of explosions with very poor dialogue which has no meaning in their words. I actually had to stop watching and fast forward only to find out that the same thing was going on one and a half hours into the movie. If you like just explosions, this is the movie for you. If you want plot, dialogue and something that stimulates your mind, do not watch this movie. I had to shut it off after 90 minutes and that was after cutting out 1 hour of the movie. "}{"Title":"Tomorrow Never Dies all over again","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is Not Enough. Let's start with the title. It seems like an alternate title to Tomorrow Never Dies, in a way. But yes, I know the connection between this film and On Her Majesty's Secret Service. And when I think about that as well, these two films are connected as well. Like On Her Majesty's Secret Service, Bond's mission is almost hidden, there's snow, helicopters, and something of a bitter-sweet ending. Then again, On Her Majesty's Secret Service was a good film, and The World is Not Enough isn't as good. Problems, well, the villain does the same thing over and over again proves he can't be hurt. Smashing his hand, holding hot coals. The Bond girl/girls aren't all that interesting, and the inclusion of Hagrid seems unnecessary. But the action scenes are entertaining, as is the whole opening sequence, and the subplot of M being captured is a new twist, but of course they do nothing with it. So it's OK, but nothing near special. "},{"Title":"Not Shaken, Not Stirred.","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Every once in a while I try to check out a James Bond entry to see if there's anything new going on. After all, the first few had a certain panache back in the early 60s. It was known that JFK was an avid reader of Ian Fleming's novels. College kids were reading about James Bond. It was fresh stuff, a spy who was licensed to kill, given to high-end living, wisecracking under stress, faced with colorful masterminds who might be only half human, a babe under every arm, and sporting the comic cartoon handsome face of Sean Connery.I don't know where it all went, but it went alright. The essence remains the same but the accidents have changed. One handsome face followed another in the series. The Bond Girls with their funny names came and went before showing up in Playboy.The series raises some interesting and thoroughly researchable questions. How many desperate chases can be built in one or another setting around how many disparate modes of transportation? I use the term modes of transportation rather than vehicles because vehicle chases, even the least probably, are old fashioned. Cars, trucks, boats, airplanes -- they're all so yesterday. This one alone has skis, hang gliders, propeller-driven snowmobiles, parachutes, and I don't know what all -- none of which is usually thought of as a vehicle.The explosions are as big as ever, and so are the villain's ambitions. I think this one has something to do with building an oil pipeline through the Caucasus, avoiding centers of terrorism like Iran and Iraq. (This is 1999 we're talking about.) The villain is impervious to pain because he has a bullet in his brain -- his medulla oblongata in fact, which actually controls not sensation but blood pressure, breathing, and other low-level functions. Not that it matters. I mean, the guy can hold a red hot stone in his hand.Sophie Marceau, a pretty young thing, provides the love interest, all glamorized and impeccable. Denise Richards provides the pulchritude. With her dark eyebrows and plump lips she looks made for James Bond movies.There's no actual point in going into details of the plot. The story isn't that different from any of the other Bond movies except in its setting. In this case it includes the majestic Alps and some highly unlikely slopes down which Pierce Brosnan and Sophie Marceau glide. I wouldn't have skied down those slopes. I would have taken a photo of them and left them glistening under the cloudless, high-altitude sun. The hang-gliding snowmobiles that shortly appear in order to shoot the two skiers full of holes are all colored black and are a fornication upon that pristine landscape.I was barely interested. I tuned out before the end. Best scene Denise Richards slips out of her Hazmat suit and wears only a tank top and shorts and has a brief exchange in Russian with Bond. Otherwise, what we have here is another endless variation on a possible series of infinite permutations. "},{"Title":"This cost 135 million dollars?????","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a really lousy Bond. Is it because the daughter Broccoli is the producer? It was far inferior to the previous one in the sequence Goldeneye the last one produced by her father. The story is full of flaws apparently written by someone who knows nothing about the world. A good example is the casino scene where is it? Azerbajin? Lots of wealthy token blacks there. Elektra saves a church and becomes a heroine in a Moslem country? The action scenes look so fake and the props so bad...after the pipe line blows up Christmas and Bond are crawling around the crater filled with a couple trees that were obviously cut down cleanly with a saw. Heavy water is dangerous but not plutonium?? The whole story was so inaccurate and stupid it hardly deserves analysis. I finally started to fast forward it. God awful. If the daughter is responsible I hope she improves. I have my doubts based on this piece of garbage. Wikipedia says this movie cost 135 million. Where did the money go? Certainly not the writers or prop makers. Why didn't they hire someone who knew something about geography or science to advise the writer? "},{"Title":"If you want to see Denise Richards in a wet vest, watch Wild Things instead.","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The last mission of the millennium for James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) is to discover who is behind the murder of oil tycoon Sir Robert King (David Calder). Prime suspect is kidnapper Renard (Robert Carlyle), whose failed abduction of Sir Robert's daughter Elektra (Sophie Marceau) left him with a bullet in his brain and a score to settle.Hard to believe it, but the Brosnan Bond series gets even worse with this dreadful entry that features one of the dullest plots ever (oil pipeline....yadda yadda....kidnap...yadda yadda....nuclear bomb...yadda yadda), a couple of forgettable villains in the form of Marceau's oil heiress Elektra King and Carlyle's infatuated kidnapper Renard, and&#x97;in perhaps the most far-fetched thing you will probably ever see in a Bond movie&#x97;wooden beauty Denise Richards as vest-and-hot-pant-wearing nuclear physicist Christmas Jones!A few well executed action sequences just about make this one worth a go, the pre-credits chase being full of great boat stunts and the caviar factory/helicopter saw scene packing in plenty of destruction and mayhem. The supposedly exciting finale, however, is a complete mess&#x97;precisely what is happening at any one time is anyone's guess as Bond and Jones press random buttons in a flooding sub while Renard attempts to load nuclear rods into the reactor.4.5 out of 10, rounded up to 5 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond ever","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Alright since I have to have at least 1 star for this movie thats all it gets. How anyone that has any taste can like this movie I wil never understand. But its total Crap.First off the beginning (spoiler) Bond breaks his collor bone on fall and catches himself on some ropes. What the hell is that. Then as if that isn't enough (spoiler)the bad guy knows about it so during the end fight Bond is nursing the injured shoulder while the bad guy is beating him senseless. Which by the way he doesn't feel pain do to a bullett wound he got.Now lets talk about Denise Richards as a nuclear engineer. She is way to young to even be believable as that. Then her role is absolutely absurde. I felt cheated after seeing this movie and wish i could get that part of my night back. "},{"Title":"The worst Brosnan Bond.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  We all know the vital ingredients of any Bond film,so I shan't bother listing them here.This film has more or less all of them present and correct.Unfortunately,The World Is Not Enough sees these elements so badly executed as to make the film pretty excruciating to watch in places.The innuendo is appallingly poor-I know Bond has never been subtle,but this script appears to be the work of a pair of 14 year olds.Denise Richards appears to find delivering her lines difficult,so intent is she on pouting throughout the picture.This all,however,is somewhat excusable,given the nature of the beast-exciting escapism.Unfortunately,the film features such lame,predictable,anti-climactic set-pieces that the whole thing becomes a boring mess.It is perhaps unfair to attack such a film as unpredictable,when more all action pieces are to a greater or lesser extent,but The World Is Not Enough lacks the necessary ingredient of taut,exciting direction to carry it off.For example,the film features probably the least exciting speedboat chase I have seen,due to(in my opinion)poor choice of shots and editing.Apparently Michael Apted himself has questioned the producers' wisdom in choosing him.I am by no means attacking the director,I just think he was the wrong man for the job.Brosnan is OK-I would agree with the growing consensus that he's the best since Connery(apologies to all those odd people who prefer Moore),but unfortunately he didn't have much to work with here. "},{"Title":"The Best Bond Film of the last 12 years","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ... okay, so that only includes three other films, but The World Is Not Enough does have some sense of consolidation about it.I WANTED to hate this film, truly I did. The overblown Brosnan era, all money-spinning set-piece explosions and dumbed-down formula is not for me. The best Bond since Connery is regurgitated by any critic going, yet all I see is a bland, shallow characterisation that trades in his licence to kill for indiscriminately machine-gunning his enemies.Yet whereas the two previous entries in the canon, Goldeneye particularly, treated their audience with no respect whatsoever, TWINE at least tries to shade in some detail around the formula.Watching the film makes you wonder what really goes in on Bond's head. For the millionth time he has a high-speed ski chase, yet this is no stunt man then close-up of Roger Moore in front of a filmed backdrop situation. Okay, well, it IS, but effects have improved so that it is almost believable that Brosnan is leaping all over the place and stopping four very nice flying bobsleighs. Does he think of his parents, killed in the novels during an avalanche? And what of his late wife from On Her Majesty's Secret Service? (The film which gave us The World Is Not Enough as Bond's family motto). Does Bond remember her when she is mentioned in this film, or think of her when he sees Blofield-lookalike Renard?But that was then, and this is very much the now, with a 007 that leaps onto the Millennium Dome with possibly the best title sequence in memory. A herd of Rorsharch ink blot tests fill the screen to a so-so song by Garbage, though sadly there is very little psychology in the film, amateur or otherwise. This pans out into a film that loses its muster ever-so-slightly, but still packs enough involvement to keep the viewer interested.Robbie Coltrane returns with the worst Scotsman-doing-a-foreign-accent since Connery had the lead role. Denise Richards appears as the not-very-good-entredre-and-frankly-quite-ludicrously-named Christmas Jones, who, with her generous figure, cupid's bow lips and pixie nose may not be the most sophisticated Bond girl (or anything approaching a nuclear physicist) but is probably the sexiest. John Cleese makes a cringingly unfunny cameo as Q's successor, and in all honesty, never mind tradition, wouldn't the 007 films be better without these perfunctory and wearily-predictable Q gadget scenes? They no longer even serve a plot specification, as many of Bond's gadgets aren't explained in this section, and are brought into play (including a crass watch that is more Batman than Bond) without explanation or signposting. As a mark of respect to Desmond Llewellyn (who sadly died Dec 19th, 1999) I feel the Q element should end here.But again I must insist this film is slightly better than Dalton's below-par Licence to Kill and easily eclipses Brosnan's earlier efforts. Okay, I'm not too keen on the lacklustre disco soundtrack that passes as incidental, I would've liked to have seen more of David Calder, and maybe we could have done without Renard's silly pun about nuclear family, but in criticising this film I am clutching at straws. What really holds it together is Robert Carlyle, an exceptional actor who breaks the previously-established rule that a good actor (Christophers Lee and Walken, along with Jonathan Pryce) doesn't necessarily make a good Bond villain. Okay, maybe he should have had more screen time, and maybe he should have been tougher (for someone that has no feelings, he sure says ow a lot when clobbered by Bond). But Carlyle's real strength is in upping the ante. In film, as with his brilliant turn as Trainspotting's Begbie, or even television, taking the lead as Hamish McBeth or playing opposite Coltrane in Cracker, his intensity is infectious, causing all around him to try that much harder. An outstanding actor with tremendous presence, particularly considering his height, I would stake Carlyle as the single greatest actor of the 90s and would argue that it is his presence alone that causes this movie to work so well.This higher level of acting even rubs off on the normally flat Brosnan, who gives his best performance by far with a genuinely nasty edge underneath. He's still to get the danger of Connery, be as funny as Moore, or achieve the depth of Dalton, but for once we get the impression of a real person, rather than someone going through the motions. Nice to see Bond doing a little detective work again, too, rather than the glorified action man he's been of late. Credit goes to Judi Dench, who, as an M in the field (not as ridiculous as it sounds), does sterling work and plays off well against the afore-mentioned Carlyle. Hard to believe that in television land she's a light sitcom actress.But what really sets this film out from the rest of 90s Bonds is its story, which, while hardly intellectually taxing, at least gives us enough twists and turns in the plot to ensure that concentration is required at all times.I would rate this as amongst the ten best Bond films, though in truth it still doesn't come close to Connery's legacy or what Dalton COULD have achieved given the right backing. Bond Will Return, and these noisy, flashy, 007-by-numbers movies are raking it in by the bucketload. And that's all that really matters... isn't it? "},{"Title":"No Depth","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I feel spoiled that I was able to get into Bond at a time when Daniel Craig was at the helm. I feel bad for people who grew up with the Brosnan films, which are turning out to be weak to say the least. It's not all Brosnan's fault, it's the writing, directing, and overall lack of great story telling. The World is Not Enough is yet another example of a lackluster and disappointing Bond installment.In the ongoing list of nuclear based villains, this film contains perhaps the strangest. A terrorist with a link to MI6, can't feel pain because a bullet is logged in between his membranes delaying all types of pain and feeling. What? I know Bond villains can have their fair share of strange qualities, but to have a guy with a bullet in his head that can't feel pain was way too far fetched. But even looking past the villain, there's not much substance to the story or other characters either. The action is definitely fun, but way more over the top than it needs to be. I think that's been one of the major issues that the Brosnan films have suffered from, they have relied too heavily on the action sequences to entertain the audience.Even the stunning Denise Richards and Sophie Marceau can't save this film. There's nothing to their characters. The plot is similar to that of 2012's Skyfall where Judie Dench's M is one of the main characters and the target of the lead villain. But this film tries to tackle a global nuclear angle that Skyfall didn't have while doing the story ten times as good. It's another solid cable watch but without substance, it's not worth sitting down and watching the film.It's worth noting that this was Desond Llewelyn's last film before his death in 1999. He's been one of the few bright spots in the bad Bond films and he always brings something more to the great ones. It's sad to see that his last film wasn't the best one, but his performance as Q in 17 of the Bond films will never be forgotten.+Llewelyn's emotional exit+Action is fun-Weak writing-Over the top characters5.4/10 "},{"Title":"A tad improvement on  the last","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World is not enough I enjoy this more then the last one , it had a better plot to it It had a lot more action compared to tomorrow never dies. Which had very limited action compared to this movie Another really good opening scene The actions scenes were great This movie did have a better plot however the movie was very predicable.As you can twist and turns coming from far to early before they play our on screen I am going to give this movie a 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not as Good As Goldeneye","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought Christmas only comes once a year.Oh grow up 007... But that is a hilarious pun. The World Is Not Enough isn't amazing, but I think it has enough bits and pieces that are good for me to enjoy it. The storyline is has interesting elements wrapped in your typical nuclear weapon was stolen story. There's a oil pipeline and an oil tycoon that are involved that help make a possibly unoriginal plot become a bit more interesting. Also, the villain isn't your typical villain, and it actually kind of reminds me of how Bane was in the Dark Knight Rises, in the sense that there is actually two villains one of which is under the influence and charm of the other.There are some fun action sequences, like the blade helicopter attack at the warehouse, or the Thames chase, but other sequences like the ski chase just felt a little bit lacking. I think that's overall what this movie feel like. Just a bit lacking.Brosnan does a good job of playing Bond, as usual. We get a good performance from Robert Carlyle which works well. Sophie Marceau did good too, but there's something I just personally didn't like about her, but I think that might be just me. Denise Richards... is meh. A lot of people absolute hate her in this, and I think she's just kinda weak. She's pretty and looks good in the role, but overall doesn't deliver the kind of character she could have been.The World Is Not Enough is certainly no Goldeneye, but it is enjoyable in it's own ways. I think it just feels like a bit of a let down overall. "}{"Title":"A little better than Tomorrow Never Dies.","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've always said that Pierce Brosnan would make an excellent Bond, and probably should have been bought out from his Remington Steel contract to do some Bond films in the 80s, but we have him here, and he does an okay job playing the world's most famous spy. Why do I say okay? Because it is an okay performance. It's good solid thesping, but a little Luke warm for a Bond, in my opinion. There is a little more story, and Brosnan actually gets to show his smarts and spy ability in this film, but it is essentially another action film that's a little light on the spy side (even though we do get some of that, and more than in the previous offerings with Brosnan, I'll add).We essentially have a third party once again interfering with international relations, and on the brink of bringing catastrophe to the world for the sake of several million dollars and the control of markets around the globe. French thespianette, Sophia Marceau, familiar with the action adventure genre, is no slouch in this role as she plays one of the heavies in this film. A surprising show by Denise Richards playing a girl who is brains and beauty to help Bond save the world yet again, and the usual suspects for the fictitious MI6.Lots of gun-play, some corny action sequences, a few characters die needlessly, some are spared, overall it's a decent watch.When I was younger I really wanted to see Pierce Brosnan take up the Bond mantle, and do so in the tradition of the classic Bond films. That's kind of been achieved, and this is probably the best of the three Bond films that he did, but I still would have liked more spy action and less flashy big expensive production action sequences. Action with more tension and less pyrotechnics. But that's just me.Give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Boring low point of Brosnan Bond era","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Like the previous three Bond movies, The World is Not Enough (1999) doesn't take its title from any of the Ian Fleming novels or short stories. However, if you have seen On Her Majesty's Secret Service you know that the title is actually Bond family motto. The film is directed by Michael Apted, his only Bond movie so far.M's personal friend, oil tycoon Sir Robert King, is assassinated in the Secret Service headquarters. M takes this rather personally and makes it top priority to find people responsible. James Bond becomes convinced that the assassination was planned by terrorist Renard, who years earlier had kidnapped King's daughter Elektra, and is now back for revenge. M sends Bond to protect Elektra, as she might be the next victim.Bond series had managed to keep a very good quality up for the past two decades. From For Your Eyes Only to Tomorrow Never Dies there had been only good Bond movies, with couple excellent in between. So it was only a matter of time before quality would drop again. To be fair this movie does have all the right ingredients for a good Bond film great action, thought through script and good actors, so what is wrong with it then? It's boring. I have to be honest, I was bored by this film. There's nothing really new here, none of the characters were all that interesting and I just couldn't bring myself to care what was happening and to whom.Another thing is that minor characters are far more interesting than main ones. Pierce Brosnan still carries the role with the same pride as in two previous ones and I am a bit impressed by that. However there's nothing all that memorable of either Sophie Marceau or Robert Carlyle, who play Elektra and Renard. Both are serious about their job, but neither can live up to the high standards of Bond girls and villains. I'm also confused if Carlyle is trying to imitate Donald Pleasence's creepy unblinking stare from You Only Live Twice or if it was just a coincidence. At least neither of them is as badly miscast though as Denise Richards as Dr. Christmas Jones. Denise Richards is eye candy for sure, but her playing nuclear physicist is as convincing as having Pamela Anderson to play brain surgeon.The highlights of this movie are Judi Dench as M who gets to actually have a larger part this time than typically M has in Bond movies, as well as Robbie Coltrane who reprises his role as Valentin Zukovsky from GoldenEye, stealing every scene he's in. This is also the last movie to feature Desmond Llewelyn as Q, a role he played in 17 Bond films all together since From Russia with Love. The filmmakers had Q retire in this film, since Llewelyn was quite old and ill already, and be replaced by strangely forgettable John Cleese. Q's last scene, knowing Llewelyn died soon after the film was made, is strangely touching.All in all, The World is Not Enough has its moments, but it is still below average Bond film that didn't impress me and where supporting cast steals the show from lead players. At least it's not as stupid as Moonraker. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's worst Bond yet","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  007 has taken a plunge for the worst. Not only is robery carlyle embarassing as the villain, judi dench is once again playing M as somebody who doesn't like violence and is irritatingly frightened to let Bond do his job. Although Bond is not always believable, Denise Richards is ridiculously unplausable. As the film goes on, each time bond escapes from certain death i found myself either laughing with embarassment or just wishing it was over. Bond 19 left me in dismay, must do better.  "},{"Title":"The best Bond since 1981's FOR YOUR EYES ONLY","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As soon as James Bond puts up his hand and tells the Swiss banker that All I want is a name in response to who killed another 00 agent, you know this is going to be a dangerous Bond movie.  Roger Moore was his most dangerous in For Your Eyes Only and it helped that movie become the best of the Moore Bonds.  The best Bonds always combine danger, action, and off the cuff humor.  The World Is Not Enough delivers in each of these areas. Michael Apted's direction is tight, balanced, and really well paced.  The action sequences do not dominate the picture, but when they're on, they really deliver!  David Arnold's music score echoes the golden days of John Barry, and Pierce Brosnan delivers his best Bond yet!  Sophie Marceau really shines as Electra King.  Her performance is mature and alluring.  Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist. . .OK, it's a Bond movie, not a David Lean film.  Actually I think people have been a little hard on her performance. She's not on screen enough to make that much of an impression one way or another.  If you're a Bond fan, you've been waiting for this one.  You know, once in awhile, they DO make 'em like they used to! "},{"Title":"Where The World Is Not Enough Stands","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The World Is Not Enough is probably the 2nd best movie of Pierce Brosnans 007 films. It stands 17th where I have ranked the James Bond movies on a list of mine. It has a good Bond girl being, Christmas Jones, but its villain, Christ! The guys got a bullet through his head and still lives for world domination, now that is stupid. On the upper hand it has exciting action scenes and good acting. It has an awesome opening scene but in this film you can start to see Pierce Brosnans age start to rise. The film was once a favorite but not anymore. The World is not enough really didn't have enough for me and is why it stands 17th on my list... "},{"Title":"Boring, dull, WORST bond film ever!","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Coming into this film I didn't really know what to expect. Tomorrow never dies wasn't as good as goldeneye and this film was regarded by critics as one of the worst bond movies. However after reading some user reviews they said it was one of the best of recent times, so I thought I might like this film. The first 30 minutes were great. The boat chase scene was incredibly entertaining and it set up what looked to be a great film however then it just fell away. The film immediately slows down. And while this might set up the plot, when an action scene does come it's not at all entertaining. That skiing scene I just watched, didn't feel anything or cared. That goes the same for most of the characters in this film including bond himself. It's all so dull and boring and in the end doesn't leave you Hungry for more. Like other bond films.Over all The world's not enough does allot right, but it's all over shadowed by a how boring it is. "},{"Title":"I want my money back.","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I just spent £20 buying this movie on BLU RAY.Like seriously. I love action films, I love good twists. I love epic movies. But I hate The World if Not Enough.Brosnan just could not act all too well at all. The action scenes were boring and literally TOOO over the top, even for a James Bond film. The story really didn't go anywhere, nor did it interest me from the start! I feel bad for Denise, her role in this pathetic movie really dampened a promising looking career. Her acting wasn't exactly AMAZING, but it topped Brosnan's hands down.What really got me was the fact that Brosnan's stunt double probably had more time on screen than he did! I know a lot of the scenes were dangerous and etc, but he could have grown some balls and done one or two scenes himself (like Daniel Craig).God, I've said more than enough. I don't recommend this film to anyone, at ALL! If you want a good action packed movie with suspense and good acting try Casino Royale. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Bonds","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I came in the screener with little expectations, since I've seen very little on the movie and though I think he's the perfect casting for a Bond, Pierce Brosnan's Bond films have been pretty mediocre. This one was a huge surprise though. The storyline was very well written and all the characters were great. Robert Carlyle (who I barely noticed) was an excellent villain and Brosnan really gets to show off charisma in this Bond role. The ladies were great too instead of wallpaper; Sophie Marceau was the best casting, playing a role full of zest and shows off her amazing looks (after getting stuck in the dud Lost & Found). Though I'm not a huge fan of her and didn't expect her to pull it off well, Denise Richards does an excellent job as the sexy sidekick Jones. Directed by Michael Apted, this film is full of impressive action, with one of the greatest chase scenes on a boat shot on film. 128 minutes really fly by sitting through this one. It should be one to please both Bond and non-Bond fans, finding it to be my favorite Bond flick. While waiting for End of Days, check this one and Sleepy Hollow out on the same weekend. "},{"Title":"Disappointing third outing for Brosnan's Bond","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Well, I'm not the biggest Bond fan at the best of times - and unfortunately, The World is Not Enough cannot be considered 'the best of times' for the enduring series of films. Pierce Brosnan isn't my favourite actor to take the central role of James Bond, and on the whole - the quality of the films Brosnan has starred isn't very high. The World is Not Enough is probably the worst of the four films that Brosnan made - and that's actually a shame as with some better storytelling, the plot could have been made interesting and there is certainly enough here to spring an exciting thriller from. The plot centres on oil, and oil tycoon Sir Robert King. King is unfortunately killed during a bombing at MI6 headquarters and Bond is sent to protect his daughter, Electra, from harm. Around the same time, it emerges that terrorist Renard seems to have something to do with the assassination of Robert King - and Renard isn't your average sort of guy, as the bullet in his brain means that his senses are shutting down - and he's getting stronger all the time. The further in Bond gets, the more the plot thickens...The Bond villains are a big part of the series, and this one has to be respected for 'Renard' - aside from the fact that his character is more than a little bit silly, he does at least make a good villain - all the better for the fact that he is played by Robert Carlyle. There's a few other villains thrown into the mix too, but none of the rest are particularly interesting - and that's where the film falls down. Denise Richards is the Bond girl this time around, but director Michael Apted doesn't seem too bothered about that side of the story as she is completely underused and is more memorable for her silly name (Christmas Jones) than any scene she's in. There is a number of big stunts that feature in the film, and this ensures that the disappointment mounts more as despite the fact that most of them are heavy on explosions etc - there isn't one that I'm going to remember by this time next month, so it just seems like a big waste of money. The film features one of the best title sequences in Bond history, mostly thanks to the song by Garbage - but unfortunately, the film itself doesn't live up to that opening, and The World is Not Enough, is not enough. "},{"Title":"disappointing and dull","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond films must meet a certain criteria. Call it the Brocolli effect if you want. They must have the Bond elements 1. The glib, witty, cool, collected Bond character 2. Stunning scenery 3. Various venues and exotic locations most people rarely see, notably the Mediteranean, other seas, deserts, outer space, mountains, the romance countries (Italy, Portugal, Greece, et al), underwater scenes, sky scenes, and jungles. 4. Adventure and non stop action. 5. Beautiful women. 6. The usual British characters such as M, Q, and Moneypenny. 7. The colorful supporting cast such as the Russian spy leader. 8. A bad guy who even kills his own bad guys 9. An over the top plot such as world domination.This film tries to cover all this, and of course the beautiful women are here, but the rest is rather bland in comparison to other Bond movies. On it's own merits, there isn't much to like. It prides itself more on intrigue and double cross, and killing as many dark haired women as it can, which will endear it to the vast neo Nazi viewers of the American public. They will automatically cheer it on no matter what. But it offers nothing else. It isn't interesting. It has a plot, characters, and scenes you will forget the moment you leave the theatre. It doesn't approach the Brocolli criteria. It is more like Old lettuce. "}{"Title":"One of the best Bond films yet","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  007 returns for the 19th time in this film (for the third time played by Pierce Brosnan who is better than Roger Moore, but not as good as Sean Connery), this time to face a man who has literally lost part of his mind (Robert Carlyle is very clever as this villain) and action and plot ensues.  Great fun, as long as you can follow the plot and action (which if you are a Bond fan would be a snap).  One of the best bond films and action films of the year.  The best treat- John Cleese follows in Q (Desmond Llewyn's last film as Q) and makes a funny cameo to show what he'll be like in the later Bond films as R.  A+ "},{"Title":"The World Is Not Enough","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This Bond film was not just the third of Pierce Brosnan's films, but also the Bond film made with Millennium based things in it, e.g. The Millennium Dome, the main girl being named Christmas Jones (Denise Richards) and mention of The Millennium Bug. Anyway, a kidnapper of wealthy daughter of Sir Robert King, Electra (Braveheart's Sophie Marceau) plans to do something to do with her oil pipeline, or is it more than that? Renard (The Full Monty's Robert Carlyle) meanwhile is trying to steal some sort of plutonium device to create a nuclear bomb, and the bad news is that Electra may be involved. Also starring Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky, Dame Judi Dench as M, Maria Grazia Cucinotta as the Cigar Girl, Samantha Bond as Miss Moneypenny, Michael Kitchen as Bill Tanner, Colin Salmon as Charles Robinson, Goldie as Bull, and the last appearance of Desmond Llewelyn as Q before he quit, and not long before his tragic car crash, John Cleese is his replacement, first called R. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Dame Judi Dench was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, she was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses, and she was number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor, John Cleese was number 14 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and the film was number 17 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Garbage's title song. Very good! "},{"Title":"Fairly Poor Bond Film","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TWINE opens with a terribly overproduced action sequence of a boat chase that goes on and on and on . It`s not thrilling , it`s not clever but most of all it`s not entertaining in the slightest . I want to tell the producers of the Bond franchise that BIG does not always equal good . A gritty adventure like DR NO , or a film that makes Bond more vulnerable like GOLDFINGER or an attempt at character development like LICENCE TO KILL or GOLDENEYE make far better Bond films than a stunt fest like MOONRAKER . Oh and cut back on lines like  Would you like to check my figures  or the awful pun at the end because they pull the film back down to the Roger Moore era  My main gripe about TWINE is the cast who deserve a tirade of abuse for such disappointing performances especially Robert Carlyle . In the late 1990s Carlyle had replaced Sean Connery as god in Scotland and it`s not too much of an exaggeration to say the whole country was looking forward to his role as Renard , but he`s very poor here as a Bond nasty . His accent and mannerism just doesn`t feel right and he comes close to parody . Worst of all it becomes obvious Carlyle has only been reading the scenes in the script that he appears in . Remember that Renard is a man who can feel no pain ? Well notice his fight scenes with Bond where he gives a pained expression after  getting hit ! Also very shabby of the director not to notice this and edit these bits out . Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist ! Yeah right . And how many films have you seen which have had John Cleese being as unfunny as he is here ?I was going to say this was by far the worst Brosnan Bond film but I haven`t seen DIE ANOTHER DAY yet . I did notice however that TOMORROW NEVER LIES  wasn`t as good as GOLDENEYE but was much better than TWINE . I hope we`re not seeing a series where each succeding film is worst than the last  "}]