[{"Title":"Not my Friends....","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Friends And Lovers Trashed by every critic, and deservedly so.  This comedy features the oddest tone of a feature film in some time.  It's silly, it's deeply dramatic, it's sexually explicit, it's shockingly amateurish... It's everything!Stephen Baldwin, Allison Eastwood, Danny Nucci, George Newbern, David Rasche, and Claudia Schiffer head the cast of friends who gather at a ski chalet during the holidays.  The share life lessons, deep secrets, and raging hormones over the course of two days. It's real easy to see why actors would want to be in this.  Friends is the type of film that's very actor friendly.  Director George Haas lets his cast have free reign over their performances, often resulting in self-conscious acting.  I was drawn to this for two reasons, Schiffer being the first.  I was curious about her acting (this being her second starring role, the first in a Able Ferrara film that has yet to find American distribution - actual proof that there is a God).  Needless to say, she stinks.  She just doesn't have the chops for the big screen.  The other reason I attended this was for Robert Downey Jr's hilarious performance as a German ski instructor named Hans.  He's the lone bright spot in this bizarre film. Some dramatics between Newbern and Rasche work well too, they just seem from a different movie.  The locations are nice, and the technical credits are appropriate. Plus when isn't it a good thing to see a schlocky old fashion 1987 ski montage complete with squealing guitars?  Anyone?  This wasn't terrible to sit through, but it is a bad film. Just one of those movies that come around that makes you think just how much blow was passed around to get it made.------ 3  "},{"Title":"What a mess, what a mess, what a mighty big mess...","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Gees, what a film. Basically, a lot of friends (and enemies?) on a skiing holiday togheter. The result of the film is pretty much that all the wrong people end up in bed together. You wouldn't think this would make a good film, but it does! At least I think so. It's a complicated movie, but still it doesn't require much thinking. (hm...) Most of the thinking cosists of trying to keep all the different characters apart.Personally, I think this is a basic case of we're-on-holiday-so-we-can-do-what-we-like and maybe it's not the best plot ever. Still, you can't help but enjoy it when Claudia's character dumps her arrogant, but good-looking, boyf. for Robert DJ's rather silly (but charming) character. Sends out a message that looks don't really matter. Any guy (or girl) who's ever wanted anyone outta their league probably feels the same way.So, in my opinion, a GREAT film... Sorry other people don't feel the same way. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go to the movies!!!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  With a cast like this, you figure the film shouldn't be that bad, but believe me it is. The cast are fighting a losing battle from the start, Robert Downey Jr, should kick himself for getting wrapped up in this film, and as for his accent, the Bavarians have probably put a Fatwa out on him. Claudia Schiffer, shows some potential, but the gag that she falls for a guy with the line Have you ever considered being a model? is so thin, it makes Twiggy look over weight. Alison Eastwood also shows potential, but again drowns in the watery story. If this was a kids report card, the phrase 'Can do much better' would be the the one that stands out "},{"Title":"Chuckles, Splits, Happy","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":" 'Friends & lovers' is not all that bad to deserve this low a rating. It may not be iconic but it manages to make you chuckle throughout. I probably would have given this movie a miss had I not been reading Downey's biography. I just got curious to see the pre-Iron Man movies of Downey & I am not disappointed. The plot is simple. Friends decide to go skiing when one of their dads invites them over. In this journey they find their partners and mend their bonds. Finally all is well that ends well.Robert Downey Jr's role, although brief, keeps your eyes glued to him. This is probably one of his most sassiest yet cheesy performance. I guess the role required him to be that. His German accent is quiet funny. The highlight of the movie is when Downey reveals that he is from New Jersey & not Germany. That explains the fake accent I guess. I quiet fell for his funky hairdo. Worth a watch. You will enjoy it better with like minded friends. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not THAT bad...plus I just REALLY like Robert Downey Jr.'s tush..","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":" This is not supposed to be Citizen Kane. It's a fluff piece. If you're locked up on a rainy day--or better yet, in a cabin during a winter snowstorm--with a couple of friends, some rum & a board game, it doesn't hurt to toss this on in the background, if for no other reason than to watch RDJ's fine derrière, easily the best part of this whole thing.Having said that, the one thing, if nothing else (and seriously, I'm not doing that much of a review here anyway...), that needs to be pointed out to the several people who have commented on RDJ's bad German accent--it's intentional. His accent is supposed to be cheesy like that because he's from New Jersey, not Germany. If that accent was supposed to be spoken by a genuine German character, bet your rear that Downey would have nailed it. It's a silly little bit of comedy that's not intended to be Shakespeare, and if you can just look at it that way, and try to enjoy the scenery, i.e. RDJ's man-tastic buns and the mountains, it's not a bad little flick, and it's mildly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Nice...","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, ok, this is not a masterpiece. There are thousands of good movies and this one is certainly not one of them. But come on! If you rent a video like this you are NOT expecting any intellectual experience or to see award-winning performances (fine, you don't expect to see pointless frontal nudity, either. I've got to give you that). Friends and lovers was perfect to help me spend two hours of my time I had nothing better to do with. If that's your case, then rent the video - it can be funny of you don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"self indulgent, derivative and abjectly awful","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Friends and Lovers is a meandering and pointless story about a half dozen depthless characters finding love and sex in a luxury ski lodge.  The characters don't seem to have any past but thanks to a talented product placement director, they do have very expensive cars and clothes. Tedious themes (son estranged from father, insensitive Lothario who can't find love) aren't helped any by a gay story line that suggests the writer has never met a gay person in his life. In an industry where producers have to struggle to piece together the funding for a film like The Opposite of Sex, its upsetting to see such a waste of human effort and money as Friends and Lovers. "},{"Title":"A lame story but not that bad a movie","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit I actually liked this movie. Once I got pass the very pathetic first 10 minutes or so, the sometimes extremely banal dialogues and jokes and the painfully predictable and stereotypical everybody-gets-what-they-wanted ending, Friends And Lovers comes out as a fairly decent movie about, well friendship. Plus I enjoyed Robert Downey's character a lot and got to see Suzanne Cryer's right boobie. Besides being very sexy and attractive she also delivered the best performance in the movie(the weeping scene).It is sort of weird to write yourself a scene to show your penis, but hey, whatever rocks Neill Barry's boat. I wondered how they chose the actor(is there an audition for these things), it turned out he was dying to show his pride.  If you watch it on TV you just might get pass the bad points and enjoy the movie for what it has to offer; some funny and touching moments, full frontal male nudity, some female nudity, Claudia Schiffer almost nude(not my type, but still) and a decent list of celebrity names you thought you'd never see in this type of movie.  6/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is retarded with a capital W.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Read that as 'Wee tah did.'  Robert Downey Jr. has a disgusting, fake German accent, and the rest of the movie is worse.  I did manage to finish the movie, but I didn't see every scene because I was rolling my eyes continuously.Every line in the movie was superficially 'acted,' if you can call people facing the camera while engaging in a monotonous, boring dialog acting. Save your money. "},{"Title":"Wow.  That was bad.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say but that I agree with J.C., this one was bad.  Generally, Robert Downey, Jr. is a good actor.  He was very good in Restoration and was funny in Two Girls and A Guy. But in this movie he was terrible, he didn't even fake the German accent well.  Stephan Bladwin was also in this film.  I enjoyed his performance in The Usual Suspects and liked him in Fled.  But in this movie, he was just no good.  Perhaps if the screenplay was even close to decent this movie could have been o.k., but that's really pushing it.  Badly acted, badly written, and badly directed.  This movie violated most of the laws of movie making. "}{"Title":"Fun for the whole clique","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  This movie rocked, fun from start till the end, it starts off as having you think it will be a sex fest,but the plot takes many turns and twists. Very funny and Robert Downey Jr. plays a funny German guy who ends from New Jersey. A good film to rent if you having some friends over for a game of pictionary or Twister. Check this one out! "},{"Title":"Not great, but good.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was different, which is why a lot of people probably didn't like it.  It seemed a lot more personal, or natural, than most 'movies'. Friends talking about friend things.  It didn't seem over produced and over scripted.  I doubt if it was ever meant to be a block-buster movie, just a good, different perspective on the subject of Friends & Lovers.  I really think that the Jane character was played and developed very well for a controversial character.  Single, pregnant women aren't usually portrayed as normal people in movies.  Jane was completely normal, fun and had a personality that was likable.  Overall, a good, fun flick, just don't expect to find revealing life lessons within the plot. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie! A hysterical plot!! A Happy Ending!!!","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Contrary to most of the other reviews for this masterpiece, I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of this movie. Then again, I'm not uptight and I find this sexually explicit tale about relationships interesting and honest. I can see how those who don't get out as much might not like this movie, but for those of you who enjoy funny movies (with a basic plot of sex, sex. and more sex) will adore this work of art. Cryer delivers a beautiful preformance, as does Downey. Eastwood's performance is also commendable. Overall, everyone did a great job! Keep up the good work! "},{"Title":"insipid, vacuous and pathetic...Do NOT rent this movie!","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  It's hard to believe that actors/actresses of this caliber would lower themselves to be associated with a film such as this.  It's essentially a flick for 35-year-old Porky's fans.  Problem is, Porky's was funny when you were 16, and when the actors were playing teenagers, too-- It's NOT funny when the actors are playing 30-year-olds.  Everyone involved in this movie should be punished and forced to spend a great deal of time hanging out with junior high school kids during an unsupervised weekend...that's what I was forced to do watching this movie.     "},{"Title":"Hello Reality?","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so they're twenty-somethings.  Okay, so they've got problems or whatever.  But does it strike anyone as odd that these guys tool around in Land Rovers and E-class Mercedes'?  And, if they've got the cash for their little romps, why do they road-trip to their ski resort rather than fly? The first twenty minutes alone kill the film, the rest is just its fall to the ground. "},{"Title":"Good romance comedy and character development","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Friends and Lovers is a fun comedy about romantic chemistry. It goes a little to far on the explicit side and takes the next step in putting your average conservative person a little further in the closet; but that comes with the turf when you want to laugh at issues other film makers are afraid to broach. They did a good job of developing a group of characters. I especially enjoyed Cryer's character, a single pregnant woman had fun with the girls, had everyone in awe, and fit in with the group. Cryer made me feel good for her character. If you rent alot of videos, make sure you include this one. "},{"Title":"This is fabulous","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is sooooo funny!  Robert Downey Jr steals the shows as hilarious Hans!  This is one of his funniest performances!  The rest of the cast is amazing too, especially Allison Eastwood!  Trust me,  you must see this! It's so worth it! "},{"Title":"OK for what it is.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't think this was such a bad movie. I've certainly seen worse. As for Robert Downey Jr.'s accent, it was supposed to be bad (his character was from New Jersey!). I like Danny Nucci, and I wish I could see him get better roles. All in all, I think this is a fair movie. 5/10 "},{"Title":"This might have been the worst movie ever made","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  There is not much I can say about this movie other than it was bad.  It has talent with Robert Downey Jr., and Stephan Baldwin, but the screenplay is so bad that De Niro or Pacino couldn't have made this film work.  I know not many people will see this movie, because it's an independent film (and a bad one, none the less) but I feel that as a service to others who might consider it, STAY AWAY!!!!!!!  Save a couple hours of your life and rent a good movie. "},{"Title":"A Bulemic Companion","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  So cliched stupid, that even the nudity fails. The capping scene when the father and son let it all hang out and bury their emotional hatchets into your poor headached viewer skull, while a string quartet nearly drowns the dialogue, is offensively bad in the offensively bad extreme. This is one of those movies where you can tell everyone onscreen is having the time of their lives, and that fact all the more irritates you because you are being tortured while they are up there making merry millions. Whose son or nephew is George Haas for pete's sake?   "}{"Title":"If you like Robert Downey Jr., Stephen Baldwin, Leon & The Rest of the cast, you'll enjoy this movie.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I came to check out a few facts on this movie after watching it.  I saw too many negative comments to not make a comment of my own.  Critics review this movie very harshly.  I thought this movie was awesome.  Downey, Dasche, Baldwin, and the rest of the cast will make you laugh for sure.  Though Leon wasn't in the flick as much as I would've liked, I still thought it was a great performance.   I found myself being drawn in and very interested in this movie.  In fact as soon as it was over I immediately rewound it and watched it again.  FIND THIS FLICK, AND WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Slum of a Movie!","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":" Terrible! Robert, oh Robert, why did you slum it up by doing this movie? With his acting caliber, I really don't get his need to be in this film? Was it a favor to a friend, or a desperate need for, um, something else? I love you, RDJ, but stay away from crap feasts like this in the future, please!First of all, who can honestly believe any of these actors to be twenty-somethings? Second, Stephen has proved why he's the least talented of the Baldwins. Finally, well, the previous posters had said all that needed to be said. It is a stilted, B-movie disguised as an indie film. I was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Um.....","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, this movie isn't necessarily as god-awful as many of these reviews would suggest, but I have to agree it is a waste of time and talent. A group of reasonably engaging performers (Robert Downey, Jr., George Newbern, Stephen Baldwin and the amazingly sexy Leon) are on display here, but the movie suffers from sitcom-like superficiality and terribly amateurish direction (from George Haas, who may never work again after this mess.)Basically a sexed-up romantic comedy about a groups of friends vacationing at a ski lodge, Friends and Lovers has its moments of fun and frivolity. But the film is full of ludicrous anatomy jokes and pointless nudity, and the aforementioned direction by Haas is sloppy and laughably inept. The echoing effects in the ski slope scenes are preposterous, and the blocking of the performers is straight out of a high school play, with the actors facing the camera talking sideways to each other.Perhaps in the hands of a competent director, a good movie might have been made. This isn't it. "},{"Title":"Heart-rendingly bad","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was pretty much the worst I've seen in a long, long time.  I was actually hoping for something tragic to occur to the characters, I hated them so much.  I'm only sorry that I didn't read these reviews before I watched the movie.  "},{"Title":"It's simply bad, boring and ridiculous","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I can't understand why Robert Downey Jr. wasted his time with such a tasteless sex comedy. I only finished it to prove my theory that the second half was worse than the first one. Guess what? I was right. I can only say BEWARE, BEWARE and BEWARE. "},{"Title":"A stepping stone for how movies should NOT be...","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  There are three kinds of bad movies movies that defy reality but still entertain, movies that so bad that they're funny, and unforgivable pieces of cow dung that you watch in disbelief as it approaches badness from all directions.  Friends & Lovers fits the last category like a wedding dress.  It is one of the most jaw-droppingly bad movies I have ever seen.  This film has, virtually, no redeeming qualities.  The acting is wooden and unrealistic, notably by Claudia Schiffer and, surprisingly, Robert Downey Jr.  One person I did like and care for was Danny Nucci's character, but he couldn't have save this film if his life depended on it.  The characters carry on, endlessly, in boring, silly and uninvolving conversations.  This cast could have had a lot of potential had they had a script that wasn't found in a garbage dump.  I was never really fond of Stephen Baldwin, the only role I accepted him in was The Usual Suspects.  There was a moment in the film where is a graphic close-up shot of a man's genitals that is, not only gratuitous, but it ruined what could have been a semi-chuckle on my part.  I don't know.  All was lost on this film.  Friends & Lovers ranks in the same field as 1997's worst film, Gone Fishin'. "},{"Title":"Oh, wow, this was one awful movie!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"      I generally am very accepting of movies.  I don't demand perfection.      But this was a TRUE stinker!  The acting was terrible, the dialogue was worse.  The thing had absolutely no redeeming social value.  It was really hard to believe it was as bad as it was.  I kept waiting for it to get just a little better, but it never did!  It just went into the toilet and stayed there throughout.   Do yourself a favor.  Forget it.  Close your eyes in the video store, turn around six times, and stagger to the nearest row and pick the first VCR your hand touches.  ...I GUARANTEE it'll be better than this turkey. "},{"Title":"We got up and left!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  This was awful!  Everything about this movie was terrible!  It was just stupid!  And Billy Baldwin talking about the length of Claudia Schiffer's nipples....oh, please.  We stayed as long as we could but it never got any better.  This has to be one of the all time worst movies.  The writing was pathetic. "},{"Title":"holy bad man","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that this movie was bad, real bad.  I have normally liked most of the movies I see.  I even thought that the Mod Squad was enjoyable. But this movie is terrible.  It gives the independent films bad names. Claudia Schaffer should stick to day job, Robert Downey is just no good and Stephen Baldwin doesn't help the casting at all.  Not much to say because lord knows I don't want to repeat the poorly written plot.  .5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Full Frontal Male nudity has never been so boring.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this flick on the strength of Neil Barry's nude scene.  I had a silly crush on him from OC & Stiggs, a terrible Altman film from 1985.  I ran across a full frontal nude shot of Barry on the Web and it mentioned Friends and Lovers as the source.  The image was so odd, Barry brazenly naked, except for a heavy winter coat and surrounded by snow and a Baldwin. This wasn't some sideways dark shot, grainy screen grab.  I'm talking 'Blueboy Hits the Slopes - Special Issue' quality shot. What the heck? He's not much to look at now, but I had to know how any American movie worked in such blatant full-frontal male nudity. Dear god, I have paid for my sins.  This was one of the worst pieces of thrash I've ever seen.  Long story short- There is a juvenile discussion of the characters penis that makes the girls all twitter. Then, continuing in the cheesy-teen flick vein (mind you, all these folks are in their 30's), The Baldwin tries to get the girls to strip for the Jacuzzi which leads to, 'Boys first! No Girls First!'  Then the boys concede and Barry drops his towel to show off his healthy endowment.  The girls all run away, supposedly never having seen a penis of any size before.  When The Baldwin complains, Barry gets to smirk and say, 'It was your idea, dude.' Gee, why did the screenwriter think it was necessary to ask an actor to do a full frontal shot?  Did they place an ad in Variety looking for well hung actors?  Did Barry have to 'measure up' at the screen-test? And I wonder if Barry was comfortable with such exposure as it was completely irrelevant to his character. Oh, wait!  Barry was the co-screenwriter on this crap!  So that means the writer/actor actually wrote in a scene where he gets to expose himself and show the world what a big wiener he has.  Lord knows that Hollywood is just a big tinkling contest but to actually write a scene for your own exhibitionist tendencies is too weird.   "}{"Title":"Writing, Direction...Where did they put it?","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  Could have been a finer picture were it not for a sense that this has been done before.  Some of the scenes could have had more depth.  Like those between the estranged father and son.  George NEWBERN showed surprisingly much more depth than David RASCHE his father in this movie.  Though RASCHE was no slouch.  He hasn't made many movies where he has shown this much depth.Suzanne CRYER seemed to be the other normal acting person in the movie.  She was extremely likeable and human.Neill BARRY was underutilized.  He seems to be on the ball.  His presence added a good dimension to the movie.What irked me most was the ridiculous writing about gay life.  Shall we suggest the writers actually meet some gay people next time?  The scenes were sensitive enough..but...On that note, Danny NUCCI was terrific despite the material.  He handled what could have been horrendous situations with an aplomb that is ready to bloom in some juicy role!  His role was much smaller than he deserved.  In fact, I would really like to see NUCCI carry a picture one day and prove the entire depth of this talent.  If he is reading this, PLEASE find a more aggressive agent! You have lots of fans rooting for you!  NEXT TIME...get FIRST billing! Don't settle for SECOND!Not to forget LEON.  What a nice surprise he was!  He handled his tiny role quite admirably.  I should hope to see him again.  Now about the NAME stars.....Robert DOWNEY, Jr, Stephen BALDWIN, Claudia SCHIFFER....hmmm...I suggest DOWNEY never show this to the authorities, he might have more charges to answer for...I am embarrassed for him after his unforgettable CHAPLIN; BALDWIN should stop mugging for the camera and begin his acting career, soon.  The talent is there..just show it!  SCHIFFER, as another reviewer suggested, should keep her day job.  She's great to look at.  Maybe acting lessons could help.  Who knows?  Watch it for FUN, though.  It has its moments.  But like the operas of Richard Wagner...it has interminable half-hours. "},{"Title":"what a waste!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Comedy","Review":"  So much talent, and such a letdown. Robert Downey jr., who is usually in fine form delivers a less than stellar performance as a would-be German skiing instructor.The only plus is George Newbern who has made career out of playing lovable morons.By the way, if Claudia Schiffer was given the right script, she could really shine.What a waste! "}]