[{"Title":"Finally a sequel","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"34 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After the Alien Experience and the Remake Sequel, Highlander producers decided to add two and two and get someone to write a marvellous script. They went on with the mathematics, and got together Christopher Lambert and Adrian Paul. The result is the long-expected good sequel to the first Highlander, set after The Series ended.Tired of the endless fights, Connor MacLeod enters the Sanctuary, a place where immortals can rest forever under the guard of the Watchers. However, an old foe of Connor releases him after killing all the other immortals in that place. Not pleased with this, this foe and his posse pays a visit to Duncan MacLeod, who gets away and looks for his clansman. Both MacLeods have sins to purge, and the time has come to do that.Christopher Lambert, though intended to have a supportive role like Sean Connery in the original film, robs the movie. Though his Connor is hardly the same bad ass of the other films, it's by far the best performance in the film. Adrian Paul manages to lead the film well, like in the TV series. Bruce Payne, playing the embittered Jacob Kell, provides a fine interpretation that is however in the line of the other Highlander villains. Lisa Barbuscia as Kate MacLeod is somewhat fine, but I'm inclined to believe the only reason Fishlips got cast is her willingness to show her breasts.The character of the film is indeed Jin Ke, played by Donnie Yen. However brief his presence on screen may be, he manages to give a very good impression, as well as some action. Another two characters worth mentioning are Rachel (the late Sheila Gish) and Heather (Beatie Edney), who appear again in a Highlander film. Briefly, but it's something.Why don't I give it a 10? First, the first film (which indeed deserves a 10) is superior to this one. Secondly, the editing of the film is weak. It's not the one of Highlander II The Quickening but this one has some big flaws. In any case, Highlander Endgame is a great film, with more action and entertainment than the other sequels, and it's a great choice even for non fans.Seven! "},{"Title":"A final(?) piece of a brilliant puzzle.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"38 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The last installment of the Highlander movie series is a brilliant blend of the original movie and the popular television characters. The story line is weaved through past history (as Highlander fans have come to expect) and picks up where the television series ended. It still stands alone as a movie in itself, though I will admit it may be hard for a non-highlander fan to grasp all of the concepts that are thrown at them. All in all, Davis/Panzer have once again given credit to this wonderful science fiction series by watching the details of the character's pasts and still creating unknown events in their lives. This is the beauty of this series, just when you think you know the character something pops up from their past. This will be an emotional movie for diehard Highlander fans, just as the To Be/Not to Be t.v. finale was. In my opinion, even though this is dubbed as the final act of this series, there is still one minor issue that still remains....there can be only be one! "},{"Title":"Very Underrated, Brilliant Performance.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"40 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Fantastic End to the Game Played,By Jakob Kell and Connor and Duncan MacLeod.The Fierce Hatred Between the two Past Frends (Connor and Jakob)Reaches an Epic Climax in witch Connor and Duncan must Become One, to defeat Jakob.Lisa Barbuscia also had her part but wasn't that Impressive at all.Usually i Highlight The Performance Of A Beautiful Women, But the fact is She was Just another One Of The Cast.She Looked Pretty but that was all.Jakob Kell betrayed his Best Friend Connor MacLeod. And then When Connor Tryed To Save his Mother Helped, The People ho were Trying to Burn her.Connor then Killed Both Jakob as his Priest Father. And an Infuriated Jakob Swore Revenge.Connor Knew That he was Inmortal.But also knew that a simple Chop of His Head would take that away.His Great Brother Duncan, fought in The Great War.Then Connor Picked him Up and Explained him about his Immortality.The Two Brothers Began Collecting Immortal Kills and were both about 360 Something of Confirmed Immortal Kills.But Connor also Knew that Jakob Kell was Getting Stronger And Stronger with a Total Over the 620 Confirmed Immortal Kills.Kell's Ultimate Goal was to get revenge On Connor By Killing Everone Ho meant Something to Connor, and then to complete his Revenge by Killing Connor as They would Be Only Ones Left To Make the Humiliation even Worse.In the end He would Be Stopped by the Brotherhood Double Of Duncan and Connor ho became One.Overall the Scottish Passion was Great and The Mix in Styles When People Fought Showed Great Strengh in Depfh.Thats why it is a Mystery to me why this Movie is So Harshly Underrated.It was a Great Movie.And Truly End Game.My Score  10 -Groeten Gerrit "},{"Title":"Good movie with excellent bits here and there...","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Contains spoiler Well, frankly I have never been a fan of the Highlander franchise, but if I had been one, this movie would probably be one of the best Highlander movies around.Actually, I have only see the second one (with Michael Ironside and Sean Connery, if I remember correctly) and in comparation, Endgame is somewhat better. Even though I prefer the post-apocaliptic look of HII, Endgame provides us with better special effect (obvius), a lot-more digestible plot and some good acting. Even though I don't like the (SPOILER) fact that Connor died (END OF SPOILER) I think it was just to finally end with the Highlander franchise.Excellent battles, good plot, and good acting (somewhat weird cast, but ok) is all I need for a movie, and Chistopher Lambert's acting is superb. A good end to the Highlander series. B+ "},{"Title":"Much better than both two and three!","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) witnesses his adopted daughter being killed in a building that was blown up; the Immortal locks himself up in a place called the Sanctuary to remove himself from the Game (What the Immortals call their quest to be the last remaining Immortal and receive the Prize) However Jacob Kell (Bruce Payne) who became an Immortal when he was stabbed by Connor after the Highlander's mother was put to death (We see this event in a Flashback to Connor's early life in the Highlands of Scotland) Kell lets Connor live however. He is being sought out by his fellow clansman Duncan MacLeod (Adrian Paul) Kell's followers show up in Connor's old Antique Store at the same time as Duncan is investigating. Jin-Ke (Donnie Yen) and Duncan engage in a brilliant sword fight and following that with a high speed Kung-Fu fight (Which puts The Matrix to shame I must admit. Pity the fight didn't go on longer, or Jin and Duncan getting a rematch!) The fight ends with Duncan being blasted out of a window and being impaled on a series of poles, Duncan is taken by the Watchers (Watch the TV series and find out!) He is being kept locked up to prevent Kell finding him and taking his head (We'll get to that) Duncan is rescued by his buddy Dawson (Jim Byrnes) and is told that Kell has more than six-hundred heads to his name while Connor and Duncan only have only just over three-hundred between them (The movie never explains where all these Immortals come from, my advice is to not analyse the continuity too much or you'll blow your head off. No pun intended!).Duncan visits a graveyard of all the Immortals Kell has killed and he finds Connor. Connor then attacks Kell but the psychotic Immortal is far too powerful and Connor quickly realizes that he can no longer carry on. Later (After the gratuitous sex scene with Duncan and his old, old flame Kate/Faith (Lisa Barbuscia!) Duncan and Connor meet on the roof tops Connor explains that only one of them can fight Kell, so Connor wants Duncan to kill him. Duncan refuses and Connor attacks him, in the end however (There can be only ONE!) Duncan tearfully takes Connor's head and gets a massive power up. After a quick bout of training, Duncan tracks down Kell (To an abandoned warehouse/factory of all places!) Another big sword fight takes place (The editing of this fight isn't so good but the fight itself kicks ass!) finally Duncan removes Kell's head (After discovering Connor's unblockable trick isn't all that good!) and the massive Quickening blazes from the sky and gives Duncan even more power (This is one of those visual scenes that didn't come off as good as it could have).Afterwards Duncan visits the grave of Connor who has been buried alongside his first wife Heather (Beatie Edney) He returns home to discover that Kate/Faith is still alive and the two, probably, rekindle their relationship. Good Points There are some tremendous visuals in this movie, sadly some of them come off as a little Made-For-TV-Movie at times (The rooftop fight between Connor and Duncan being a prime example!) The Flashbacks to the Highlands had Beatie Edney reprising her role as Connor's wife (Even if only for a few minutes, it was nice to see her again!) Duncan and Jin-Ke's awesome sword and Kung-Fu battle. Kell as the best villain to date, every member of the cast gives the roles their all. Kudos to both Christopher and Adrian for the tearful farewell. Bad Points The afore-mentioned weak CGI shots. Kell, on several occasions, violates the No fighting on Holy Ground rule and receives no form of punishment (Probably because he is evil already he doesn't get the Dark Quickening as seen in the TV series!) Douglas Aarniokoski's direction isn't the best either, hopefully the next installment will return Russell Mulcahy to the director's chair.  "},{"Title":"A bit underrated","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Overall, this was not a bad flick. It's not quite as good as the first one, but is much better than the second. I'd have given it a higher rating than I did if they'd just left out the high speed kung fu stuff - it's too much like all the cheap Bruce Li rip off movies. Anyway, the story in this one is good and it tidies up everything rather nicely at the end. They do leave one thread hanging but I don't think that was to provide the backdrop for another film. I think this one's the last Highlander film - at least I hope so. I believe that the Highlander thing has gone about as far as it can. It would be difficult to come up with anything original for another film. Again, this film isn't bad at all and nearly makes up for the poor middle of this series. The tie-in between the film McLeod and the TV McLeod was handled very well, I thought. I really liked the first film and I like this one pretty well also. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the films and of the TV show and I think this one rates up there with the original. It's definetly better then the 2nd and third. Now that Connor is gone we'll see how Duncan goes it alone in the next film. "},{"Title":"Adrian Paul was superb!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love Highlander and so, was anxious to see Endgame.  It was badly edited and I was disappointed the first time I saw it.  But, Adrian Paul did a magnificent job as Duncan MacLeod.  He was the best thing in the movie. Unfortunately, Christopher Lambert is starting to look his age, and so, as sad as the fans find the loss of Connor it was time for him to pass the flame on to Duncan.Paul is a strong actor and plays the physical role with grace and intensity. After I saw the movie a second time, I started to like it!  And now, I overlook the hack job on the editing of the movie and have come to appreciate it for what it has offered...a moving death scene between Duncan and Connor, and some superb action. "},{"Title":"the movie that separated highlander fans","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie was one of the better tries at a highlander sequel, which it is not... For those of you introduced to highlander with the series the movie may be quite good, but if you are a fan of the original film this movie will disappoint you. take note that this is highlander Endgame not Highlander IV or 4 the numeral was cleverly omitted for obvious reasons...here all things go... Personally I do not think the film merrits a theatrical release I think that a mini-series would of been a better format providing more time and better care of the characters... PS I saw the so called New Cut which runs Apprx. 1hr 32 min from the time the title is seen to when the credits start rolling... This is not the end? "},{"Title":"Pleasantly good","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Loved the first movie. Hated the sequels (I pretend they were never made). Never saw the TV series, though I knew about 'Duncan'. I tackled the 'Endgame' DVD with trepidation. Now it's been added to my I-want-this-one-! list. Only problem continuity. How did Connor get from being 'the One' to being 'just one' - and what's the deal with a whole plethora of these guys being around and more waiting? The series purportedly explains that. This I can live with. The movie itself made up for it very well. Lambert exited with grace and honour, and just in time before his age really becomes an issue. I didn't know much about Adrian Paul, but after Endgame I think he's an excellent 'successor' to Lambert. I also hope they leave 'Kate' in. It'd be a nice change to the tone and pace. So, it looks like there's still hope for the Highlander movie franchise - in that they don't have to be crap as they had been. They nicely resurrected the mystical air of the first movie and the villain had a nice motivation for his actions (revenge is a GREAT motivator - much better than lust for power!) and was a better villain than the Kurgan.I noticed the overall negative comments from fans and critics alike. It's to be expected. Fans generally don't like change much (they usually want more of the same, and killing Connor off just HAD to rile them, never mind that it's the best thing they could do with the aging Lambert, who was definitely starting to look very tired), and critics are losers anyway (that's why they've become critics). Also, it seems to be that Adrian Paul brings an air of character-depth to the part that Lambert, as an actor, was never capable of exhibiting (not without signifcant overacting).  So, all around it's a winner. And, contrary to my sentiments after the previous bad sequels now I want to see MORE 8) "}{"Title":"Very impressive back & forth reworking of the story of the Macleods","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very cleverly scripted, flashing back and forth and, amazingly, providing even more backstory to Connor & Duncan (seen together for the first time!) Emotive, evocatively directed and scored with great action and character counterpoints to die for! "},{"Title":"Best since the original","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my favorite Highlander film since the original. Face it. Christopher Lambert is getting to old to play an immortal. And Duncan. Well I like the series. But I like the movies as well. The fighting in this movie was better choreographed than the previous films. I give the movie a 7/10. I think Highlander films have reached there end. If not. I hope the producers pull something out of a hat and have Sean Connery and Christopher Lambert come back. Maybe after Duncan wins the prize? "},{"Title":"Honour is not in the weapon, It is in the Man","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  it was a pretty dull movie with really poor action sequences, but those scenes involving the one and only Donnie Yen made it worth while to watch. i never did watch the series so i was totally lost with all this watcher and sanctuary crap. "},{"Title":"highlander a true legend of all highlander's histories.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie is good, great story, great background, great acting, great speical effects, great casting and a very good fighting sequences.this is a good movie for all highlander fans thru out the world.i hope the production put the highlander movie's in video and DVD as well the highlander series too on video and DVD. ( for example  season 1 to 5 or 6 plus the behind-the-scenes footages and bloopers for free ). that will be great idea for christmas presents but also then again it up to the production or company.if the creator of the highlander series and the movie, he should put Quentin macleod with duncun macleod in  highlander 5  plus the new show called ( highlander the series  the lost clan ). it's just an idea of mine, i hope this will help the creator of the movies and series if he read this.  "},{"Title":"Lambert is ONLY 2 YEARS older then Paul!!!!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  All you people saying that the Christopher Lambert is too old to play an immortal should realize that he is only 2 years older then Adrian Paul!!! My God, some of you act like Lambert is 20 years Paul's senior!  These guys are basically the same age, so if you call Lambert old, then you are calling Paul old.  Lambert is 45 years old, and Paul is 43.  At the time of this movie's release in 2000, Lambert was 43 and Paul was 41.  Some generational gap eh?  If Lambert looked sickly, then it's because he is suffering from myopia, a condition he has always had that has been getting worse.I stated this in a comment I posted on IMDB.com's Highlander The Series section and I will state it here.  Christopher Lambert is the superior actor to Adrian Paul.  Not only that, but I prefer Lambert's Connor MacLeod to Paul's Duncan MacCleod.  I found Connor to be an everyman character, while Paul was an over the top, over manly character.  Adrian Paul is so over hunky with that muscular body and pony-tail, that he is unintentionally hilarious.  Paul looks like one of those male models spoofed in the movie ZOOLANDER.  Come on, the guy looks like a male stripper that should be named Rico or something.  Guys like Adrian Paul, Antonio Banderas and Lorenzo Lamas are so over hunky that they are all unintentionally hilarious.   I know the ladies love Paul, but I found I could relate to Lambert/Connor far more then I could ever relate to Paul/Duncan.  Connor was an everyman with a sense of humour, and yet at the same time he came across as well cultured and as well traveled as you would expect an immortal man to be.  Duncan was an otherworldy and unreal character with little sense of humour.  Duncan was too dark, too brooding.  And yes I did find it insulting that the focus of the movie series moved to Duncan.  To hell with Duncan, Connor is the real Highlander.  I like the TV show, it's very well made and has far better writing and stories then Highlander II-IV ever had.  But I wish the TV show revolved around Connor instead of Duncan, if it did it would have been more then a cult favorite.  If the TV show was about Connor then it would have really been something on the scale of X-Files or Star Trek.  Too bad it had to be about the over the top Duncan.Long live Connor MacLeod!!  The TRUE Highlander!!!! "},{"Title":"An action film with a good story line","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is probably the best script ever written for a Highlander movie. Adrian Paul is the perfect fit for the Highlander role. He is manly (a quality that we haven't seen in a Hollywood actor for a looong time), and this whole movie is about a strong man.Well... two men actually, him and Christopher Lambert. Lambert's presence throws a distinct spice in the movie, since he is the original Highlander.But the man that make this movie worth seeing is Bruce Payne. He actually took the silly role of the bad guy and transformed it to the center of the movie. I know that he has not been seen in any good movies, but that is a shame. Even if you do not like this movie you will probably like his performance. His character really hates the Highlander and you can actually feel that 50ft. away from the screen.I should also mention Donnie Yen who plays one of the bad guys and is the fight choreographer in this movie. People who like Jet Li, will surely like this man (probably because he has been Li's choreographer in a lot of movies).If you like the Highlander saga, or a good action film, watch this one and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie, well done.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"27 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a well done movie, blending the series and the original Highlander very well. The villain was intense, the tie in with the other movies was great. Incorporating the characters from the original highlander movies and the series worked brilliantly.The love stories of both characters were well done, the blend of music and photography lent a great emotional context to those scenes. The humor displayed by both characters added a wonderful dimension, and after seeing the rough cut on the DVD, and the finished ending of the movie, I am impressed with the producers choice of ending.As a fan of both the series and the original movie, I was very emotionally moved by this movie. "},{"Title":"The nail in the coffin of the already confused Highlander Franchise.","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Unfortunately the Highlander concept has been heavily tainted by multiple visions from a variety of people and a constant push from the money men to milk it for all it's worth. Each individual addition thus far, while reasonable in isolation managed to damage the overall reputation of this franchise and directly damage the quality of the original classic movie when the whole thing is considered together.Now what they have done with this fourth movie is created something that can't even stand in isolation and when put together with everything else tears it all to pieces, spits on it and throws it in the bin, just for the sake of giving this particular piece some feeling of importance.One of my biggest pet peeves with movie sequels is when the writers of the latest piece decide to essentially re-write the whole thing and ignore where others have taken us up until this point. For better or worse, we have been taken to a point and it is just arrogance to assume you can re-write it all better then those that have gone before, while it shows limited skill to not be able to work inside that framework. There are many ways they could have made a tie in between the TV series and all the movies work, but they chose to make this a partial reboot instead.The Critical mistake they made was to belittle the original film. No franchise should dismiss the reason that it is a franchise. Although it would still annoy me, they could have gotten away with the partial reboot, if they had just ignored the 2nd and 3rd movie. They even would have gotten away with not fully following on from the series. But they couldn't resist messing with the original to the point that they almost totally dismissed the events of film as meaningless and so it's no surprise that this has scored the low rating it has here on the IMDb.I watched the whole of the series as well as all the films and this movie fails to adequately fit in with any of it. One day I hope movie makers will learn that you either need to do a full reboot or get people capable of working with what they already have. Don't just let the new guys mess up everyone that went before them. "},{"Title":"forget this movie","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't like this movie. It destroy any consistency of the Highlander movie's universe. They killed the hero. The producers ruined the original concept made by G. Widen. The movie has not the mystery of H1. That seems a simple action movie with karate noises. I think G.Widen should be angry with this movie. He leaved the project when knew they decided kill Connor.Without Connor, the highlander idea has no sense.Its a bad chapter of the series. Just that. "},{"Title":"There should have been only one...","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One word review. WHY?!The first one was GREAT. I love it. This movie was as bad as the 2nd one. <shudders>. Ok, the sword-fighting was a little better, and the Sanctuary was a good idea, but it was still BAD. <SPOILER> What's up with the lame morphing?! Since when does that happen? What about the EHRT? (Emergency Highlander Response Team) -=LOL=- Duncan falls out a window, lands on some rebar in cement and within minutes, a group of Watchers is there with just the right tools to cut him out fast... lol. A database that tracks the kills of Immortals? From thousands of years ago!?Also, now we know that an Immortal can make another person immortal by simply stabbing them in the chest and watching them die. Right. Ooookayyy...Please, if you truly love the first movie, save your money. If you HAVE to see it, rent it. "}{"Title":"Do not see this movie(spoiler alert)","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie might have been given an average rating if They did not totally destroy the first 3 movies plots by killing off Conner MacLeod(Christopher Lambert's Character).  Destroying history via a time travel paradox still would not be a viable reason for saying that I wasted my money seeing the first 3 movies.  They way this movie ended was a joke.  It ends like any other highlander kill.  Where is the climax, that which ties the actions of the movie together.  If there was one then it was so weak that I blew by me.  And I see a lot of movies and I am usually pretty forgiving but this was a waste of my time and money as well as everyone involved from concept to movie-goer. "},{"Title":"Major disappointment","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this film a few months ago and was very excited.  It looked like this may be the final installment of the Highlander series, and surely, it would be one of the best.Opening night I had my doubts as most theaters in my area only had 1 or 2 showtimes - odd for an opening night, I thought.  I was a bit skeptical.The film seemed to jump around a lot.  It was hard to follow and did not seem to be very fluid.  Lambert was good, as was Paul, however, this was not enough to save a weak plot and cheesy one liners.  I was extremely disappointed in this film.  One movie goer even made the comment - Gee, it was almost as good as the second one.  Which, most fans would agree, was a disaster.I really was hoping this would be the grand finale of them all, but was left thinking that was lame.  "},{"Title":"CRITICS GET OVER IT.  This is not a bad movie.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well I have to say I am not as horrified as I thought I was going to be.  Highlander Endgame as action movies go is not at all bad.  The film has a nice pace; the acting OK, and the actions scenes are pretty good. (Best I have seen since the original Highlander) Overall this movie is pretty enjoyable.Now that I have got that out of the way, what exactly annoys every film critic that sees this movie? Which is after all just a harmless piece of escapism. OH I've got it! &#133;&#133;. the story!!What difference does it make that the Highlander movies did not follow each other?  Why have the critics such a problem with the lack of continuity that is the enigma of the Highlander story.Take them all as separate entities, DIFFERENT STORIES with the same characters.  Like the TV show Sliders.  I do see anyone having a problem there.These movies are supposed to be fun. They are not going to change your life.  And if you feel there are holes in the story line, just explain it to yourself as Conner did in the Highlander Endgame.What is their reason for being??  Who knows, THEY JUST ARE?  "},{"Title":"This is more like an extension of the TV series . . .","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  than a 4th movie.  I like the way Lambert's character passes the torch to Paul's.  It was a nice touch, and answered some of my questions from the start of the series.  I thought the story was fully developed, but had hoped from the advanced publicity that the ending would be better handled.   "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but not exactly something to miss.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that after watching the series, I expected something better. But, overall, it was pretty good.  It's not a sequel to the previous three movies, but to the series.  The only part that I was really disappointed with was that we saw too little of Methos (Peter Wingfield) and Joe Dawson (Jim Byrnes).  I'd give the movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was awesome.  The major problem though is if you haven't watched the Highlander series you probably couldn't really get into the flashbacks or some of the characters such as Methos (Rules).  If you are into the series it was much better than the second and third part of the movie series which has nothing to do with the T.V. series.  Part 2 and 3 of the movie series was just terrible.  The only flaw that I could see from this movie was that David Yen should have put up a better fight or at least one you could see with Pryce.  There also could have been a few more dialogues between Pryce and Connor about the event.  Such a change for Pryce's character from being a somewhat wimpy priest to a manipulative powerhouse.People who want to see the movie should watch a few of the T.V. series from the second or third year to get to know and familiarize yourself to some of the characters.  If not you will probably get a little lost and not appreciate the mini flashback storylines which most critics do.  Or it could just be you have to be a Highlanderholic like I am. "},{"Title":"There can be only one.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen all the movies, and every episode of the acclaimed series. I saw it at the theater and have it on DVD. They were able to blend both the series and the movies together pretty well. The ending on the DVD is better than the theater ending. Though I felt they could have went into a bit more detail. A few important scenes were cut, buy or rent the DVD and you'll see what I'm talking about. The plot and story line are well put together, it made me think and question life in general.Adrian Pual really shines and gets to show his skill. He is a great martial artist and does help with setting up the fight scenes. Donnie Yen is awesome and is a good match for Adrian. Chris Lambert does a good job, he is the original Highlander. You can see his age showing through, like the rest of us he is only mortal, it happens.If you are a fan of the series you may be a little saddened with the small parts Methos and Joe(Peter Wingfield and Jim Byrnes) got. I would have liked to see Methos come to life, maybe even a fight scene with one of Kells' followers. Joe has some screen time, but more would have added that much more to the story.All in all, I love this movie. Even with its faults, hey were only mortals!  "},{"Title":"Bloody good fun!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Endgame is brilliant, when I first heard that they were making a new Highlander movie, I couldn't believe it, with Highlander 2 and 3 being total flops, you would of thought they would of learnt their lesson by now!But I must say, after watching Endgame, I couldn't believe how good it was. The producers, writers and director did everything right this time, they didn't involve stupid plots like immortals come from another planet and the ozone layer is protected by a huge shield around the earth blah, blah they kept everything the same, everything what Highlander should be, they stick to the same origins as the original.And for a change, the bad guy was excellent. Bruce Payne was brilliant as Kell, not a rip - off of Kurgan, the bad guy from the original movie. Christopher Lambert once again reprised his role as Connor MacLeod and Adrian Paul (the Highlander from the series) also made his first major role in a movie as Duncan MacLeod.  This movie ignores both Highlander 2 and 3 which is probably a good idea.This movie is the TRUE sequel to the original movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"This is its own movie, not just another Highlander movie","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Do not compare this to other Highlander movies or the tv series. This is its own separate movie. It really isn't part of either series, but it is still a good movie. I'm not sure what the other people who voted on this saw, but I will say it is not a top 10 of all time movie. Probably not even a top 250 movie, but it is not as bad as its rating says. Remember, just because people do not get what they expect, does not make the movie bad. That is the case too often that when people do not get what they expect, they do not like the movie. This movie has a lot of action, it is not as plot based as say the first highlander movie. This is an action movie, but it is not a bad action movie. There are a couple of twists that make this movie not completely predictable, which is worth a lot of points to me seeing as I hate the overall hollywood effect. Anyway, this movie is worth checking out and I would recommend it to people. I would rate it about a 7 over all and you will probably like it if you like action or martial arts movies. "},{"Title":"There can't be only one (movie that is)","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING THIS REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR PLOT SPOLIERS!!! YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!A fan of the movie series, I enjoyed this movie throughly. I would definatly recommended seeing the movies that lead up to this movie first (skip the 2nd one though).Christopher Lambert has been the Highlander since forever and he CAN act. I enjoyed his performance in all the Highlander movies and was crestfallen when the battle between him and Adrian ended in his death.Adrian Paul is a new face that I honestly hope will be around for quite awhile. His acting and fighting skills are extrodinary and really make the movie worth watching.The evil guy can be summed up in a few words. One of the best villans EVER.The plot was slightly confusing at times, so be sure to watch it with a Highlander fan from both the movie and tv show. Also be sure to check out the DVD, because it explains some of the confusing plot conflicts.I enjoyed this movie a lot and would recommend it. "}{"Title":"It´s by no means a classic but it´ll do","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off,let me tell you the producer´s cut is far more superior than the theatrical release,this cut is the one we have been waiting for,Christopher Lambert´s acting is normal,nowhere near as Gideon,but watching him play Connor Macleod for the last time is great,I hope that his upcoming drama Joshua will be as good as Gideon.Now for the reviewFor the past 400 years or so, immortal Scotsman Connor Macleod (Christopher Lambert) has been forced to do combat with his kin in a never ending game where the loser gives up his head and Quickening or their life force and memories - to the victor making them stronger.  But now at the turn of the new millennium, Connor is beginning to have second thoughts. So after visiting his former apprentice Duncan (Adrian Paul), Connor vanishes without a trace having turned himself over to a group of monk-like chroniclers called Watchers who proceed to lock him away in a secret sanctuary where immortals go when they want to be taken out of the game.10 years pass and through a series of flashbacks which are a staple of the television series structure in which this movie closely follows  we learn of Connor´s past with Jacob Kell (Bruce Payne), a former kinsmen who blames him for the death of the man who raised him and at who´s hand his immortal rebirth took place.  Fueled by his hatred of Connor, Kell has slowly become the fiercest immortal of them all and now as set his sights on both Macleods in an attempt at final justice once and for all.I must admit that I´ve never given Paul much credit and the idea that the producers behind the franchise wanted to hand over the feature film reins to him angered me greatly.  As I stated before, Christopher Lambert was and will forever be the highlander I identify with cause he started it all.  But after viewing Endgame I must give credit where its due and take back everything I´ve ever said about Paul.  Not only is he a much better swordsman then Lambert, but he´s more deft at handling the emotional core the series has always tried to convey. And while I don´t want to give much away, I will say that the passing of the torch between stars is handled much better here then in say Star Trek Generations, a film which managed to drop the ball for fans of both incarnations.  Endgame proves to be both true to the spirit of the first film (at least) and the television series, whose fans will be pleased to see that series co-stars Jim Byrnes and Peter Wingfield have supporting roles in the film as well.As for you action fans who come to the series only wanting to see fights and decapitations, you´ll also be pleased to learn that Endgame features the best fight sequences of the series thanks in no part to HK legend Donnie Yen, who also plays one of Kell´s evil henchmen in the film.With better production values and for once a solid story to tell, it seems as if a Highlander film finally got it right for a change.  It´s by no means a classic, but it´ll do.8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"I spent money on this?","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The trailer for this movie had me excited; I love the original movie, and the sequels thus far were less than exceptional.  I should have known better, though.  Offhand, I can't think of any movie which is the 4th in a series and which is worth seeing.  Highlander Endgame is no exception. The plot is predictable and the acting, marginal.  No effort is made to tie up any loose ends or explain why the story went from there can be only one to there can be only one, except for all these other folks.  The movie is uninspiring, full of moronic jokes and trite dialog, and worst of all it's boring.  The fight scenes, with one exception, are as formulaic and predictable as the plot.  Sadly, though, they're the best part of the movie. "},{"Title":"A success","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is without a doubt success for the action/adventure genre.It brings good entertainment,lots of superb fighting scenes and also a good story.Why it didnt do better with the audiences is a mystery indeed.I dare to say that this movie doesnt stand back for successes like Mummy returns and Tomb Raider.Sure,both are quite entertaining,but the point is lost somewhere halfway through.Endgame keeps its point and the real value all the way.This is a film about heroes.Heroes that change the course of the world.In the end,i must say Lambert and Paul did great job.I look forward to see more of Adrian Paul as Duncan. "},{"Title":"Highlander series redeemed?","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Here's the story of the Highlander franchise Highlander, Highlander The Quickening, Highlander The Series (ignores the end of Highlander in which Connor MacLeod actually won the Prize and ignores Highlander The Quickening completely), Highlander The Final Dimension (ignores Highlander The Quickening completely and Highlander The Series) and finally Highlander Endgame (ignores the end of Highlander in which Connor MacLeod actually won the Prize, ignores Highlander The Quickening completely and ignores Highlander The Final Dimension completely).Pretty confusing stuff! The original Highlander is one of my favorite movie. It's a cult classic with strong performance by Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery and a very cool over-the-top performance by Clancy Brown. The second (The Quickening) is one of the worst movies ever made and completly destroy the magic and the mystery of the original Highlander. The series was not very good neither very bad. Actually, the quality of the series has grown with the passing years as well as the performance of Adrian Paul. It has introduce new interesting concept such as The Watchers. The third (The Final Dimension) expands the story of Connor MacLeod and is entertaining without destroying the magic and the mystery of the first one.The last chapter of the Saga (Endgame) is the best sequel of Highlander. The performance of Christopher Lambert is again very good and Adrian Paul is more mature and give a fair performance. Bruce Payne is the second best vilain in the franchise. The first part of the movie is very good and is fluid with the original Highlander story. The characters of Rachel and Heather are seen briefly but helps to bring a sense of continuity with the original. The story of Connor and Duncan and the introduction of Kell are well inserted in the original Highlander story with flashbacks. Concepts of the series, like The Watchers, are also added to the story. The last part of the movie is less interesting but entertaining. There is a very cool fight between Duncan and Jin and a great fight between Connor and Duncan that is very touching. The last fight is sadly not the best as for Bruce Payne is not as agile as Adrian Paul. The movie lose some interest as the film goes on but manage to be a very good movie. If your not familiar with the series, Endgame can be very confusing because the movie takes many elements of the series such as the fact that Connor did not won the Prize, The Watchers, the character of Joe and Methos, etc. If you want to see the movie and your not a fan of the series, just remember the fact that Connor did not won the Prize and let yourself be part of the magic of Highlander... By the way, did you see that all supernatural parts of the trailer are not seen in the movie. I hope they will add those deleted scenes in the DVD.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Besides from the poor super imposing bits when the quickening happened, i thought the film was pretty class. I don't agree with people who say it's part of the Series, it's a follow on from the pilot episode i may agree, but EndGame is for Highlander what Generations was for Star Trek, an easier way for people to get on with a new series (even though both were released when both series' where well into thier 6th seasons)EndGame has everything a highlander Fan wants, both Macloeds, a good few sword fights, martial arts, a good story, humour, romance and comedy. It brings everything together.Some may say they should have stopped the Movies at three, i don't think they should have ever made a 2nd movie, so it blows out that theory, but like Highlander and Highlander The Sorcerer it follows all the conventions of your highlander film and doesn't go off on one about them coming from another planet.I think EndGame was a brilliant film, a must for all those who are fans of Highlander or just want something differnet, like the director said, EndGame was designed for the fans but with first time viewers in mind.  "},{"Title":"Best since the first one for fans, but non fans beware!!!!!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  About five minutes into Highlander Endgame, the last film in the franchise which has given Star Wars and Star Trek a run for the money in the most unique fans, I realized that in the Highlander series, there are two separate universes that exist The universe in which Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) became the final immortal and won the prize in 1986 (in the first film), and the one where, in the year 2000, the fight is still going on. In this universe, which was established in the TV series, Duncan MacLeod, Connor's younger brother (Adrian Paul) is the runner up for the prize, the major fight that took place in the first film was not the final battle between the last two immortals left, but merely one of many battles that were still to come.This film takes place in the latter series, and the final battle is at hand at long last, and it's down to two good immortals Connor and Duncan, and an ancient, evil immortal (Bruce Payne) who has a posse of other immortals following him like he's some kind of anti-christ. He's also got a deadly agenda against Connor for something that took place in the past. It's cleverly written, so I dare not give anything away.Endgame is a sequel to the first film as it took place in the TV series' universe, and a continuation of the TV show, which went off air some two years ago. In order to fully appretiate this film, the viewer needs to be familiar with both...and like them. Otherwise, he or she will get confused and bored. Make no mistake It is a film by Highlander fans FOR Highlander fans, and little explanation is given for anything in this, because it assumes that anyone watching will be familiar with the premise and the rules of the immortal game upon entering the theater.As a serious film critic, I found the first film to be a masterpiece. Combining full-throttle thrills, an excellent premise, and top-rate performances, Highlander introduced us to the world of the immortals, and the premise was so thought-provoking that it drew the viewer in, and it made it easy for he or she to suspend their disbelief, if only for two hours. It deservedly joined the rank of Star Wars and Star Trek as one of the most successful and influential sci-fi films ever written. The second film didn't do so well, but the director's cut was definitely worth watching. The Final Dimension was a poor entry, and it was the last to take place in Connor's world, where he became the final immortal and took the prize.With all of this said, as a fan of the first film, I can tell you that if you liked it, you will fall in love with Highlander Endgame. It's name implies that it is the final chapter, and it is, but not to the film series....no, this is the final chapter in the TV show, and it nicely caps the series. It is a most satisfactory wrap-up, with all the elements that made the first film and the TV show successful Great camera-work, intruiging characters, flashbacks from all around the world, engaging conflicts, and some of the finest sword-fighting sequences that I have ever seen put to film. And the surprise ending in which one of the MacLeods makes the ultimate sacrifice will leave no fan with a dry eye (and if you are a fan who's seen it already, DON'T PANIC! Remember, this is not the same universe as that of the film series!).There are also some nice touches that only fans will enjoy It was wonderful to see Heather, Connor's old wife, again, if only for a few brief moments. Watching the training sequences between Connor and Duncan are also well-written (and NOT  a rip off of the stuff seen between Connor and Ramirez in the first film). The different aspects of immortality that are explored are nothing short of ingenious, and the characters of both Connor and Duncan are very nicely developed. Joe and Methos's cameos from the TV show are also appretiated.If you're not a fan, walk away slowly with your hands raised in the air. If you like the series of films and the TV show, enjoy this gem which nicely seals the Highlander universe. Indeed,for those of us who have come to realize that there can be only one, this might be the best film of the summer!***1/2 out of **** (best since the original). "},{"Title":"Quite a bit more than I expected","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"32 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  All in all, I'd say this movie exceeded my expectations.  Very well done. If I were to change anything, it would have been to add another 15-20 minutes to the length (JUST over 90 min) for the purpose of going a little more in-depth of some situations.This didn't detract anything from the movie for me, but I can see how someone new to the Highlander stories might have been at a slight loss.  If I were not previously familiar with the Highlander movies and series, I probably would have rated it a 7 or 8...because it IS a good story and it was PACKED with action.  The fight scenes were really great and there was one scene in particular which was, in my opinion, VERY well done.  I won't spoil it, other than to say it really brought to light the relationship of the 2 characters involved....But since I've followed the movies and the series since the beginning, all was clear by the end.  I thought this movie was second only to the original movie that started it all.They say There can be only one....I'm hoping for AT LEAST one more.  "},{"Title":"The latest installment in the ultimate revisionist back-story franchise","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Cinematically speaking, I think this deserves about 6 or 7 stars in the alternate reality where I had not seen the previous Highlander films, only the series. The original Highlander with Christopher Lambert was a classic. Highlander 2 was an abomination, riddled with internal (with regard to its own storyline) and external (with regard to the storyline of the original) inconsistencies; WORST SEQUEL EVER (move over Godfather 3) but still a pretty good flick in the alternate universe where I hadn't seen the first. Highlander 3 at least tried to reconcile itself with the original but still fell short of the original. When the TV series started, I kept wondering how they were going to stay true to H1; was the series going to end with Duncan going to meet his death at the hands of the Kurgan? Obviously not as revealed in the Watchers episode. Nevertheless I grew to like this new guy and the series although I stopped watching in season 4 (I've heard it really jumped the shark in season 5). I knew b4 I had even seen Endgame that the younger, hunkier one would survive...typical, shallow, predictable Hollywood outcome. At least it's clear there are still other immortals at (least one lesson was learned from the previous films). "},{"Title":"Gimme the prize or gimme death!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Duncan McCleod(Adrian Paul) searches (For eternity it feels like) for his brother Connor(Christopher Lambert) who has dropped out of the game, however when Jacob Kell(Bruce Payne) an evil immortal who has more quickenings than them, needs to be stopped, it's up to the McCleods to join forces to take him out and while I won't spoil the ending, we'll just say that it contradicts everything that came before it. Highlander Endgame was made I'm guessing for fans of the TV show while I never tuned in for the show (It was on USA network, after Silk Stalkings for goodness sake!) I figured this would be the best sequel since it had the most going for it. One it would tie up the conclusion of the TV show, it could work as a prequel to everything before and overall you would have at least a coherent sequel. Then came an ending that comes so out of nowhere you are left to ponder exactly how it could possibly work. The answer is, it doesn't. I understand Lambert is getting older but seriously how many Highlander fans can there be left by 2000 after the show was canceled for some time and the last movie was made six years before? It is of course some bright executive who thought, hey let's get Adrian Paul to take over this exhausted series since he doesn't cost as much as Lambert to hire and say let's completely contradict the series all together. I admit Lambert is no great actor but he is leaps and bounds far more charismatic than Adrian Paul and although thankfully we are spared another Lambert sex sequence, we are left to watch Paul interact with his girlfriend in the movie, in scenes so embarrassing, that had it gotten more press, this would have been a Razzie contender for worst performance of the year. Endgame despite being a very bad movie, is at least better than The Quickening but I say that if you really want a good movie about immortals, check out the original.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Finally a worthy sequel to the original!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame is the fourth episode of the successful Highlander series, which stars both the actor of the movies (Christopher Lambert) as well as the tv-show (Adrian Paul). The original Highlander movie was great, the second Highlander movie was ok, but the storyline was completely different from the original. The third Highlander movie was a little bit boring. The tv-show however, was excellent and belongs to my all-time favorite tv-shows. I was very pleased to hear that Adrian Paul would also star in the fourth episode of Highlander. This fourth episode has all the ingredients a good Highlander movie should have good action, good music and a well told story. However if you have never seen the tv-show, this movie will sometimes be hard to follow. But in my opinion this Highlander movie is the best since the original.  "}{"Title":"PROBABLY THE LAST OF THE HIGHLANDER FRANCHISE.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have long since given up hope of this movie turning up in the UK so ordered the directors cut DVD from the US and I am glad I did.It is not as good as the original but much better than the two lacklustre sequels and resembles more a double episode of the TV series.I enjoyed the series until early in the fourth season when it lost its way and I eventually gave up on it.The movie,however,seems to resolve the franchise nicely and I hope that they now decide to call it a day. Adrian Paul makes a successful transition to the big screen and I am sure I am not the first to comment upon his resemblence to the young Sean Connery.He is and always has been excellent in fight scenes and is particularly so here.The fights are the best thing about the movie and it is a shame that Hong Kong martial arts ace Donnie Yen was not used to better advantage here.His one fight with Paul,although too short,is very well done. Christopher Lambert as Connor now looks to be aging rapidly(some scenes in particular are not at all flattering)but this movie is the better for his presence nevertheless.The same can be said for Bruce Payne as the villain-in-chief Jacob Kell;Payne rarely disappoints in this sort of role as PASSENGER 57 and ONE TOUGH BASTARD will testify.The movie is not a total success as there are t0o many flashbacks and some supporting characters from the TV series have obviously been thrown in simply to please the fan base.Ultimately though,as soon as this movie began,I felt I was watching something with the spirit of the first HIGHLANDER and as the final credits rolled I did not feel at all short-changed.Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good....better than the other sequels!!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had some low expectations going into this movie. Sure..I watched and liked the other highlanders, but this is the 4th one, so it is bound to be dumb right?  Wrong! I actually liked this movie. Sure at some points it makes no sense, but after you watch it and talk it over with someone, everything comes together. Now I don't recomend this to anyone who has not seen any of the other Highlanders. Those people will be very lost. Before you diss this movie...make sure that you see the director's cut. I have not seen the theatrical cut but Ii have heard that is sucks. So, I recommend that you skip the theatrical and go see the director's.. It has good action..good plot...and it ties two highlander's together..which is cool. Plus, the villain in this highlander is actually cool.  The one in 3 was  just a copy from the one in 1. Anyway..I would suggest this movie to fans of the series, but remember to see the director's cut. I don't think that you will be disapointed.  8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Rent the DVD Version!","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie in theaters last fall and was somewhat disappointed with the ending and the length of the film (1 minute shorter than South Park Bigger, Longer, Uncut), but today I rented the 2 disc DVD version and Panzer/Davis redeemed themselves. The DVD version has an extra 12 minutes of footage and a new ending that was much better than the ending of the theatrical release.So, if you didn't like the theatrical release, I recommend seeing the DVD version and then see what you think. "},{"Title":"Conner Macleod's history is uncovered","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I come from Australia and if you didn't know we get movies later than the USA. I recently watched Highlander Endgame at the cinema. I thought it was really done well and was very close to Highlander the original the way the story followed.Highlander Endgame was an non stop action rush with having really good martial arts & sword fighting plus pretty good special effects.The story follows Conner Macleod and his brother Duncan Macleod battling the strongest of immortals through a dark New York city. Conner has lost hope and Duncan wants to help him regain the attitude that he once had. A force known as Jacob Kell, to strong for any one to fight has gone renagade breaking the strict rules that immortals must follow.There is alot of history that has been hidden in the first 3 highlander films and highlander Endgame uncovers the truth and the lies that have made Conner become so mornful over the people that he has seen die.As Duncan Macleod and Conner Macleod battle Kell they are torn between each other. Rules say only one immortal can verse another immortal at one time. Conner & Duncan must decide how will they beat the strongest immortal of all time.The Game has begun. There can be only one true immortal left standing. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a Big Fan of the highlander series..I thoroughly enjoyed this film...from Start to End.I know many people have complained that in highlander 2, Connor Mcloud lives into the future, But in my Opinion...Highlander 2 was a Mistake. It had nothing to do with the story and was a lousy film.I know that producers have taken a path similar to Star trek generations.That is to have the former star Killed off...and have the newer one take his place in case more highlander films come along. But I have no complaints about that.Even if these films have no Continuity..(and Im Sure Leonard Maltin has his knives out ready to savage the film)...I feel they should be enjoyed for what they are...After all, How much Story did Phantom menace or Twister have....Almost none.So sit back and lap up and enjoyable series...and Ignore what all the cynics think...after all it isnt brainfood...its good ole fashioned fun. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a Big Fan of the highlander series..I thoroughly enjoyed this film...from Start to End.I know many people have complained that in highlander 2, Connor Mcloud lives into the future, But in my Opinion...Highlander 2 was a Mistake. It had nothing to do with the story and was a lousy film.I know that producers have taken a path similar to Star trek generations.That is to have the former star Killed off...and have the newer one take his place in case more highlander films come along. But I have no complaints about that.Even if these films have no Continuity..(and Im Sure Leonard Maltin has his knives out ready to savage the film)...I feel they should be enjoyed for what they are...After all, How much Story did Phantom menace or Twister have....Almost none.So sit back and lap up and enjoyable series...and Ignore what all the cynics think...after all it isnt brainfood...its good ole fashioned fun. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Sequel to the Original","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is definitely the best Highlander film since the original classic. The cinematography is grand, as is the breathtaking new soundtrack. Unfortunately, the story is a little weak at points.  Hopefully the upcoming extended version (on DVD) will remedy this problem.  Because of the scant 85 minute running time, the theatrical release feels rather rushed at points. The 100 minute DVD release sounds far more promising. "},{"Title":"Great Great Movie","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a very amid watcher of the Highlander movies and the T.V. series. In fact I have all the seasons (the series)on video but anyway, back to the movie it had action, romance, touching story line but mostly Adrian Paul it was very exciting, I was on the edge of my seat. If anyone has not seen this movie see it. It's wonderful. "},{"Title":"What a GREAT FILM!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found that Highlander Endgame was THE best of all 4 of the Highlander movies.  It was great to see Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert together again.  I am really hoping that the way the movie ended means that the legacy of Duncan MacLeod The Highlander will continue.PEACE "},{"Title":"Same Great Actors, Different Stakes","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, OkSo it doesn't exactly fit with all the Highlander knowledge that some of us have come to know but it's a great film. With stunning filming locations, excellent effects, and the traditional amazing on screen performances by the Highlanders themselves. Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert. Watching this pair team up reminded me why I fell in love with the movies and the series in the first place. All in all it's worth the money your going to pay to see it on the big screen or its rental fee when you get the time to sit back and enjoy the intense martial art and sword play action at home!In My Opinion Piper  "}{"Title":"Not Bad...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie simply for Donnie Yen (Jin Ke)...he is by far one of my favorite guyz, and might I add, Jin Ke does not disappoint in this movie. I think his fight scene with Duncan was awesome, fast and intense; probably the most/only thrilling part of the movie.Overall, I thought this movie was interesting enough. Although I've only watched Highlander1 and a few of the series (I never bothered to watch 2 & 3 because I heard it sucked), the flow and scenario of Endgame is still typical Highlander. Scenaries were beautiful, nice transitions between past to present, and it still insinuated that feeling of depression. I liked Kate's character/backround (good acting), she certainly added a different touch to the sequel. Duncan also had really good scenes. However, my dislike on this movie would be towards the ending; it felt as if too many other storylines were left unfinished/unclear or cut-out...(exactly how did Jin Ke die?)I rated this move a *7*...mostly because of Donnie Yen, but I'll also give credit to the creative part of this movie, again, the storyline in itself is out of the ordinary. It may not be the greatest of movies (and would be difficult for first timers of Highlanders to follow), but I personally think it's as good as the first one! "},{"Title":"By Far The Best Highlander Movie Out Of The First Four Movies","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie more than I did the first three for the simple fact that they finally acknowledged the television series, even though the feel of the movie stayed more true to the movie franchise instead of the tv series. If I had to rate the first four movies, part #4 would be my favorite, followed by part #3, then part #1 and then part #2. The second movie was the worst of the first four and should have never been made.I enjoyed seeing Lisa Barbuscia, who played Duncan MacLeod's ex-wife in the movie. This is the first time I ever remember seeing her in anything and I was impressed.The only thing that struck me as odd about Highlander Endgame was that it was very reminiscient of Mad Max when the immortals started riding around on their motor cycles chasing after Duncan., which wasn't bad, really. I mean, I am a very  big fan of the Mad Max movies, too. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was doomed right from the start. A lot of the fans were trashing the movie before filming even started and a lot of others had such high expectations that they were going to be disappointed even if it turned out to be the greatest movie ever made. I admit that Endgame isn't perfect, but I don't think that it's anywhere near as bad as a lot of people are saying. The movie is actually quite enjoyable if you're a fan of the tv series. The acting is pretty good. Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert work very well together. Bruce Payne makes an interesting bad guy. Also, there's a lot of cool action. The choreography of the fight scenes is great. However, I'd definitely recommend staying away from this movie if you're not familiar with the tv series or if you just didn't like it. The story moves very fast and there's a lot of things that you won't understand if you haven't watched the series. And the movie pretty much feels like another episode of the tv show, so if you have watched the series and didn't like it, then Endgame isn't for you either. I gave Endgame a 10/10 just because I think it is worth more than the average rating it has gotten.  I'd really say that it deserves a 7/10 because the acting was good and the story definitely has potential. With a few added scenes, I believe that the movie would have been great. But I do have to admit that I really hope that there aren't anymore Highlander movies. But not because of how this one turned out. Simply because no Highlander movie is ever going to be a big success even if it were the greatest movie ever made. A lot of the fans just expect way to much out of the producers. And a lot of others put the first movie so high on a pedestal that nothing else could come near it. And others didn't want anymore Highlander after the first movie and are determined to ruin anything else for the fans who did want more. "},{"Title":"In the end, there can be only one.","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING  If you have not seen the movie, DO NOT READ THIS!Highlander Endgame is the second best of all the Highlander movies I've seen, followed by the original and the second (which totally sucked in my opinion).Endgame totally changes Connor's character from a good guy to a rebel, fighting on holy grounds, among other violations.  Him and his newly introduced brother, Duncan, constantly have flashbacks to the past 100's of years.  Enter Adam Edge Copeland of the World Wrestling Federation.Although his role was very small, and not very vital to the story, Edge puts on a great show as Lachlan, a travelling criminal in the 1700's.  For a professional wrestler, he has excellent swordsmanship skills, and did not look one bit afraid of the silver blade.Anyways, back to the point.  Connor gives up the spotlight to Duncan and finally croaks after about 14 years in the Hollywood cult limelight. Another question  What happened to Ramirez?  Did he use up all his reincarnations?  Guess so.This sequel lives up to its long time motto  In the end, there can be only one.Overall  9.1 out of a possible 10 "},{"Title":"Can a sequel be better than the original?","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People who bash this movie have probably not even seen it or don't remember the first one. Highlander part II was a joke, part III was a bit of a redemption, but this one has it all! It's the perfect combination of the series and the first movie, with a really well-written storyline, some great memories from part I and a killer  climax! The characters have been thoroughly worket out, the Highlander concept has not been compromised at all, and to put the icing on the cake, they found a really good looking woman this time! -)I would recommend this movie to anyone who's into the whole Highlander thing, but also to anyone who's into good action movies! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have no idea how this movie has managed to get such a low rating here. First of all, the story and universe of the Immortals is a very interesting one. It certainly is a great storyline for one based in fantasy. It has great action scenes with excellent sword fights. It has good special effects when called for. It has two great actors as leading men in Chris Lambert and Adrian Paul. It has a villain who is evil, so he fits the role nicely. It has a beautiful woman in Duncan's former wife Kate. If this movie only had Sean Connery, it'd be the Highlander movie to end all such movies).The development of Connor and Duncan's relationship is well done and it comes to a very emotional conclusion. The only question I have is if Kell was breaking the rules, why couldn't the Macleod's have done the same and challenged him 2 on 1? Maybe they're too honorable, anyway it leads to an incredible rooftop showdown between the kinsmen.As it is, it is a great fantasy movie. It is a good continuation to the fun tv series. Continuity wise, the Highlander series is confusing to say the least. I would rank this on par with the first movie. The second one was ok but kind of weird, the third I haven't seen. All in all, this refreshed the series, gives it one Immortal to carry the banner into the next sequel, which I sure hope occurs, if it's as good as this one. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Attention span and open mind required.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Serialized films and novels focusing on seemingly endless possibilities (Anne Rice's Vampires, Highlander, Star Trek, etc) run the risk of alienating all non-fans to the point of becoming hideous insularities and trite clichés, where Highlander Endgame succeeds in committing itself to being the last, and the only worthy successor to the original. There can be only one? Well, only in legends and other fantasies. Highlander Endgame is so much more interesting than I expected it to be, that I had a very hard time deciding where to begin this review. This is neither an end to the TV series, nor an end to the movie franchise but rather, a redemption of both - succeeding where the preceding sequels failed so miserably. However, despite and because of this redemption - it is, simply, an end. That said - be forewarned - this is not easy to follow and, frankly, not easy. The key elements of this film are its furious pace and satisfying back-story creating the history of the relationship between Connor and Duncan. The action sequences are good, and well filmed, and the acting is a touch above the norm for this series.If you pay attention and commit yourself to this film, you will probably find that it pays off much more powerfully than you expected, whether or not you were a fan or the original film or the TV series. Sure, this is a fan film. But, despite the insider themes, and the soap-opera complexity of some aspects of this, an attentive viewer will find food for thought and plenty to entertain. Maybe I'm insane, but maybe this film will be recognized in ten or fifteen years for the quality it brought back to a great imaginative fiction franchise. "},{"Title":"End This Game.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander 4 Endgame (2000) Dir Douglas Aarniokoski / Cast Christopher Lambert, Adrian Paul, Bruce Payne, Lisa Barbuscia, Donnie Yen Moronic adventure that jumps from Italy, Ireland, Scotland, New York, London, and Disneyland. It hints on a plot but bludgeons viewers with production values. If you find your attention wandering over to the wall to observe paint drying, then do not be surprised. The title makes no sense because there is no game to end. It is just unfortunate that the film doesn't end sooner. Story focuses on the immortals who are said to be living eternity. Christopher Lambert is again featured as Connor Macleod whose time seems to be up. Bruce Payne beheads other immortals and possesses their power. MacLeod is training his brother Duncan for a showdown he cannot avoid. He is plagued with the reality that he married a woman and forced her into immortality without her consent. Fine setup marred by pointless action and violence. Director Douglas Aarniokoski is aided by fine production but unfortunately the script is about as useful as toilet paper and should be jammed up someone's ass. Fine work by Lambert but Adrian Paul as Duncan renders the best performance. Payne overacts just as he did in that stupid Dungeons and Dragons movie. Pointless cinematic scrap that should end the game before viewers pass out. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Guilty Pleasures","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Right out of the gate, I'll admit it Highlander Endgame isn't that good. In fact, the film has a lot of problems. For starters, there's a lot of elements and characters present that aren't explained in the film proper the Watchers, the Sanctuary, the presence of other Immortals even though the Prize was supposedly won in the original Highlander, etc. The film's effects aren't as cool as they were in the original, in that they might be less dated but the spectacle isn't as awesome as watching Connor get lifted into the air in the middle of a vortex of animated demons. And there's a huge cop-out at the end that allows Duncan to get a happy ending even though it directly contradicts things the villain did in the film, and the movie doesn't even TRY to justify it.But, as someone who watched Highlander The Series, who DOES know why there are other Immortals about, who KNOWS who the Watchers are and what the Sanctuary is, it's a pretty entertaining watch. Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert (who looks like he's aged twenty years between Mortal Kombat and this) have perfect on-screen chemistry and really do feel like they've known each other for years. The bit parts for characters like Joe Dawson and Methos (both from the TV show) really make this feel like a true crossover.And then there's Bruce Payne as the villain, doing more or less the same thing he would go on to do in Dungeons & Dragons, only here he gets to be the badass overtyrant instead of the stooge. He does a great job at playing the kind of slimy bastard that you just love to hate. Even more impressive is his performance in the flashbacks, where he completely changes gears and plays a sympathetic bearded Scottish man who you've never guess would one day turn into Damodar Version 2.0 In A Fedora. The guy's a more versatile actor than we give him credit for.I hear the film was supposed to be the film that tied all the loose ends and brought the series full-circle. Well, since this film is in continuity with the series, and since the series retconned the original movie so that the original movie WASN'T the end of the Game, I really don't see wherethis thought came from. I know, movies should be able to stand on their own without needing other material, but since this movie was so transparently made for the fans of the TV show, I can forgive it for that. "},{"Title":"Not the worst film ever.  But not the best.","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Highlander series has these problems and more, being first a film franchise that started well and then went suddenly sickeningly wrong, then a syndicated TV show, and now again a film property. Moreover, the underlying concept behind it all &#x97; a global race of immortals locked in combat since the beginning of time &#x97; lends itself so easily to story and backstory permutations that the Highlander mythos has become a huge, convoluted tapestry that only the most hardcore fans can follow. Highlander Endgame makes a valiant effort at cleaning things up, presumably to hand the films over to Adrian Paul (star of the TV series, whose producers, Davis/Panzer Productions, are at the helm here), but in the end it's just too massive a job. Nice fight scenes, though. "}{"Title":"Guess what it is?","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander! Swords! Dudes fighting with swords! Sometimes the sword fighting men have witty things to say, other times when they are sword fighting they have serious things to say, see so its juxtaposed, which is also the name of an art magazine. I am not too particularly fond of the word juxtaposed, it sounds stupid to me, here is where I can reveal that. You know what's missing from Highlander movies? It's not swords, I think we call all guess that. No, what it probably is is ice cream, not enough scenes involving ice cream. My favorite right now is pistachio, first of all it's usually a lovely pale green, then it hits you with that weird savory sweet flavor, plus there's nuts! Movie reviewed. "},{"Title":"Immortal villains overact so much....","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Connor Macleod is back, and this time he's brought the English bloke from the TV series with him. When his friend Rachel is killed, he gets all misty, and goes to a place called The Sanctury, which is like The Colony from Double Team.Then the confusion kicks in, which is just what you'd expect from a Highlander movie. You see, Lambert killed Bruce Paynes dad, so Payne has taken his time getting revenge, and now wants it. He has a few hench men, and Paul is along for the ride, because the show was quite successful.Immortals are not supposed to age, but what really distracts you from the film is how different Lambert looks in this dreadful movie.It's not the fact that he's aged, it all happens to us, but its the fact that he looks like he has a rare skin condition, and it really takes you away from the paper thin narrative.If you've seen Bruce Payne in any other film, you know that he is a pantomime villain, but he is the best thing in this, and really lifts the film whenever he's in it.Paul is in it for no other reason than to fight Lambert, and for both Highlander completists, this is something big.For everyone else though, its a really poor sequel to an average film, with trashy effects.At least Highlander 2 was funny.... "},{"Title":"What the hell? A highlander sequel that's actually WATCHABLE???","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I did enjoy the original Highlander. My brother watched it and enjoyed it and asked me to watch it after that. Then I wanted to watch Highlander 2 because I heard it's crap and sometimes that could be just what people need in movie watching (strange?... I know). My brother ended up watching ALL the Highlander sequels and told me that this one was quite clearly the best sequel.For starters this movie is not really what I call perfect. The Watchers didn't make any sense to me. I'm sorry but I really don't see the point in them. Maybe I have to watch the TV Series to make sense of them. Especially when they say the villain is a rogue.The plot of this movie is actually very good. The plot is that Duncan MacCleod finds out that his brother Connor has had a man with a 400 year old grudge against him. They decide to team up and kill him. It may sound simplistic but it is executed better than any of the other live action Highlander sequels.I did enjoy the character development of this movie. I really enjoyed the part where Duncan has to kill Connor in order for Duncan to gain enough strength to fight Jacob Kell (The antagonist). That part would have to be my favourite part out of this whole movie.So this movie does leave a lot of unanswered questions (like how immortals are still running around for starters) but I am sure that the TV Show will clear everything up. If you want to watch a good continuation of Highlander then I will suggest this to you. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable for what it is.","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A Highlander sequel. Anyone who has walked out of the second and third will be able to tell you all kinds of weird stories such as Immortals are from another planet and Sorcery is in this one. Luckily enough, I managed to pull through to Highlander 4 which is probably one of the best of the series.Lets be honest here, this film is not about Connor McLeod. Its about his brother, Duncan. It centers around the TV show of which I have not seen a single episode of. Judging from this, I will definitely take a look.The plot is that an immortal is in town and wants revenge on Connor for killing the man who raised him back in the 1500's.The music score in this film was a bit annoying. It may seem like a small complaint but whilst the 3rd Highlander film is definitely an inferior film, it had an okay music score. This had the same soft song playing over the love scenes and techno over the rest.The acting is superb from both Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert. I'm surprised that after pulling off the embarrassing lines of Highlander 2 & Highlander 3 he finally gets a decent script and he finally has competition in the realm of better actors on this project. I'm not saying Lambert is Shakespearean(not even close) but he was able to pull off a good Highlander even with the awful lines of 2 & 3 and in this he has competition.It might help to watch the TV show first but it is an entertaining watch even for people who haven't seen the show (like me). "},{"Title":"if you're desperate and willing to ignore a few contradictions...","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...then you can enjoy this movie. yes, there's the killing on holy ground and the flashback were Methos and Kronos are suddenly buddy-buddy despite being explicitly stated during the legendary horsemen episodes that they haven't met for 2000 years and Kronos was still holding a grudge, and oh yeah, what upset me the most, that stupid head count. i mean, come on, what happened to hard training, a good sword and an ounce of luck to win a fight? if the headcount alone would decide, no new immortal would ever stand a chance...and they could have simply send Methos. yes he's been avoiding in fights in recent centuries, but given his not so peaceful past i'd say that his headcount got to be above all others.....but as i said, if you're ignoring all this and can stomach that Connor is just a wreck who basically commits suicide then enjoy!oh yeah, one more thing about Duncan never marrying....that gypsy did not predict him to never marry but cursed him (he had deflowered her but refused to marry her afterward which enraged her quite a bit, big surprise)her curse wasn't exactly that he would never walk down the isle but would never be able to enjoy a peaceful married life. which is why he refused to marry Tessa for so long, convinced that it would jinx them - and just when he started to think seriously about proposing she gets killed. well, and his marriage to Kate was certainly everything but happy. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" All I can to say about this movie Completely inconsistent with the previous movies. If you look at the films of the original trilogy, one can say that they can be interconnected by a common story. In the first movie - Connor Mac Leod wins the 'prise of mortality' after defeating all of his immortal rivals. In the second film, The Quickening - In the future, his immortality is restored because of the interference by the Immortals from another world (Gen. Katana and his minions). Finally, in the third movie, The Sorcerer - Storyline is moved in between the first and the second film, basically, it's an interquel. His archenemy Kane, who was trapped under the mountain cave for centuries, has found his way out after the archaeological excavation...considering that 'there can be only one', the battle continues. However, the fourth movie is completely out of continuum... Definitely unrelated to previous storyline of the Highlander movies. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to Highlander despite some flaws","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw this over 10 years ago I thought the producers had finally got the series back on track after the outrageous 2nd movie and retread 2rd movie. It had a good plot, fairly good acting, a wild villain which was not just a copy of The Kurgan and it had both Movie Highlander Christopher Lambert and TV Highlander Adrian Paul together.When I look back at it now I see that it was just a spin off of the TV series (which I was never into at the time) and Lambert was in to pass the torch to Paul.The movie's tone is about redemption and I feel is a worthy send off for Connor while making Duncan the main protagonist for movies to come which unfortunately we only got 1 which was pretty dreadful.If you really want to get into Highlander I suggest the best is the first film then ignore the end part and watch this.7 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"A tale of potential, wasted potential and a thoroughly flawed cult-series","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was rooting for &#x84;Highlander Endgame, despite having witnessed the steady decline of the franchise ever since the first movie for one, the movie reunited both Connor and Duncan MacLeod (who, in the TV-series, had become a worthy replacement for Christopher Lambert). For the other the film stars Bruce Payne as villainous immortal and Payne remains one of my favourite movie-villains since starring in Passenger 57. Both points turned out as two of the films major flaws Seeing Christopher Lambert return to his parade-role as immortal Connor MacLeod is a bit like seeing a relative, whom one hasn't seen in many years it's good to see them again but in the back of your mind, you cannot help to notice how horribly they've aged. Indeed, all the make-up in Hollywood cannot hide Lamberts real age, making his forever young immortal less than convincing. It must be said that Lambert is able to mask the age-issue with a world-weary approach but his scenes remain awkward leaving, despite the double billing, Adrian Paul as real, even though typically uncharismatic protagonist.Bruce Payne's character, Jacob Krell, at times portrayed as some demonic, immortal anti-Christ-figure has potential but unfortunately the actor is given very little to work with his character following the stereotypical Highlander-villain; Payne relies on his demonic stare but essentially, he's just repeating the same thing he's been doing in dozens of low-budget horror- and action-flicks over the last 20 years.Speaking about wasted potential the story about Krell's posse, who they are and why they follow him, is never expanded upon. Nor is it clear why they sacrifice (or rather allow themselves to be slaughtered) themselves for Krell, only hinting that Krell may be some form of immortal Charles Manson.Where Kurgan in the original Highlander was often shown in retro-scenes (or at least hinting about his appearances in history), there's very little of that in Endgame. Krell is shown in the medieval age, where he's killed by MacLeod and the next thing, he appears in the present. No flashbacks, no explanation of how Krell had spend the last centuries, just the presented fact that Krell is the most powerful because he's killed the highest number of immortals. Another wasted opportunity.Essentially, the movie is a blown up sequel to the Highlander-TV-series, which has been much criticized for breaking the canon of the original movie (female immortals, immortals fighting on holy ground, etc). Had this movie been made 15 years earlier (without the character Duncan MacLeod), focusing on Connor and Krell, the movie could have had a similar cult-status like the original Highlander. Sadly, though it remains the second-best Highlander film to date &#x96; but only because of the level of awfulness of part two, three and five.In the end, despite all the films flaws, it was good to see the familiar faces in the familiar roles one final time and one could only hope that this movie would finally lay the Highlander-franchise to rest. Need I mention that Highlander 5 followed as sure as tomorrow's sunrise? "},{"Title":"It's hard to be 'immortal'  25 years later","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Christopher Lambert made the first HIGHLANDER in '86. Highlander ENDGAME was mad 25 years later.Time has not been kind to Mr. Lambert. His face has aged - not good if you're supposed to be 'immortal' - so, many of Me. Lambert's scenes are... 'misty.'I'm not begrudging either the film, Nor Mr. Lambert - however it's disconcerting to see someone who played the same role as a strong, vital, youthful actor, and then, to see him, and try to ignore what is plain to see.I DO like the HIGHLANDER franchise, and, I think that, with this one - the last (as far as THIS series is considered), is a fine farewell to it. "},{"Title":"B-movie sequel debacle","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" HIGHLANDER ENDGAME is the worst HIGHLANDER film yet, and that's saying something considering the quality of the second and third film in this series. The main problem is that this film has the unwieldy task of tying together both the film and TV series, two entirely different beasts that just don't gel. The resultant film feels like a television movie or a longer episode of the series with Christopher Lambert in an extended cameo role.It's hard to know what hurts this film more the derivative script or the pitifully low budget. Certainly the dialogue is stale and the characters boring, with the storyline content to rehash tired concepts and formulas instead of bringing anything new to the table. Unsurprisingly it's Lambert's last appearance in the chronology, and you have to feel for him here he's looking old and tired, his wind stolen by an actor who's both younger and better looking. Adrian Paul is okay, but speaking from the point of view of somebody who's never seen him act before he didn't really impress.The story jolts from one historical flashback to the next, throwing in some cheesy bedroom sequences en route as well as the requisite number of swordfighting sequences. Bruce Payne pops up as &#x96; surprise, surprise &#x96; the bad guy, and he's really slumming it here, never really getting the chance to shine as the evil immortal madman that he plays. It's also slightly embarrassing to see Donnie Yen popping up in the role of a minor thug &#x96; knowing his abilities and stardom in China, his relegation to the sidelines here is nothing more than a slight and his frenetic martial arts work sits ill at ease with the mannered swordfighting found in the rest of the movie. The filmmakers desperately throw in some shoddy gore effects in an effort to attract viewers, but they can't disguise the fact that this is a movie that never should have been made. "}{"Title":"The best Highlander movie, but that's not saying much.","Date":"2 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am definitely biased when it comes to my review of this film. I am a fan of the first movie, fan of the TV series (minus a few poorly done episodes), and will watch anything that has the character Methos in it. This movie will be hard to follow if you haven't watched previous Highlander movies and/or the TV series. Recently my girlfriend purchased all of the seasons of Highlander and we just now finished watching them. We also just watched the first movie again. So I have a unique perspective. I have the original movie and the series still fresh in my memory. I think that Highlander fans love the concept more than the plot of the Highlander franchise. The idea of living forever while having a vintage style of dress and manners is of great appeal to us. But I also notice that many critics of this film didn't see the second and third movie. Those movies didn't do a good job following the first movie either. But this film mainly follows the TV series, not the first movie. I am one of those people who really liked Highlander Endgame. The movie does a great job mixing the characters from the first movie and the TV series. When I started watching the movie I was thrilled to see Peter Wingfield and Jim Byrnes in the credits. These were two great actors from the TV series. Sadly Methos had a small part in this film. He is one of the greatest, yet wasted characters of television history. Still, I'm glad he was featured in this film. Sadly, this film still can't shake some of the corny effects and additions that Panzer and Davis add to each movie. Just like the first movie, the main villain is often overacting. The final quickening is lame. Someone needs to tell Panzer and Davis that the 80's are over with. Still, this film let us see what the TV series would have been like with a bigger budget. I have also been told that the Director's Cut does a better job of developing the characters. But this movie isn't for people who aren't Highlander fans. It's also not for people who hated the TV series. It's for die-hard fans. "},{"Title":"Better than Highlander II, but still a let down","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" So this is better than Highlander II, but that's faint praise. It picks up where the TV series leaves off, following Duncan MacLeod, instead of Conner. ***Spoiler*** Those of us who were rabid fans of the series all knew that for Duncan MacLeod to be the last Immortal, then somewhere along the way, Conner (yes, he was in the series) would have to die at some time, we just didn't think that the writers would be so cruel as to have Duncan be the one to do it.Well, yuck! It made the movie almost too painful to watch.My other problem with this movie is that it lacked the charm of the series...the friendly banter between Duncan, Joe (Jim Byrnes) and Methos (Peter Wingfield) wasn't there. I guess I was hoping for more than that! "},{"Title":"* * Out Of Five","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This time Connor McCleod(Christopher Lambert) and Duncan McCleod(Adrian Paul) must decide who must kill the other, in order to gain the necessary edge to kill an evil immortal who has gotten far too strong to take on alone in this confusing sequel which gets by only due to some fresh ideas and some good action. A Highlander sequel never really gets one excited, The third chapter was utterly abysmal. However Endgame is so confusing because one wonders how exactly this now works as continuity with the series, once you establish a certain individual as the winner of the prize, it's hard to take seriously a film which constantly contradicts it's own predecessors. Still ambitions are always something I hold in high regard and in the end this one probably had the best possibility to be the best sequel (It does so anyway but to actually be a good sequel) however this isn't treated as a prequel and with the ending it basically implies that the other three didn't exist. In other words this would've been best as a stand alone film, as a Highlander sequel it makes little sense. I give it two stars only for Donnie Yen and the action scenes, but in my opinion I can do without all the Highlander sequels.2/5 Matt Bronson "},{"Title":"hmmmmm, okay I guess","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a very big fan of the first Highlander movie and I watched the first few seasons of the series and enjoyed it quite a lot. So I guess I was excited when I heard that a movie/series crossover film was being made. The two previous Highlander sequels were terrible (Infact HII gets my vote as one of the worst films ever made). I have to say that Endgame is definitely the best of the sequels, but that, ultimately, is not much to boast about.This sequel feels more like a movie of the series than a sequel to the other movies.Christopher Lambert (The original Highlander) reprises his role as Connor Macleod and Adrian Paul stars as his distant cousin Duncan Macleod (hero of the TV series). The two cousins must join forces if they are to stop the ultimate immortal, fellow Highlander Jacob Kell from winning the prize.Although Connor Macleod is in this movie, this is definitely Duncans movie.The movie starts off well enough.... Connor's adopted daughter (whom he saved in the first movie) is murdered in an explosion by an unknown enemy, and Connor goes into seclusion, not wanting to bring death to those around him. Through flashbacks, we then see why this murder took place. The Clan Macleod, after banishing Connor from Glennfinnin, put Connors mother on trial for heresy (giving birth to the spawn of Satan) Connor returns to the village to stop them burning her at the stake but is too late. In anger he kills two priests, a father and son. However the son, Jacob, comes back as an immortal hell bent on revenge.Back in the present Duncan is having visions of Connor and employs the help of his friends Methos and Dawson to help track Connor down. They find out Connor went into seclusion in a place called the Sanctuary, a prison for immortals who no longer wish to participate in the game. When the Sanctuary is attacked and all its inmates killed, Duncan fears the worst and goes in search of Connors body. However, Connor is still alive and meets up with Duncan. Since his murder at the hands of Connor, Jacob has become the ultimate immortal, with over 600 immortal kills (More than Connor and Duncan combined we later learn) and its up to the Macleod cousins to stop him.Connor and Duncan confront Kell and Connor and Kell fight. Connor is defeated, but again, left alive as Jacob Kell wants he and Connor to be the last immortals left. Kell announces that he will kill all the people that Connor holds dear, and with Rachel dead Duncan is the only person in the world Connor gives a damn about. Duncan is on borrowed time!Unfortunately, after this scene the movie goes downhill fast as we are subjected to a pointless subplot for the next 50 minutes involving Duncan and his ex-wife Kate (now called Faith), who is played by an actress employed more for her willingness to get naked than for her acting ability, it seems. Duncans Ex-wife has teamed with Kell in a bid to get revenge on Duncan, who killed her years ago and made her an immortal too!The story then turns into a trifle of melodramatics and love triangles between Duncan, Kate and Kell take up too much valuable screen time that could and should have been used to focus on the Connor/Kell feud.Connor is absent throughout much of the middle of this movie and Duncan is left to fill it with brooding and gratuitous sex scenes which add little to the over all plot.Another detractor from the movie is Kells band of sidekicks, a motorcycle riding band of cheap, camp, fodder..all with their own ridiculous costumes and unique weapons. Even the usually great Donnie Yen is wasted, and apart from his ONE fight scene with Duncan, does nothing much else for the whole movie but sit there. (total waste of his talents). And the idea of immortals working for another immortal baffles me to no end.All in all this movie, whilst claiming the title of Best Highlander sequel was very badly written for the most part and not enough time is devoted to Connor after the first half hour. The last 20 minutes are okay, when the two Macleods make the ultimate decision on how they will stop Kell, and the final fight is good (if badly edited). I would skip this one unless you are a fan of the original movie and have watched a lot of the series. (as I am/have) "},{"Title":"continuity? whats that??","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen all of the Highlander movies, and this was the second worst of them all..first of all no continuity to the original. If they were going to make a movie centered around Duncan (not a bad idea)at least they should have had it follow the original storyline. Connor was the final immortal who won the prize. Not to mention the bad guy Jacob Kell (well cast by Bruce Payne)..so tough that neither Duncan nor Connor could beat him alone? Hmmm. How did the Kurgan survive that guy to face Connor? I will admit other than the whole Duncan killing Connor fiasco, the storyline would have been good as a Duncan MacLeod stand alone movie..And now they're making another one???? Someone cut off MY head!!!! "},{"Title":"In the end there can be only one.","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander Endgame is a brilliant piece of movie cinema. It blends the TV series and the movies together very well. Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert play the two MacLeod's and they do of course fantastic jobs in this film. I always liked Adrian Paul from the TV series and Lambert is of course excellent as always. The story is that Jacob Kell, a former friend of Connor from the 16th century(?) has come back as an Immortal(which we see happen) and is out to destroy Connor once and for all. But Kell is too strong to be defeated by only one man, and Connor knows this, so he and Duncan face each other. Connor believes that by Duncan killing him, then he will be strong enough to defeat Kell. Duncan goes on to fight Kell and with Connor's spirit by his side, together they defeat Kell for good. Obviously I can't describe this how it should be described, so you will just have to see it for yourself.Endgame is a very emotional film, which for fans of the movies and TV series will do justice to all things Highlander. The battle between Duncan and Connor and ultimately Connor's death are both very emotional. I can't stress enough just how good this movie really is.The cast are all wonderful in their roles and I must give a special mention to Bruce Payne for his depiction of Jacob Kell. He does a brilliant job portraying this sadistic and cruel character. He even looks the part. Of course, as I already mentioned, Lambert and Paul are both extraordinary as Connor and Duncan MacLeod respectively.I don't know if this is the last installment in this excellent series of films but if it is, then I can honestly say that Endgame is the perfect ending to a legendary story.In the end, there can be only one... "},{"Title":"Another Song Question.","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Does anyone know the name of the instrumental piece that plays immediately after Duncan takes Connors head? I always loved the scene where they go through flashbacks in his life and thought this was very well done.The only real problem I had with this movie was that it was to short. They could have easily added another30 minutes to the story with a little more emphasis on Methos seeing that he is a popular character from the show. Hopefully the next one will be longer. I read that there will be some surprise immortals from the past. "},{"Title":"I want my money back!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   First off, I have never seen any of the other HIGHLANDER'S, but I'm sure they ain't as bad as this pile of incoherent rubbish.This time Conner and Duncan MacLeod must face an old enemy from 100's of years ago in the present(Big friggin woop!). One major problem you'll notice(Even if you've never seen the other sequels)is that this film obviously ignores parts 2 and 3 and is a continuation of part 1 and the t.v. series.Boring, terrible story, acting, and laughable dialogue, but some good action scenes. *1/2 out of *****. Let this series rest, Dimension. "},{"Title":"A TRUE SURPRISE","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was expecting this film to fall flat, and I was surprised. A performance was actually pulled from Christopher Lambert. A well thought out story was put together. The editing, cinematography, music were top notch. Adrian Paul was in GREAT form. The Villain Bruce Payne was pure evil as Jacob Kell without being a carbon copy of the HL1's (the great Clancy Brown)first Villain. Jacob Kell was Payne's own character.THE PROBLEM? I suggest this, go into this film and dismiss HL2 and HL3. Many critics have said that it contradicts the other films, its not consistent, and its true, but honestly fans, do you WANT to hold those films (Zeist? Katana? Kane?) dear to your heart? If you do then you will have a problem with this film that ignores all prior sequels.I looked at this film as a continuation to the TV series, which cleaned up a lot of the mess made by the previous films. This one really stands on its own, and I don't mean that in a planet Zeist sort of way. END GAME sets a standard for possible future films and doesn't write itself into a corner.The basic theme of the film, is not just making sure you're the good guy when you say there can be only one while being the only immortal left, until Mario Van Peebles comes around for the sequel. This film stays away from that, and really tells the story of revenge versus redemption and how it affects the relationship between immortals Conner MacLeod and Duncan MacLeod with their pasts catching up with them.Pleasant surprises are the return of Heather (Beatie Edney) and Sheila Gish as Rachel from the original film as well as familiar back grounds which reminded me of everything that was great about the original. Plus, a great montage devoted to one of the film's characters marks a great sense that the torch has been passed to Adrian Paul, leaving the series in good hands.There really doesn't need to be sequel to this film, but if there is I hope its in the hands of END GAME'S director Douglas Aarniokoski and writers Gillian Horvath and William Panzer.Good fun kids, a must see!  "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought Highlander End Game was terrible. A great disappointment. The directing was bad, the editing was the worst I've ever seen, the story was abysmal. The series, on a bad day, was better than this. It didn't follow the series that closely -if so, where was Ritchie and Tessa? And what about the fact that just before Tessa died, Duncan remembered the gypsy telling him he would never marry? Not that I minded the gratuitious sex scene with Adrian, but really. The whole thing was just a major disappointment. They could have done so much better! They certainly had time and enough money. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. You want to see Highlander? Watch the series or the first movie. "}{"Title":"Highlander End Shame","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved the original movie. I was an avid follower of the TV series. I was expecting a good sequel for a change.I was disappointed.This movie was nothing more than an episode of the TV series presented on a big screen. It should have been a two-parter for the TV show. Unless you like continuity. If you don't mind when the writers completely disregard all previous history and storyline, then I guess you'll be OK. Even I can understand the need to make the few changes needed to have facilitated the TV show in the first place.But the writers take everything we know about the Highlander universe and pitch it out the window, so they can start over I guess. If you know anything about the history of the main characters, you will be slightly confused. If this is your first trip into the world of Highlander, you will be completely LOST! Example If you've never seen an episode of the TV show, you will have no idea who Joe Dawson is, who Methos is, and what the Watchers' purpose is.In the end, there should have been only one. But we have sequels... "},{"Title":"This Movie P****d Me off (WARNING  Major Spoilers Included!)","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Going into this movie I understood the fact that this story existed in an alternate universe setting, both from the first movie and from the TV show. However, some elements of both needed to be included.Some points that annoyed me the most.  Duncan's lost love Tess.  Totally ignored and now we get a new wife who never ever was mentioned in any previous outtings (not that I know of anyway).  Also, what happened to Raven.  She was supposedly his Immortal love interest.  From my understanding, and correct me if I'm wrong, but Duncan and his select group of friends were the only immortals that new of the Watchers.  How did Connor now of them and decide to go to this Sanctuary.  No mention of Ramirez whatsoever, Ramirez was there from the point he told Connor of his Immortality to Ramirez's death.  Did the whole killing of Connor's mother take place before or after Ramirez.  I couldn't figure it out.  Ramirez is the whole reason Connor got his Katana type sword.And why can they not fight on holy ground.  The movies and TV show drove this point home.  This was a steadfast rule that could not be broken.  This led the audience to believe there would be some sort of dire consequences if this Commandment is broken.  But in Endgame Kell violates this rule without a care in the world and nothing happens.  WHY?!  What is the point of the rule then.And the straw that broke this camel's back.  Connor sacrifices himself to Duncan so Duncan can defeat Kell.  I know it had something to do with this weak revenge subplot... but come on.  Connor is THE Higlander.  He's the whole basis for everything related to this story.  Killing him was pathetically stupid.  If either Connor or Duncan had died it should have been Duncan.  Again, I know it's an alternate universe but all the original fans will forever feel that There Can Be Only One!  And that one will always be CONNOR!This is my opinion.  My rating.  3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fine for Highlander Fans","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was a bit disappointed in the film. I am a big fan of the previous three Highlander movies and the TV series as  well. Highlander Endgame is entertaining for fans like me, but I fear it would be incomprehensible to someone who wasn't already familiar with the background and history. I was pleased that it answered a lot of questions, and tied up some loose ends in the Highlander history. But the story line is a bit more disjointed than is usual even for the Highlander universe. The performances were all great, but there was something lacking in the editing. The action was fantastic though, as one would expect. "},{"Title":"Started out bad but got better.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Every Highlander film since the 1st one has pretty much sucked.  Why can't they make a movie as good as the TV series.  Endgame has some good elements to it. The idea of the sanctuary is good. Highlander fans will like a lot of this movie, but there are some story flaws.  They should have used more of the series regulars instead of creating a bunch of characters that no one cares about. Their only purpose is to die.  Non fans will probably hate it. I guess that THERE CAN BE ONLY ONE good Highlander movie. "},{"Title":"False Advertising!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dear Miramax/Dimension Films,I am writing because I feel that I was misled.  I am a regular filmgoer, and The Highlander series of movies has been quite a fun run.  The original is of course the best movie of the four, that I think you'll find is almost anyone's opinion who's seen the movies.  In that vein, I had a hard time deciding whether to go and see the latest HighlanderEndgame.  Truth be known I wasn't going to go.  Not because of bad reviews, I never listen to them anyway, I have a penchant for Dimension's genre of film, and I have been entertained by Dimension more often than not. I wasn't going to go because there was no way anyone was going to convince me this time that there could be only one, especially after 3 kicks at the can!My beef is this the reason that I finally decided to go see the film was because of the TRAILER!   I was deeply intrigued with the possibilities offered by the character of Kell and what he seemed to be able to do - and what the two MacLeods would be up against. I was gravely disappointed.Now, I understand how things work in the industry, sometimes a trailer is made while filming to tease the crowds and whet their appetite, and then, in the editing room, some bits may fall to the editor's floor for whatever reason.  But quite frankly, your HighlanderEndgame trailer promises a completely different movie than the one delivered to theatres. So different in fact I am surprised that you are not being sued for false advertising. There are at least 6 (count'em!) scenes that are given significant, plot influencing time in the trailer that do not exist in the final release!I was willing to suspend credibility and plausibility in the name of experiencing MORE Highlander.  I love the sword play, I love the concepts, and in this one the martial arts was especially well done they were not too Matrix-y, and Adrian's abilities were well filmed.  But it was all tainted by the fact that I was getting ill near the end when I realized the parts I had come to see were not going to happen.  I sat stunned in the theatre as the credits scrolled... I had just been scammed. "},{"Title":"Over a week later and i'm still telling people how dissapointed i was by it!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I had been waiting for well a couple of years for this movie, and so much had been made about the trailer, which i snunk into scary movie 3 times, before i acually saw the trailer.  After seeing i wanted to see it even more.  I went on opening night, having convinced my girlfriend to see it with me.  I explained the point of the moives and the series to her.  After watching 45 minutes of it, i was thinking, this should be getting better soon.  After the fight scene with Paul and Lambert i was thinking well i guess i'll have to shell out more money to rent a directors cut that has the extra fight scene between Lamber and Payne.  what seemed like a minute after that fight scene, the last fight was happening i was thinking has it even been 90 minutes yet?  It left a poor taste in my mouth.  And Methos is still alive.  Does the title endgame, mean nothing.  This would mean, that more movies will be shipped out.  I hope it goes to DTV land if thats the case.  It would appear that the movie was originally 100-110 minutes.  What i saw on screen was 85 choppy minutes.  The dissapointment level was amazing. I waited for my girlfriend while she went to freshen up, and people where fighting about wheter it was as bad as part 2.   I personally thought this to be better then part 2, but contrary to what some people are saying, I enjoyed part 3 which i'm now thinking should have been the last film more then ENDGAME.  I'd rather see a rip off character of the kuragan, over a non scarry yell all my lines actor, any day.  The script sucks.  Grant it, Lambert does look older, but i feel him and Adrian Paul, did what they could, and even though during their fight scene , in which i knew what was going to happen, i realized, that they both put a lot of effort into their work.  Lambert especially towards the end of his scenes in the film.  the 2 quickinings Paul got at the end, where nothing special, give me something close to what Lambert got at the end of one.  Could have given us at least something close to part 3, but they didn't.  There was no explanation in this film, how lambert thought he was the last one.  I think the kuragan, would have taken brucy payne's head a long time ago.  I like many other fans i'm sure, where dissapointed, sadden and well disgusted with the finished product.  I enjoyed the 3 previous movies, (even part 2 to a certain extent) and the series, and was left wondering, coming back home, how the heck, this could have happened.  I know why miramax hid this film from the critics, and i wonder why dimension would distribute this film.  I wonder a lot of things about how this film could have been better.  I'll be wondering that for a while.  Bring It On was much better then this film, and that saddens me. I'm always going to remember the original, even part 3, as it's a true sequal to the original one.  But all i want to remember of this travesty of a movie, is the cool poster i have of both highlander in my room.  "},{"Title":"There can be only one should apply to the Highlander movies","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Even yet another incomprehensible embarrassment.  Why the producers couldn't be bothered with storyline consistency across all four Highlanders is a big mystery to me.  If they sell a Highlander movie box set, I would challenge anyone to find any sense to any of these films especially those after the first one.  Some great to so-so fight scenes here but the story is so formula.  Christopher Lambert displays his usual formidable acting range from sullen and sulky to just sulky.  Adrian Paul obviously needs the money. The cartoonish, over-the-top villains are shown too briefly.  For 87 minutes and ten bucks I wanted a lot more especially after having to endure the monumental disasters of Highlander 2 and 3.  "},{"Title":"A Look at Endgame (THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW SO BEWARE!)","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  AGAIN, THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW SO SKIP OVER THIS ONE IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS IN THE MOVIE.The producers of Highlander should be ban by an act of Congress from making anymore Highlander movies. Don't get me wrong. This movie isn't really that bad. It's actually a lot better than a lot of people are saying. The movie isn't for anyone not already familiar with Highlander The Series but if you like the tv show I think you will enjoy this movie. It does have a decent plot, the acting is great and the effects and choreography are also very good. But it is obvious from watching this movie that the producers have no idea what they are doing. For instance, the rules of immortality are run into the ground, which is fine if this movie was meant to appeal to those unfamiliar with Highlander, but if that is the case then there should have been some explanation as to who the Watchers are and who exactly Joe and Methos are instead of having them in the movie as flat and one-dimensional characters. I did think that this movie was good, but it could have been great with only a few minor changes. For example, I think it would have been a good idea to have a scene in which Connor talks to Methos and volunteers for the Sanctuary right after the scene in which Rachel is killed. That way there could be an explanation of what exactly the Sanctuary is before Kell goes in there and kills everyone. And it would also allow for an opportunity to explain who the Watchers are. And also, after the scene in which Duncan is kidnapped by the Watchers, I thought it would have been a cool to have a scene in which Joe and Methos find out that the Watchers have him and plot to help him out. That way there would have been some depth to both the Joe and Methos characters and also some depth to the friendships between Duncan and Joe and Methos which anyone who has watched the tv series knows is much stronger than the way it was depicted in the movie. And there should have been something more in between the scene in which Duncan kills Connor and then the final fight with Kell. Having two sword fights that close together was just ridiculous. Also, there should have been a much more powerful Quickening when Duncan took Connor's head. The wimpy Quickening they gave him in this movie was just a complete insult to Connor. And the worst part of all is that Endgame has contradictions of the tv show which could be easily avoided. For instance, the movie states that Duncan has not seen Connor for ten years but Connor appeared in the first episode of the tv series in 1992. And during the shot of the Sanctuary, the time is said to be the present which means it is the year 2000 and only 8 years since Duncan saw Connor. So why didn't they just say that Duncan hadn't seen him in 5 or 6 years? Or if the movie was suppose to take place in 2002 or later then that should have been directly stated in the movie instead of expecting us to figure it out on our on. And also, Duncan is married in this movie but in the series a gypsy told him that he would never marry. The part with the gypsy was after he married Kate but this just led us to believe that he had never been married. So why didn't they just say that Duncan killed Kate the night BEFORE their wedding? I mean I personally do not have a problem with these contradictions, but I know from reading posts on the internet that a lot of people do. And these contradictions could have been very easily avoided. Don't get me wrong on this. Endgame definitely has a lot of potential, and again I recommend it to anyone who likes Highlander The Series. But if it had been made by people who know how to make movies it would have been an outstanding film. I also want to say again that the acting is great in this movie. Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert are both absolutely fantastic so if you're a fan of either of them then Endgame is worth seeing just for their performances alone. In closing, I just want to repeat that Congress should pass a law banning any future Highlander movies until they can be made by people who know how to make movies. Thank You. "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Bad Movie","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How could people enjoy this movie as a sincere and realistic piece of cinema?  I've seen the first Highlander, and that's it.  I thought this movie was stupid and laughable all the way through.  I saw it with a friend who is a big Highlander fan, seen all the movies, etc.  He thought it was stupid and laughable all the way through.Highlander Endgame is the fourth movie in a series of films that feel that sequels need only use the elements of what occured before when it suits them.  Plus, there's a television show now too, with its own continuity and history, which I am told was also ignored on many counts.  So why see it?I'll admit that I've seen worse acting and there was some nice cinematography.  Danny Yuen has two very cool fight scenes.  I would have enjoyed seeing more of him.  But alas, this is the story of immortals Duncan and Connor, immortals who (in Lambert's case especially) are looking mighty gray around the temples.  Their enemy this time is a mean old immortal named Kell who makes that guy on Will and Grace seem calm and subdued.  Overacting, thy name be Bruce Payne.  Here's some advice for up-and-coming actors.  Hissing your lines doesn't automatically make you scary.Aside from the fights with Yuen, things are so choppy and confusing that you won't get much out of any of the exciting parts.  The films lists 6 editors in the opening credits; what did they do?  Quality over quantity would have been the way to go here.  Many of the fights are cut on the action, so that we see one character swing their sword at another and we cut to the victims face, or his hand as he is hit.  This practice is often done in films to get a PG-13 instead of an R, here the film is rated R (probably for some nudity) and I was still left uninterested by the action.It sounds like I really hated this movie, but I didn't.  The film has enough goofy moments to keep bad movie lovers interested, especially the over-the-top flamboyant Kull.  HAR HAR HAR, I'm evil!  Look at my short hair and cool boots!  EVIL I TELL YOU! "},{"Title":"Never shoulda been made.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, I am one of the Connor was the last Immortal in the first movie, therefore all sequels are invalid group, and damn proud of it.  The original was a gem, but not because it was made to be that way; it just happened on its own, got a small cult following that just grew and grew. All these sequels have a very forced and mechanical feel to it; they're trying to recapture the magic, and it just isn't working.  Yes, that does include the series with Duncan (alternate universes?  give me a break). The big bad ending battle was a yawnfest.  "}{"Title":"It fits - putting it all together","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After going through Highlander withdrawals for many many months and then finally deciding that if I really wanted to get any more I would have to do something about it myself and I came up with a concept for a movie - this movie came about.  It wasn't my movie concept, but it works with it.If you go the the Highlander Endgame website and read through the timeline history it puts most of it into perspective and it does stick fairly close to the original highlander movie and the series.Connor and Duncan are different in their views of immortality.  Where Connor believes in the game and he actually takes a certain enjoyment in playing the game.  Duncan would prefer not to be a part of the game.  But he is because the alternative is death.  He has learned a little from Methos - that being, Live, grow stronger, fight another day.The conflict between Duncan and Connor was one of love and survival.  It was the offering of the ultimate sacrifice.  Sacrifice to the other in order that they both should be able to live on in some way.  Love of each other that they would want that.  This followed history of the series and the movie.I loved that they flashed back to Heather and Connor's recollections of her and his time with her.  I loved that they brought up the fact that immortal will grow old and die if they don't experience an unnatural death.As for the supposed inconsistencies, Connor only gained what he believed to be the prize in the first movie. If he truly was the final immortal then Duncan was dead.  But Duncan wasn't dead.  So Connor never did receive the prize, he only thought he had.This was brought out in the third movie.  It showed his reaction when he realized he had not received the prize after all.  By then, he had lost his wife in the car crash (which is referred too in this movie, as well as the second - the one that doesn't make sense).  Then something happened to his adoptive son (not mentioned but must be supposed as well), and the to lose Rachel, his other adoptive child, as well.  He basically loses everything he has valued outside of his relationship with Duncan - which he feels he will eventually loose as well as Duncan is an immortal.I can imagine the premise that he would want to escape into a world of drugs and illusions.  Perhaps, THIS is where the second movie stemmed from - Connor's drug induced dreams.  Based part in fact and part in fantasy but all of it takes place inside Connor's mind.With this in mind this movie could have incorporated all of the Highlander movies - the first and original Highlander movie, the second (being something twisted inside Connor's mind), the third a small episode in Connor's life, before the death of Rachel, and finally this one.Congratulations to the writers and players of the newest Highlander movie. It is a difficult story to write for because of all the fans and subplots and such within it.  But, I feel you did extremely well with it.  I enjoyed the show and it stimulated many more questions and theories within my mind. Thank you for the challenge. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly, history's worst film.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw Hard Rain a few years back, I fell asleep four times.  I couldn't believe that anything could surpass the horrible plot-line (Rain, rain, steal stuff, rain, rain), the poor cinematography (comparable to throwing buckets of water at the camera to reproduce a downpour) or the bad acting. However, my opinion of Hard Rain soared when I saw the new Highlander. I've never walked out of a movie before, but this one really warranted the action.  Whoever the actors were, I hope no one that they ever try to get a job from has seen this movie, because they won't get hired.  The plot... or lack there of?  I've simply no idea of what the writers were thinking. Overall, the movie (or what I saw of it) was awful.  I didn't think that anything was worse then Hard Rain.  I can admit it when I'm wrong. "},{"Title":"Well Enough","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked Endgame. I would have enjoyed a more upbeat ending. I've seen the previous Highlander movies and the series. You can follow the movie even if you haven't seen the others. The flashbacks in time were not confusing. They were done to show the past relationships of the characters. I'd say more time showing viewers the lives of the immortals (instead of just the conflict between Conner & Duncan against Kell) would have made a better movie for most viewers. "},{"Title":"Save your money, rent the original or watch the reruns","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a waste of time - inconsistent with both the TV series and the movies. With the exception of Adrian Paul, pitiful use is made of the TV cast.  The beautiful Lisa Barbuscia is nothing more than a throw-away love interest. Most of the series episodes and the original Highlander are better written than this.  Watch them instead. "},{"Title":"An unsatisfactory mix of tv and film mythology","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very simply, Highlander  Endgame isn't very good.  It attempts to combine the mythology presented in the television series with the mythology presented in the first three (actually two as the second Highlander installment has little to do with the plot, characters, story, etc., involved in the first Highlander movie) films, and it never quite manages it.  For a variety of reasons  it ignores the Connor and Duncan meeting in the first episode of the Highlander tv series, creating a new meeting between the two; it tries to include the Watchers (again, from the tv series), only to have them appear in a (stupid and needless) subplot; series regulars Dawson and Methos appear (again, stupidly and needlessly) in a scene or two.  The movie, simply, tries to have it both ways, and doesn't succeed.Sure, Adrian Paul looks good as Duncan Macleod, but Christopher Lambert looks tired and worn-out and OLD as Connor Macleod-- I thought Immortals didn't age.  A problem, too, is in the climactic battle and the explanation of why neither Connor nor Duncan has enough kills to defeat the evil Kell-- again, I thought the Immortals gained strength not through the sheer quantity of kills, but through the quality of kills (that is, if I kill 10 Immortals, and you kill 11, you're not necessarily stronger than I am, as my 10 may have killed 10 each-- so I'd now have the strength of 100 Immortals).  The movie sets up a logic, then ignores the logic.The fight scenes are shot and edited well, but the movie as a whole has a tv series feel to it-- although showing in widescreen aspect, it clearly was designed to be shown on the small screen, in a smaller aspect ratio.And yes, there's room for more sequels.  Expect them.  But hopefully they'll hire a director with large-screen experience, and will give him a larger budget to work with.  Highlander Endgame just looks and feels too small, both aesthetically and narratively. "},{"Title":"Adrian Paul is the best thing about this movie!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Too many important scenes cut, too many flying shots over landscapes, tries to tell story of first movie and doesn't need to do it.  Fantastic action, especially when Duncan fights multiple people.  The last fight should have been even better.  The bad guy should have been really evil and shown why it took more than one to conquer him.  The acting by Adrian Paul was fantastic - action, romance, humor, sorrow, confusion, loss, and forgiveness.  He deserves major movie roles to follow.   "},{"Title":"A little disappointing, but at least I got to see Methos...","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a huge Highlander fan.  I have been excited for months in anticipation of this movie.  Perhaps that was my mistake...too much anticipation.  The movie is not bad, but I felt it could have been so much better.  It was great to see Peter Wingfield as Methos.  I only wish he had more screen time.  Perhaps in the sequel?  The fight scenes were excellent and it was fun to revisit the history of Highlander.  I'll try not to delve too deeply in the anomalies between the movies or the TV show (I'd probably go crazy if I did!).  An enjoyable experience but I would definitely suggest going for the matinee price.  You'd be really disappointed if you paid $7 for this. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really had high hopes for this movie. I have been waiting for it to come out for a year. I figured the producers would combine the television show and the original picture together and make a whole new series of movies. Unfortunately that is not the case with this movie. Don't get me wrong the special effects are very good but where was the plot. It seem to fly out the window with the rest of the original story. The script writer obviously had never seen Highlander the movie or the TV series when he/she put the movie together because everything contradicts in this movie. Plus they didn't really expand on the Jacob Kell character. All we know from the movie is that he killed Connor's mother. The character didn't really didn't do anything other than pout and yell. A virtual waste for Bruce Payne's acting because I know he could have done better with a decent script.  "},{"Title":"Would have been a good two-parter for the series","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, I admit it... I am a Highlander fan.  I admit I liked the TV series with Adrian Paul much better than the movies (yes, even the first movie.)  So I was anticipating this to be a really good movie, since it was based on the TV series and not on the movies (fans of the Highlander movies will thus be disappointed -- Endgame is not consistent with the earlier movies, just as the movies themselves were not consistent with each other.)In concept, this was a good movie; however, many things contributed to make it less good than it could have been. Others have already mentioned the choppy editing, and the scenes that were obviously left on the cutting room floor. The fight scenes are pretty incredible, especially the ones featuring Adrian Paul as Duncan Macleod.  Bruce Payne should be given the William Shatner award for Overacting; he really chews up the scenery as Jacob Kell.The main theme of this movie is redemption, facing the repercussions of the choices we make in our life. The subtext of the movie is the handing-off of the Highlander franchise from Christopher Lambert (who, for an immortal, has obviously aged quite a bit from the first movie) to Adrian Paul, who is younger and more athletic than Lambert.My main gripe, as a fan of the series, is that it seems the writer(s) did very little research into the TV series history, since there are so many inconsistencies with Duncan's past. Just to mention one In the series, much was made of the fact that Duncan had never been married (indeed, was fated NEVER to be married), and that his one true love, Tessa, was killed shortly after they were engaged.  Now we find out that Duncan had indeed been married before -- oh, well, so much for research.  This could easily have been overcome by simply NOT HAVING KATE AND DUNCAN GET MARRIED prior to his killing her to make her immortal; they could still have been madly in love, and be engaged to be married.  A nitpick, sure, but then, why make it a Highlander movie if you're not going to be internally consistent with the Highlander (TV) universe?So, the movie scores well for the brotherly relationship between Conner and Duncan, especially the poignant rooftop scene, and for the great fight sequences (especially between Duncan and Jin, played by Donnie Yen.)  But the movie loses points for its confusing editing, and for its inconsistencies with previous Highlander (TV series) history.  Still, the closing scene, with Bonnie Portmore playing, was a nice touch (but why wasn't the song listed in the closing credits?)Rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Great Reawakening of Highlander","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As an avid Highlander fan I had to go see this movie, although the first movie was the only one in the series with a plot. I still had high expectations.  Like all of the other highlander movies (after the first of course) there was no sequence involved, the movie just started on its own. There were remanents of the first EP in the Antique Room but that was about it.  The movie was well directed and the actors were great, if your a fan like me go see it. "}{"Title":"Serious Fans Will Appreciate It","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having seen every episode of the TV series multiple times - and still not tired of it - it is hard to imagine uncovered ground regarding the issues immortals face.  This gives us the ultimate one and I imagine it is where the creators felt they had to go.  I only wish they would have made a few other stops along the way first before answering the penultimate question in the mind of every true fan.Remember Tessa's question from the opening episode of the series about the Prize  In all these centuries, has no one ever asked why?  Has no immortal who has ever wanted the Prize ever considered what a lonely outcome that would be?  But then I suppose not, since anyone who would want to rule the world must forswear not only love, but other truly human needs. The new story element concerning this issue to this was a little disturbing, but thoroughly logical.Excellent fight scenes, good photography, and an excellent choice to climax the story in New York (yes, I am a native New Yorker who is unfailingly proud of this city).  I thought Bruce Payne was a bit over the top although a good physical choice for a Highlander villain.  I would also have liked to have seen more of Joe and Methos in the story.To say any more would be to include spoilers, and I'm not into doing that.While this film has a few serious flaws - and continuity errors vis à vis the series - it still gives female fans 99% of what we've always watched the series for  Good historical flashbacks, Adrian Paul, romance, Adrian Paul with a brogue, good swordpla... You get the picture. When is some producer going to get intelligent and cast him in a film version of a really great romance novel (like Shanna)?  Or, when Pierce Brosnan retires his license to thrill, Adrian should be the next James Bond.  This man could fit into any century.  "},{"Title":"Did anybody understand what the heck was going on?","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As true-blue Highlander fans, my sons and I were SO hoping for Endgame to be really good. Sigh. They had some great writers and directors working on the Highlander series. Smart, tightly- scripted, dramatically compelling episodes with clear story and character arcs. WHAT THE HECK HAPPENED HERE? The first 15 minutes were a total muddle and the rest wasn't much better. It just didn't make sense...not within the immortal mythology, not even our poor ol' mortal world.The actors, for the most part, did the best they could with this dog of a script. But they really didn't have much room to maneuver. I did think, however, that David Payne was just tediously over-the-top with his villainy and desire for revenge. If this had been a farce, it would have been perfect.Joe and Methos...you gotta love those guys. So why didn't they have more screen time? Why not use Methos to give a little perspective to the whole thing (as he was so good at doing)?Yes, Duncan looked fabulous. And yes, the fight scenes were outstanding. They were probably the best parts of the movie. But that's just not enough to make the whole thing worthwhile.As my 13-year-old son (and major Highlander fan) put it, This fails on so many levels.  "},{"Title":"A 90 minute TV episode, I expected better","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a disappointment, I came out of the theatre thinking I had just seen an episode of the TV series, not a movie.  If you must see this movie, wait until it comes out on video and save yourself some money, you won't be missing anything. Specific gripes include- No thought put into the formulaic plot- Bad guy role was way overacted- Characters from the TV series appear for no apparent reason- At the end there is no real resolution to the Highlander storyline. Could it be they're planning another movie after this one? (God, I hope not!)- Unless you've seen the previous Highlander movies and watched some of the TV series, this movie won't make any sense to you.The one cool thing about the movie, in my opinion- You find out the total number of immortal kills both Connor and Duncan have had.I give it a 3/10.  "},{"Title":"OK movie, but could have been better.  Only minor spoils.","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked the movie, and I certainly think it is much better than the previous 3 movies, but not as good as the TV series was.I would not recommend this movie to people who had not watched the TV series.  This movie contains characters from the TV series who are not explained in the movie.  Also, this movie conforms to the Highlander universe as shown in the TV series, which is a good thing, considering that the first 3 Highlander movies had so many inconsistencies.  To someone who had not seen the TV series, this movie would be confusing.Adrian Paul shows off his fighting skills very well in the fight with the chinese master.  Since this actor had great skill also, we had a very good view of the fight.  Unfortunately, almost all of Paul's other fight scenes were with much less skilled actors/stuntmen, so the filming and editing had to make up for this with closeups that make things look more confusing and faster than they really are.That is a pet peeve of mine in movies.  Make up for the lack of skill or special effects by filming too close up, and editing it too look like events are more complicated and confusing than they really are.  Gladiator was one of the worst in this respect.The final fight scene is the only one, really, where we get to see the head villan in action.  The actor is clearly not very good at swordplay, so the best moves are when you can't see his face (thus a stuntman).  Even then, you find it hard to believe that the character (Kell), had the skill to defeat so many Immortals before.  We know that Duncan is a much better swordsman, but it doesn't appear that way in the fight.I know that it was important to show that Connor was more experienced and world-weary than Duncan, but I think that Duncan appeared to be more juvenile, young, and head-strong than he did in the TV series.The editing of this movie left me feeling a bit disoriented.  The flashbacks were important, as they were in the TV series, but in the movie, they seemed to break up the flow of the story too much.  I think that the positioning of each flashback in the movie was a little too late.  Things would have been much more clear to the audience if each flashback had occurred earlier in the movie.Somehow, Adrian Paul did not appear to have as much presence in this movie as he did in the TV series.  Since he IS a good actor, I must conclude that the editing reduced the impact of his performance.  "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film had it's flaws. The villian was a little over the top with his I'm so evil performance but there was some real emotion between some of the characters. The Duncan-Connor battle is really quite touching. It's not a great movie but it's worth seeing if you're at all familiar with Highlander. "},{"Title":"Don't read if you don't want to know what happens This movie didn't follow along with any other Highlander","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't see how they can expect the public to be happy with this movie when it negates every other plot that has come before it. How can they expect us to accept that Duncan(Adrian Paul) could kill Conner(Christopher Lambert) in this movie when in every other Highlander movie, we know that Conner wins the prize and becomes  The only one  Other than that major flaw, the movie is watchable, but not worth paying the price of admission, even if your a student. Wait till this movie is on TV, and watch it for free.  "},{"Title":"Glad it was a matinee","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought disappointed by 2 and 3, but 4 just about takes the cake.  They really should have stopped after the first one if they weren't even going to try.   None of the sequels follows any logical pattern or the rules they set down.  Scripts are all terrible, acting is poor, especially by Lambert, which is very disappointing.  The movie was really just a slightly extended episode of the TV show, which started going down hill when Ritchie became an immortal.  The movie barely ran over an hour and 15 minutes (Movie started at 510, had ridiculously long opening credits, we walked after a few minutes of credits at about 630).  And as far as swordplay goes.  Eh, I've seen better.  What is with Duncan practicing and the sound of a sword rubbing against another sword???  He's moving it through the air.  The most you might hear is a whoosh, but not metal on metal.  And all the subplots and things with Connor.   He went from a strong individual in the first movie to a self loathing suicidal loser in this one.  Give me a break.  All I can think is that both Christopher Lambert and Adrian Paul are hard up for cash to take this script. "},{"Title":"It's not just bad it's all bad.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've never walked out of a movie before, but this one almost made me do so. Nevermind that the first move had the prize awarded and left no chance of a sequel, or that the last two sequels and the television show ignored the first movie and each other, this one was just horrible.  Highlander endgame was one of the biggest wastes of film, time, and money that I ever have had the displeasure to view.The fighting sequences tried far to hard to be the matrix, and they fell far far short of hitting that mark, these are supposed to be scenes of sword play, not leaping around like acrobats.  And the special effects at the end of the movie where just horrible.***** Just past here begin the spoilers *****At the final battle where Duncan begins to morph into Connor his head is just pasted on, and not even done properly, it's off center and has been streched to fit across duncan's face.  I can do a better job than that with the equiptment at any local highschool in my area.Any how many people, after destroying a enemies weapon will drop thier own to fight hand to hand, especialy when the concequences for loosing are death, and the odds are like five to one?Never mind that the watchers seem to loose what little is left of thier mind in deciding to lock immortals away from the game. And correct me if i'm wrong, but isn't the prize to regain one's mortality and to know the hearts and minds of all men.?? Not to become a godlike killer that will plunge the world into darkness.I wonder if the reason that this movie blows so bad was due to the ammount that landed on the cutting room floor, watch the trailer and then watch the movie, and the trailer looks like it's got all the special effects.It's a verry disapointing addition to a franchise that has been beaten to death from the word go. "},{"Title":"Will they never learn?","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Spoiler with regards to differences between trailer and movie) Highlander, (The Original) is one of my all time favourite movies.  The sequels have for the most part disappointed and the TV series was patchy.The trailer for this movie is better than the film itself, the trailer features a remarkable scene where Connor chops a guy in two, straight down the middle and he reforms.  The trailer talks about an immortal who is a sorcerer... Well that scene, plus any mention of sorcery, aren't in the movie!  There are some excellent fight scenes and the premise of a good story line, but overall, it's like watching an extended and not very good episode of the Highlander TV series.The bad guy is never quite bad enough, his sidekicks (well one of them anyway) start to be developed as characters and then abruptly disappear. And the good guys... well they don't seem to be in character half the time. Plus, I don't think I was alone in laughing at the effects during the final 'dramatic' battle scene.I was keen to see how the Highlander story would end so I went to see this expecting it to be a less than good movie, but I didn't expect it to be quite this bad.  Devoid of coherence, I was actually looking at my watch after 45 minutes or so, hoping we were near the end. I think there was a good story in here somewhere, but it hasn't been brought out in the movie.  Pointless, lifeless and dull. Maybe one day we'll see the movie the trailer advertised!I'd be very interested to find out if the European version of this movie is different because some of the editing is awful. "},{"Title":"A good film with minor errors","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been a Highlander fan for quite sometime, begining with the original film. I thought this film did a good job of passing the torch so to speak, with the possibility of at least two more Highlander films. There were some inconsistencies. In the series it was mentioned that Duncan was never married. It had a great story and characters that were well explained. Except if you never watched the show who wouldn't know who the watchers were, or Dawson and Methos. My one complaint the movie could have been 20 minutes longer. "}{"Title":"good sequal to the series, not the movies","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  if you are a fan of the movies dont expect it to be what happened after the movies. but i have seen the first episode of the highlander tv series, it explains what happend to connor. i didnt see the last episodes of the series but i probably would have under stood the movie better if i had. when i first saw the movie i was with a friend and i said out loud what the hell was that. but it just hit me about an hour ago. so i came here to write this. so if your a fan of the series watch this movie. despite what people say it does not have gratuitous nudity. it shows the chicks boobies one time and duncan's butt. and it lasts for about 30 seconds so if your a chick you may want to see it just for his butt. and if it doesnt make money they may not make another movie. as a sequal to the movie i give it a 4.9 for the series i give it a perfect 10 and he could have been married in the series.this is a great movie and i highly reccomended you see itp.s. i am not 12 years old like other people have said im 23 and i doubt that a 12 year old coul even under stand this movie. thank you "},{"Title":"Horrid.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was as bad or worse than Hylander 2.  The entire movie didn't make sense.  It didn't seem to follow Hylander 3 at all.  There was way to much over acting and extra flashbacks and characters that just made it a huge jumble and distracted from what could have been a decent movie. Don't waste your money.  "},{"Title":"There should have been only one","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved the original Highlander movie.  I suffered through the second and had hopes that things were improving with the third.  Having seen this one, all I can say is that there should have been only one.  This was absolutely painful.  Less than five minutes into the movie my friends and I were commenting that what we were hearing was the scream of canon dying.  I can understand fudging the Highlander canon a bit, here and there, but this was ridiculous.  Even the characterizations were messed up.  The female immortal love interest made no sense at all considering what the fans have known about Duncan in the 5 seasons that the series were on the air.  The only possible way to enjoy this film is to go with friends and laugh at it which is a shame.  I would have loved to have liked this movie, but to be honest, I nearly walked out. "},{"Title":"LOVE ENDGAME ( tiny spoilers)","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Endgame was wonderful! I hope everyone will go see this movie.  Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert reprise thier MacLeod men roles with immense depth and high drama. They remain true to the tragic romantic mythos of the Highlander universe. But beware, this is not a feel good movie. It's dark mood and smoldering immortal presences have very few light-hearted moments this time around. The pain and loneliness of immortality is revealed with astonishing force and dealt with by the two main characters in thier own indomitable, yet completely different ways. Adrian Paul and Donnie Yen's martial artistry were showcased in one of the big screens most electrifying fight scenes ever. Go see it, you won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"Some spoilers, Some Complaints, Some good things...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie crawls along on the merits of a cult-hit.  The storyline is old and stodgy.  The characters are stale.  The fighting is mediocre.  The editing and camera-work was horrible.  But there were some good things Adrian Paul sticks the role as Duncan.  Lisa Barbuscia is beautiful and is very good, however, she needed more development and a lot more on-screen time.  Adrian's and Donnie Yen's fight was incredible.  It lasts only about 3 minutes but was one of the best weapon/unarmed fights I've seen.  The final fight paled in comparison.  They should've casted Yen as the bad guy instead of Payne.  It would have made this movie a whole lot better.  They kill off too many characters and take too many liberties with the Highlander storyline.  If you're looking for a good sword-fight/action movie, wait for this on DVD.  If you're looking for some backbone, grit, and something that doesn't take itself for granted, look elsewhere.  Don't expect too much, if you do, you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Look at Highlander Endgame -- mild spoilers","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So it's not much of a secret that I've been waiting for this movie since the last notes of Bonny Portmore faded away at the end of Not to Be, and I'm sure there are a great many people who don't feel I'm an unbiased audience. Guess what? You're right, I'm not. Which means that I wouldn't have been satisfied with anything calling itself Highlander that didn't manage to deliver the goods. And Endgame most certainly does deliver the goods -- in spades.The *really* good stuffAdrian Paul as Duncan MacLeod looks incredible, way, way beyond incredible. He slips back into Duncan as though he'd never left, and all of those months he spent honing his fighting skills before shooting started paid off. The fight sequences are faster than fast -- and no, none of Duncan's fights are sped up; he's simply gotten that good. Duncan's fight with Jin Ke (Donny Yen) is worth the price of admission alone. And sue me, Duncan running halfway up the wall of Connor's ruined loft while fighting off three armed immies at once really works for me.The student/teacher relationship between Duncan and Connor that gradually evolves into friends, then close friends, then brothers of the heart was something we'd never seen enough of in the series, simply because they didn't have enough money to afford Christophe Lambert. Well, they had the time and the money here. From the moment Connor finds Duncan a few years after Duncan's first death sitting in a bloody bog in Scotland, to six years later in a fencing salon in Ravenna, Italy, to an encounter with a band of highwaymen in Ireland in 1712, to the day of Duncan's ill-fated marriage to Kate three years later, into the present, they made their relationship come alive.The flashback sequences between the two were my favorites; I thought the snarkiness of the dialogue in the fencing salon in Italy was worthy of a few Duncan/Methos sequences. -- Connor, after showing Duncan a complex attack and its counter Properly executed, this move is unstoppable. Duncan Properly executed, we'll nay have this talk again. And the sheer *fun* they had while fighting the highwaymen makes me grin like a fool every time I've seen it.Speaking of the fights...I've mentioned that Duncan's are out of this world, right?Christophe does an amazing job of portraying a very world weary, beaten down, present day Connor MacLeod. Connor was always more sober than Duncan, less carefree when we see him in the past, but he and Duncan still had lots of fun together, and you knew that although Connor found the pressures of Immortality more wearing than Duncan did, that Connor had never lost his hope, or his will to live. In the present, it seems to be more than Connor can do to recover from the latest indignity life has dealt him -- Rachael's death in an explosion in 1992. After that Connor hides himself from life in the Sanctuary, and stays there until Jacob Kell forcibly removes him and threatens the last thing Connor gives a damn about in this world. Duncan. The true brother of my heart.Duncan, Joe and Methos all together again. The boys are back in town, the boys are back in town, the boys are back in town... need I say more?Endgame is a movie about redemption, about how to find forgiveness for the mistakes you've made in the past, if indeed you ever can. And because this is Highlander at its very best, there are no easy answers, no happy, warm-fuzzy endings. There are only two men of honor doing what they can to cope with an impossible situation, and dealing with the consequences of their actions, past and present. They've both made horrible mistakes in the past, and they both mishandle things in the present. Duncan is still in denial about his reasons for making Kate an Immortal, and Connor is too frightened of living to see Duncan's death to consider all but the most extreme measures to prevent Kell from accomplishing that goal. Which is good; it means they're both still human, neither one a cardboard cut-out of a hero, but real men, who bleed, and hurt, and laugh, and love, and at the end of the day try and live with themselves and the choices they've made.And their scene on the rooftop...I've been trying to sum up my feeling about this for quite some time now, in fact, I've finished the rest of this, and kinda sorta edited it and I still can't put into words just how powerful and painful and poignant it is. So I'm not even going to try. This is one you have to see for yourself.There are a few things that people might find annoying, Yes, there are those pesky questions about Immortals killing on Holy Ground, and yes, Duncan was married, and has lied about it, more than once, so now we have actual proof that Duncan's capable of telling lies. Oh, the sheer horror of it all!! But if I hear one more person announce that he could never have been married because a gypsy fortune teller told him he'd never marry I may be forced to scream. Loudly. Since when did gypsy fortune tellers become infallible, and why hasn't anyone told me before now? Methos and Joe don't have a lot of screen time, but what they have is important, and necessary, and moves the plot along. So that's good. Any more would have taken time away from developing from the Duncan and Connor relationship, and that would have been unforgivable. But you know what? At the end of the day, I don't care a whit about any that. At all.Endgame is a movie about Duncan and Connor, about betrayal and redemption, shades of grey and impossible choices, and it delivers everything I'd dared to dream about or hope for, and so very much more.Long live Highlander! ________________________________________________________  "},{"Title":"very saddening","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Apparently, no one bothered to right a script for this film.  They just slapped together a bunch of outtakes from the old TV series.  No continuity within the film, no plot devices of any kind, and worst of all no development.  No character development, no story development, nothing.  Cheap fight scenes between the occasional flashback.  I thought they learned when H2 failed.  I was wrong.  This might be the worst of the series.  I enjoyed the first and even the third, but this film should never have been made.  Unfortunate milking of an idea. 4/10 "},{"Title":"The legend of the Highlander continues...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the greatest legends created for the big screen returns with TV Star Adrian Paul & Christopher Lambert. I expected it to be quite a oldie type of movie, but it sticks to be a great movie with some great special effects and well worth story line. Will leave Highlander fans gasping for more. "},{"Title":"Good at times, not so good at others","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame was a good movie, i thought, but in some areas it lacked. Bad acting was very obvious in this film. Some scenes sounded too scripted. But the film had good action and fight scenes. The villain (Bruce Payne) was also very good. Another small problem i found were sometimes it just went to too many scenes in too little time. I've seen all the Higlander movies and this is the 2nd best. If you are a fan of highlander, i highly recommend you see this film. It really is worth the money to see in the theaters. So overall, yes i did like this film. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After seeing all those stupid trailers with no vocals from Duncan, stupid sorcery tricks by the bad guys and stupid heavy metal music for the fight scenes, I was pleasantly surprised. After watching 2 incredible stupid sequels to Gregory Wilden's classic screenplay they finally got one right!  Like most Highlander fans I just disregarded that Highlander 2 and 3 were ever made and so did this movie.It showed a true understanding to the characters for being immortal and the happiness and sorrow that come with it.  The movie didn't take an audience poll to decide how the story would go which is always a great decision.  It came out with shocking surprises and character development that was very sorrowful and truthful.  It definitely made you warm up to the characters the way the original movie did.Both Chris Lambert and Adrian Paul did a good job acting and Bruce Payne was a great villain which was definitely lacking with the other 2 sequels.  For those who saw the original movie, followed the  series (even those who didn't), and those who came to see some great fighting scenes with a great story I definitely and whole heartedly recommend this movie.  Enjoy "}{"Title":"not perfect, but definitely worth watching","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. The acting is outstanding. I was even moved to tears by Adrian Paul's and Christopher Lambert's performances in one scene. The choreography of the fight scenes is fantastic. Other than The Phantom Menace it's the best I've ever seen in a movie. The directing is great and I found the story to be very moving and touching. On the negative side, I felt that the script could have been better written and there were a couple of things that happened in the movie that I didn't care for at all. But overall, I really enjoyed Endgame and felt that it was true to the spirit of the original Highlander movie and the tv series. I also felt that it brought both the movie and the series together very well. The movie isn't for anyone not already familiar with the Highlander story, but if you liked the tv series, Endgame is definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"This is why there should be only one...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There really should just be only one Highlander movie. I mean...really...I'm sorry, but the movie was just bad. All sorts of inconsistencies, very stiff, clumsy swordplay, things left unexplained, things popping up unexpectedly that never appeared before and make no sense. I was pleased to see that the movies and the TV series were melded into a big screen product; unfortunately this product was severely lacking. Thanks, but as far as I am concerned, the only true Highlander movie is the first one. "},{"Title":"There can be only one... This ain't it","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a die-hard fan of the first Highlander. I'm glad it is finally over. No more damage can be done. The director faced a daunting task of making Endgame the definitive finale for this misguided franchise. Instead, viewers especially those who have not seen the other Highlander installments, will walk away dazed and confused. Some strong cast selections kept the film afloat for awhile, though not enough to sustain the film. Bruce Payne is cast as yet another bad guy with cool shoes. Kudos to casting Donnie yen as another bad ass sword wielding immortal who left the film way too early. There were some great duels WE ALL WANTED TO SEE! too bad.Continuity in the script is SO important especially in a film that jumps back and forth through different periods of time. The director chose to ignore some fantastic storytelling opportunities and go for the cheap action sequences thus proving again that fight scenes and cool sword play is not enough to carry a film. Certainly not summer blockbusters anyway.Where are our favorite characters? Where is the fantastic Clancy Brown? Roxanne Hart? Sean Connery?  Personally, I always wanted to know how Rameriez obtained his Japanese sword. He mentioned it in first film. How cool would it been to travel back in time to see the younger Rameriez (maybe cast Adrian Paul, who by the way is a dead ringer for a young Sean Connery) and see what happened during his travels in Asia, being a successful immortal and all. For me some questions remain. How did Conner and Duncan both get their own swords? Where did Duncan learn Kendo and Kung Fu? What happened to Conner's unborn child with Roxanne's character in Highlander1? Did Kurgen and Kell ever meet? Why does Conner keep aging when going back in time? He is supposed to be immortal, right?What the heck happened here? Sure the Highlander franchise has a loyal fanatic following, but that is not enough to justify making the film and certainly not a highly anticipated sequel. Why bother making films that alienate the audience? Add Endgame to the pile other wannabes in a disappointing summer movie season. END GAME OVER. "},{"Title":"Enough action to keep u pleased","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Good bone crunching maneuvers and sword fights save this film. Though in my opinion the film switched time frames one time too many. But dedicated performances and a decent bad guy make it worthwhile. I would though of rather of seen Hellraiser V go to theaters rather than this.  But hey, Dimension Films takes risks LOL. "},{"Title":"didn't love it, didn't hate it","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Making sequels to the original Highlander has never been logical.  At least Highlander 2 tried to explain why the end of the original wasn't really the end (though it did it so bizarrely that most fans simply dismiss the entire movie).  Since then the writers of both the movies and the TV series have ignored the original's ending and concentrated on telling tales of other battles.  Unfortunately I think die-hard fans want to have their cake and eat it, too.  We want a more plausible explanation of why the Prize wasn't THE Prize and we want continuing adventures.  Maybe the Watchers can help us.  That said I think this movie had potential, some of which it lived up to and some it didn't  I liked the combination of previous movie and TV elements, the cameos of Dawson and Methos and Rachel and Heather.  I liked the flashbacks that fleshed out the relationship between Conner and Duncan. I even liked the villain being someone from Conner's past.  And I LOVED the swordplay and martial arts sequences!  But ... I got the feeling that too much of this movie was left on the cutting room floor.  Some of the most interesting subplots were simply dropped just when they were getting really interesting (Duncan's relationship with Faith, in particular, as well as Kell's involvement in the deaths of the mortals Conner loved).  I'd love to see the rough cut of this film.  I suspect it contains scenes that bridge what are confusing lapses in the version as released.  Still, I have to admit Endgame left me wanting more Highlander.  Hope springs immortal that the next installment will clear up some old mistakes and avoid making new ones.  In the meantime I'll content myself with re-watching the original (and probably this one when it comes out on tape) and imagining how I would bridge the gaps and continue the saga.  Overall an appetizer of a movie--takes the edge off the hunger but doesn't quite satisfy. "},{"Title":"Adrian Paul sizzles on the big screen no spoilers","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Bottom line I ache to see this movie again and again. It is flawed, but potent. Especially Adrian's performance.The opening credits on the tartan was classy.The music in the sound track haunts me in its simplicity and mournful evocation of moodThe buzz became more of an audible `fluttering' in this film, but I liked it.Donnie Yen brought nobility to his character and visual sizzle to the fights. His move in kicking the helmet was breathtaking. His great line `honor is not in the weapon it's in the man' and their subtle and honorable nod to one another in mid fight was superb.Bruce Payne played a great villain. Driven, despicable, unlikeable.Lisa B. `worked' for me. Soft in the past , hard in the present. Her character deserved fuller treatment.Jim Byrne was classic Joe. `You look like shit' *g*  Too bad his entrance was not explained to the non fans.The camera loved Peter Wingfield. His enigmatic presence must have confused the heck out of anyone unfamiliar to the series.The love scene was tastefully done, almost reverent. Neither was it gratuitous. It furthered the story and was most erotic.The range and  power of Adrian Paul's acting was on full display.  The best comedic scene in the movie was with the highwaymen. If there was a woman in any audience anywhere who did not melt when Duncan/Adrian flashed his megawatt smile towards Kate as her carriage drove away she is without hormones.Edge was charming and deserved better treatment in this film from the editing room.The editing of this movie was unforgiveable. It was hacked. I long for a restored director's cut. For the back stories on the henchmen . For the fuller encounter with Edge's character. For the scenes that were clearly filmed between Connor and Duncan in the pastdeath. For the fuller climactic fight with Kell. To the film editors go the brunt of my ire.The hours of preparation for this film that Adrian Paul put into his physical conditioning and his swordwork radiated through the all too brief sword kata.Adrian Paul got top billing and he deserved it. He deserved much much more than Dimension Films granted him. Not just in his paycheck, but in the film itself. He carried the movie.  It is a good film. It does him proud. But it could have been a great film. Adrian Paul dominates the film with his ever flexible face, a face that is not only devastatingly beautiful, but can speak volumes in anger, mirth, confusion, heartbreak and pain. His very real tears at the moment of deepest anguish in this film also mark a high point in his acting career. Angst is his forte. Wake up Hollywood. This man has it all, physical presence, agility, knee weakening romantic appeal, `fuzzy knuckled' hands *g* that move with both power and tenderness, hardworking dedication and talent unlimited. If this film does nothing more than give this much underestimated and overdue actor the recognition he deserves, it will have done enough.  "},{"Title":"So-so movie, but the sword work alone is worth the price of admission.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"       So-so movie, but the sword work alone is worth the price of admission.  Every time I got to thinking this is dull and boring they'd whip out those swords and leave me with my mouth hanging open.  Minimal special effects there, the real thing.      Panzer and Davis don't really know what they're doing; they've just lucked into a terrific storyline and some good people.  Here they've tried to rehash the whole TV series in two hours, and the script is messy with details that might fly on TV (probably not), while all they accomplish is to knock off a few more immortals (in case nobody knows that yet) and neglect the interesting nugget in the whole thing--the existence of an immortal sanctuary run by renegade watchers to stop the game.       The directing is good and the scenery gorgeous; Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert carry off melodramatic parts with  acceptable dignity.  Jim Byrnes and Peter Wingfield make an appearance to satisfy the fans, but don't materially participate.  Mistake there.  These are characters that developed in the TV series for a reason, both complex foils for Duncan's broodings.  The movie could have benefitted from Joe Dawson's warmth and Methos' cynical pragmatism and dark undercurrents.  It was nice to see that Byrnes, Wingfield and Paul carried over well to the big screen, but they need a cleaner script, please. "},{"Title":"A movie worth seeing.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not a perfect movie.  It has some flaws, but it is a movie well worth seeing.  It has some of the same qualities that made the tv series one of my favorites.  It's a movie that works on a number of different levels. It has terrific ass kicking action for those who like amazing fight scenes.  It has romance and the historic flashbacks that are hallmarks of both the highlander movies and the series.  It also has breathtaking shots of Scotland that are only enhanced by the accompanying music. Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert do justice to the roles they play.  Peter Wingfield and Jim Byrnes from the series are also wonderful to watch in their brief but well executed roles.  One of the things I liked best about the movie was all the conversation that it generated.  Adrian Paul the star of the movie said it was about redemption.  I think the movie explored that concept well and fueled many a conversation on the subject, what is the nature of redemption?  Can redemption be achieved through revenge?  Did Connor achieve redemption?  Did Duncan redeem Kell? And, of course the movie's a must see to find out Connor's fate.  This movie has been largely panned by critics but some of the critics reviews make me wonder whether some of them even saw the movie.  I urge movie goers to see this movie for themselves and reach their own conclusions.  Highlander Endgame is good thought provoking drama. The movie ROCKS. "},{"Title":"Wonderful integration of the best elements of the movie and the TV series.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Many of us have waited many months to see our favorite characters at a neighborhood cinema, and HighlanderEndgame has proven to be well worth the wait.  I have seen the movie 3 times, now, and would like to note that I don't think it can be fully appreciated on the first viewing.  I have noticed new details of the artistry that went into making the movie and of the strong dramatic performances of the actors on each repeat visit to the theater.Christopher Lambert turns in a fine, moving performance as Connor MacLoed. It is wonderful to see Adrian Paul's many talents in martial arts and with a sword and his outstanding acting abilities brought to the big screen, at last.  Jim Byrnes and Peter Wingfield do an excellent job with their roles, but I would have liked to have seen much more of them as they are excellent actors and play much more significant roles in the contemporary world of Highlander The Series.  I would also have liked to have seen more of the character Jin.  Donny Yen, who plays him, seems to have an excellent grasp of this menacing character, and I would have liked to have seen him given more room to run.  Actually, about 15 or 20 more minutes of movie would have been nice for many reasons.The photography is beautifully done, rich in color and contrast, as is the musical score. Both add much to the richly textured, multi-layered effect of the movie.  Many of those layers come from the well executed flashback scenes, which give context and meaning to the current action.Miramax, Peter Davis, and Bill Panzer deserve many thanks and much praise for bringing us this excellent integration of the different worlds of Highlanderthe movie and HighlanderThe Series.  I only hope that Endgame is not truly the end, but only the first of more Highlander games to come. "},{"Title":"SURPRISINGLY GREAT!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this with very low expectations but to my suprise it was the best since the first... maybe as good! Adrian Paul who was never my favorite(by any means) but actually won me over. The story was excellent and the acting superb. And it does not end like you would expect. Do not let last 2 films discourage you. This one is a sequal to the series and Highlander 1. Parts 2 and 3 are invalid. MUST SEE! "}{"Title":"A movie to see if you are a fan...","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For Highlander fans...whether you be a movie or a TV Highlander fan, this is one that must be seen. I guarantee that no movie or TV show called Highlander will ever be the same again. This time, the people you have known so long, Connor and Duncan, will surprise you with the differences in their personality and beliefs. If the idea of this movie was to make it possible for Duncan (Adrian Paul) to carry on the movies after Connor (ala Star Trek et al), then they have done it up perfectly. There are parts of the movie that are questionable. Parts that could have been done in a better way. But overall, this is a movie that Highlander fans should NOT miss! "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Since it was a movie for which I expect disappointement, I am not surprise at how it did turned out. Confusing movie with a very thin story, confusing momentum all together. Too much action, too many explosions, Quickening of varying degrees without regard to how they ought to be, inconsistent camera work. Too many flashbacks that do not reach anywhere near the great way they were handle in the first movie. A Connor deep into depression and sadness that cannot be buy. Elements of the serie that betrayed its own canon and are obscure to the non-fans of said serie. Major disappointement that was expected and ... fulfilled that expectation.Johanne "},{"Title":"I recommend this movie to anyone!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this film to be quite enjoyable and entirely worth watching and rewatching again and again.  Even those who are not familiar with the Highlander methos can easily enjoy this movie. Time is taken to introduce new characters and explain their role in the movie.  Perhaps the flashbacks take a moment to get used to, but they are common in so many movies these days and not unique to Highlander. A special nod must be given to the fact that while this film might appear extremely violent in its nature, it is not senseless violence.  Part of the theme of the movie deals with the difficulty in accepting the necessary violence of the immortals. In addition, other fight scenes are both equisitely chorographed as to make them a visual delight and often accompanied with worthy dialogue that holds importance to the story at hand. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"General comments","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I made a mistake concerning this movie; I watched the trailers.  In it you see cool things like Connor and Duncan leaping through a portal, and Kell getting split in half.These things are being saved for the Director's Cut to come out on DVD/Video later.I didn't realize this at the time, however, so whilst I was sitting in the theatre I kept expecting certain scenes to show themselves that never did. Disheartening.Now about the movie, though.  If you forget about the trailers.It's a Highlander movie. Any fan will be jovial just to sit and watch Lambert and Paul get their swordplay on. There are some well choreographed fight scenes, a couple of fun lines, and, as the gadfly critics out there will be sure to point out, plot and character indiscrepencies plentiful enough to keep their mouths flapping for a while.Being a fan as opposed to a critic (of all things Highlander anyway), I simply enjoyed the movie.  It plays, as many other fans may expect, much like an extended version of a series episode.Adrian Paul is fun, like always, and gets to display some emotional range. Lambert, likewise, gets to show a side of Connor that I, at least, like to see. There are 1 or 3 really choice scenes that I remember and like within the film, but I won't spoil anything.  Bruce Payne makes a wonderfully psychotic villain. Lisa plays the 'token' interest just fine.  The other actors certainly aren't 'bad', you just don't get to see much of anything of their characters.People unacustomed to Highlander will be clueless to some of the characters and relationships presented. And, as a fan, I would have liked to have seen a tighter, more tied-in plot with the previous movies.Overall, I'd say it's a must see for fans (naturally), and a see-it-on-a-rainy-day movie for the more critical minded. One enthusastic thumb up, one thumb undecided. "},{"Title":"Missing Scenes","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The first thing I noticed was several scenes from the trailer were missing from the movie. ie the cutting inhalf of the villian, the magic spere, the coming out of thew mirror. I noticed them so much it ruined the movie for me. The villian was suppose to be so powerful that it takes both Ducan and Conner to fight him, acording to the trailer. Well with all the missing scenes, the villain didn't come of as being very powerfull. Overall I rate the movie wortha $3 tickets, otherwise wait for it to come to video. "},{"Title":"Absolute dreck","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was hideous.  The dialogue was horrible, the fighting was cliched, and it made a hideous attempt at times to be a kung-fu movie.  My favorite line from the movie was the main bad guy screaming Don't you want to be inside of me? Yes folks, this is the choice dialogue you will hear when you waste $8.25 on this piece of garbage.  It was a disappointing and ridiculous end to the Highlander genre.  Save yourself the money and go rent the first Highlander.  "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was worth waiting for - a lush, beautifully filmed movie with a good story, great performances, and a wonderful soundtrack. I saw this with a friend who was not very familiar with the Highlander universe - and she wants to see it again! I don't blame her - I do too....  "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not even worthy of being an episode of the Highlander T.V. show. Corny over-acting, no plot whatsoever, and no story flow (if you want to say there was a story). This is just a bad film. Fans of Highlander will find some interesting pieces of information, but that's it. It is on the same level as HL3. "},{"Title":"If you liked the original, don't see Endgame","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you liked the original Highlander movie, DO NOT SEE THIS FILM.  The writers have completely ignored what has gone before.  The events of this movie are in complete contradiction to the events of the original!  Based on what occurred in Endgame, THE EVENTS OF THE FIRST MOVIE COULD NOT HAVE HAPPENED!  Once I realized this, I very nearly walked out of the theater (and I have never walked out on a movie).Even looking past this issue, it was simply a poorly made movie.  The plot was thin and the action scenes unsatisfying.  The people I watched it with who had not seen the original movie did not like it either.  If you did not have an extensive knowledge of both the movie and the TV series, then parts of Endgame leave you confused.  Characters are introduced and used without explanation for Highlander newbies.It is obviously an attempt to appeal to fans of the TV series, while contemptuously ignoring fans of the original movie. "},{"Title":"Whatta ride! Can't wait for the next one.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only flaw this film had was that it was edited down too short, at the expense of exposition and character development...both of which I desperately wanted to see more of! The action was superb (but next time, please please please let us see it in full body shots, not so many tight close-ups!) and Adrian Paul, Christopher Lambert, and all the others gave stunning performances. I absolutely HAVE to see what happens next. "}{"Title":"High-Grade Trash","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a MacLeod, I've heard about these movies since they came out, without ever really getting any of the references. A year or two ago, I decided to actually watch them. The first one was a quality film. The only problem was, it left absolutely NO room for sequels. For a movie who's main catchphrase is There can be only one, it's sure spawned a lot of horrible sequels.The second movie could have made sense with regard to the first, but didn't make much sense itself (planet Zeist? what?). The third made more internal sense, but in no way lined up with the first two. The TV show apparently only worsened the problem, although I've never managed to bring myself to watch it.Endgame (I can only pray that this is the end) makes no sense whatsoever, nor does it come close to fitting in with the rest of the series. They try to connect it back directly to the first one, figuring (quite rightly) that there was zero chance to ever link it back to the previous two, and people would ignore them. I was prepared to do this, however even only taking into account the first movie (which ended with there being only one), where all these other immortals are coming from is beyond my ken.But, enough with the non-sensical plot. If you check your mind at the door - is it worth watching? In one word no. Half of the cool effects you see in the commercials are NOT in the movie. This is getting to chronic levels with recent films, but none so much as this. Hollow Man, Twister, and Austin Powers all had some minor scenes in the promos that didn't make the final reel, which was fine. Endgame, however, was entirely misleading. Want to see the villain get cut in half and turn into two? Watch the commercial, not the movie. Want to see him contain Connor's head in a sphere and blow it away? Only in the promo. Bah.So, in other words, don't bother. I almost fell asleep during the incredibly boring title sequence. Any wrestling fans hoping to see the Edge in action will be disappointed, he appears for all of a minute or two. Stay at home and watch the first movie again if you want to be remotely entertained. "},{"Title":"This movie will thrill Highlander fans","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am an avid fan of HighlanderThe Series and this movie met and exceeded all my expectations. It was story-driven, concentrating on character interactions, not just an unending series of special effects. Of course there was a lot of action, martial arts, explosions,violence. But it also contained the flashbacks, history, lush backgrounds, that characterized the series. There was laughter, tears and some shocking developments. Adrian Paul was excellent as a tortured Duncan MacLeod and Christopher Lambert was good as the weary Connor. I advise people to see the original Highlander movie to fully appreciate this one. But the movie stands on its own and I heartily recommend it to all who love a good story, fast paced action, and a highly charged emotional experience. "},{"Title":"Better than H2/H3, and maybe H1, but not as good as the show","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There's no comparison to the debacle of H2/H3 (the former which is quite possibly the worst movie of all time) and it's certainly not as original as H1, but it had a lot of touches which compared favorably with the TV show.Unfortunately there were areas which is didn't match up to the show... jerky, dark and unfocused fight scenes...  very limited support character support (where the hell was Amanda )And that contrived ranking system seemed rather slapdash.  Sort of like the scientific explantion of the Force in the Phantom Menace.Overall a nice transition from old the new. "},{"Title":"What a terrible waste of film","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie does not deserve to have the Highlander name attached to it. The concept of the movie was to finally put an end to both the movie and TV show story lines but it fails in these attempts.The directing was terrible, but not as bad as the writing. The movie starts out slow and then jumps to the end without any proper progression. Suddenly the movie is over and you are left with a big feeling of disappointment.The movie fails to tie up to the TV series, which it couldn't have done because there were to many immortals to deal with from the show. Joe and Methos play such minor roles that they might have well been left out for all they did.Edge from the WWF is in one scene plays a useless role, and isn't even an immortal who gets his head cut off as he has hinted.All in all this movie is one of the biggest waists of time, maybe the director's cut will be better, but at this point this movie ranks only slightly above number 2.  "},{"Title":"It's a Highlander movie without the number 1 in it.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's better than 2 and 3, but it seems to be made in the same...style, for lack of a better word.First of all, the main villain is never established as being tough. the Kurgan kills Ramirez, he kills Kastagir. Katana, he doesn't do anything until he fights Connor. Kane, he beheads a lackey by surprise and beats up a twerp like Nakano. Kell...nothing. He's apparently a tough guy because he's taken a lot of heads. Really. Trust the scriptwriters, because he sure never displays any of that reputed competence on-screen.And what's up with the adverts?  they show a lot of Kell doing some fairly cool stuff (splitting in two, trapping Connor's soul in some kind of bubble, stopping a flying sword in mid-air) that never appeared in the theatrical release. Guess they're saving it for the dvd/Director's cut. If they had shown Kell doing some of that stuff it _might_ have established him as a major threat.In no sense is this movie The End. Even internally, it establishes that Methos is still out there. Within the Duncan mythos, there's Amanda, Nick Wolf, all the immortals Duncan hasn't killed over the years...in no sense did this close the saga once and for all.Other similarities to 2 and 3  Generic swordfighting climax. Pick one from column a (generic location with lots of catwalks and steampipes - where the hell were Kell and Duncan fighting??). Pick one from column b (the main guy gets disarmed and there are a few false-suspense moments as he tries to recover it). Pick one from column c (villain has hero on the ropes - hero makes comeback). But, ummm...Kell's said he won't kill Duncan, so there's even less suspense then usual (which also implies there are still other Immortals out there, and Kell won't kill Duncan until the rest are dead). What a goofy way to undercut your climactic finale.Clearly this was Christopher Lambert's Get Out of Series Free card, to clear the way for Adrian Paul (who's doing not much sine the series crashed and burned). Is it just me, or does he remind anyone else of the aliens from This Island Earth with that godawful huge forehead. I kept expecting Mut-Ants to show up...The underlings are a total waste. Kate's the only one with any personality, presence, or participation in the plot. Other then the brief bit with Jin Ke, which was stripped of any real content (wait for the Director's Cut again, I guess), the other guys are only marginally better than Kane's lackeys in H3...and die just as readily for no apparent reason.The Duncan/Kate thing worked okay, and no doubt sated the many Adrian Paul fans wanting to see his naked butt.Like in H2, everything seems to take place in a 1-mile square area of land. Kate tracks down Duncan. Duncan visits her at her studio. Duncan kills Connor and then finds Kell (wherever the hell they are) immediately in the next scene. Even the Kurgan had to leave Connor a message on his answering machine.Methos, Dawson, and the Watchers are tossed in to satisfy the TV fans, and neither contribute to the plot nor play any role in it after the first half. It strikes me that any audience member unfamiliar with the series would be totally thrown and/or puzzled by their appearance.The TV series often used flashback transitions much more creatively then here in the movie.Good points  the rapport between Lambert and Paul, the nods to the first movie (using the same actresses for Rachel and Heather, using the Silvercup Studios as Kell's HQ), good use of flashbacks, nice to have Dawson and Methos appear even if they're use was confusing to laymen and didn't really contribute to the plot, one decent fight scene (in Connor's antique store).Bad points  lots of cut scenes that reduced the movie to incoherence (how does Duncan get back his sword that he left at Connor's store?), typical vagueness on the Rules (it looked to me like Kell respected Holy Ground, since he had to get Connor out of the cemetery to fight him, and other Immortals like the Four Horseman have ganged up before to take on a single Immortal), trying to quantify the Quickening (why has Connor taken nearly twice as many heads as Duncan when he's only been an Immortal 75 years longer and never had his own TV series? ) and number of heads taken has never equated into superior swordfighting ability that I can recall), useless henchmen characters (except Jin Ke who seems to have had his scenes left on the cutting room floor) whose only purpose is to get their heads cut off, and just a general rushed feel like they felt they had to throw everything at the audience (explaining Immortals, explaining the rules, explaining Watchers, explaining Quickenings) and yet get it in at 82  minutes.  "},{"Title":"Not long on plot","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The latest highlander movie does not have the best plot in the world.  It is an excuse to have sword fighting and a battle between good and evil.  The fight scenes were very good and were worth the price of admission, especially those with Adrian Paul.  Christopher Lambert looks very old and actually does not do a lot of the fighting.Highlander fans will be disappointed that the movie does nothing to explain how Conner MacLeod did not actually win the prize in the first movie.  It actually doesn't explain much of anything.  There are appearances from some characters from the first movie to give some semblance of a plot and thematic continuity.  But really this is much like an episode of Highlander the TV show.Even with the numerous drawbacks (lack of plot, lack of continuity with the other movies, etc) the result was very watchable and was long on action.  8/10 "},{"Title":"A Bigger Mistake than Part 3","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hope springs eternal that this, finally, a teaming between Christopher Lambert and Adrian Paul, would make for an exciting and jaw-dropping film, introducing the world to two actors who haven't gotten enough press lately, if ever.This film was absolutely horrible.  It looked as though photographed by a drunken chimpanzee on roller skates.  Some shots were even out of focus.  And not in an artsy, Oliver Stone kind of way.  This movie was just painful to watch, if it weren't for an impressive fight sequence working its way in every, oh, 35 minutes or so. And even then, the roller skating chimpanzee with the camera had trouble keeping up.Donnie Yen is an amazing fighter, as is Adrian Paul.  Everyone else just phoned this one in, including the director, four screenwriters, and FIVE editors (that I could count in the opening credits).What could have been something special, turned out to be a waste of everyone's time and money.  It's not even worth a comparison to Lethal Weapon 4, but I will say, this one even makes Highlander 3 look like quality movie-making.3/10 "},{"Title":"A Travesty","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After seeing the trailer for this, I laughed and wanted to see it because it looked so horribly funny.  It lived up to my expectations an utter travesty, so bad it's funny.        The film is so disjointed, you have no idea what exactly is happening, and the special effects are strictly bargain basement.  This beats out Mission to Mars for the title of 'worst film of 2000.'  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be but not as good as I'd hoped.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was so afraid that this would be as bad as the Highlander sequel movies but it wasn't. I wanted it to be as good or better than the series and the first movie but it wasn't that either. All in all, I enjoyed it. It was nice to see Duncan and Connor together again. The fight scenes were cool and the story idea was great. The writing was pretty weak and the editing was disjointed. The scenes were beautifully shot except for the last 3 or 4 minutes of the film which looked to have been done by a junior high film student. Did anyone see that night sky behind Duncan? Lame. Disney does more realistic starry skies and they're animated. The inconsistencies continue to amaze me. Everything after the first movie (you know, where the Prize was awarded) is one giant plot hole but it's easy to overlook that because Connor and Duncan are so likeable. It doesn't seem though that anyone even tried to keep it consistent after that, and the movie has a few things that just seem to come out of left field. I gave it an 8 because in spite of those things, I liked everything except the end. "},{"Title":"Great movie lots of action.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm very pleased with what I saw. Adrian Paul was wonderful. He showed his talent as actor and demonstrated outstanding skills in martial arts and swordsmanship. This is a movie one will want to see multiple times. I am confident that there will be interest in a sequel. "}{"Title":"WOW!!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie even though I felt a lot of film was left on the cutting room floor.  The cast did a wonderful job, I was particularly impressed with Adrian Paul's performance.  He's matured quite a bit since the series, so have his fighting skills.   The fight scenes were awesome if a little fast for the eye, and the special effects were wonderful as well. "},{"Title":"Highlander Endgame is worth seeing twice.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is something for every viewer in this combination of martial arts, fantasy, and a timeless tale of revenge and brotherhood.Fans of the Highlander movies will be treated to a Christopher Lambert whose portrayal of the older, sadder Connor MacLeod is better than ever.  Fans of the series will feast their eyes on Adrian Paul, whose command of physical action and intimate interaction translates wonderfully to the big screen. New viewers will be intrigued by the world of people who can live forever, yet are flawed humans, not super-heroes.The few glitches resulting from a rushed editing do not significantly detract from a storyline that focuses on the centuries-old bond between two men who began as teacher and pupil, but develop a deep kinship.  When the lives of both are threatened by a nightmare from the past, each must choose the best way to fight.Soaring vistas of Scotland, beautifully filmed scenes from the pasts of both men, and haunting music are combined with more than enough heart-pounding action to hold the movie-goers interest.See it once to get its scope.  See it again to savor the nuances.  "},{"Title":"I Expected Better","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting more from this movie.  Why?  The series was really good and had some really creative story lines.  Considering the hit and miss nature of the 2nd and 3rd movies, I would have thought that they would try really hard to come up with something outstanding.  The plot boils down to new badguy in town, someone has to kill him.  They did this plot countless times in the series and they did it better.  Sure there are some twists, but they're not explored fully enough - they're just hit-and-run eye candy.  I was also kind of annoyed that some of the best scenes in the movie only occur in the trailers, they're not actually in the theatrical release (at least not here, maybe they're included overseas or something).I also think that they could have used the supporting cast for more than just cameos.  I was happy to see Joe Dawson and Methos in the movie but very disappointed to discover how little they are actually used.  It seems like most of the movie is flashbacks, and while they are interesting and even funny at times, they add only little bits to the story.  It's a twenty minute story with an hour of filler.  "},{"Title":"Not recomended for people who dont know anything about Highlander","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame was alot better than i thought it would be considering the last two films stunk. Adrian Paul does a better performance here than he does in the Show. I did wish that Connor and Duncan would have had more communication between each other. The Movie was Also Heavily Cut. This Movie is not really Recommended for People who dont watch the Shows or the movies because there are a lot of Flashbacks and the Rules the Immortals must follow confuse the non-Highlander fans. but altogether i give this movie 8.5 on 10 "},{"Title":"Nothing more than a long TV episode","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, this movie had promise and started off well.  However, they really did not take advantage of a potentially cool villain.  He became nothing more than a deranged loony near the end of the movie.  And what was up with his band of immortals?!  Hello!!  Some thoughtful and realistic actions by the hench-villains would have made the story less tired and hack.I don't mind the writers dismissing the first movie and assuming it never happened because it is hard to work in the fact Connor won the prize. However, this movie assumes you don't know much about anything related to the Highlander story; which is a joke because only fans will be watching this movie.  They spent too much time telling you stuff you knew and making references that seemed silly in normal conversation.And the effects were nothing to get excited about...and I guess many scenes were cut, which were shown in the TV trailers.And what was up with the pointless sex scene?!  It could have been useful, but as it was, it was just filler to an already SHORT movie.Overall, a 4 out of 10.  Unless you are a huge fan, then you might really like this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie was not only bad, it was insultingly bad.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There was a minimum of hype for this movie, and now we know why.  It played as a poor episode of the Highlander T.V. series, with less plot and less continuity.  It made very little sense, and characters with highly developed backgrounds were sorely under used in favor of new characters with little or no time given to development.  The flashback storytelling used extensively in the T.V. series was over used, and long aerial shots of Scottish highland locations appeared to be used as filler.  A very weak entry into the Highlander mythos. "},{"Title":"There can be only one...","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There can be only one real Highlander  Conner Macleod.  I would advise all fans of the original series to pass on this one and stick with the first movie, and maybe the third if you're feeling generous.This one seems to have been made for the fans of the series and the other Macleod, among whose ranks I am not. "},{"Title":"Although a bit uneven, this movie did not disappoint.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was filled with plenty of action, love, and history. Adrian Paul turned in a terrific performance as Duncan MacLeod and will probably be offered many more leading man roles as a result of HL Endgame. I was disappointed that Peter Wingfield's Methos was not in the movie more than he was, but I was thrilled to see him just the same. The final Quickening was spectacular, well worth the price of admission alone. I just hope there will be a Highlander V.  "},{"Title":"Director gutted the film","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After downloading the movie trailer and viewing it a dozen times, I was in great anticipation to see Endgame.  Unfortunately the best parts of the trailer did not make it to the film.  For example, the scene where Connor slices Kell down the middle, or where Kell stops a sword in midair with the power of his mind, or where Duncan and Connor jump through a blue wavy force field, or where Kell holds a crystal ball with the head of Connor, those scenes are totally missing.  That's the movie I went to see and was short changed.  There was no endgame.  Does this mean they plan to come back with H5?  On top of all this, Joe and Methos are practically non-existent and the movie is a mere 85 minutes long.  It might as well have been an anniversary episode on the tube.  I won't pay to see H5 if they make it.  I refuse to be take advantage of twice.  "},{"Title":"The great action of the Highlander genre continues.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was wonderful to see both Duncan (Adrian Paul) and Connor (Christopher Lambert)MacLeod reunited in this long awaited movie.  The appearances of Joe Dawson (Jim Byrnes) and Methos (Peter Wingfield) brought a prized element of the series into the movie.The picture was quick moving, filled with the right amount of love, honor and tradition fighting hatred and the need for revenge.  Is was the true essence of the immortals' world filled with the forces of good, fighting the forces of evil.It handled the pathos of the difficulties of immortality well. For those who are action lovers and those who love to wax philosphically, I believe it is well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Make me immortal with a kiss.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame stars both Christopher Lambert (pronounced lamb-bear) and Adrian Paul. It is an excellent film, but like The X-Files Movie, it was more of an expensive television episode than a stand-alone film.Basically, it combined the first Highlander film with the television series, forgetting the second two, which starred Chistopher Lambert, but which were apparently written by someone who had not seen the first  It also seemed to forget the fact, as did the series, that in the end of the first film, Christopher Lambert, after beheading the Kurgen, became the only immortal left. Christopher Lambert appeared only once in the television series in the pilot and looks incredibly older at an admitted forty-three to Adrian Paul's youthful forty-one. I suspect there is actually a ten year difference in their ages. Again, we must allow for the matter of his aging since his first role, as the actor is not immortal like the character he portrays.Three actors reprise their parts Jim Byrnes, Peter Wingfield and Beatie Edney, as Joe Dawson, Methos (both born of the series) and Heather MacDonald, Connor McLeod's wife in the first film.Highlander Endgame is filled with swordplay and romance. There is, of course, the battle between good and evil and some historical scenes, which help to explain the relationships. Methos, we know from the series, is the oldest living immortal, having spanned over five thousand years. Dawson was Duncan McLeod's watcher. Watchers, for centuries, were supposed to observe, but never interfere. Well, it seems, watchers changed their minds. And so have immortals, who were never supposed to battle on holy ground.Take an immortal's head and you kill him. Kill a mortal, predisposed to immortality, by violence and you freeze him or her in time. Beheading begets a quickening, where the immortal nearest the victim gains all the other's knowledge and strength. And in the end, there can be only one.At the conclusion of the film, some applause could be heard. Highlander has a cult following, myself included among it. I should find myself disappointed, if in the end as pertains to these Highlander films, there can be only this one. "},{"Title":"Everything I was expecting and more","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame was a great blend of the best of Highlander I and Highlander The Series. Both Connor and Duncan MacLeod remained true to their characters and each brought his unique sense of loyalty and honor to the development of the story and its logical end. The photography, lighting, and special effects all added to the mood of the film underscoring the dark dramatic scenes, the rich flashbacks, and the magical Quickenings. Adrian Paul was especially effective in his portrayal of Duncan MacLeod. His versatility in playing the light commedic scenes as well as the emotional dramatic scenes was outstanding. I would recommend this movie for anyone who wants to see an action filled story that deals with good men who face the consequeces of their deeds with honor and courage. "},{"Title":"Good Action.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed getting to see another in the  Highlander series since I have seen all of the previous movies and am a big fan of the television series.  I do wish that Peter Wingfield (Methos) had had more scenes as he was an important part of the series as was Jim Byrnes.  Hopefully the producers will attempt to return to the ensemble acting that was so terrific in the series--if they decide to do Highlander 5.  I certainly hope so. "},{"Title":"To quote the film, A Whole New Ball Game.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Is this film a Citizen Kane or Star Wars? No, but its not a Manos The Hands of Fate or a Highlander 2 either. Does this film excel at explaining the continually complex continuity of Highlander (like how is it that Connor was the last Highlander at the end of the first film and now there's a billion of them again?) No, but it does tell a solid story. Does it offer any explanation of the alien theory seen in Highlander 2? No, just a denial of that in the beginning? So what does it have? A great story, some great fighting scene, and some familiar heroes pop up to give us a lot of fun. Does it have any links to the other movies? Not really, but it is a whole new ball game. This may just be the first inning of it too, but, even though I enjoyed this film, I may not be around for the other innings because of the ending of this one ended some of the magic of this series of movies for me. It still stands that there can be only one, and for this series, this is the best one since the original. "},{"Title":"A worthy successor to the original","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I walked into Highlander Endgame expecting nothing more than an action movie with some neat swordfights and cool special effects.  Don't get me wrong I enjoyed the first movie and I'm a die-hard fan of the TV series.  It's just that I wasn't expecting too much from the current film, based on how bad the last two were.I was wrong.This is Highlander at its best.  It gives us great performances (kudos to Bruce Payne for being an actually sinsiter villain, unlike his corny predecesors), excellent sword-fighting and martial arts sequences, a good, solid story, and a genuine, intelligent look at the trials and tribulations that the Immortals of Highlander must endure.  It can trigger genuine sorrow and character sympathy at times.  The plot takes a while to figure out, but that keeps you hooked as the story unravels.It wasn't flawless, however.  The supporting cast wasn't used enough.  I would have liked to have seen more of Peter Wingfield, Jim Byrnes, and Donnie Yen (this is my first Donnie Yen movie).  The movie got a bit choppy at times, and some scenes could have had more work put into them.  And people unfamiliar with the history of Highlander may be confused, despite the brief explanations throughout the movie.Still, it was an excellent movie, and truly worthy to carry the name Highlander.  I give it an A minus.  Congratulations, guys, on a job well done! "},{"Title":"Finally a worthy sequel","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After two very confusing sequels a great sequel is here. Forget about the stuff you see in the trailer, the unneeded magic fxs are gone (which makes the story stronger). This movie blends the original film with the TV series and comes away with a awsome movie that can be seen without having seen the last two sequels.  I am a huge fan of the films and series and this film delivered the goods. The fight scenes are topnotch (I'm a martial artist and hate cheesy fight scenes). Adrian Paul is one of the martial artists I've seen and it is a treat to see him fight. One thing I did notice about this film is how old Christopher Lambert looks, so maybe it's time he passed the sword to Paul. I hope Paul continues to make Highlander movies with scripts as good as this one. With addition of Dawson,Methos, female immortals and the Watchers (all from the series) things should get very interesting. Here's to Adrian Paul and the hope more movies will follow SOON. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was surprisingly well made, I was almost surprised at how decent it really was. After viewing the previews, I hate to say I really was not expecting all that much. The previews made it out to be one of those made for video films that somehow seeped through the cracks onto major theatrical distribution, but I am the first to admit how wrong I was. All in all, it really was a decent Highlander film. Much higher quality than the quickening, or final dimension (previous sequel theatrical releases). Although, I did think that the large amount of flashbacks began to become more the meat of the film than it should have been, it was still nice to see more elements of what the other films were missing (depth on characters), even if it was done in such a rash overabundance. Some of the acting was faltering at times, and Christopher Lambert in some of the flashback sequences does lose and regain his scottish accent more times than this movie changed titles before its release, but I wont pretend and whine about how they could have made a better film any more. I am glad this came out as good as it did. An admirable, and otherwise prominant addition to the series. "},{"Title":"They should have stuck with the first one!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went with a friend to see this and he was the only reason I did not walk out.  You may ask why and I will tell you.  The movie tries to do a handing over of the torch from Christopher Lambert to Adrian Paul(Duncan MacLeod).First of all, Adrian Paul was a terrible selection to be the Highlander in the T.V. version in my opinion, because he does not look anything like his name.  He looks like some guy who should be on Baywatch.  Please note if you do enjoy Adrian Paul then you might enjoy the movie because it's based largely on his character.  Even for you Duncan fans this movie is still lacking in quality.I have a question for the writers of this movieDid you forget everything that happened in the first movie?I was shocked at the way they ripped the heart out of the first Highlander, by trying to make a new version of the story.  The flash back scenes which drew my attention so much in 'Highlander' disgusted me in this version.  I wanted to yell at the screen  ACT! ACT!  followed by Please, Stop this isn't working!Of course, you can imagine my surprise when I came to the site and saw a user rating of a 7.0--are you all out of your minds?  Listen, I know you all have deep love for the name Highlander and Christopher Lambert as Connor MacLeod, but this did justice to neither.Moving right along--Bruce Payne--is not very tough looking at all!  Now, Kurgan(original Highlander) was a scary looking man--an excellent villain. Kell was not a good choice.  Donnie Yen should have been the main evil character.  When he was on the screen I was interested in the movie.  Lisa Barbuscia as Faith, though attractive, added nothing to the movie.The final fight scene was about as intense as watching Women's Golf.  The ending was a let down, just like the rest of the movie.There can be only one(Highlander movie), and this wasn't it!  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie ignores the continuity of the previous movies. Poorly edited ( scenes in the trailer and commercials are not in the final movie), unexciting swordfights, a very boring villain (Clancy Brown where are you), and basically the death of the franchise can all be had for 8 bucks. This movie is so poorly acted and directed, with no story or plot its not even worth watching on cable. "},{"Title":"Highlander Endgame is a lukewarm effort","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, there are spoilers following, so you have been forewarned.Speaking as a big fan of the Highlander TV series, this movie has a lot of problems. Let's start with advertising.  Many of the scenes in the trailers never were in the movie (glad they scrapped the supernatural powers junk, though). Here are other problems-1. I don't believe Duncan would be so ho-hum when watching Kell about to take Connor's head (although it turns out he doesn't kill him).2. Duncan was never married in the series, and what's up with he and Kate/Faith getting back together despite her alliance with Kell? It's a bit too much of a stretch. And Duncan makes Faith immortal by killing her. This is definitely not Duncan's style.4. What's up with the Watchers not wanting the Prize to be won, and what exactly is the Prize now supposed to be? What's so threatening to them about it being won (even by a good immortal)?5. Quickenings on holy ground. This is against the rules, and no villain ever broke this one before. Looks like plenty were bad enough to have done it, so why now? Theoretically it can be done, but never before has been. What happens if you break this rule? And if the consequences are so dire, why are there none for Kell?6. Originally Connor did not find Duncan immediately after Duncan was killed. Majorly conflicts with several series storylines.7. Would Duncan have really killed Connor, or would he have let Connor win? Seems like Duncan would never kill Connor like this. Then again, if he looked at the grand scheme of things, this new version of Connor would not have beaten Kell, and so he had others to protect by doing what he did. I don't know. It was too clean, too easy... Adrian Paul did once say that this would never happen in the movie, but it did anyway.Hey, this movie is alright if you don't really care about accuracy and are not a hardcore fan and don't expect things to make much sense here. It's still enjoyable enough, but it's a hodgepodge lukewarm effort that leaves lots of things unanswered. It has it's good points, but it's very lacking overall. I liked it enough, but it leaves a bit of a bad taste in my mouth, too. A disappointment I didn't expect since this was supposed to follow in the tradition of the series, which was a very good series indeed. Could have been really special, but is a half-hearted effort and squanders Paul's abilities. Apparently high on continuity errors, too, though I don't recall any in particular myself.This franchise keeps reinventing itself. My advice- get back to basics and make a fifth and final movie that disregards just about everything but the series (too much to scrap/keep to go into here), and make it like the series eps. Most any series ep would have made a better movie than this. "}{"Title":"Don't be deceived Highlander fans, this film isn't that good","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  HighlanderEndgame opens with some promise and a sense that the filmmakers are going to apologize for horrible continuity in the series (ie. Highlander 2 and 3).  Appearances by Rachel and Heather tie the first film to the 4th, but besides their appearances and Connor's, this film has closer ties to the TV series.The film has absolutely no story and the characters aren't given anything exciting to do.  Joe Dawson and Methos are wasted with frivolous cameos and serve only for exposition (in Methos' case) and to drive Duncan around (in Joe's case).The fight scenes and swordwork are inferior to the television series and the only moment that even looks remotely exciting is Duncan's hand to hand combat fight in Connor's loft.Highlander loyalists, don't be fooled or deceived. This film just isn't good at all.  Stick with the first film and the TV series and live with the fact that the original movie and the series exist on their own terms in their own continuity.I feel sorry for Adrian Paul.  He was wasted in such a bad film. "},{"Title":"The true Highlander sequel","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you thought the trailer was good, wait until you see this roller coaster ride! Highlander Endgame is a very human story and still fills the gaps with some of the most explosive action sequences of the year, a few topping even The Matrix (see Donnie Yen's fight against Adrian Paul). Fans of the movies AND the television show as well as both genders will not be disappointed.There are a number of surprises where the audience will come to an understanding and respect for the fate of one of the main characters. The movie does not implement Sleepy Hollow's head-chopping effect, so why did the MPAA rate it an `R' movie? Perhaps due to the concept, the HOT romance, the imagination the audience may conclude, and even the semi-religious tone expressed by the villain. Immortality and redemption are the keys to the success of the wonderful story that Endgame provides.Flashbacks are brilliantly done and do not break up the mood one bit. Also, with the introduction of the `Watchers' (not to be confused with the movie The Watchers), there are many possibilities of future releases based on this aspect alone. The evil immortal Kell makes The Kurgan look like a toy soldier while Adrian Paul's Duncan MacLeod and Christopher Lambert's Connor MacLeod share a refining moment not only as master and apprentice, but also as brothers and kinsmen.Watch the movie to see what happens; it is a story of love, honor, friendship and loyalty, redemption and most of all, immortality. Highlander Endgame will keep you coming back for more! And in the end, there can be only one... "},{"Title":"HIGHLANDER IS BACK IN A BIG WAY BABY!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've got to say, I went into this movie with very high expectations, and it did not  disappoint me at all!  Connor and Duncan together on the big screen! It's something I've been begging for since  I first saw the TV show. I am a bigger fan of the show, it had all the elements of the  movies that I liked, plus it reinvented itself with new elements. The movies in the past have  sucked, the first ruled, but the 2 since are really bad.This is the movie that should have been made as a sequel, and I for one will forget the  other 2 and just relish the first and the last.  The fight sequences are faster and more polished than the lightsaber battles in Star Wars  Episode 1. I CAN'T STRESS HOW AMAZING THEY ARE! You also have all of theelements of the show that Pleasantly surprised me like THE WATCHERS, JOE DAWSON, and METHOS! The Villain KELL is a nasty guy too, his band of renegade immortals are cool and fun to watch, they provide alot of amazing action too! Without giving up too much, I can't wait for more movies. Christopher Lambert is brilliant,  but he is aging and it is less believable that he is an immortal. Time has come to give way  to a younger more talented Adrian Paul, he truly is amazing. Then we can be treated to the Highlander tales of Duncan and Methos, that would be fun!This movie isn't perfect, but it's darn good, I loved it. The acting is good, the story moves  fast, and it does keep you on the edge of your seat. DO YOURSELF A FAVOR AND SEE IT. "},{"Title":"A two-part episode with boobs.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, people, listen up.  This is the real sequel to the Highlander.  You can forget 2 and 3 even existed, because to get this movie, all you need to see are the first movie and a few episodes of the TV show.Right.  A few episodes of the TV show.  Which make me think.  You wanna know how they made this film?  Take a two-part episode of the series.  Add nudity and even more violence to make it have to be a theatrical release.  Give it a really predictable ending.  Stir, let sit for NOT A LONG ENOUGH RUNNING TIME.Who knows.  Maybe I'm wrong.  Maybe this is just a transitional film, like Star Trek  Generations (Which is kind of an excuse).  Maybe if we had seen Kell kill Amanda (from Highlander  The Raven), the movie would have been worth seven bucks to go see.  Maybe not.  I always thought Duncan was the better Highlander than Connor, but, that's because we've seen him in more experience (4 2-hour movies for Connor, 1 2-hour movie and 66 hour TV shows for Duncan).The film really needed character development.  They could have played up Jin more instead of killing him off, as well as giving us more of Joe and Methos.  And for all the hype the WWF gave us, Edge should have been in more of the film.Wait for video.  But only if you're a fan. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame manages very nicely to live up to some of the great Highlander traditions.  Like its predecessors, it disowns absolutely everything that came before it, including the television show from which it draws most of its characters.  And, like Highlander 3, it is directed so much like a rock video that if the viewer leaves the theatre for so much as a minute and a half, s/he will be lost when s/he returns.That being said, it actually isn't that bad a film.  It doesn't disown the basic concept of the series, and fans of the TV show will be pleased to see Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) pass the torch to his younger kinsman, Duncan (Adrian Paul).  In fact, the movie relies so much on the TV show, that somebody who hasn't seen the six-year series might be left almost completely in the dark.The acting is also quite strong, and the villain, Kell (Bruce Payne) is more fanatical than evil.  In fact, as far as the series of movies goes, this installment has the most interesting characters.However, while it is a decent movie, it is not a great one.  Between the inconsistent artsy direction and the almost utter lack of continuity with the TV show, much less the first movie, the film is brought down considerably.  It is a worthy matinee, but only diehard Highlander fans should consider paying full price.  Mind you, probably only diehard Highlander fans will really understand the movie anyway...Final mark 3/5.  Worth a matinee, but not full price.  Be warned, some of the violence is pretty graphic, so it is not a movie for younger viewers. "},{"Title":"Now... There Can Be Only Two!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What Can I Say?This is the first true sequel to the first Highlander(1986) this took the best part from the movies,(Conner Macleod) and the best from the very popular T.V. Series,(Duncan Macleod, Methos, Joe Dawson/Watchers) and brought them both together. In a very involving and interesting story line.... I Very Much enjoyed this movie... Though Edge's role was more than a little suspicious... (Do you think they may have just been using his name for a the WWF name, and fans) but whatever works...go with it. I could say more but that would just spoil the movie...----->(Very Small Spoiler, Does Not Spoil parts in movie, but Just Warning)<----except that one thing I was glad did not happen from the commercial was the parts where the villain splits in half,, and stops the sword with his hand. I think that would have just ruined End Game making the film more like the 2nd, 3rd movies where the villain is all magical.. Part of me wants them to make another movie, but the other half of me wants them to leave the series off with a good one... Still go see this movie it really lives up to the original and to the T.V Series. "},{"Title":"Best Highlander Movie Yet!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Adrian Paul outdoes himself in this one, Peter Wingfield shines as Methos, and the overall movie far exceeds anything that's gone before it in the movie world. Bruce Payne as Kell was the only truly bad spot in the movie -- he was really OTT, but other than that I highly recommend this movie to anyone that's ever loved Highlander and wants to see more.  "},{"Title":"Just when I thought that I was out they pull me back in.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the latest Highlander movie, Connor McLeod shows that he is the Michael Corleone of the Immortals.  After two terrible sequels, he is as tired of playing The Game as we are of watching it.  Highlander Endgame also continues the fine tradition of contradicting previous outings and the series.  While it might be better than Highlanders II & III, Endgame is the Phantom Menace of the Highlander world, trading characters and plot for visuals.Still Endgame is highly enjoyable.  Lambert and Paul make a fine dashing duo, and the bad guy is moustache tweakingly menacing.  We also learn more of the back story behind the McLeod boys and see the angst that comes with immortality.Endgame's biggest failing, however, is that it is too bleak for fans and too confusing for newcomers.  Terms like The Game, The Quickening, and The Watchers come in large chunks and are not explained though often referred too.  I'd give it a 4/10 for newcomers, 7/10 for fans. "},{"Title":"Finally, a worthy sequel","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  * spoiler alert (?) near the end * I've been a long time Highlander fan ever since I saw theoriginal movie.  I had my reservations about the televisionseries, but it grew on me -- even though I prefer Connermore -- and when I heard about the movie, I groaned.  Itwas the television series going big screen.  After seeing it, Iwas blown away.  Endgame did not feel like a televisionepisode (my main concern) and with almost most of the  original Highlander production team and cast working onthis project, it had the charm that I liked in the originalmovie.    Also, not only does this film stay faithful to the firstmovie it also takes a minimalist approach to using theideas presented from the television show, like The  Watchers and that an individual (if he/she had the gift)would become an Immortal after suffering a violent death. Also, bits of the third movie was suggested in the trailerwith Kell doing magic tricks (i.e. being split in half andregenerating T2 style) and I'm glad those type of sceneswere taken out.  Instead, it was kept simple (i.e. doingdisappearing tricks).  If they had Kell doing magic tricks,then this movie would have failed.  Whoever decided toleave all those scenes in the cutting room floor,  congratulations are in order.  The fact that this movie doesnot deal with The Gathering is important in making thismovie worthy. "},{"Title":"How can such a short movie drag on for SOOOOO loooonnnnggg","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Despite the trailers promising some new twists to this story of two people wacking each other about with swords, this sequel really has nothing new to add. Unless you count the endless moping about that Connor does as something interesting. The film felt like an editor tried to cut it down from a bad 3 hour movie to a bad 1 1/2 hour one. The action jumps about with no real consistency and charactors are yanked in and out of the plot with no particular purpose other than to plod the hackneyed story line on to its inevitable conclusion. Let this be the LAST one! "}{"Title":"A Film That Strives To Succeed Against A Miriad Of Problems.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I've been a big fan of the Highlander series for a very long time.  Like most I hated the second and marginally accepted the third.  I liked the series and was extremely happy to hear that it would be the subject of the next film. Now, the first ten minutes of the film scared me and I felt that I was falling into yet another BAD Highlander film.  I have to say though, that midway through it picked up and I actually grew to like it.The film tries desperately to survive against bad acting from the main villain (WAY overdone and not scary to me) and a director that never seems sure where he wants to go with the film.  We are finding this true of more and more films in a Matrix stained cinematic world.The script was the best a Highlander film has had since the first and suffers only from the plight of having many peoples hands in it.  I liked how Adrian Paul attached to the role again and how the story actually played out.  All in all I enjoyed the movie (which is a whole lot more than I thought I would say going into it) and I'm not embarrassed of it the way I have been prior.   Little surprises that I didn't expect and over all I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Fourth Movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty good.  It did its best to tie in the television show with some elements from the movies while still making some sense.  It doesn't seem to explain too much about the prize or if anyone is going to actually win it, but hey, Duncan's love interest was very hot, and got naked!  There were some good fast fight sequences and overall it was competently executed.  A worthy successor and possible finale to the series. "},{"Title":"The TV Series Continues...","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Like most, I went in to this expecting another lacking Highlander sequel. In fact, I only went because my younger brother suckered me into it.I was quite suprised by what I saw!Endgame follows the continuity of the series (The Gathering hasn't happened yet), thus Highlander 2 & 3 -and the end of the original- don't exist. This shucks the burden of trying to explain how Connor is suddenly immortal, AGAIN.More so, the movie really belongs to Duncan (Adrian Paul), who we find out -along with Connor- both have a few demons in their past, which makes for some great character work. In Endgame, we find Connor tired of living his life surrounded by death, and Christopher Lambert plays it for all he's worth.Also of note, Endgame's villain Jakob has very personal reasons for his vendetta and it makes for a very dark character (versus the usual, just for evil's sake Highlander villain).Now, Endgame has it's flaws, it is a bit slow and uneven. It does appear (and feel) that a few scenes are missing. Notably the scene of Jakob slitting in two that is seen heavily in the trailers is gone. If that's good or bad depends on your tastes I imagine. I was kind of relieved. Also, some loose ends were still loose at the end, but since the gathering hasn't happened yet, a sequel to tie these up is possible (and unlike the previous sequels, will MAKE SENSE and FOLLOW CONTINUITY...I hope)In summary, Endgame is worth seeing to fans of the TV series, and hopefully to fans who have given up on the films. I hope to see another film with Adrian Paul. "},{"Title":"If you liked the Highlander TV show, you will like this movie.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Since I am a long time fan of the Highlander TV series, I enjoyed the big screen version although it felt more like an extended tv episode.  Not very extended though- and they could have used an extra thirty minutes or so to give us more details.  What was Kell's hold over his disciples?  Also Methos and Joe Dawson had tiny throwaway parts and I really wanted to see more of them.  The sound editing seemed excellent in the print I saw and the battles were well choreographed.  I knew what was going to happen from reading spoilers on the internet, but I felt it was well prepared for and it felt right. The soundtrack was atmospheric, especially the traditional Irish song at the end. "},{"Title":"Entertaining action wise","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As far as story goes, this film, well, I guess it passes, though I think the first might've been a little better (even though I never really saw the first one entirely).  With some good acting and entertaining action and fight scenes it actually isn't that bad.  Maybe It's just that the plot kinda made me feel a little uneasy.  But that's just me, I'm sure fans of Highlander, and the TV show will like this.  But, if you are a WWF fan and looking for star Edge to appear more than once, you might be dissapointed (as I was) and might as well watch the TLC match agai9n.  And if you are the average film-goer, it isn't the worst, but I would actually rather see Art of war to see action right now.  C+ "},{"Title":"Highlander 1 fans beware","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a fan of the first Highlander movie, do not bother seeing End Game. I am a huge fan of the first movie, and all End Game did was anger me and continue to demonstrate why there can be only one. Granted, the TV series was good and entertaining, for which hardcore fans of the show and Duncan MacLeod should see the movie, but fans of Connor will NOT like this movie at all.This film as many other problems with it aside from the affects it will have with the Highlander fan base, but I will not comment on them because this would turn into a novel. Again, I emphasize that if you are a Highlander 1 and Connor MacLeod fan, do not see this movie. If you do not fall into that category, you will be entertained if you can ignore plot holes and various other problems with the film. "},{"Title":"It's true.  There can be ONLY one!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was complete and utter CRAP!I'm not giving away spoilers. But let me list what I found wrong with this failed attempt at a Highlander movie.They screwed up the history of the Highlander saga. Both in the original movie, AND in the television series.They screwed up basic tenets of the universe as laid down both in the original movie and in the series.They screwed up the continuity of the movies with pointless and wrong flashbacks to try to justify actions taken by the characters.They completely rewrote the motivations of individuals and organizations to suit plot.And worst of all. They destroyed the basic message behind the original movie. And even the two wannabe sequels. Hope. The way it plays out, I'd almost swear that this movie's screenplay was written by one of those loser darkness, tragedy, and death freaks from White Wolf (Maker of Vampire the Masquerade).Heck.  At least H2 was entertaining.  Stupid, but entertaining. H3 was basically just a bad copy of H1 with Mario Van PeaBrain instead of Clancy Brown.Even the gratuitous nudity in the obligatory sex scene only served to highlight the failings of this waste of celluloid.In short. Save your money. "},{"Title":"Poignant, very bloody, disappointing end to a clever idea","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've watched LOTS of tv installments of Highlander, and I enjoyed the way elements, characters and some of the style of that show were used.  The sword fighting is impressive, but the antagonist was trying too hard to be unsympathetic, especially when compared to Kalas from the tv episodes - now HE did bad really well.  The movie felt way too gory, and just wasn't as rich and entertaining as I'd hoped for, especially given that Jim Byrnes and Peter Wingfield offered a chance to broaden the content.  Assuming this is the last of this series, I was disappointed that the ending didn't let me savior a little longer all the elements I'd liked. "},{"Title":"And I thought Highlander 2 was bad...","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Following in the footsteps of the first Highlander sequel, and taking it even further, Highlander Endgame leaves most people wondering what it was all about, and most Highlander fans <Well, fans of the original movie, at least>, shaking their heads in disappointment.One of the most obvious and easy comparisons for Highlander Endgame is Star Trek Generations.  Both movies are attempts to 'pass the torch' from one generation of theme characters to the next.  Both were clumsy, and generally poorly done.In the process of bringing the original movie continuity and the television continuity together, Endgame throws away all of what had been established in the previous movies, mostly for the sake of putting Adrian Paul, the new lead character, into the spotlight.  Even the first attempt at a sequel, Highlander 2 The Quickening made some attempt at staying true to the original story line and the continuity that had been established... though it was still an awful movie.Poor dialogue, incoherent plot <it seems as though there were some large cuts made, though I could be wrong>, dozens of cliches, unoriginality, and utter disrespect for the previous movies made this sequel seem like a simple 2 hour long version of the TV show.If you're a Highlander fan, it's definitely -not- recommended for anything other than morbid curiosity. "},{"Title":"WHAT?!?!?!?!?! Have the writers ever seen the original?","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I do not wish to make it sound like I hated Highlander Endgame. I feel that as a stand alone movie it was very well made. The sword fights and the martial arts were fantastic. The FX were far better than they ever have been. The Story was great.UNLESS YOU HAVE EVER SEEN ANY OF THE OTHER HIGHLANDER MOVIES!I am a fan of the original. Always have been ... always will be. I am a fan of the TV series as well. .. but it always seemed like a great big expensive plot flaw (anyone who has seen the original movie will know what I mean). And so it is with the subsequent movies. Each one has been an incredible contradiction, when compared to the original Highlander movie.Why can't the directors and writers ever consult Gregory Widen, the man who created the Highlander? Or at least make them watch and PAY ATTENTION to the original movie. It wouldn't have been too hard to make all the stories work together... but I guess it's more important to crank out another movie and make a few more bucks.Now, I understand what thinking went into the latest episode of the Highlander saga, but it definitely could've been rectified in a manner far less offensive.All in all I'd call Endgame a very decent fantasy movie, just don't go in looking for a decent sequel.  "}{"Title":"The Highlander film fans have been waiting for!!!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a very big fan of the HIGHLANDER franchise. I am particularly a fan of the TV series and of the character of Duncan Macleod, so you can imagine my anticipation for this film. I was NOT disappointed! I loved this film. It had everything and more. I watched the trailer when it was released, about 20 times, trying to absorb every image and emotion of what they were showing us. Let me tell you, two very distinct sequences from the trailer are NOT in the film. One being the scene where Connor (Christopher Lambert) cuts Kell in half and he reforms in two pieces (two Kell's standing in front of Connor). This scene was cut from the final version of the film. Thank God, that appeared tacky. The other notable change was the voice over by Methos (Peter Wingfield)That goes like He's the oldest living immortal. This line is nowhere to be found in the film...Again, THANK GOD!!! I thought that would take away from Methos being the oldest living immortal and it would be too easy to say that the bad guy is just really old and powerful! Been done!!! They decided to obliterate all of those scenes and references from the final cut of the film! Ultimately, this is going to make the fans of the old films and the series very happy! The fight sequences are simply spectacular! Some of the absolute best fights in all of the Highlander film and episodes!!!! Go see it! You will not be disappointed! Hopefully it will make new fans as well! I give it a 9.5 /10!!!! I just HOPE they continue the franchise! It is worth it to keep it going!! So rush out...Run, don't walk and see HIGHLANDER ENDGAME!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Connor MacLeod Movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Three previous Highlander films have chronicled the immortal Connor MacLeod Now in Highlander Endgame we see aspects of Connor that have never before been shown.  This movie that introduces the series Highlander, Duncan MacLeod, is also a Connor film par excellence.  The living breathing humanity of the first Highlander just shines forth in Endgame. He is a hero in the best sense of the word.  I have never loved him more.  "},{"Title":"1 was enough, 2 was ok, 3 was pushing it, 4 pointless","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked Highlander and thought highlander 2 was ok then it went downhill. I thoguht maybe they could make this new movie well but I was dissaopinted by watching a 80min movie of bad acting, fighting which happend for no reason and heh sex too which really didnt need a reason. As i walked out of the theatre i wasnt the only one dissapointed, all i heard was o man that sucked and what a terrbile movie atfer hearing that I knew that all the highlander fans were going to be let down big time by this movie.  "},{"Title":"A BEAUTIFUL EMOTIONALLY WRENCHING FILM IN THE GRAND HIGHLANDER TRADITION!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Fans worldwide will not be disappointed in this film we have agonized over and waited for these past 3 years.  ADRIAN PAUL is absolutely Big Screen-ready and a gorgeous, multi-talented, romantic leading man solidly on his way to stardom.  CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT does some of the finest acting of his career as the heart-weary Connor MacLeod, Duncan's brother.PETER WINGFIELD appeared in a minuscule supporting role, but his superlative acting was well in evidence as was his perfect nailing of his role as Methos, the worldly wise, cynical 5000 year old Immortal.  In the devoutly hoped for (and contracted) follow-up to Endgame (Highlander-V), we believe the superb Mr. Wingfield will have a co-starring role with Mr. Paul.Bottom line I saw Highlander Endgame 3 times back to back on opening day and would warn others not to do that...this film is so visually and aurally stunning and so intensely, emotionally wrenching, that I could barely drag myself out of the theater and drive home.  It's a SO SATISFYING film...and a WINNER! Any warts one might quibble about are quite lost, negligible in the sweeping drama and thrilling pace of the film.  If one could have one magic wish, it would be to have seen the entire balletic sword kata Adrian did that was filmed, but greatly cut in editing the film down to a tight 95 minutes.Ignore negative media critics who never understood, even for a moment, what Highlander has always been all about, and never will.  This was a GREAT WONDERFUL FILM!  In its 2-week run here, I will see this enchanting, exciting film 26 more times.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all..","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had a lot of negative hype leading up to it... it was called crap on a stick by one review, and some other not altogether nice things.  As a result, I went into the theatre with pretty low expectations... and my oh my were they ever surpassed!It has lush visuals (I personally love the flashbacks), great fight scenes, interesting ideas, and some invigorating drama.  While the acting is admittedly a bit (well, ver) wooden, it's not bad... I guess after living for hundreds of years maybe immortals don't use their face muscles very much any more.  I didn't think the woodenness took away from the movie much, though.  I'm not sure if the plot would be too complicated for a total highlander uninitiate, but I've not seen any of the movies and maybe 10 episodes of the tv series and it made sense to me.  And while the flow of the plot may be a bit rough, it keeps you watching.Watch this movie with an open mind, and for fun (not spiritual enlightenment) and it should be good fun.  "},{"Title":"Die hard fans enjoy (if you can)! Everyone else, stay home.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a die hard fan of the highlander series, then you may enjoy this 90 minute television show episode.  Your two favorite characters, Duncan and Connor, battle it out together against one bad immortal and his evil henchmen.  The martial arts scenes are a nice added touch/new dimension.  It fills in some blanks of their multi-century existence, but ultimately doesn't uncover any major revelations. The two stars are not academy-award-winning material, and are hindered by a poorly written script which forces them into cheesy caricatures of themselves.  The villian is terribly overacted, and his motivation for being evil doesn't hold water.  Duncan's ex-wife is beautiful, bitter and banal, but ultimately flat.  Instead of tying up loose ends, they introduce new ones and then don't develop them.  The unspectacular final confrontation should have brought some explanation and closure to the saga, and after years of previous movies and TV shows building it up, it was ultimately a let down.  We are die hard fans, and we're glad we saw it; we just thought it could have been much better than it was.  We give it a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Finally!!!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It took TPTB 2 sequels until they got it right!!   It was pretty much what I expected it to be, yet I fully enjoyed it. Endgame kept to the original film's  feel and expanded it to tie the TV series perfectly and had a real touching moment, that I did not expect to be so. My only problem with it is that it seemed to be missing some scenes explaining things.  For example, there is one part where Duncan wants to face off against Kell.  First we see him training and then all of a sudden, he's in Kell's lair.  How did he know where he would be?  And also the ending beheading effect was a bit corny.  You will know what I mean when you see it. I now await Highlander 5.  Lets hope the producers now know how to do it good! "},{"Title":"Redeems the Highlander series","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Given the awful nature of the previous follow-ups, I was really surprised at how much I liked this film.  Instead of deviating from the original, the story goes back to Conner Macleod's roots and also perfectly introduces his relationship with Duncan.  Do yourself a favor and forget the other two horrible sequels.  Just watch the original and this one, which truly seems to have the heart of the original.  "},{"Title":"A definitive, all-around let-down (SPOILER!)","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being an avid fan of the Highlander universe, I was looking forward to this film with great anticipation for months.  However, the film left much to be desired.  It seemed like the director must have shot a 2-1/2 hour film before they edited down to 88 minutes.  The plot was disjointed at best, and there was little palpable character development.  Anyone who did not follow the TV series into its final days would have been lost watching this film. The costuming, especially for the villains, was just too cheesy- I think they recycled some clothing & make-up from Mad Max.  The special effects had a high-dollar look, but seemed to have been executed by an amateur hand. And even the cinematography was poor.  Fast-motion techniques were used to make some of the fight scenes look more exciting, but it made them laughable, ala Three Stooges.  Lighting & editing even suffered.  And if you ever saw The Karate Kid, wait until you see Connor MacLeod's version of the Crane Technique- just like Karate Kid, it fails, and Duncan has to overcome the failure in order to win the final battle.  This film is high octane cheese with low-budget script writing.  At the end, several people voiced (rather loudly) their disgust as the credits began to roll.  Episode 2 was a better film, if that gives you any idea... I wouldn't even pay to RENT this one. "},{"Title":"As bad as Highlander II The Quickening, but no Sean Connery","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is badly written, badly acted Highlander film is vying for Highlander II The Quickening's spot on the Worse Movies list. It appears to have been produced by the people who did the television show, and it's pacing and series of jarringly fractured and disjointed flashback sequences seem better suited for television than the big screen. As if a clunky storyline and rampant wooden acting weren't bad enough, the movie has some of the worse make up and hair styling I've ever seen in a major motion picture. Adrian Paul is sure to be up for a Razzie this year. "}{"Title":"Very Disappointed *SPOILERS*","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really disappointed with the movie.  I'm a big fan of both the series and the original movie and I feel like we fans have been screwed.  It seemed like the producers and director knew the fans would go see anything with the Highlander name no matter what the reviews said.  The acting by Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert were the only good parts.  The dialogue was bad and somewhat cheesy at points.  The part where Dawson and Methos entered seemed to have no point accept to let us see the two of them.  It was forced.  The script seemed choppy, like they ran out of money or had to make the movie shorter.  Also, I don't believe Duncan has ever been married.  One more thing, what's supposed to happen if two immortals fight on Holy ground? They did that a lot in this movie. "},{"Title":"A few nice sword fights, needed a better plot, better than 2","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There were a few decent fight scenes in the middle of the film, specifically the fight with the ?Samurai? Jin, but many of the later fight scenes were badly done.Christopher Lambert, Connor MacLeod, was good in the first Highlander, but he shouldn't have played a main role in this film. Adrian Paul, Duncan MacLeod, played a far more believable character. Duncan is a very cool character, too bad Adrian didn't get a better plot to work with.The villain was 2 dimensional for the most part and a little to loony to be much of an interesting character.This film contradicted the first in at least one major point, which I won't disclose. The writers needed to bang out a more involving story that fit within the rules of the first movie and the TV series. Most of the TV series plots were more involving and made more sense.Basically a fun flick to rent if you like Highlander, but it could have been much better. The plot and the direction of the movie felt unpolished. Better than Highlander2 (duh!), about as good as Highlander3, not as good as Highlander1. "},{"Title":"A let down","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie failed to live up to its potential.  Very weak direction and editing conspired to make this movie one of the most discombobulating cinematic experiences this year.  Scenes that were cut together, with flashbacks on flashbacks, made the plot (such as it was) extremely disjointed and difficult to follow.  The series was much better produced, directed, and edited than this poor excuse for a follow-up.  Disappointing. "},{"Title":"Great--almost like a two hour TV episode.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, I loved this film.  Sure, it wasn't perfect, but neither were the movies or the TV show.  But so what?  It's fun, the fight choreography was good, and it features BOTH Duncan AND Connor MacLeod (of the Clan MacLeod). Hong Kong action star Donnie Yen (from Iron Monkey and Once Upon a Time in China II, among many others) has a role in the film, although he isn't the main vilian.The movie itself seems more like a long episode of the TV series, rather than a movie, but that's okay.  I like the TV shows better than the movies. Highlander fans won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"My impressions of the  film upon first viewing.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  From the technical standpoint, this isn't really very good. But if you love Highlander, like I do, than you will like this movie. It's great for the avid Highlander fan. I loved it. After waiting for three years to see it, I don't know what to do now. I guess I'll just wait for the next one! "},{"Title":"Latest Highlander outing a sore disappointment","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A mind-numbingly short movie which lacked the great cinematography, flair, characterization, and flow of the original. Although he is meant to be the main character, Duncan Macleod is not given a proper introduction to the audience, and any non-Highlander fan would not get a chance to even care about his character.Connor Macleod's character is RAPED off any flair, humor, and attitude displayed in the movies, and even the TV pilot. He is portrayed as morose and bitter, rather than weary. This change cannot be stressed enough.The editing was subpar, with many scenes thrown in no particular sequence, and the flashbacks are introduced with surprisingly low ingenuity.The action scenes are shot badly, with the audience sometimes missing key shots, or getting bad angles, i.e. Duncan's back-handspring.None of the characters are fleshed out enough. Why and how do Duncan and Jin know each other? Why do they talk about honor? Do we even care? Here's an idea, let the audience know what the hell is going on. The character of Kate/Faith is not given sufficient onscreen time to allow us to actually believe she would actually join with Kell. Repeat this formula for most of the other characters in the film.Overall, a HUGE underachievement, and most likely the last Highlander feature film to ever be made.waylayer  "},{"Title":"A film for fans","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Endgame is a little different for the other films.  A bit surreal and brooding. A story about hard choices.  I'm not sure that a non-highlander fan will get anything out of this.  The fight scenes are flasher then on the TV show, and are fun to watch. If you are a fan, go see it. "},{"Title":"There can be only two?","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Highlander series seems to get more convoluted with each movie.  In the first, Christopher Lambert won The Prize.  But since then, for the sake of sequals...there just seem to be other immortals crawling out of the woodwork.  There have been some lame excuses in the past for why they were still around...as in the atrocious third movie.  This time around, they quit trying to fake it and they just pretend that the present day events from the first movie don't exist.  Don't get yourself caught up in trying to make sense of it. I won't say anymore, lest I be a spoiler.As a stand-alone movie...it was very good.  Obviously done for the same reasons as Star Trek  Generations, as a crossover movie to pass the torch to the younger stars.  Lambert shows his age, and Paul is still young enough to carry a movie series.  The action was excellent, the plot was ok.It was nice to see some cameos from the TV series, as well as from the original movie.  (Including a quick shot of the building the climax of the first movie took place...PRICELESS!)In summary, go see the movie, and enjoy it, just don't try to see it as a sequal to the original Highlander. "},{"Title":"Great for Highlander fans","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was actually surprised- this was a pretty good flick in general... but it is even better if you're a Highlander fan.  There were some disappointments (to say more would ruin the plot!), such as the ending... which, in my opinion, was a bit rushed.  But it *did* answer a lot of questions that you were left with after the first 3, and if you have seen the other Highlander films, you will be delighted with a bunch of little tributes to the other Highlander films throughout the movie.  Christopher Lambert is aged but still good-- and Adrian Paul (much to my surprise) was actually good as well.  So if you're a Highlander fan-- you should definitely see this! "},{"Title":"This review has spoilers so BEWARE!!!!!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this the most emotional of the entire series both movie and television.  I was really impressed with the direction, cinemetography and acting.  The fight scenes and effects were awesome.  Being a stead-fast fan since the beginning I have always held a special place in my heart for Connor and from his final fight with Duncan to the end with Duncan standing over Connor and Heather's grave, I cried as I have never cried before in a movie.  The only consolation to Connor's death was his revival in the final fight.  When Connor's voice comes out of Duncan's mouth everyone snaps to attention.  All in all the movie was very well put together and I recommend that any Highlander fan see it.  Even if you aren't a Highlander fan I recommend it.  It has a solid plot and doesn't stray from its focus which accounts for the low running time.  I say it is definitely worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Finally, a Highlander sequel that won't make you want to cut off your own head!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  HIGHLANDER END GAME may very well be the first in a long line of HIGHLANDER movies starring Adrian Paul.  The action is good.  There's good character interest.  It doesn't overreach or spend too much time dwelling on the first movie.  This movie is modeled after the popular HIGHLANDER TV show, which also starred Adrian Paul as the heroic Duncan MacLeod.  Christopher Lambert also returns as a disillusioned Connor MacLeod, who trained Duncan in the ways of immortality.  The movie deals with their friendship, as well as Duncan and Connor both facing the consequences of mistakes they made in the past.  The movie isn't all drama of course.  Adrian Paul delivers a top-notch action performance.  The movie does play fast and loose with Highlander continuity, but this is nothing new for fans of the series. (Simply put, neither HIGHLANDER 2 or HIGHLANDER THE FINAL DIMENSION ever happened.  The ending of the first movie never happened either, since Connor and the Kurgan weren't really the last two immortals.)  The film's villian, Kell, is not as interesting as previous adversaries, but the filmmakers have done their best to make this a movie about the heroes, not the villians. Special note to fans of the TV show Joe Dawson and Methos pop up in the movie from time to time, but very briefly.  HIGHLANDER END GAME is a good action movie, certainly the best HIGHLANDER sequel, and maybe even the best of the entire series (even without Sean Connery).  "},{"Title":"Recommend if you are truly a Highlander fan","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As good as the original but not as good as the series.  A little disjointed. The fight scenes were jumpy but probably because Adrian Paul is far better than the others with the sword. Overall very enjoyable. Reminds me how much I miss the series.  I definitely will see it again and add it to my dvd collection.  "},{"Title":"A good addition to a great series.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Overall a good movie. The sword sequences are quite well done. Adrian Paul and Donnie Yen particularly shine in their scenes. It is good to see Lambert and Paul together and they play off against each other well. The script is better than the previous two sequels' but like the other Highlander movies the potential is much greater than the follow through. Highlander The Series lived up to this potential in spades and with Paul top billed for this film I expected a more Series-quality film. This was not to be though and this stems from the film's most apparent problem. It seems the filmmakers couldn't decide to play to a more mainstream audience or to stay true to the fans. The result is the film stays somewhere in between these two poles and this could prove disappointing to both fans as well as Highlander virgins. Also, in terms of potential, there are some very good characters introduced here but a short run-time for the film doesn't allow for a lot of time to flesh these characters out. The main villain, Kell is decent but somehow I expected more, especially with the film's outcome (very dramatic for fans). Despite all this there is a lot to like about the film and it rates above the past two sequels. It is good to see another chapter in the lives of these great characters and the background we get is impressive even if some of it doesn't fit with established Highlander lore. For fans this is a must see and hopefully there are more to come.  "},{"Title":"Inaccuracies make this film unbearable","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning spoiler ahead. The Highlander, are a group of immortals that battle through eternity until there is only one, then they gain ultimate knowledge as a prize for this game. This prize was one in the first film.  As they say, `There can be only one'.  This phrase should be amended.  It should now read, `There can be only one&#133;except for the villain of the next film, his gang of thugs, a never before mentioned  brother, and his wife.'  The film is entirely hypocritical about its rules, breaking them every other moment, yet that all doesn't seem to matter to any of the characters. The plot was rather mundane and drawn out.  The characters were shallow. And the only real selling feature the film had going was it's nifty big budget effect seen in the commercials (you know, the one where Bruce Payne get cut into two characters) but unfortunately not in the film.  And the whole, two must face him together ad campaign was another lure to get you into the theater, but not delivered.  I won't go into the details for those who haven't seen the film, but to those that have I ask you this.  Why do the advertisements say two will face him together, when that isn't what happens in the movie?  Some might say that they are joined, but if that was what happens to the immortals when they are absorbed, why have we never seen this strange occurrence before?  And what is it that makes this new enemy so powerful that he must be faced by two immortals teamed up anyhow.  Since his magical powers seen in the commercials were left on the editing room floor, he is just a little more experienced than the others.   That doesn't make him as special as they make you believe. Over all this film was a disappointment to me.  I would highly advise you to wait and rent it.  Or better yet, wait for a network broadcast.  "},{"Title":"Better than expected, but had the potential for more...","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  And once again, welcome to the wonderful world of Highlander, where all the material so far contradicts with everything else. All of the movies take place with a slightly different take on each other, with only the newest release, Highlander Endgame, following canon, or at least, its own version of it. This new movie, starring Adrian Paul (Duncan McLeod) and Christopher Lambert (Connor McLeod) borrows elements from the 1st movie while ignoring that the last 2 movies even existed (Thank God!)It is mainly a movie continuation of the well-regarded TV series starring Paul. In this one, we learn that Conner, unable to cope with his immortal existence any longer, is being kept in a coma in a place called The Sancutary. His slumber is disturbed by a mysterious Immortal from his past named Jason Kell, who has no regard for the rules that all Immortals must follow for their existence, and kills everyone except Connor. Duncan, sensing this occurring, leaves Paris to find Connor and to hunt Kell, who has a band of Immortal followers, including a former love from Duncan's past. Lots of beheadings, fight scenes, and a love scene ensue, with only one left standing in the end.I enjoyed this movie. There was enough explanation of the various rules and story to allow the casual viewer to follow along. Fans of the television series and movies will obviously enjoy the movie more and will pick up on the little touches in the film, such as the movie studio sign, cameos of actors from the 1st film, the end theme ('Bonny Portmore', which has become the unofficial theme of Highlander) as well as other little touches.However, i did have some issues with the film. Such as the limited use of Methos and Joe Dawson (Peter Wingfield and Jim Byrnes, respectively), who seemed to be there for window dressing, the ending seemed to be rushed, and the premise didn't seem to be 'Big' enough to warrant a movie treatment. TV fans know that there were episodes (the Horsemen 2-parter comes to mind) that were strong enough plot-wise that they would stand better than HE in theatres.Overall, Highlander Endgame is good, but seems to play more like an episode of the series rather than something on the big screen. Good, but like Star Trek Insurrection, slightly disappointing considering the effort put into it.Verdict Good fun for the casual viewer, and a must-see for the fan. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Two for the price of ONE.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie.  Though the plot had plenty of holes in it and there were inconsistencies with the series, the spirit and heart of Highlander shone throughout.  The chemistry between Christopher Lambert and Adrian Paul was terrific to watch, and the scene on the hotel roof is something I'll remember for a long time.  The special effects and action sequences were very well done, and the flashbacks were a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"There is one good thing that came from this movie...","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went into Highlander Endgame with a sense of hope.  What the hell was wrong with me??  The director tried to make an epic movie fit into an hour and a half.  It worked to some extent.  The movie actually felt like it was over four hours long.  The action sequences are decent.  I will admit that, but the plot holes created, poor story, and many unanswered questions leave this movie as lifeless as on of its decapitated victims.I said there is one good thing, that is true.  This movie completely destroys the second Highlander movie.  Thank God! "},{"Title":"I'd rather lose a limb than see this film again.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I've ever seen in my entire life. It blows away Highlander II for sheer stupidity, with a jumble of disjointed scenes that don't amount to a film and nothing but horribly trite lines for characters that were once actually interesting. Hopefully after this one, Davis/Panzer will just let this franchise die. "},{"Title":"Godfather 2 was better","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I won't even start, there's not much to say about this movie.  Granted I didn't expect it to be great, but I was surprised at how bad it turned out to be.I never had the time, nor luxury, to sit down and watch many episodes of the T.V. series.  I was at a loss for most of this movie.  It appeared to be a long episode of the T.V. series.  The running time was a tad under one and a half hours.There were a lot of things that made no sense in the movie.  They needed to be explained to the viewer.  This is almost the same reason x-files failed as a film.  The difference, is that x-file had plenty of fans of the film, where as highlander scared off most of their fans with 2 and 3.There were large unexplained gaps in the film where people would travel to unknown destinations for no apparent reason other than to fight the bad guy.The acting was good, but the direction and writting were terrible.  This was a bad director, and an even worse writer.  I'll make sure to avoid their films in the future. "},{"Title":"A Good Television to Movie Change....but not great movie material","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally Duncan MacLeod has made it to the big screen.  But what to do with Connor?  The whole movie tries to focus on one then the other and kind of slips between the cracks.  Overall I enjoyed the movie quite a bit.  There is some explanation to the Highlander 2-3 fiascos but there isn't a whole lot of reasoning given to why Connor is still immortal.  Go see this if you are a die hard fan of the movies and have a good idea of the series characters.  Otherwise you will be totally lost.  For the Scotland buffs there is some magnificent footage of Scotland that just takes your breath away.  This movie is worth the $5.00 matinee price but I wouldn't invest in popcorn too. "}{"Title":"A wild ride through the world of the immortals. (possible spoilers I'll try not to though)","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie! When I first saw the preview I thought, Great another Highlander 3. But when I went to watch it I was pleasantly suprised that much of the footage in the trailors was not in this film. There are some great in jokes in it. I'll clue you in, one involves Edge who is in a scene early on. And the other has to do with the number of immortals Kell has killed. Another thing, I am now totally in love with Lisa Barbuscia. Just be forwarned this one ain't for the kids. "},{"Title":"Can there be only one?","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Highlander franchise name is sullied once more with another non-canon film, screwing with already established ideas and rules.Duncan McCloud? A clan ends up with more than 1 immortal. This is truly unlikely when you refer back to the 1st Highlander film where the various immortals came from for The Gathering.Then Kell? Who comes from the same village as Conner McCloud? 3 immortals in 1 village? How likely are the odds of that then? So we see Racheal from Highlander get killed in a trap by Kell designed to kill Conner. Conner willing gives his life to allow Duncan to face Kell. The No Fighting On Hallowed Ground rule is blatantly ignored.This film, I have no idea where it's supposed to fit into the Highlander Universe. Is it even supposed to fit? Our villain Kell is a classic Hollywood bad Englishman. Stereo typing working to form there.Loved the little joke by Duncan at WWE Edge's expense. Nice little touch there.Couldn't tell if the fighting in the chains was a reference to Hellraiser, Alien or Predator 2.Also not really sure if the Grey haired watcher with the beard was supposed to look a little like Sean Connery as Ramirez or if that was a coincidence.The fact that these immortals could create other immortals was totally going to a new place that Highlander had never tried. If this had been the case then Conner could have allowed Racheal or Heather to live as an immortal.Was Duncan speaking in Conners voice at the final battle? I assume this film was designed to allow the Highlander franchise to cross over to TV but Conner frequently appears in the TV show (no, I don't know if they are flashbacks. I can't remember) Hopefully this will be the last throw of the dice for the Highlander franchise. The best was the first, there truly could be only one.Oh, and how did Duncan get the prize if his wife was alive? She was an immortal as well. The fight was still there. "},{"Title":"Highlander Crapshoot","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is a woefully bad finale to a series that started with such promise. The original Highlander was a mad mix of swords, sorcery and pop video production. Despite Christopher Lambert's improbable accent, the first movie had enough nerve and energy to make moviegoers forget about the preposterous plot and simply enjoy the thrill ride.This is patently not so in Highlander Endgame. Talented actors like Bruce Payne are clearly only there for the money and small-screen Macleod Adrian Paul is so wooden that he almost blends in with the rickety sets. Christopher Lambert looks like he wants to turn to the camera and say I've worked with Sean Connery, Sean £*@%ing CONNERY! whenever he appears. Even his doubtful acting talent is wasted in a movie this bad. The fight scenes are patently staged and the dialogue sounds like it was freshly spooned out of a can of the Green Giant's finest. There are student films with higher production values than Highlander Endgame.Apparently there is a plot to Highlander Endgame but I didn't have anyone who'd been brave or foolish enough to watch the other films and TV series to hand to explain it to me. Presumably such people exist, locked away from the light of day in concrete bunkers, strapped into chairs in case they harm themselves and fed with Coca Cola and mashed-up potato crisps intravenously.I watched this movie late one night, guiltily hoping that it would either get better or reach a nadir where its very badness would begin to make it amusing. Unfortunately it remained banal and incomprehensible from start to finish, without even a hint of the style that made the original Highlander so watchable. "},{"Title":"O.K Here it is the explanation of the entire Highlander series","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ***CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL HIGHLANDER FILMS & T.V SERIES!!!*** Here it is once and for all the entire explanation for the Highlander films continuity issue. Connor Macleod Born was born in 1518 in the village of Glenfinnan on the shores of Loch Shiel. Due to the shock of a violent death at the hands of the Kurgan, Macleod becomes Immortal. Being Immortal in such an understanding time he is banished from his village to live in exile. In exile he meets his bunny Heather, his first wife. During this time in exile he returns home to take care of his sick mother. However a childhood friend of Connor named Jacob Kell who is a priest doesn't like that Connor is coming back home because he feels that Connor is Evil due to his immortality, so Kell decides to destroy the source of his evilness by burning Connors mother Cowan at the stake. Macleod super bent at this kills Kell and Kell's father-figure. Thus making Kell Immortal. After Connors wife dies he wonders the world searching for answers and ends up in Japan at the Mountains of Niri, in the caves of the sorcerer Nakano. Evil Immortal Kane shows up and kills Nakano, and takes his power of Illusion. However b/c Kane fought on Holy Ground the cave collapsed, trapping them in for centuries. After Connor escaped Japan he travels around, finding Duncan Macleod, his fellow Clansmen and they have many adventures together. In the 80's Macleod deals w/ the gathering and defeats The Kurgan. Then in the 90's Connor & Duncan team up to kill the evil Immortal Slan Quince. Then Shortly after that Kane and his fellow evil immortals escape from the cave in Japan to find the highlander. Long story short Connor kills Kane & takes the power of Illusion. Not too Long after this Connor & Duncan pair up again to destroy Kell. Connor uses the power of Illusion to make Duncan think that He killed him 2 combine their powers & Duncan defeats Kell. Then way far in the Future Connor becomes Immortal once again and Kills Katana. See isn't the Connor Macleod Timeline easy to follow? "},{"Title":"Pretty Much as Bad as Sci Fi/Fantasy can get.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Where to even start with this one. I certainly don't consider myself a movie critic, but I'm not such a fan boy that I can see a film about a particular story line such as this, that I'm fond of, and not recognize when I have stepped in a pile of cat feces. Essentially the entire movies' dramatic highlight is the death of Connor, which is juiced for every freaking ounce of melodramatic OOOOOH Look what WE did that they can juice it for. Not to mention, considering the Highlander movies penchant for saying UUUh, okay, pretend that didn't happen, THIS IS THE story or Ah but this is a prelude to this past movie, Connors death is about as profound as the death of a comic book character you know you are going to see again in two more issues.The villain, played by Bruce Payne, is one of the most over acted characters I have seen since the villains of the old Silent Movies, where actors had to shake their fists and arch an eye brow at the camera to show how wicked they were. If the performance could be likened to a photograph, it would be so over exposed you would think you where looking at note book paper.The Plot might have been interesting, but clearly fell short in my opinion since I can barely remember what it was. I do seem to remember a fantastic and ANTI-climatic scene where a bunch of people sit stoic like at a dinner table as the villain who has just BETRAYED them, begins to systematically decapitate the seemingly disinterested immortals under his command.And yet, people who like to stare are Adrian Paul, love the Highlander franchise, or hang around in role playing stores in stretched over worn Xena Warrior Princess shirts will STILL love this movie. I'm saddened it isn't sitting on a one star rating here on IMDb.Feh. "},{"Title":"$5,000,000 of potential down the drain.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  By 2000, the Highlander franchise was approaching the peak of its popularity. When it was announced that a fourth film, uniting Christopher Lambert (of the film series) and Adrian Paul (of the television series) would be released, it sounded like a dream come true. Finally, the Highlander film series had a chance for redemption.And what's the result? $5,000,000 worth of potential thrown down the drain.Instead, we are given the darkest and most unsatisfactory film in the entire series. The story involves Duncan MacLeod (Paul) looking for kinsman Connor (Lambert), to aid him in his fight against an evil immortal (Bruce Payne) who has become too powerful to face alone. First of all, the acting. The acting is pretty good, and all our favorite characters are here not only both MacLeods, but also Joe Dawson (Jim Byrnes, of the TV show) and fan favorite Methos (Peter Wingfield). Duncan is as he should be, but Connor MacLeod has been re-designed as an insanely depressed old man. Dawson has some fine scenes, but there was much more potential for Methos. And the baddie? Jacob Kell is the most uninteresting evildoer I've ever seen. No one cares, and he's so emotionless as to make him completely ignorable. Duncan MacLeod's ex-wife (Lisa Barbuscia) would have made a better baddie than him!The direction is good, especially for the sword-fighting scenes. The script is very weak, and weak and boring attempt to bring the television series to the screen. In fact, the whole film feels like one, big, very bad two-parter of the TV show. The score is pretty good (by Nick Glennie-Smith and Stephen Graziano).All in all, I was extremely disappointed with this fourth entry in the Highlander series. It had everything you needed to make a great film, and instead we have this depressing trash. Here's to the hope that Highlander The Source shall redeem our beloved, lost Highlander film franchise.  "},{"Title":"Fails because of the villain","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was a big fan of the 1st movie and the series (the 2nd and 3rd features...well, let's just pretend they don't exist). So this review is definitely from that perspective. I didn't come to this film fresh, but I suspect most who watched it didn't either. In the end...it's an okay movie that suffers a cascading failure because of a poorly-conceived villain.I liked the flashback scenes between Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert, showing the development of the friendship between their two characters. The two actors have an obvious chemistry; it's too bad Lambert didn't pop up more often in the series. Why wasn't Connor around more often anyway? At least this movie ties up that loose end.Also good was the sub-plot involving Duncan's immortal wife(!). Very logical for the character, especially given that he never married in the series. Why not? The film resolves that loose end too.But the movie falls apart because of the villain. First, he's tiresome. At least Clancy Brown (and many others in the series) had some good lines. Second, he's poorly conceived. He's supposed to be awesome because he's killed more immortals than Duncan or Connor combined? So what?!?Duncan took out several immortals on the series MUCH older than himself who would have had a MUCH higher kill count--Kronos, in particular, comes to mind. Why is this guy such a bother? Only because he fights with a team, and before the big battle, what does he do? He kills them! MORON!And the ultimate fight scene is over-long and unpleasant. Duncan held his own against six guys earlier in the flick (best action sequence in the film, BTW), but this one putz gives him a problem? Come on. The series established Duncan as an immortal warrior supreme--to be a big threat, the guy would have to have something special going for him, and this guy didn't.And that leads to the biggest problem of all. Because I couldn't believe the villain was much of a threat, I couldn't accept Connor's sacrifice, which is supposed to be the big, poignant scene in this picture. It seemed out of character for him as well--the MacLeods are fighters. If the big threat of the villain was fighting with a team, why not have Connor and Duncan FACE him as a team? And with a few other favorite immortals thrown in, such as Amanda and Methos? (Where the heck was Amanda anyway? And Peter Wingfield was wasted. Good stuff with Joe, though--he's wonderfully ruthless.)Worth seeing if you were a fan of the series, but it's more like a mediocre two-parter than a feature. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Ok film, worth a viewing.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is no where near as good as the first highlander film, but I'm not saying it's bad.  It's a pretty good film with a pretty good story, some cool fights and a lot of cool things to look at.I have to say that I know absolutely nothing about the TV series, I've never once watched it and don't really care too, I'm just a fan of the films.  What I'm getting at, is that you don't need to know anything about the TV series to understand the film.The actors all did a fine job in the film.  Christopher Lambert does a great job as Connor MacLeod, as usual.  I've never really seen Adrian Paul before, but I thought he did a fine job in this film.  Bruce Payne plays a great antagonist!  Lisa Barbuscia does a great job too, and isn't that hard on the eyes either.  The rest of the cast is pretty good too.As for the story, it's pretty good.  It cracks me up so much that in every movie they add something new that wasn't in the previous films.  For instance, what is this about having to experience a sudden fatal wound before becoming an immortal?  That wasn't in the other films.  But ok, I guess so?  I don't really like to look at these films as a series, but more like films with similar stories and characters, but not related to each other.  Also, what's this about The Watchers, they weren't mentioned in any of the other films?  Maybe they were mentioned in the television series, I'm not sure.All in all, I thought this was a good film, but nothing earth-shattering.  I do kind of wish we could have seen more fights involving Donnie Yen, he's a pretty impressive martial artist.  If you like the other highlander films then you'll probably want to see it.  I hope that you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Continuing to destroy and defile this series.  Beware my spoilers.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can find the good in just about any movie.  Heck, I like HL2 The Renegade Version, even if it's only for the performances of the three leads(it's true- the rest is trash).  But I could rant for hours about this movie. Let me just say that, in a franchise with such muddy and contradictory continuity, you'd think the producers would want to make a film that fits comfortably into the new continuity created for the Highlander Series. But, no.  This film manages to contradict both the original film(which we all expected, be honest), and the Series, which most HL fans consider the true canon.  Consider  Connor has been in the Sanctuary since 1990, but was in Seacouver with Duncan in 1992.  The Watchers seem to know all about the Sanctuary, which is run by other, presumably rogue, Watchers.  But in the series, the Watchers tried to kill Joe for allowing just a small group of Immortals to learn about the Watchers.  So why in the name of Jake haven't they shut down this Sanctuary?  If the Watchers are such a big secret, how do all the Immortals in the Sancturary know about them?  Why isn't the Sanctuary on holy ground, for crying out loud?!  And, in the series, it has been strongly indicated that Immortals are never born, that they are always foundlings.  So why doesn't Connor's mother just admit that she didn't give birth to him?There are other problems as well.  Connor and Duncan both come from the clan MacLeod, we all know that.  But now comes Kell, who _also_ comes from the village of Glenfinnan on the shores of Loch Shiel!  How many Immortals can this one little village produce?  Why has it taken the villagers so long to decide to burn Connor's mother?  Ramirez is gone; Connor and Rachel live in their little house; so it's been at least five or six years since Connor was driven from his village.  Also, the clan's priest seems to have aged about twenty years.  The special effects throughout this mess blow big time. And, laughably, a section of the final fight sequence is repeated!  The story, even ignoring the inconsistencies with the other Highlander pieces, makes very little sense.  Methos and Joe are completely misused, as are Heather and Rachel.And most of all, killing Connor is enough to invalidate this film altogether.But anyway, if you're a fan of the Highlander film or Series, skip this movie.  If you're a fan of movies in general, skip this movie.  If you really want a cinematic sequel to Highlander go see THE HUNTED, featuring Lambert and John Lone.  It has Christopher with a katana, beheadings, and is so much better than this trash. "},{"Title":"A fresh start?","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie in many ways, I was baffled in others.While the story seemed choppy and less than fluid in it's telling, I believe I understand why.  Connor had to be dealt with, a fitting end to the very wonderful original character, and so begins, continues,  the new Highlander.I noticed that scenes I had seen in the television commercial for Endgame did not appear in the movie, so, it is my assumption that another Highlander is already in the can, and when released will not be burdened by the history of the original movie series.  Then we will finally see a full length feature entirely focused and fluid, with Duncan as the star.I can hardly wait for the next one! "}{"Title":"Good addition to the second Highlander universe","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  By now we should have known we couldn't go back to the universe of the first Highlander movie. Those that were expecting it have only themselves to blame... did the last two movies not teach them anything?Viewed as a continuation of the TV series, the movie makes perfect sense, and is a good addition to that universe. We should remember the first one as an excellent story, and frankly, the best of the bunch, but Highlander Endgame should not be held in the same light because of the universe switch.(Spoilers ahead)Connor's inability to cope with his losses is believable. He never did come across as the steady, even man that Duncan is, and the loss of Rachel, his daughter for all intents and purposes, would surely have been the thing to push him over the edge. He at least maintained the clarity that if he cannot bear his grief, at least he should donate his power to the defeat of the bad guy.As to the quality of the movie itself, a bit too much of the story remains untold for my taste. Just as the scenes explaining Rachel were cut from the first movie, scenes explaining the Watchers, Joe, Methos, and Kate/Faith were lost here, but then since we're expected to know Connor and Duncan, then we're also expected to know them (except Kate) I suppose. So I can forgive that as well. The editing was at least cleanly done, and we didn't have inconsistent comments in the movie a'la X-Men and Xavier's revival.Adrian Paul was in exquisite form, and Donnie Yen was more impressive than Jet Li. A good performance was even dragged out of Christopher Lambert... that indicates the director worked extremely hard to make the movie good. But why did the movie earn an 8/10 from me? Because it brings the TV series to the big screen in an effective manner and didn't write itself into a corner. Aside from the cuts made, the story and direction were good, and the cinematography was well-executed. All the closed spaces where scenes were shot, and the dark scenes that didn't lose detail indicate to me that Douglas Milsome knows his craft.So see the movie, but don't expect to return to the world of the first film.  "},{"Title":"Great Stuff!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was better than the first! Not to mention, a great continuation of the series. It was great to see Dawson and Methos in the film. This movie had it all. I was deeply moved by the drama between Conner and Duncan. The Kate & Duncan scenes were good, too. They helped us learn more about Duncan (and a little more about immortals). "},{"Title":"I was surprised and impressed by this movie","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted, Connor MacLeod started the Highlander franchise and is a good character. I just seem to identify with Duncan MacLeod a little more for some reason. Maybe that's why I liked this movie. I liked the story and the characters. While I DO wish there had been more scenes that explored the relationship between Duncan MacLeod and Kate MacLeod/Faith, the rest of the movie was the best of the sequels.  "},{"Title":"Not for series fans, not for movie fans, not for new fans...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Here is the problem with Endgame  It isn't a sequel to the original Highlander or the series.  Basically, fans have to recall some of what they've seen before, but forget other parts of it.  The biggest problem is that the movie is set in the present, so we have to forget that Connor won the Prize in HL1 (which was pretty much the whole point of that movie...). It also contradicts things we've learned from the series.  The only way they could have seemlessly combined these different universes (connected only by the fact that Connor and Duncan are related) was by setting the whole story before the 20th century.  If they really felt they couldn't make a Highlander movie without setting it in the present, then they shouldn't have even had Connor in it.  Plus the writers completely changed Connor's character to make him more despaired, and less capable than he was in the original film.  While the movie is enjoyble, it's not a continuation of anything.  Highlander The Final Dimension is the closest thing we'll get for a sequel to Highlander.  It's better than Endgame...If you want to look at how Endgame should have been done, pick up Jason Henderson's book The Element of Fire.  This is an adventure featuring both Highlanders over the centuries.  It is written in a way that it doesn't contradict either plotline (movie vs. series) and will be enjoyable to ALL Highlander fans.  Not just fans who like HL1, but like to forget the end of it, fans who like to forget the first episode of the series, etc... "},{"Title":"I Wish There Could Be Only One","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the beginning, there was Highlander, and it actually made sense in its own fantastical way.  Then came Highlander II, which was half as good as the original and twice as enigmatic.  Highlander The Final Dimensional saw the point at which the whole idea really went to being a franchise, making a movie just to be doing so.  Of course, the Powers That Be couldn't leave bad enough alone, so they decided to make a fourth picture that couldn't even stand the test of the previous farce.  The dialogue was cliched and so were the characters, especially Kell, fighting his maniacal crusade because he feels he is doing the right thing.  If fact, none of the characters could hold a candle to their previous incarnations, least of all Connor, who has become a melo-dramatic, hopeless husk of his formal glory.  Please, put all the immortals to rest and allow the first and true Highlander movie be the one and only Prize for which the writers and directors of this fast-sinking series are remembered. -N.A.Crane "},{"Title":"The best sword fight of all time!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is basically a big budget episode of the tv show.  Excellent plot, but a little slow moving.  It does have the greatest sword fight ever in a movie, though.  Overall, worth your time, especially if you're a fan. "},{"Title":"There can be only one...and this is the one!","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i just recently saw this on DVD and it is the best highlander movie i've seen! the action rules, the story adds on to connor and duncan's past, the characters are well acted, and the naughty bits, suberb. heh. theis movie also proves who the best immortal is, as you will see when connor and duncan...you'll see. overall, if you loved highlander, you'll love this movie. heck, after watching this movie, my friend and i sword fought with my murasane and his tachi! love it all! "},{"Title":"At long last a worthy sequel","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Like most of you, I've found the sequels to Highlander largely unwatchable.  I also was never that fond of the TV series (basically a take it or leave it attitude).  Finally, though, we have a sequel worthy of the original.  While it does retrace some old ground and modify some of the history, I found it extremely entertaining and in keeping with the original's spirit.  Plus, there's none of the usual overacting (although Lambert gets carried away at times).  And Adrian Paul is fantastic in a rather understated performance.  I'd recommend watching the first one and then this one and pretend the ones in the middle were just a bad dream. "},{"Title":"I was a fool to think that this movie would actually be good.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to agree with those who complain about Endgame. I can think of good things to say about it. The actors did a good job with the material that they were given and the movie had some very stunning scenes. But, there's a lot here to complain about. For one thing, the characters are completely inconsistent in their behavior. I can't elaborate on that without this review containing major spoilers so I'll just leave it at that. The movie is just completely inconsistent with the television series. I've heard that the movie was not suppose to be a continuation of the series, but I have news for the writers of this film and the other Highlander films. When people see the same actor playing the same character in a movie or tv series then they expect the stories to be continuous. You can't toss out ten different timelines and expect the fans to choose which one they like. Another complaint that I have is the length of the film. The movie was just way too short. It takes no time to tell the viewer about the characters. Even Duncan and Connor would seem like flat and one dimensional characters if the viewer were not already familiar with them. And there's just several things that happen in the movie that needed an explanation but didn't get one. This movie just makes me so mad because I feel that the movie was cut to pieces just so that more money could made on a director's cut when released on video and DVD. Maybe I'm wrong, but it seems to me that the producers of Highlander have no respect for the fans and think that we're all total idiots who can't tell that a movie they give us has major errors. And maybe they're right. Afterall, I paid to see this movie after sitting through the last two horrible movies that they gave us. But I can tell you one thing for sure. After seeing this movie, the Highlander franchise will never get another cent of my money. "},{"Title":"Lets be fair, look at it for what it is, part of the TV series, not the Film Series","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lets be fair.  This is not Highlander 4, it's the capstone movie to Highlander the Series.  The Series has only the name, and the overall plot concepts in common with the original movie, and the others.  There really should be no continuity comparisons between this movie and the others, as it follows them only in name, not in story.The series is it's own storyline, always was. It changed many of the 'established facts' of the original movie to better suit a long running series, rather than a 2 hr film.  More or less, the original movie was set late in the 'game', when there were only a handful of the immortals left. The Gathering was near.  In the series, the gathering isn't nearing, it's more of a legend.  The number of immortals is large (Duncan does quite a bit of thinning, but still there are more), and new ones are being created all the time.  This 'game' may run forever.  This idea is well suited for a series, something that can last for many many many episodes.  You can't string the audience along with 6 immortals for 8 seasons, it would be boring.Taking the film for what it is, it's all right.  I wasn't overly impressed, but it wasn't as annoying or repulsive as 2 and 3.  Duncan was a more important character than Connor in the series.  Connor was mainly there to introduce the series, and give the pilot a boost.  He was really a minor character.  In the series, immortals had very complex relationships, and sometimes working together for years. This was in the first movie, but in a more guarded, limited capacity.  Ramirez implied he was going to move on once Connor was ready to make his own in the world, and Castagir hadn't seen Connor in 100 years, it being 200 years since they spent any time together. Not as chummy, but not 100% cold shoulder either.The film works hard to explain differences in the life of Connor from first movie to series/last movie, doing a pretty good job, it does seem rushed, and a little contrived, but it worked. Like most Sci-Fi/Fantasy stories, the more they try to explain 'how things work' the deeper and deeper they dig themselves into a hole.  This creates one of the silliest or most confusion elements of the story transference of Quickening. Which annoyed many viewers.Overall, for a fan of the series, this should be an enjoyable film. For fans of the original film, it may be disappointing. Personally, I am holding out for a movie version of a rumored screenplay a biopic of Juan Sanchez Villalobos Ramirez, that Spanish Peacock!!! (Maybe Connery can be talked into it, but I won't hold my breath) "}{"Title":"I tought that this was the last film... ENDGAME!","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First of all, this was a fine, solid installment in Highlander films. OK, to be honest, it was not that good in some ways. But, still it's OK. Acting is hilarious, the only good actor is Bruce Payne (Jacob Kell), he gave us a fine, slightly over-the-top performance. I must admit that Christopher Lambert changed his acting for this one, he was quite better here. Adrian Paul was... well... nothing special, he has more destiny to play marital arts heroes (because of his martial arts knowledge and fine sword fight skills). Other actors... nothing special. Donnie Yen for example, he amused me a lot in this film. The action is good, it's fast and well-choreographed. The sword fights are faster and meaner, I must admit, this Highlander holds the best sword fighting scenes ever. In first Highlander films, they were kinda slow and not that quite exciting.The story and the script were not that quite solid, but still keeps a good work, music is nothing special, camera is good and other things are... well kinda OK. I just enjoy watching this film, it's very entertaining.Oh, to mention, there is a sex scene. So, they kept the tradition too. Good! Only kidding. Watch it, you'll get a great fun. "},{"Title":"awful yet brilliant","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ah where to start, I could say this film is a pile of rubbish for a number of reasons, it could be the poor acting in parts, the terrible, terrible lines, scenery that changes where even the most imaginative person cannot conceive the logic the director must have been using. It could even be the fight scene that repeats the same sequence to save money hoping that no one notices. There are a million and ten things that are wrong with this film, for starters it's a B film, its plot line is very sketchy, overstretched and has that many plot holes that a hovercraft couldn't move over it. All this being said I loved it, I thought it was one of the best films I had ever watched and indeed still do. Now no doubt you are thinking but surely he just said it was crap, why should he like it, it sounds shoddy even for a B movie? well you're right it is shoddy even for a B movie but the bottom line is its Highlander, and I am a die-hard fan of highlander. Now again I know what you're thinking, highlander one was pretty good and highlander three with a wizard dude trapped in a cave for thousands of years made more sense and was better than Endgame so why endgame out of all the highlanders? Well with endgame it was a film made specifically for fans, not for mainstream, just for people who knew the highlander world in and out and that if it was to be well received they would have to bring in Christopher Lambert. His voice is really hoarse and has an unusual twang, sounds great even though his Scottish isn't that good and his English weird. But then Lambert starred in many of the Highlanders (those worth mentioning at any rate and some that aren't) so why Endgame? Well, you get a real feel with Highlander Endgame that it is what it was supposed to be, a massive build up of two superpowers that will fight and one will win. Whether the winner is the last immortal is irrelevant, he will be that powerful that no other immortal can beat him (until the next film). Also, the films choreography, though clearly staged in many parts was light-years ahead of the earlier films, even Lambert (whose greatest downfall was poor sword work) managed to pull off a few fancy looking moves. But out of all the Highlander films I have watched Endgame related back to the original film and original structure while at the same time melding the series better than any others. No immortals from another planet like in Highlander II (and completely ruining the Highlanders), No magic unlike in Highlander three (though that was pretty cool) and it managed to combat the low budget better than Highlander the Quickening and had special affects better than any of the others. Again I hear what you're saying, just because it is not dated and has a slightly more fluent storyline than the other highlander movies does not make it worthy of recognition. Well I'm afraid it does, and there will always be a highlander that does for one reason, Highlander was a part of my childhood, it is in some of my earliest memories, it inspired my imagination and is probably the main cause for my love of sword fights and the supernatural. So in conclusion Highlander Endgame is cheesy, poorly constructed, massively exploited being stretched out for maximum profit, and partially homo erotic with Jacob uttering those immortal words to Conner what's the matter, don't you want to be inside me? but having watched highlander before I was old enough to see the pitfalls and bad choreography I had a love for it installed which was strong enough to endure despite its shoddiness. I love you highlander and I always will. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am a fan of the original Highlander movie and an even bigger fan of the Highlander TV series. I was excited to see that both characters were going to be in a movie together. I was even more excited because I saw that characters from the TV show like Joe Dawson and Methos were going to be in it too.Here is the disappointment Joe & Methos are in the movie for roughly 5 minutes. They serve no other purpose than to unite Connor & Duncan. The other disappointment came when I saw character Jin Ke. He was awesome & should have had more screen time. The last complaint was that this movie was about an hour and a half. The story line and characters needed a little more development.I would recommend this movie because it did kick butt. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The fourth part in the Highlander series sees Connor MacLeod (From the films) and Duncan MacLeod (From the TV series) forced to take on an evil Immortal named Jacob Kell who won't stop until he wins the Prize, he also revenge with Connor for killing his father and so he torments him by killing his friend Rachel who worked at the antiques store in the first Highlander and killing his cell mates in the Sancuary, a place where Immortals go if they don't want to fight in the Game. When Duncan hears about this he goes to search for Connor while encountering Kell and his gang of Immortals who ambush him, the rules also say that only one Immortal can fight another. Kell is breaking all the rules since he fights on Holy Ground and takes on Immortals with his gang, this is the reason why he is the most powerful Immortal in the world and the Watchers know this and warn Duncan. Connor is depressed about being an Immortal and hasn't got the power to take on Kell on his own and Duncan can't help him in a Two on One because it's not allowed, so Connor and Duncan must fight each other and the winner with the other's power must confront KellHighlander Endgame is full of action and character development like the first Highlander, it's also neat to see Connor and Duncan together in a film although they did team up in the first episode of the TV series entitled The Gathering. Highlander Endgame is a great entry to the Highlander franchise. "},{"Title":"its is better than 2 and 3 ... nothing tops 1 ;)","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Highlander 4 is what Highlander 2 should have been. It tries in its directing, its landscape-shots, its massive past scenes and so on to be like the first Highlander.The storyline playing now is not to discussed. It is for me being a huge fan of Highlander and liked the TV-show how the TV-Show-Characters are integrated to the big-screen-storyline. It worked quite well. At least - gunfights of immortals takes getting used to me /.Its a big reunion of TV-Characters and Movie-Characters. Btw. you need to see at least some TV-Episodes and the first Highlander to follow the plot a bit. Newbies to the Highlander-Thing won't be able to get a bit of the plot line and characters, because the movie assumes that you already know them. For others go and see it )The movie is about 90 min long and kinda hurries through the plot. Characters are not well drawn etc. another 10 - 15 minutes might have been giving the movie a better chance to get a little deeper into the characters and give the movie more depth. "},{"Title":"Why change the music","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've just bought the whole series on DVD after watching it on video as and when it came out and enjoyed it so much that when I heard that it was now released on DVD as a set I went out and bought it.Now I'm sorry I did, as all the music which was done by Queen which really contributed to the impact of the movies was replaced by something totally unconnected to the movies and thereby making the movies unmemorable.Why change something that was excellent to something that is now only mediocre.The acting was still as good as I remember it, between Christopher Lambert & Sean Connery this series still can transport you into the plot with some gripping suspense and finger nail biting tension. "},{"Title":"Poor big budget continuation of the Highlander series.","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Connor MacCleod (Christopher Lambert) narrates an on screen caption that goes in the days before memory, there were the immortals. We were with you then. And we are with you now. We are driven by the endless fight to survive in a game which knows no limit of time or place, we are the seeds of legend, but our true origins are unknown. We simply are. Fair enough mate. Another caption informs us that we are in 'New York 10 years ago'. Two immortals, Connor and his friend Duncan MacCleod (Adrian Paul) both live in New York. On this particular day 10 years ago an acquaintance of Connor, Rachel Ellenstein (Sheila Gish) is blown to pieces when her place explodes. Connor witnesses this but is unhurt himself. The film then switches to 'The Sanctuary present day' which is some large house somewhere. It acts as a sanctuary for immortals who want to hide themselves away for whatever reason. The film then switches to 'Glencoe Scotland 1555', get used to it as the film jumps around all over the place on a regular basis, as Connor has a flashback to the time he first encountered villain Jacob Kell (Bruce Payne) who after Connor has finished his flashback attacks the Sanctuary with his gang of evil immortals. He lets Connor go and kills everyone else. Meanwhile Duncan has decided to try and locate Connor, but I'm not sure why he has only just started after 10 years. Within hours and a couple of plane flights to London and back to New York, a matrix style martial arts fight sequence, being impaled on a metal girder, more confusing flashbacks & coming face to face with his ex-girlfriend Kate (Lisa Barbuscia) who also happens to be an immortal Duncan finds Connor and Jacob Kell has found them both, in a misty graveyard no less. At this point Jacob reveals his plans to Connor and Duncan who both decide they should stop him. After yet more flashbacks, a bit of sex and lots of emotional angst, things are set up perfectly for a final showdown between MacCleod and Kell in an immortal fight to the death (if that makes sense, this film doesn't).Highlander Endgame is the fourth in the strangely successful Highlander series of films and comes after Highlander III The Sorcerer (1994), although this awful fourth instalment should put the final nail in the coffin of the franchise. Directed by Douglas Aarniokoski, who has a role in the film as a character named Kirk, this is one stupid, confusing and muddled up mess of a film. The script by Joel Soisson jumps about all over the place, from hundreds of years ago to the present day and from the likes of New York to Ireland within minutes. It becomes highly irritating to watch and as a result the film doesn't really seem to settle down with one focused storyline. Another major problem I had with this film is that there are no human characters in it at all. Every major character is an immortal, they just all talk nonsense and spout rubbishy & embarrassing dialogue to each other, just check out the macho posturing between Kell and MacCleod in the graveyard when they first meet for an example. This film really needed a normal human character to emote with. It's also quite slow during the middle third and quickly became annoying. The fights are few and far between and what's there isn't anything we haven't seen a hundred times before and usually better. To their credit there is some decent gore in there and their quite violent on occasion. Having said that the final fight between hero and villain is extremely underwhelming and a bit of an anti-climax. The CGI effects are poor, well terrible actually. Especially the airbrushed advertising sign on top of the skyscraper which sticks out even more now. There is a sex scene with nudity, but it's spoilt as it's inter-cut with yet another annoying flashback. Music, photography, and production design are all instantly forgettable. The acting is universally poor from everyone involved especially Lambert who simply cannot act and his various accents sound both ridiculous and insulting. Eagle eyed viewers among you will also notice that the end of the film is set in the much criticised (in the UK anyway) Millennium Dome. In fact this film has a lot in common with the Dome, in particular they are both massive wastes of money & aren't worthy of your time. One to avoid. "},{"Title":"The best sequel to the HIGHLANDER series!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In New York City 1990, evil Immortal JACOB KELL (Played by the highly talented & fun BRUCE PAYNE) kills off Rachel (The returning BEATIE EDNEY from HIGHLANDER), CONNOR MACLEOD'S (The returning CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT) life long friend, in retaliation for Connor killing the priest who raised him from a child. After Rachel's death, Connor disappears & hides out in a sanctuary full of immortals who have sworn off a life of combat. In present day, DUNCAN MACLEOD (ADRIAN PAUL from the series) goes on the search for Connor believing he might be dead, especially after the sanctuary has been broken into & all the immortals & the priests who guard them, have been beheaded. He stumbles upon Connor in the cemetery, only to learn that neither of them are alone, Jacob has tailed Duncan all the way. As both Connor & Duncan learn, Jacob cares not at all about violating the rules of the immortals & is soon revealed to be the man who killed Connor's mother years ago. Jacob has returned to seek vengeance on Connor by slaying those whom he loves & one of the next victims he has in mind just happens to be Duncan. Duncan learns that Jacob is indeed a threat to both himself, Connor & the rest of the remaining immortals & the world, should he be allowed to live & gain the prize which he just might be set to do, especially after Duncan learns that neither he nor Connor, are strong enough to face Jacob straight up in a sword fight, without losing their heads, since he is currently not only the only immortal with more kills to his resume, but also stands as the most powerful immortal alive. Soon both men realize that in order to gain the right amount of power to kill Jacob, one of the two will have to take the others head, or else let Jacob kill them, gain the prize & plunge the world into total darkness.HIGHLANDER ENDGAME is yet another sequel to the HIGHLANDER series. However this one asks one to ignore the plots of Parts 2 & 3, since it is a direct sequel to the TV series & first film only. This is proved at the beginning with the blowing up of Connors shop, the fact he still carries Ramirez sword (Which was broken in Part 3) & the opening sequence set in 1990 when Connor goes into hiding at the sanctuary. One assumes going in that they are indeed watching a prequel to the original HIGHLANDER, especially since Connor won the prize at the end of Part 3 for sure & Duncan who was the star of a TV series that prequeled the original film, we assumed all this time to be a character who somewhere along the line before the final gathering, had lost his head to another immortal. However it turns out Connor is the one who winds up being beheaded in the showdown between both him & Duncan! I had a major problem with this ending, simply because since this is a direct sequel to the first, Connor won the prize at the end of the original, therefore there should be no more Gathering, meaning the ending of the first would have to have been a lie. CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT's scenes are mostly confined to flashback footage of his early days with Duncan & the scenes that are set in present day, show him mainly as just a stand in. Lambert looks & acts tired & is certainly not the interesting character he was in the earlier movies. It was great seeing SHEILA GISH playing Heather, Connor's wife in flashback footage (After all these years she still looks the same!) & BEATIE EDNEY all back from the original, as well as the shop Connor owned in the original film & the SILVER CUP sign that both Connor & Kurgan battled under in the first & I loved how they had the contrast between both Connor & Duncan's respective wives, Connor's who wants immortality & Duncan's who has it thrust upon her, when she didn't ask for it at all. The film cleverly weaves the TV series mythology of the watchers into it's screenplay rather than down right ignore them like III did & brings the character of Joe Dawson into the film as well as Methos. The film also provides many interesting ideas such as a sanctuary for other immortals to hide out in in order to swear off killing other immortals & a rogue watcher who is trying to prevent the prize from ever being won. It was also great seeing both Connor & Duncan on screen together for the first time since the pilot episode of the series. I loved the acting & the direction is very stylish. But question? Since this film ignores both 2 & 3, whatever became of the woman Connor fell in love with at the end of the first movie? Former WWE superstar EDGE (ADAM COPELAND) has a five minute cameo in a flashback sequence, despite being one of the top billed guys on the trailer.All in all, in truth I really wish they would have made this a prequel to the original film, have Duncan die instead of Connor & then end the film with the opening ten minutes of the original film (sped up into a three to five minute segment) & close the picture by showing Kurgan in his car heading into New York in order to take part in the Gathering which had finally come, since it's a sequel it loses a bit of steam. Regardless of all this, I really liked HIGHLANDER ENDGAME, it was far superior to the first two sequels & featured enough action, romance, wonderfully choreographed sword fights & hand to hand combat, fun villains & a really interesting story. A really bad sequel followed HIGHLANDER THE SOURCE***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"And you thought there was no demand for crap","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In case there is any doubt, my comments relate to the director's cut DVD, which runs for a little over 100 minutes at the proper speed.That the Highlander franchise can continue for four distinct episodes is proof positive that I am not the only person in the world who enjoys watching absolute garbage. At least, that would explain why Christopher Lambert is allowed to continue to act. At least Bruce Payne makes a pretense of an effort. That they are both under Adrian Paul in terms of billing, on the other hand, makes me wonder. I am trying to figure out where on Earth I have seen this man's name before. Just looking at the cast listing brings images to mind of an Ed Wood festival.I have read somewhere that Christopher Lambert has a major problem with visual acuity, in that myopia has left him unable to see more than five feet in front of him. This would explain the restrained nature of his fight sequences. Indeed, the swordplay in this episode of the Highlander series more resembles a predetermined series of strikes than any kind of battle. Having been spoiled by the swordplay in such films as Sleepy Hollow or even The Phantom Menace, the whole feel of this film is that it just doesn't make enough effort.Coherence also seems to be something of a problem in Highlander Endgame. We have numerous flashbacks, flash-forwards, flash-sideways, and cuts to scenes whose links to the previous make absolutely no sense whatsoever. Another problem is that the same point seems to be repeated throughout the film. Highlander Endgame purposefully ignores plot elements of the previous three films for the most part, but then it relies upon the viewer to have seen, and to take into account, elements from those same films. Without bothering to properly set up some elements, the film starts to look sloppy, even incoherent.In the end, the biggest problem with the film is that the dialogue often brings images to mind of actors trying to eat their own boots. I honestly thought this kind of dialogue went out with the Kung Fu films of the 1960s. Everyone talks in paragraphs. Quite apparently, someone wanted to be written out of the franchise. Although, with the other franchises he has tried to make a career in, something tells me he will be back when Highlanders five, six, seven, eight, nine, and ten start rolling. After seeing the studio-approved version of Highlander 2, as well as the original, the question of how long after a series is obviously bereft of ideas we have to keep enduring these sequels for comes to mind. I mean, seriously, is there ever going to be an end. With Bruce Payne's ham-fisted overacting, on the other hand, perhaps a new series of Highlander films with him might be in order.I gave Highlander Endgame a three out of ten. It is not bad enough to be good, and it is not good enough to be anything other than mediocre. In the end, it is just another tax write off for a film studio that quite apparently doesn't care. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I thought this was a great sequel that was by far the best sequel in this series. The first was the best, the second was the WORST movie of all time (why do they keep coming out with new DVD's of Highlndr2? ), the third was an improvement, and the fourth, Endgame, was excellent. Though it had some flaws it was still great. I thought Bruce Payne made a good villain. (SOOO much better than Micheal Ironside) The special effects for the most part were pretty good except for a few scenes that i think didn't come out so well. That is the only thing that is keeping me from giving this movie 10 stars.If they can keep making them like this, i say keep em coming! "}{"Title":"Extremely superficial and careless","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a big fan of Highlander. I love both movie and series. But my score for this one is 3. I would prefer that movie not to exist.I am sure these good scores were expected from fans - for granted - just because it is HIGHLANDER. That could be a good idea to make a `final' movie and to combine both TV series and movies BUT it should have been done earlier. Both Duncan and Connor look very, very old. Mixing these line together is difficult and dangerous but still possible ONLY if  it goes with good script, great acting and perfect editing. Here we have bad script, terrible acting and awful editing. I can't believe they used same scenes from general fighting twice just directly one after another!! What is it? And where that wife came from? And so on, so on. Everything looks extremely superficial and careless.I hope there won't be any other Highlander movie (specially with Paul). This is very painful to say since I truly love them both, but  their time has gone for sure. I feel really p***ed off  - exactly in the mood of that movie. There is no hope left. I want to remember them both young, brave, optimistic, bright and IMMORTAL.  "},{"Title":"A great but heartfelt end game.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally someone has taken the time to make a highlander movie that is based from the TV series. It is about time that people realize that the typical movies of highlander were getting worse with each one. This is a great movie with a great cast. It took a while, but we finally get to see Adrian Paul on the big screen in a Highlander movie. The guy is an outstanding and talented actor. With a role along side of Christopher Lambert, this movie is a must see for anyone who is a fan of either actor. Not only is there multiple story lines never seen in the series, but it has just as much action as watching three series episodes at one sitting. The entire cast member played the part of an immortal perfectly. Adrian Paul looks as though sword fighting is his profession. Unlike Christopher Lambert who acts as though he never picked up a sword in his life. I hope to see another Highlander movie with Adrian Paul. Nobody can make a more believable Highlander than him. The original was the best, but it is time to retire. Christopher Lambert was great, but that was then. There is a new highlander on the big screen, and there can be only one. May it be Adrian Paul (Duncan MacLeod) as the HIGHLANDER.   "},{"Title":"There should of been only one!!!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One dear, whats happened?All I'm saying about this is it's as bad as the first Highlander is brilliant, the only good acting comes from Lambert, the story is so poor that if I pointed out all the weak parts I would spoil the film for the real (and I mean real) die hard fans of the series who have to yet to see this one.  If your into the Highlander films big time then you might want to take a look, but if you only liked the first keep your distant.I Thank God that I missed this one at the cinema. "},{"Title":"el pieco de crappo","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the worst films ever made.  If you didn't watch the TV series, there is nothing, and I mean NOTHING, in this film for you.  I am astonished that this film achieved a rating of 4.x.  This film is twice as good as Battlefield Earth?  Give me a break.  This is the only film I've seen in the last ten years that I was tempted to walk out on.  Only morbid curiousity kept me in my seat to the end. "},{"Title":"Dream Come True?  Not Quite","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow!  Finally, Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lamber), the original Highlander, and Duncan MacLeod (Adrian Paul) from the tv series meet face to face on the big screen and share time together!  Another Highlander movie!  More sword-fights!  More Quickening!   . . . and for no inexplicable reason Connor wanders off with some BS line that's supposed to imply something and create an air of mystery and suspense but doesn't.  That was the opening shot.  The dream of both MacLeod's kicking immortal butt on the big screen takes its curtain call and leaves the building.  Man I wanted to like this movie.  I really hadn't cared for any of the Highlander sequels, but Endgame was going to be different!  It brought both MacLeod's together and had Bruce Payne as the villain!  This movie they were going to do it right and fix the continuity flaw of `Connor won the prize in the first film.'  This was going to be a prequel and . . . and was I ever mistaken?  Okay, fine, the movie has more in common with the T.V series than the previous Highlander films so I can buy into it taking place in a different &#145;world' than the original film.And I might have even bought into the events portrayed into Endgame had the writing and narrative been better-actually, I'll give the filmmakers the benefit of the doubt and assume a lot was cut out due to typical studio bigotry.  It seemed like characters jumped from attitude to the attitude, decisions jumping from one end of the spectrum to the other for no real reason with no real progression.  The Connor MacLeod I saw in Highlander's first three films and the Connor MacLeod I saw in the flashbacks in Endgame was not the Connor MacLeod I saw in the main narrative of Endgame.  And after 400 or whatever years he's been alive, I don't imagine him spontaneously going through mid-life crisis.Granted the events surrounding him -could- warrant his attitude, but, it's not what's there it's how it's there.  And it's not put on the screen very gracefully.  Rough and rugged cuts from event to event, attitude to attitude, depressing belief to depressing belief . . . the movie breaks too dramatically from what I imagined to be Connor MacLeod and what actually exists in the previous Highlander films.  That in itself isn't bad, but to make a break of that caliber Endgame can't be `okay' and succeed.  Breaking from the pack like this and drawing so much attention to itself, Endgame better be able to overshadow all three of its predecessors combined which it does not.I like Adrian Paul, Christopher Lambert, and Bruce Payne as actors, and I loved the idea of both MacLeod's sharing screen time.  That was every Highlander fan's dream.  Maybe expectation killed this movie for me.  I dunno.  In the end it was neither what I expected nor did it put me in awe at what it did present.  It's pretty good at best, but I know I wanted a lot more out of it.  Oh well, c'est la vie . . .    "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What I like about this movie, is that together with the original movie, it gives a more complete picture about the Immortals which I appreciated.  I also enjoyed the fights especially those performed by the amazing Donnie Yen, and I enjoyed the fact that they got a sword master to do the fights, rather than the distinctly 80ish action of the original movie.After reading reviews of the other movies (and having seen them) - I've come to accept that all of the movies should be taken as parallel universes and not with any continuity with each other.  If you forget the end of the first movie, I quite enjoyed the part one and Endgame combination of stories the most.What I didn't like about this movie, is the villain.  He is so inferior to Clancy Brown's Kurgan in the original movie.  Clancy is naturally menacing, and his acting is superb.  The villain in Endgame however never gives the impression that he is powerful (nor gives a compelling reason why he is more powerful than say Donnie Yen's character who has been alive 1500 years longer!), and never acts a fraction as well as Clancy Brown.  I would go so far as to say that Clancy Brown's Kurgan ranks amongst the best comic book villains I have ever seen - equal to Jack Nicholson's The Joker.Anyway - back to Endgame, I watched the director's cut version with the alternative ending.  I'm not sure what the original ending was supposed to be, but I quite enjoyed the romantic ending to this movie - at least not all immortal relationships end up in tragedy.*SPOILERS*I thought that Lambert's departure was well explained.  Although the supposed guilt did not seem compelling enough a reason to sacrifice himself, they certainly performed it in such a way to make it believable.  Kell's keeping Conner alive to torture him was a nice twist to the story and it did help the characters to form more of a cohesive bond with each other.  It didn't seem however, that the main female lead had a believable reason why she hated Duncan - but what do I know? "},{"Title":"See the original","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There can be only one. (One good movie in the series that is.)The original Highlander was by far the best. It's too bad that the producers of the sequels never saw the original to keep the story consistent. The forth was entertaining, but lacks the awesome music of Queen or the entertaining Connery. "},{"Title":"Eh....could've been better.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me first say this....rent or buy the DVD, not the VHS, and avoid the theatrical version.The DVD has so much more added to the film, and it makes a little more sense, plus gives a much better ending.Overall it certainly isn't the worst of the series (HLII The Quickening, which became the Renegade Version won that...bleh!) but it sure could use a whole hell of a lot more.Gave a nice, and interesting twist to the story, plus it gave way to yet more sequels. (which I think makes this the smartest of all the movies)Oh on a side note...part of the reason the movie ended the way it did is because well....Christopher Lambert (pronounced Lamb Bear (it's French) like the production company he created) is getting old and it shows in this film. In fact...he looks downright unhealthy in some scenes... =(I'll give it a C+ "},{"Title":"Like all things Highlander, this is a monumental mess.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  2.5 out of 10It's questionable why I have such a morbid interest in this incomprehensible series.  The very fact each outing goes to such great lengths to negate the previous installment is pretty intriguing.  Why the filmmakers do this, I'm not sure, but trying to piece it all together with a friend or two can make for very amusing conversation.  Endgame is no different than the rest of the series, plot-wise, giving us another K villain, this time named Kell, who's apparently the most powerful immortal on the planet, and it's up to Duncan and Connor Macleod(Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert) to stop him.The fact they never truly consider teaming up to combat Kell raises a few questions who actually devises these rules on duels between immortals and, more puzzling, who actually makes certain these regulations are followed?  That's just another head-scratcher in this mess of a movie, which goes from one time period to another faster than a blink, will definitely alienate non-Highlander fans and might even infuriate fans of the original film because the focus is more on Paul than Lambert, who's here just to pass the torch.  Lambert's performance is as awful as you'd expect, Bruce Payne is further placing his career in a bottomless ravine, and the special effects are mostly second-rate and cheesy.All that said, at least there are a few bright spots.  Endgame is quite action-packed, there are at least a half-dozen sword battles and they don't hold back on the blood and gore,  and the fight scenes with Donnie Yen actually deliver excitment and thrills.  Lisa Barbuscia is a beautiful woman, and not half-bad of an actress.  It's easy to relish her nude scenes and feel genuine sympathy toward her character.  But these positive aspects do the movie little good when you can't figure out what's going on.  I'd say it's for fans of the series, but I suspect they'd be almost as confused as the average viewer.   "},{"Title":"Uh, the end already? where's the story?","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've saw Highlander3 from tv a couple of weeks ago and I thought it was a very good movie and was very anxious to see the sequel that got better reviews from most reviewers than it's prequel.From the start to the end the only thought that goes through your head is uhhh.. what's this? wow, nice swordfighting... pretty chick.. some nice swordfightning again... highlanders saying 'there can be only one' and then again some swordfighting... the film is over... uuuuuhh, what the heck was it at about.I only seen this movie once, and at least after the first view I didn't see any story at all... btw, half of the movie is filled with flashbacks from the age of 1500-1700 and i found that very confusing. The first time i watched The Matrix i got the plot very well, but from this movie I didn't see any at all.Only because of average acting and decent production I give this the score 2/10. The story is the crappiest I ever seen....  "}{"Title":"Probably the worst ending to a series I have ever seen!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  May contain spoilers, do not read if you wish to see the film yourself without knowing plot details in advance. AnywayAlien Resurrection ruined the entire, distinguished Alien series which started with Ridley Scott's 1979 epic. The Scorpion King ruined the Mummy series, which was campy but entertaining nonetheless.At least the two movies stated above were somewhat watchable. Highlander Endgame was not, and it is a twisted, illogical end to a series full of impossibly bad films that started with 1986's classic Highlander.All right, we all know that in the first film, Conner Macleod is the one surviving immortal and he gets the Prize. We are also told there are only a handful of immortals on this earth, right? Yet during the scene with the Watchers calculating Duncan Macleod's number of immortal kills, it is confirmed he has taken over 170 heads! His clansman, Conner, has taken well over 200! And the villain of the show, Jacob Kell, has taken an astounding 661 heads!So there are thousands of immortals on this earth? Isn't Conner already the last surviving immortal with the Prize? What's going on? It makes no sense when compared to the straight-as-steel plot of Highlander.What really turned me off was the directors cutting Conner out of the plot forever. I was expecting him and Duncan to team up two on one against Kell, but it turned out otherwise. And how come immortals can fight on holy ground? Isn't that one of the only rules governing the immortal battles no fighting on holy grounds?Overall, I'd say Highlander Endgame was indeed a crappy show, but at least it beats the irredeemable mess of 1991's Highlander II The Quickening. I see there's a new Highlander film coming out soon, most likely the finale to the series Highlander The Source destined to come in 2003. I can't wait to see how bad it'll be.My score for Highlander Endgame 4/10. Recommended only for hardcore Highlander fans who can steel themselves to behold the shameless defilement of 1986's cult classic and it's ingenious storyline. "},{"Title":"Could have been better....","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Had been looking forward to seeing this film for a long time and to say It was disappointing is an understatement. I love Highlander the series, and Highlander the Raven, but I'm not a mad fan of the films, maybe that's why. I agree with the previous person for much of their comments, too many flashbacks, gratuitous sex scenes (though I won't say no to seeing Adrian paul shirtless once in a while).The sword fights did not seem as good as in the series. The plot was lacking somewhat. It could have made a good film bring Duncan and Connor together, and including Methos and Joe and the Millenium Dome was a nice touch, but it could have been so much more.Adrian Paul is always good, but much of the plot seemed done for shocks only, the way he killed Faith seemed out of character and the shorter hair, also both Macleods are much better in previous fights than in this film.   "},{"Title":"What - another one??","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"       I saw the original movie back when it was new. Never bothered with the second movie; couldn't figure out what there was to make a second one about. The third had some promise, but I don't think I stayed awake for it all. The series hooked me (much to my consternation; I worked at a t.v. station that aired the show). So where does this one come in? Who can tell?   I'm not going to go in depth about the story, the action, the fight sequences or the Highlander Canon; that's all already been said over and over again by the other 275+ reviews here. After watching this, I can only figure that Christopher Lambert was ready to quit making Highlander movies; and since they wouldn't let him keep his prize, well...   Here is my statement to Whomever May Have The Notion To Make Another - Please Don't! It's truly ridiculous, and not just a bit frustrating, to read all these folks who want to try and reconcile the Highlander Universe with all of it's rules and rule changes. Just give it up and let it lie. Adrian Paul is a fine actor who will find other projects to do. And Christopher Lambert will certainly not lack for anything either. There is no way, *no possible way*, to take this tangled mess that has been created from Gregory Widen's great story and sort it out, so quit trying already, okay? "},{"Title":"The TV series was much better.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was a huge fan of the Highlander TV series, at least in part because of the welcome leavenings of humor it gave the characters.If the TV series, on average, got an 8 out of 10, this movie gets a 3.  Not least because it totally ignores the plotlines already laid out.Case in point  immortals do not, ever, fight or kill each other on holy ground.  In the TV series, on at least one occasion, it mentions a huge disaster (the destruction of Pompey) taking place when two immortals violated this prohibition.In this movie, however, *spoiler* a squad of immortals kills another group of immortals on holy ground.  Ho hum, just another day at the slaughterhouse.  Please. "},{"Title":"** out of 5","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Horribly outdated fourth entry into the series again has Christopher Lambert fighting to be the last man standing. The special effects feel like they are from the 80's and Lamberts screen time is very limited. It also features a story that when you think about contradicts everything that happened in the previous three. Strictly fan material only. "},{"Title":"OK so how does conner come back to life?","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film must be set between  1 & 3, 2 comes way later, as in one conner has his antique shop & in 3 we find out he hasn't won the prize, as there are three other immortals still alive. Basically when they wrote this they never bothered to check the continuity which will really annoy fans. Saying that it is a fun action film, although the sex scene sort of messes witht the flow. "},{"Title":"Let's be fair to the fans first","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had the pleasure to go out and miss this film on its release to the big screen. Recently, I caught it on cable, and I was shocked and appalled. Here's why you cannot just excuse the terrible story as part of a defunct franchise ...HE is an extension of the television series, Highlander, which itself was based loosely on the movie of the same name. One of the reasons the show was such a hit with fans (and grew to have such a huge following) was its continuity and originality. This movie can be seen as a stand-alone episode of the Adrian Paul series made for the fans and for those who just wanted to understand what the fuss over the TV show was all about.Brian Panzer has no excuses making this stupid, ill conceived linear piece of garbage. He has episodes of the original series under his belt that are so far beyond this Frankenstein's monster that the only reasonable explanation is that he and Adrian Paul wanted to kill the series and give it a cheap funeral.Is it faithful to the art design of the series? Mostly. Is it fun in places? I guess. Does the plot make any sense? No. Does the acting and menace appear totally contrived and false. Yes. Is Adrian Paul better in this movie than any of his lesser co-stars? Actually, he's worse. Avoid this one as you did the Planet Zeist film. At least that one had Sean Connery. "},{"Title":"I wish there was only one movie and not 4 sequels!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have decided to rate all four movies here as well as the series because the only way to even begin to explain this mess is to try and connect the dots.  Spoilers are in the summaries.HIGHLANDER  Great original story with a beginning and an ending.  Immortals appear to originate from mystical or religious beginning.  It is never fully explained which is nice.  Each viewer can use their belief system to fill in the gaps.  The Kurgon was an original over the top villain.  Excellent and beautiful filming of Scotland.  This film never felt as though it were shot on a stage.  Awesome sound track by Queen.  Once Connor won the Prize the viewer was left to draw his/her own conclusions as to how he would use the Prize to better the world.  All in all this film was about as close to perfect as one is likely to get in the SciFi/Fantasy world.HIGHLANDER 2  This film sucks on almost every level.  Gone is the mystical religious origin of immortals.  Now they are either aliens from another planet or immortals that can use science to travel through time, depending on which version of this film you watch.  Gone is the beautiful scenery and in comes the BATMAN THE MOVIE type sets.  General  Katana is an unoriginal rip off of Kurgon.  The  wife Connor married at the end of the first movie dies of a plague.  For the second time Connor wins the Prize and in doing so changes the premise of the story from there can be only one to there will always be at least one more.  This film reused the first movies sound track and it didn't fit the film.  Basically, this movie was as bad as the first one was good.HIGHLANDER-The Series  I only caught the show occasionally.  It further destroys the the concept of the original movie.  However if you can somehow not compare it to the first movie it it was a good tv show.  The series premier had another Kurgon rip off villain, Quince, but the following episodes had more original and diverse villains.  In my opinion Duncan MacLeod was a pale rip off of Conor MacLeod.  I follow the movies more than the series but as I understand it if you follow the series H-4 will make more sense.HIGHLANDER 3  An obvious attempt to eradicate the damage done by H-2 to the highlander story line.  However, once again there is a Kurgon rip off for a villain.  Kane is an over the top evil immortal that offers nothing new.  This film tries to bring back the mystical and religious feel to the film and somewhat succeeds.  Connor's wife from the end of the first film now dies in a car accident.  It is never explained how she returned from the dead to die from the plague in H-2.  Connor has an adopted son that is never mentioned in H-4.  Connor goes through another love interest.  For someone who in the original movie did not like getting into relationships with mortals, Connor gets more women than James West or Captain Kirk.  On the plus side Loreena Mckennitt's song BONNY PORTMORE is put to good use in this film.  All in all a good attempt at restoring the story line but it fails.HIGHLANDER 4  The final nail in the coffin.  A lame villain who is less menacing than any of the other film villains leaves Connor no choice other than to have Duncan kill him and then Duncan with Connor's spirit can beat this villain.  Hogwash!!  In H-3 Connor acquired the ability to cast illusions.  In H-4 he evidently decides not to use this ability.  Duncan now takes over as the only Highlander left to carry the franchise.  This may have been a good call.  Lambert, although only 2 years older than Paul looks 10 years older.  I don't think he could keep portraying an immortal.  Anyway, this film is all over the place.  It brings back people and places from other movies and the tv shows and ultimately ends up one big contrived mess.  Do these writers have a clue as to what made the original movie work?  I think not!Lastly, I love the first film and because of that I wast time and money viewing it's sequels.  This franchise is beginning to look like the Star Trek franchise.  What's next, HIGHLANDER-THE NEXT GENERATION?  "},{"Title":"Glad I didn't pay to see this","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I caught this on cable last night. What a mess. The storyline went here and there for the first hour before trying to tie everything into place.I admit I enjoyed the flashback segment far more than the present day storyline. Adrian Paul is great with the timelines and costumes. If they do decide to make another one, please just have Adrian in it with a descent script. These are becomming very silly and painful to watch. "},{"Title":"There Can Be Only One","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Obviously, the  worms  of  Hollywood  got  to  the  writers  of  this film in  part  ruining  one  of  the  greatest  sagas  in  film  history. Highlander Endgame  totally  lacks  everything  that  brought  success to the  previous  3  films. From  the  beginning,  the  story  was  focusing on  one  heroic  immortal, Connor  Macleod. Then why  the sudden focus on the  television  character Duncan Macleod ?  My  guess is  someone thought that  Christopher  Lambert  and  his  character  was  too  old  and wanted him  gone. HighlanderEndgame  is  confusing, dry,  and  predictable. Connor makes  no  significant  appearances  until  the  end, which  basically is the ruining  of  the  movie  in  the  first  place. The  plot  is  bleak and  weak.  The  directing  is so  off it  would  make  original  director Russell Mulcahy  frown. Speaking  of  which, Mr. Mulcahy  has  signed  on to  return  and  direct  the  5th  installment of  this  great  saga in  2002. Hopefully  he  can  redeem  what Endgame has  done  to  the  story. All  in  all,  the  story  was never  about Duncan  Macleod, but  about  Connor. No  disrespect  to  Adrian  Paul, but there can be only one. "}{"Title":"Maybe, perhaps as a continuation of the TV series","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have not seen the TV series but to label this as a Highlander movie felt like a bit of a cheat. In fact, the first film is a piece of brilliant movie and I hate the fact that everything else labeled highlander ignores the might of Kurgan and the climax of the first film. But if you buy the fact that you should ignore everything in the first film that occurs in the 1980's, well then you should be fine.One more thing though - Jacob Kell... What can I say? Kurgan would eat him for breakfast. Ramirez would have killed him with his arms and feet bound. There is simply no explanation why this priest-geek would become the most dangerous immortal of all...I'd give this film 3 out of 10 only for its good basic ideas and the fact that it might continue the TV series... but I still hate the rape of the first film. "},{"Title":"where can i start##spoilers#","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  why is highlander cursed with bad sequels that ignore the original(and each other). The first film is still probably my favourite film of all time but the sequels are awful. Two was a poor concept three was badly made but at least had its heart in the right place but four is truly the worst.Starting with the plot wht does it compleatly ignore the origanal at the end of that conner was left as the only one having beaten the kurgan. in endgame there are hundreds of immortals left many, including duncan who conner knew about before the first film. secondly at the end of the first film conner was told that he had won the prize and would now be able to live and grow old and have children. Yet in endgame conner is still a immortal with no reason given for this discrepancy.The film is also one of the worst made films ive ever seen the fighting scenes are poor and often laughable. the acting is of a very poor standard with evem lambart only going through the motions. i did like the baddie and the story might have been good had it not pandered so mutch to the series.All of this brings me to the main gripe with the movie the killing off of conner he is the star of highlander the series is mearly a bye product of the movies to let the series take over is the ONLY reason this movie was made like one of the other reviewers on this board i have allways discounted the sequels to highlander and this offering gives me no reason to change that.Come on give us a true and good sequel to a modern classic  "},{"Title":"Save your money!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I only spent 1.03$ to see this film and still somehow felt that it was time and money wasted.  Trying to figure out the plot was such a struggle that after a while I gave up and spent my time making fun of it.  The idea is intriguing, I'd always wanted to see Connor and Duncan duke it out, but having to put up with soap opera between Duncan and Kate/Faith was not worth it at all. Adding the watchers was a good choice, getting to see Methos was fun.  I was confused by the concept of Sanctuary even thought I'm familiar with the plots of the Highlander movies and the series.  Also the kung-fu style fighting choreography when Kell's men storm the Sanctuary is seriously lame.      Unless you are a die-hard fan or extremely bored I would not recommend this movie.  Duncan's wry humor attempts to uplight the leaden plot but it does little to distract the viewer from the reality that what it would take to save this film is more than better editing.  Endgame should have been better conceived right from the start because whatever they came up with originally must have become hopelessly diluted in special effects. I belive there is no way a story as bad as the one presented would have have been accepted as a motion picture project and possible money maker had the screenplay started as poorly as it ended up.     Stick with the series, its the best. "},{"Title":"Ok this one was bad","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What in gods name were they thinking. I was never a big fan of the TV series and maybe thats why i thought this is tied for first place as my worst film of all time, along side Batman and Robin. I could not follow what was happening at all i felt dumb. the acting was horrible I have seen these guys act before and the are better then that. I felt as if Christopher Lambert didn't want to do this movie and was forced into making it. there was no heart in his acting. I loved the first highlander it is up there as one of the best films I ever seen. After that, it died. anyhow like i always say I am sorry if my comments offend all fans that loved it, but that's the way i saw it. "},{"Title":"good (part I) bad(endgame) and the ugly (part II)","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  where to start...? i have easier time solving quantum mechanical problems than trying to figure out who, what, where and why in this movie and what does it have to do with previous sequels. after i gave up 'connecting' stuff (some 45-50 minutes into it - it was almost watchable. editing is reeeeeeeeeeeealy bad... cut, errors, even 5-6 second of the fight repeated (no , the DVD did not skip - check last 5-7 minutes of the movie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember leaving the theatre after the movie and overhearing others talking about the film...We all had one thing in common to say, Where were all the scenes shown in the trailer? Half of the scenes were cut and true Highlander fans must have been upset with this movie. "},{"Title":"Stop changing the rules!!!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Please, whoever did this movie, stop changing the rules of the immortals!!! Your version was better than the second highlander (yuk), but I didn't liked to see Connor ran away from the action like a sissy... And there's a lack of action too... It could have been better if you had stayed in the mood of the first and the third version... Well, too late now. "},{"Title":"Better than the Ed Wood classics....(Minor spoilers)","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is the most inept film to ever grace the cinemas. Absolutely no plot, and it contradicts every single other Highlander movie and TV series. Connor's demise at the end means absolutely nothing, as we can be certain he will be back in h5, and the excuse will be he went back to planet zeist when he died. This film has to take the prize as the worst movie ever made! The whole movie is a series of flashbacks strung together for no aparrent reason. Connor was the real star of Highlander, but they have decided Duncan is, an absolute germ of an idea! See this movie for a laugh! "},{"Title":"Decaf Highlander is no Highlander at all","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are looking for a Highlander film, forget about it.  The core of the Highlander film is a brooding, montage-filled contemplation of violence and individual identity filled with passionate flashbacks full of beautiful women.  This is not a Highlander film.If you are looking for two hours of the Highlander series, get the Four Horsemen two-parter instead, because this one is lame.  The main strengths of the series are threefold Duncan has complex and enduring friendships that result in compelling choices and situations, Duncan always fights colorful, challenging, and well-written villains that usually carry interesting historical aspects, and Duncan frequently confronts difficult questions concerning the natures of the Good and of existence in a very direct, sensible manner.All of these factors are notably absent in this film.  Duncan's friendship with Connor in this film is meaningless, a waste of everybody's time, and Methos and Dawson make only cameo appearances.  At least Richie is still dead; that's a plus.The villain in this movie is bland in the extreme.  Apparently, he has killed lots of immortals.  We are given no reason how he did this, or how he, more than any other villain, has specifically benefitted from this.  He has no special powers, and he isn't even that impressive a swordsman. There is no reason to believe that Duncan cannot take this guy in his sleep.  All he has going for him are some LA Gears with crucifixes on them and the attitude of a stereotypical Brit with a nagging skin rash.  He doesn't even have a colorful historical background.  Lame.The film also avoids addressing with any scrutiny any of the rather startling notions that must be held by one character or another in order for this poorly-crafted plot to take place.  The desire to follow a formulaic psychotic out for revenge plot also causes the script to place the most compelling situations off the main action of the storyline.  This, of course, does not permit any Duncan-esque Scottish problem solving.  The Highlander series generally benefitted from fine writing; it is unfortunate that the script for Endgame is so amateurish.Of course, Highlander has never been a refuge for masters of the Method, but even the things Highlander usually does only adequately are done poorly in this film.  Adrian Paul turns in a dull and uninspired performance, Christopher Lambert's skill is wasted, as his part is devoid of any reasonable causal relationship among his actions, the villain is flat, obnoxious, and forgettable, and Kate, the love interest, manages to be utterly and completely unattractive, which is an amazing feat of acting ineptitude, considering her considerable physical assets.  Even the swordsmaster did poorly in this film; the fight sequences show none of the flavor or attention to detail and form that was always present in the series.The film suffers from such a general lack of energy and clarity that I can only surmise that director Douglas Aarniokoski had no clear vision of the film he wanted to make.  It is his first (and so far only) film as a director, and he has shown a lack of command of the medium both as a storyteller and filmmaker.  Remember, we are talking about the first assistant director of The Faculty and the man who wrote Puppet Master 4 and Puppet Master 5, so it may not be fair to lay all the blame for this general failure of a film at the feet of Adrian Paul or Christopher Lambert.All in all, Highlander Endgame is not worth the trouble of pushing the play button.  It's not an offensively terrible movie, but it is lame, and lame Highlander is just depressing. "},{"Title":"Highlander has the worst series of sequel in movie history.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander was a great movie. It is now a cult classic, and rightfully so. But all the sequels that were made over the years sank the series to immeasurable depth. And Highlander Endgame isn't helping at all.The story is pretty bad, the acting is pretty bad, the directing is bad, and the editing... They probably didn't have an editor and paid the first passerby 5$ to do it. The last time I remember seeing the *same* action sequence *twice* in a movie was in BattleStar Galactica (when the Cylon ship turned left, it was destroyed. When it turned right, it escaped Starbuck's fire). In EndGame, there's a scene in the final battle shown twice about 2 minutes apart. Unforgivable.And no matter what other people say, every single movie in the Highlander series contradict every other movies. It just doesn't work.Please stop making Highlander movies.  "}{"Title":"Not to bad...","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I've read some of the comments already there (I don't read all 260, though!) Wat occurred to me is that opinions on this movie are very different! One thing that has been said, is that it has no connections to the other Highlander productions Bulls***, it does! True, mostly connections to the series, but it refers to part one a lot too! The only thing you have to forget if you watch the movies, is that Connor has already had the Prize twice... If you forget that, you can really enjoy it! On the DVD, the producers said you can also watch it if you are not familiar with Highlander. That is NOT true!!! Watch movie one and a couple of episodes from the series (preferably later episodes) and you'll be fine! Connor was great, as usual, Duncan was the Best!!! Also, I liked seeing Joe Dawson and Methos again, and I missed Amanda, but hey, you can;t win 'em all... <SPOILER WARNING> What I don't get is this Duncan gets the prize in the end... Or so it seems! But Kate is still alive, and I haven't seen Methos get killed either!!! But I guess, that Quickening of Kell just wasn't the prize. Looked like it, though!  "},{"Title":"Unforgivable...","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you ever saw and enjoyed the first classic Highlander, you must NEVER see this movie. Not only is it an atrocity of a movie, it also negates the first movie completely by not having any continuity in its plot. It should never have been made, and Mr. Lambert must be left with an empty and hollow feeling after having made this misery of a film. "},{"Title":"Reasonable, but not great.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a fan of the first film this dissapointed me, it seemed that it was perhaps a film of its own i don't expect it was written by anyone connected by the movie or series just the characters, still it did borrow footage from the first and best, i thought what made the first rise above series and the other films was its tongue in cheek style, it never took itself too seriously as this occasionally does. I have never watched the series as i don't feel tv shows ever do films of the same name justice, i think i saw one but it was not great, and Adrian Paul who reminds me of Lorenzo Lamas and Olivier gruner crossed, looks quite out of his depth on the big screen, fair enough he kicks butt well but his acting was not great it was purely b-grade tv series standard, brought to the big screen, Bruce Payne is quite good but i have never seen him surpass his performance in Passenger 57, despite the slightly dodgy plot this was quite fun and for his directorial debut Doug Aarnioski who is usually first assistant in some high profile films, he does well the film is well lit its nit quite to the class Russell Mulchahy did number one but it was good and the action scenes were great particully one near the beginning when the Sanctuary is raided, also despite poor computor effects the film does look more expensive than its 15 million price tag. 5/10 "},{"Title":"RIP Connor Macleod","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Why ? kill off Connor ( did Lambert realy look that old?) I mean the film was good but no where near as good as 1 and 3. this is more like the series than the films thank GOD there was none of that poxie Raven thing in it. WWF fans who spotted Adam Copeland? (EDGE) Who like me thinks that Duncan (Adrian Paul) would make a great James Bond I mean he even looks like a young Sean Connery if any of you would like to talk to me about this subject E-mail me .  "},{"Title":"You might enjoy it... if you try hard enough","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a shame that a single scene can't make up for the defects of an entire film, because if that were the case then the emotionally-charged final scene between the two MacLeods near the end of Highlander Endgame would put it right up there with the original.However, so many flaws have come before this that one scene could never be enough to save the day. Leaving aside the usual bucketful of continuity gripes (let's just say Endgame takes even more liberties than those that have come before it), there's the grating, uneven soundtrack, some embarrassing costume design, very shaky editing (and apparently this UK release is the 'fixed' version - God only knows what the original was like), unbelievably clumsy exposition scenes and less than stunning performances to take into account. I had high hopes that Bruce Payne might break the pattern of tedious Kurgan clones and give us a decent villain for once, but he really lets the side down by spending far too much time in his embarrassing, face-twisting Dungeons & Dragons mode. And the MacLeods' Scottish accents are worse than ever. (Full credit for getting Sheila Gish and Beatie Edney back as Rachel and Heather, though - either Heather's scenes were left over from the original film or she suspiciously hasn't aged a day in the last 15 years.)Still, it's not all bad, and I get the feeling that if somebody took the time to properly edit it all together and replace the unexplained deleted scenes then it might turn out to be the best of the sequels. Faint praise, I know, but you've got to get whatever enjoyment you can out of these things.  "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought the previouse highlander movies were pretty good. But then came THIS movie. It's not even a movie, it's a bunch of short scenes randomly put together (read No story). Don't go see this so called movie. It would be a waste of time. I would have voted a 1 if it wasn't a Highlander movie. "},{"Title":"Decent action and special effects do not make up for a terrible movie.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  DISCLAIMER  The words below are only MY OPINION - Your opinion may not reflect mine!  See the movie for yourself to judge.I believe the summary says it all, but I'll reiterate.  Decent action and special effects do not make up for a terrible movie!!  Within five minutes this movie destroyed everything I held dear about the original Highlander... and it only got worse.  If you take the name Highlander off this movie.  It could ALMOST be acceptable.  I regret that I am of the same species as the writer of this movie.  I regret watching this movie because it completely destroyed the magic of the first.  If your gonna take a dump on screen at least dont ruin a legacy while you do it.  Only one word describes this movie Turd.  I can not believe the holders of the Highlander license allowed this movie to be made AND released.  I dont think I'll ever be able to express in enough words how badly this movie stunk -- only because it was published under the name of Highlander.  If they had created a completely new name, new game, and new characters, it would have been great.   I hope the writer of this movie never writes another movie in his lifetime.  Not because he is a bad writer but because he allowed himself to make money on a piece-of-turd like this. "},{"Title":"The 2nd best Highlander movie is so far!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" HIGHLANDER ENDGAME is kind of like a long episode of the television series with Christopher Lambert, Bruce Payne, and Lisa Barbuscia guest starring. Christopher Lambert is one of the greatest stars who ever lived without question. Adrian Paul gives only an okay performance which is shocking because he really is a horrible actor. You should not see HIGHLANDER ENDGAME for the acting, Christopher Lambert is the only one that can act in this movie. You should see HIGHLANDER ENDGAME for the action sequences, the special effects, music, costumes, fun, adventure, and for the beautiful Lisa Barbuscia as Faith. This is suppose to be the last of the Highlander series, but that is what Dimension said about HIGHLANDERTHE FINAL DIMENSION back in 1994. 9/10 "},{"Title":"For fans of the TV Series only,","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For fans of the TV Series only, this movie should have been the tie between the movies and the TV series, but fails in all accounts. The story line of Duncan being reunited with his old love had promise, and the stories of the other immortals recruited by Kell which were hinted at sounded like fertile ground for another story thread, but all fall to the wayside to make room for the whimpering climax which abruptly ends the story with even more loose ends than it had in the beginning.The story was awfully choppy and I happen to catch the trailer once again and noticed that it contained scenes not in the movie. What happened. Overall, I hope the DVD will contain the missing scenes or at least some narrative explaining the gaps in the story. Overall, I would recommend this only to fans of the TV series.   "},{"Title":"Both versions of this movie is missing something very important....","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me first say that I believe that after the first film the producers decided to sell out and get as much money as they can.  A franchise of films and shows that really shouldn't ever been a franchise. The first movie stands alone.  Mr. Davis and Mr. Panzer just wanted bucks, why else would they had come out with a Producer's cut of the film.  They got what they could at the box office, and then they came out with that cut.  I've heard rumors of there being a director's cut.  I'm assuming that one will contain the infamous commerical and trailer scenes that never made it to any of those versions.The original Highlander was writen by Gregory Widen, I just feel if Widen had been used other then his name popping up because these characters are his, the movie might have stood with number one.  What I got after seeing both the big screen version and the producers cut is something that stands next to part 3 if not below part 3.On to the review- I enjoyed Lambert's and Paul's acting in this movie. They both have good chemistry when they are in a scene together.*SPOILERS THE REST OF THE WAY* The last scene they share together, even though I hated it, was done well. I felt the emotion in their voices, as we said good bye to Conner Macleod, a cult character that will stand as a legend for years to come.  Lambert put a lot of work into a roll that he knew helped make him a big star across the world.  Adrian Paul works very well with a sword, and his acting has come a long way since the start of the series.  This movie felt like it was a long episode of the series.  Conner playing second fiddle to Duncan.  I have a problem with Kell, he's about the same age as Conner, yet I'm suppose to believe he is strong beyond all measueres.  He's killed 600 immortals yet, I doubt they had any importance in terms of the game, I say that because even though endgame ignores the ending of the first movie, it does admit that Conner killed the Kuragan.  The Kuragan had all this power from killing such immortals as Ramierez and Kastigear and all the essence that those men had taken over the centuries from other immortals.  Conner should be the strongest immortal.  They should have never made him weak in terms of fighting.  He looked pathetic in that fight scene he had with Kell.Bruce Payne overacts (made wish they had casted Bruce Campbell instead) I admit his character is different that the Kuragan, but he didn't do anything.  He didn't seem that different from the characters of the series. The other actors are not really given much character development for me to judge their performances.  One thing that really got at me was why they never explained why Conner thought he was the last one.  Something should have been done with that, but it wasn't.  That could have been a great scene, instead they chose not to touch that subject.  I'm not sure why, but who knows, maybe well get an explanation one day.  The movie was all right. WAs it better then part 2, yes it was, was it better then 3....well maybe, maybe not.  It was no where near the original.  This movie was the equvialent to Star Trek Generations, and if you go way  back in time Transformers the movie.  The passing of the tourch from the older more popular character, to the young up start, who isn't as popular, yet has a chance to step up and follow his  or her predecessor.The quickinings in this movie weren't very good.  I thought that Conner's essence being given to Duncan looked more powerful then when Duncan defeated Kell and took his essence.  (making me wonder who really was more powerful). I'm sure despite the fact the movie was called endgame, and knowing that there are more immortals left, that this wasn't the last movie.  I'm sure a fifth one will be in the works sooner or later, despite the fact if you wanted to continue with this story you should have made prequals and not sequals (The original didn't need anything to follow).  This movie didn't really do much for the Highlander movies.  Just kept it in limbo.  The fans where probably expecting something big.  I was, and it wasn't delivered. Davis/Panzer take notice, you killed off a legend of a character.  What are u going to do to win back your fans that helped put money in your pockets? "}{"Title":"Hehehe.... what a pile of cack.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh, how we waited for this one - This was going to be *the* release of the year no doubt. Finally, a highlander movie with a decent budget and no planet smegging zeist. (sigh)Excitement was palpable. We knew what to expect - some seriously cool swordplay and the legendary (we're not worthy!) Chris Lambert delivering the one liners and getting his end away.What did we get? A half cocked storyline and half the movie with only that long haired wuss Duncan for company. My goodness me, what were they thinking? All they needed was to take some more time over the script and this movie could've been pretty sweet. As it is, it is contorted and really quite boring. (Spoiler ahead) ....and Chris doesn't even score - I thought it would be a cold day in hell when Mr Lambert didn't find a space in the script for him to pull some blonde. I guess he's just not as young as he used to be.... (hehehe, not tonight dear, Match of the day is on...)It's all so foreign to me! Highlander is not what it was.My advice is to stick the original or 3 on (let us never speak of what went between) and relive the glory days. That's what I did!Two final things1) What idiot was in charge of the cinema release dates? It is still not even out here in the UK! An utter joke if ever there was one.2) Has anyone managed to sit through the DVD special features without becoming at least mildly comatose? It appears that everyone in this movie could bore for Britain - absolutely mind numbing stuff.Rating 4 out of 10. Pretty poor. "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't bother to see it at the theater and now I know why.  Finally rented the VHS version and watched.  Was a poorly scripted movie and while I enjoyed the TV series Adrian Paul does not seem to work on the big screen.Silly things I didn't understand1.  Seems it should be quality of kills and not quantity.  Duncan in the series took out Grayson and Kronos. Both extremely old and extremely skilled immortals. (Kronos and his buddy were both approximately Methos' age and Duncan wacked them both.) Based on the way the movie presented the kills for each immortal then Duncan wacking Conner should have just given him one more kill leaving him far short of Kell.2.  Duncan was never married in the series.  It wasn't really necessary to the movie to have him married so I think no one really checked with the series continuity.3.  Disjointed and poorly edited.  If you watched the first movie and the series you had a vague idea of what was going on.  If not then you were lost.  Probably why it did so bad at the box office.4. If that watcher was so concerned with there being at least two immortals why would he attempt to shoot Duncan during the fight with Kell? 5.  Duncan beat to ground numerous times, multiple slash wound, multiple abdominal stab wounds, manages to recover and take out Kell with the super secret jump and flip move.  Give me a break.  I kept waiting for the Rocky theme music to start.6.  etc.A waste of time and money which is a shame, it could have been a good movie. "},{"Title":"I wish I had 3 thumbs, oh wait I have 2 middle fingers...","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this movie in hopes that there would be some cool swordplay and an all-around enjoyable movie.  I was never so mistaken.  I would much rather have been watching Battlefield Earth non-stop for a week or every Mary Kate and Ashley film made for a month.  I really hate to say this about a movie, especially one whose series started off so well (and so complete), but I felt so dirty after watching this that I had to put on The Matrix to get rid of the bad movie juju left over.Words cannot adequately describe how horribly, terribly, astonishingly *bad* this movie was.  I just kept waiting for the movie to acquire some plot, even by osmosis, but this was not to be had.  With about 15 minutes left in the movie, my roommates and I came to the conclusion that the final fightscene had to be the uber-fightscene, the most awe-inspiring fightscene to end all fightscenes.  Sadly, I would have preferred watching the swordfight scene in Tron.  I would not see this movie again if you paid me.  "},{"Title":"Second Look The DVD Special Edition. Rent first or get it cheap, unless you actually liked theatre EndGame","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At long last, I was able (through a rental deal) to view the DVD version of this latest sequel to the Highlander franchise.***SPOILERS AHEAD, YOU'VE BEEN WARNED!*****The two-disc set comes at about $20 new (I haven't purchased it, I *may* actually buy it if it comes down in price). The prices I paid for the original DVD's are as followsHighlander ($10.. I think it is now down to $5) Highlander II Renegade Version ($15) Highlander The Final Dimension ($20) (too much, I know!)Actually, I hear that by 2002 a NEW DVD version of the original Highlander is coming (how about a nice crisp-cleaned up anamorphic widescreen transfer this time? Maybe this time it will have a WORKING stills section? etc.) That should be interesting. The HL3 (Final Dimension) DVD was really marked down in terms of extras and organization compared to the others (done by different people) and feel's far less of a collector's edition.Of the DVD versions of the Highlander films currently out, Endgame actually contains, overall the most and best bonus footage, with an enhanced special edition version (a well packaged apology of the theatrical release, which could be said for the whole package, and in the tradition of shafting the theatre audience and rewarding the home-viewing fans which I suppose is a noble gesture, for the creators who admit their mistakes and keep trying, this comes as the biggest apology yet), an early cut (complete with numbers in the black bars, minus color correction, a few special effects missing, and plenty of alternate takes and different scenes and missing dialogue, quite interesting actually), deleted scenes (three of them), three levels of trivia (which you can play a timed version of on the DVD-ROM deal, using the crappy PC Friendly program.. frankly I find most DVD-ROM extras on these discs to be sub par and frankly throw-away, good for one go only) something I wish more DVD's had (interactive trivia games), cool interactive menus, audio commentary, two making of's (one of discussion of the story and characters with the cast and crew, and one of the visual and production effects with the crew), plus sneak peaks (trailers for several movies, most of which suck IMHO, but they're mainly cult sequels and boxed sets, so go figure, including the hilariously bad Beowulf and even the HL3 trailer, with an apparently dubbed line calling it the director's cut though it still shows the PG-13 label at the end, strange. But I digress!), and that's pretty much it, but you get a lot of viewing time for your purchase (compared for example to HL3 which featured some pictures of other movies, the trailer, and the film itself).So as far as DVD's go, this is a bargain. As far as HL films go, I still rank this as the Phantom Menace of the Highlander series. Of course that isn't entirely true.. I still find it more interesting than HL3 (which is more of a fun, watch-it-with-your-buddies type of weekend flick). I still love the fight scenes in HL3 (they just seem more brutal and less Hong Kong, fast-motion than endgame's, which is a different style and an acquired taste).Anyhow, I think the overall impression of the deleted scenes, the alternate cut, and the final DVD special edition (btw, the third morphing scene in the final battle only can be viewed if you win the third trivia sequence, just thought you'd like to know) is probably the most improved we've seen a home HL release next to the Renegade HL 2. I still rank them the same, but this far surpasses the shallow, short, and choppy theatrical Endgame.So in short, if you loved the theatrical Endgame (all two of you), this should be a dream come true. If you found Endgame barely tolerable, this is a good rental or it may win you over with a couple of viewings, and if you hated Endgame, this probably won't do much for you (maybe worth a free rental, on a rainy day...).Continuity-wise, interestingly the creators (minus Russell Mulcahey, unfortunately) make up for many of the continuity errors.They place the film (and since no titles actually say the date for the present, you can fudge it I think) in 2002 so that the events happening 10 years ago occur in 1992 (apparently after the first episode of the series) so it won't contradict the TV series events.Of course there are other issues such as Faith/Kate and Jacob Kell/Father Rainey events being ignored by the movies and series, but perhaps we can infer that these dirty little secrets are kept even from brothers (Connor and Duncan) so they would be kept from us.In the series Duncan is fated never to marry. In the film he marries once, but only for one night, so perhaps we can still take that as being in continuity, although it somewhat lessons the devastation of Tessa's death in the series, since she was supposed to be the closest he ever came to a real marriage.Connor still gets the shaft I think, and many comment on him looking too old but I think this adds to the depression his character faces. Still, he's a far weaker presence in the series, and I think even Highlander 2 treats him better. No collector can ignore the first fime, and it provides a nice contrast to this one. Fans of the series will undoubtably want this one, as it combines the characters and tries to give more oomf to the series framework. In fact the other films totally contradict this one (even the first one) making them irreconcilable except as alternate universes, and only the series can be fudged into the continuity for any fan. Still, whatever others may say, I see them simply as telling different stories with the same characters, but if you are looking for a coherent timeline, it just isn't possible with Highlander, and that's something the writers, producers and directors created for themselves, for good or for ill. If the fans can put up with it (and it was nice that they thanked the fans profusely in the commentary.. hey you're welcome!), there must be something to it. It's a somewhat tricky relationship between the fans and the creators it seems, but it works for now.Overall Endgame director's cut is better than HL3 director's cut (which is still just a campy remake of the first film anyway), but still below the entertainment value and quality of the Renegade HL 2 (seriously).As an artsy music video, this movie probably has the most of that kind of stuff, and the fights are cool. I think the movie goes downhill at the scene where Connor appears in the Cemetery.. that's when the focus goes to Duncan and it more and more resembles a TV series episode, where everybody bows out and characters disappear in favor of Duncan's development.In the audio commentary, the creators point out that the sanctuary is NOT holy ground in the final version. In the Theatrical version apparently it is (which really stuck in the craw of fans and continuity.. because even the evil Kurgan in the first film could NOT and neither could the supposedly more evil Kane, kill on Holy Ground, but Kell offs at least eight immortals on holy ground so to make it just a secular sanctuary makes more sense. You'd think the people who made it would have taken the precaution to bless it first though.. idiots). But it's just a movie...There are a couple of other interesting nuances that others have hinted at or mentioned. Indeed, Kell has 661 kills and by the end he would have 666 kills (the number of the Beast in the Bible's Book of Revelation). Joe Dawson and the plotting of the Watchers are interesting. Are they with Kell? Are they acting independently for their own goals? Is Joe breaking the rules? Or are the others? The DVD version and especially the alternate cut make this far more interesting. The theatrical version really dropped the idea of the Watchers and forgets all about them, which really hurt that part of the story. Methos, sadly, still gets left of course.The new ending is problematic. It's nice that the romantics in us get to see Duncan and Faith's second chance but this means that eventually she and Duncan will have the same problem that Connor and Duncan had (one of them has to die eventually.. will they kill each other, or will somebody else take one of them away? Same problem with Methos... the problem of having two immortals be friends, doesn't change the fact that they are still both part of The Game). As tragedy, it's great stuff. But the fans in us hate to see Connor die, he's the backbone of all Highlander after all. Series-only fans probably don't care as much, and in the context of the series it has to be Duncan, blah, blah, etc.Another nuance that crops up in the DVD special edition version is that the events leading up to the graveyard scene especially if you pretend you don't know what's going to happen next, can give the impression that perhaps Connor is the renegade immortal. One can see a watcher conspiracy in favor of the good guys (Connor? Duncan? Both?) and one in favor of the bad guys (Kell). Connor at times seems ambiguous, as if he's warning Duncan secretly to watch his back not just from other immortals, but himself as well! Perhaps others didn't get that impression, but I thought it was another interesting wrinkle in the story that could have been pursued.Overall, great improvement over the original Endgame in the theatres, and a great DVD package. Not the greatest Highlander film, by any means, especially for fans of the original, but something of a tragic, bittersweet remembrance of the memory. A great tragedy, and still a great blending of the series and the first film (while having a unique atmosphere of its own).Rent it first or get it as a bargain bin title, unless you liked the theatrical version.  "},{"Title":"Never Tamper With The Classics","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes the first Highlander was the best of them all, Period. Although Highlander Endgame had it's cool action, its story telling was just god awful. I believe that it was only made just for the sake of doing it. there was no heart in to making or telling of the story, it was just to kill off Connor, which in my mind was a big mistake. yes he is older but then again this movie should never have been made. Just leave the classics alone. Since Connor is the last than, all the other movies never really made sense. So what I do is just say to myself Highlander II and III and Endgame never existed.One other thing, if Endgame and the first movie are not in the same universe than why have Connor there in the first place IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE!  "},{"Title":"Why, oh why!!!?","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I knew it was coming; it's just so sad! I didn't go to see this movie in the theaters because I was afraid of the ending.  Obviously, it's a Highlander movie, There can be only 1!  But which one?  I got really excited when I heard there was going to be a Highlander4, and then I found out that Adrian Paul was going to be in it! I am a Highlander movie fan. The series is a joke.  Hello? There can be only one!! And Chris Lambert is the one! Or was, he was the first was he not? And then stupid Adrian Paul came along; it's no good!! I liked the movie except for one little thing.  The ending!! WHY OH WHY!! I knew it was coming, Lambert is getting old, so what do they do? Replace him! It's horrible! Now Adrian Paul has taken over both the Highlander series and movies!!! All I have to say is Chris Lambert better make some post-humus appearances if there are more movies.  What ever happened to Ramirez!??! Why couldn't they have just left Duncan out? sigh "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I left the theater before the end. Highlander was a good movie and it got gradually worse and worse by each sequel. I fear there is going to be a fifth one. "},{"Title":"One more nitpick","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't add anything unique to the complaints about the plotting or the sleepwalking Lambert did, but the close captioning on the video version has got to be the worst I've ever seen on a semi-major release. If someone has already mentioned this I'm sorry, but it is REALLY bad. Well, okay, one more thing--would it have been that hard to have Duncan reproduce the accent he used in the series? "},{"Title":"The end of Highlander","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you were a fan of the Highlander TV series, you might like this film. You just have to think of it as a Made for TV movie.  Even then it's can be lacking.If you're not a fan, or new to Highlander, just watch the first movie, or the series.  It's way too confusing if you don't have any previous knowledge of the series.The film itself is disjointed, and a lot of montages are repeated.It's like they had to cut out a lot of scenes, and needed to throw something together at the last minute.  Not good film making.Now I didn't expect this film to be consistent with the first movie.But there's no reason it should be inconsistent with the TV series.Either the writer didn't watch the series, or really wanted to test the loyalty of Highlander fans.In the end, Highlander End Game is a sad ending to a troubled movie franchise.  "},{"Title":"why oh why??","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame is worse than no1, worse than no.2, better than no.3 (who totally sucked), and worse than MANY episodes of the TV series.So I guess you already figured out that i didn't like this movie at all. It's the perfect proof of the fact that sequels are inferior movies by definition, as a movie character once said.Why I didn't like it, you ask? Okay, here's why.1. The movie doesn't care at all about the previous movies. As if it is not a sequel. It doesn't care about the way Highlander I ended and that is bad.2. The movie is sort of divided in two. In the first part we don't get to find out too much about the plot, all we have are flashbacks of Connor and Duncan. Only around the halfway point we find out what it's actually about a really really bad guy and the fight Connor and Duncan have to lead against him.3. The acting is very bad. Adrian Paul is normal - a decent actor i could say - but Lambert is sooo bad, that i can't even express it in words. So far away of the great role he played in Gideon...4. Very predictable. You know what will happen next throughout the whole movie. Example when we're introduced to the bad guy, we find out that he has killed 661 immortals so far. That moment, i told the friends that i watched this movie with, that he will kill 5 more until the end. I was right. And this is just ONE of the many possible examples.5. (the most important thing, this is why i left it for the end)   The ending. The ending is sooooo bad and again soooo predictable.....  I guess i should worn you right now that there might be some spoilers ahead. But WHAT spoilers can there be when you know how it will end from the beginning?? Anyway, i'll follow the rules SPOILERS AHEAD.So the ending. I still can't believe how come these people aren't sick yet of these endings. The sacrifice for defeating the evil. The death of someone close to the main character. The final fight good vs evil. The evil starts well and kicks the good guy's ass. The good guy is almost defeated. The evil guy lets the good guy know about the fact he killed a close person. The good guy miraculously gets better and kicks the evil guy's ass. For good.Does it ring a bell? Of course it does. Almost every movie with fights ends like this. And although i hoped this would be different, i was wrong.All in all, a bad film, that i recommend only to stupid people or the real maniacs about Highlander. But i am sure that even the biggest Highlander fans will be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Need a lesson of how to avoid every principle of good script-writing?","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning some spoilers!Every hopeful screenwriter-to-be reading Syd Field's books has more acute knowledge on what to do and what not, than the authors of this sorry massacre of a beautiful concept.We get so many disjointed flashbacks, that you simply stop caring after a while. We get characters explaining themselves to the audience and other characters, and we get characters explaining others to others yet. Duncan telling Methos you are 5000 years old Methos, the oldest immortal still alive? YE GODS!!!Film is a visual medium, guys, but both authors and director of this one clearly forgot all about this fact!Highlander (series and 1st film) was all about mystique -- none of that in this one, except the very exasperated question just how the heck did these people get all the money to make such a low-class movie!And all the basics were there, premises which could have made for finally a fantastic sequel to Highlander the movie, if for once director and authors would have left the working universe of the series intact.To see how THIS is done, and done well, and well again, and again -- have a look at the Star Trek movies. Authors and producers called back to lovingly work on characters they treat with respect. Actors allowed to use the charm they swayed audiences with. Stories built on the former universe (esp. Khan in the 2nd movie) and a studio which understood and respected its audience by acknowledging that people seeing that movie would either be old fans (and know) or be new fans and revel in a newfound mystery.THAT is how you do it. And there's absolutely no comparison better fitting to show where Highlander IV failed miserably. "},{"Title":"Highlander The Made-For-TV movie","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  That is exactly what it looked like to me. I had such high hopes for this movie. Bringing together for the first time on the big screen Connor and Duncan had such potential to The best of the series; instead it just fell flat. One the reviews that I read in here said that you could pick the spots for commercials and the To Be Contiuned mark and I would have to agree. It just look like the editors of this movie took no time or care and just slapped this one together to make a buck. And what is with Connors death scene?!? I mean, I agree with the whole passing of the torch from Connor to Duncan; but, come on. Christopher Lambert's character is the only reason people have gone to see the Highlander movies. And to give his character such a LAME death scene was just wrong. All of the true Highlander fans should avoid this one. "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I rented this movie I had very low expectaions, but I had hoped that some how the writers and directors would pull it together and use the amazing idea that the movie was based on. I was WRONG the movie was full of plot holes cheap effects and overall poor acting mostly Christopher Lambert (One of the worst actors,in my opinion) I would only recommend this movie to those who have suffered massive brain damage or those under the influence of alcohol(Even then it's 50/50) "},{"Title":"Why do they continue?","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The original Highlander movie was excellent.  One of my all time favorites. Everything after that has been nothing but crap. This of course being the culmination.  The only good thing about this film is its cinematography. Some of the images and scene placement are very well done.  Although I must wonder in every Highlander film a character swipes a blade across a railing or some other object.  That always seems to cause sparks.  I have never ever seen that happen in real life, and only in a few other movies.  I just hope that this film means the end of the horrible spawn of a true masterpiece. "},{"Title":"What a letdown!!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, I am a huge fan of both the series and of the original movie. I had hoped this would be a way of tying the two together, or maybe just a good story.  Alas, it was not to be. This movie was poorly written and there were some glaring inconsistencies. The whole idea of the Sanctuary could have been really good, but just looked dumb, like some bad heavy metal video. And what was the point of sending Duncan after Kell, when Methos is 5000 years old and has kicked a lot more butt? In addition, throughout the series it was always made clear that Duncan had never been married, although he had come close a few times. It seems that this was conveniently forgotten so as to introduce the Faith/Kate storyline. Some very fine actors were seriously underused. We didnt see enough of Donnie Yen (Jin Ke), and Joe Dawson and Methos were only on the screen for a few seconds apeice out of the entire film. I was terribly disappointed by this movie. It's not the worst I've ever seen but I just kept waiting for it to get better, and it never really did.  Four stars out of ten!! "},{"Title":"The best Higlander sequel attempt to date, but still a failure","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a huge fan of the original Highlander. Why they keep making sequels is beyond me. Each one serves only to ruin the first story.While this movie has more familiar faces in it than II or III, it has similar plot holes as previous sequels. The most glaring plot hole, is that the game ended in the first movie; Connor won. End of story. This leaves the door open for any number of prequels, but not sequels! An explanation for why immortals are still running around in Endgame is never provided. I suppose that's better than `The Planet Zeist' or `Being sealed in a Cave.' Still, we've got nothing to go on. Also, there's some cheap, instant character building in the first part of the film. I have no problem with Connor playing the Ramirez role to Duncan, by why does Connor's whole character hinge on his mother's death? If that was such a defining moment, why haven't we seen it before? This ends up as a crutch for the writers to assassinate Connor's character.All of the Highlander sequels seem to ignore previous sequels, and take only as much of the first movie as needed to call it a sequel. Joining this tradition, Endgame ignores II and III, which may be it's only good move. On the other hand, it borrows heavily from the first movie, and even more so from the series.The series is also impossible to reconcile with the original movie. The game mysteriously has not ended, Connor is not the winner of the prize nor the main character, there are female immortals,  and a there's a group of people who know almost everything about the immortals. Not quite a perfect fit. The least they could do was set the series before the original movie, and not introduce contradictory elements.When you draw in the series and the first movie, one set of rules has got to go, and they choose to rid themselves of the original movie. What you're left with is a film that is that is a horrible tease. They show characters from the original film, like Rachel and Heather, but there is not any mention of Brenda. It's just as well, as these characters are blown-up, or exploited to provide artificial character traits for Connor.Add this to massive air time for the Duncan character, a weak villain (yes a new ultimate evil, more terrible and infamous than any other that was invented yesterday), and an ending where Connor commits suicide to save the world.Endgame is a disastrous sequel in a growing list of awful Highlander movies. Don't want this movie. Just do what I do. Pop in the original Highlander (preferably widescreen, DVD), and watch it secure in the knowledge that the entire Highlander story ends when the credits roll. "},{"Title":"It stinks","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry people but this film sucked away 90 minutes of my life that I'll never get back.  The acting didn't even live up to the TV sires.  The story took very hurky-jerky jumps that offer up nothing at all to the storyline or character development (the worst of which is the Irish bandit scene, just an excuse for one more sword fight).  Endgame ignores various things from any version of the Highlander myth we've yet scene but then incorporates whatever is dramaticly appropriate from any of them.  When symbolic imagery makes an appearance, it isn't an artistic device whispering into your ear; it's more like a golf club to the side of the head.  I could go on but I don't want to waste any more time on this film.  I'm not saying that I expect action movies like this one to be high art, but I do expect any film to follow the general rules of good film making and good story telling. "},{"Title":"Good movie, not great movie...avoid new ending!! (Spoilers)","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (Warning movie spoilers)I love Highlander- I love Adrain Paul and Christopher Lambert, and I liked this movie...but I didn't LOVE this movie.A.) The opening credits had Starring with Special Guest Star There is NO special guest star in a movie!! a tv series yes, but how corny is it to have a guy who is a special guest star in a MOVIE?! and it was someone a lot of people haven't even heard of!B.) The alternate ending- it sucked. At least the ending of the first movie was touching. Duncan reliving memories of Connor while Bonny Portmore plays softly in the background. Now they rearranged where the flashbacks happen, and add in faith surviving Kell's rampage where in the origional cut shown in theaters, she dies. Lame TV showish ending.C.) Yes I loved the series, yes I love Highlander...and yes this had the stars of the series in the movie...but did they have to make it like the series? I could pick out the places for commercials, and a place for the To be continued... This is a movie, not the tv series. It should be above the level of a tv show. the graphics should be better, the action should be better, they should be able to do more with a movie budget than a tv series budget, or they should've kept the series going instead.I'm not saying this was a bad movie. I did like it. (Hated totally the new ending they have on the video...if they come out with the origional theater cut, buy that version...this version sucked. The addition of edited scenes and new ending are totally not worth it.) But Adrian Paul and my fave, Christopher Lambert still kicked butt in this film...although I think their talents were waisted with a lame script. So much more could have been done to heighten the intensity between the two Brothers at the peak moment of one of their demise. But it just kind of came to a head (if you pardon the pun.)So in essence. Good movie for Lambert and Paul fans, good movie for people who are more fans of the tv show than of movies since it is so television show-ish, and at least it isn't Highlander 2, but it could have been much much better, and it would have been even better if they had left the origional ending they had in the movie.it was a good movie, not a great movie. But if you do buy it, (Which I suggest because it is a decent movie in certian ways. I'm not trying to destroy it or anything.) Just get the theatrical version...NOT the with added scenes and a new ending. That version sucked. It tore out any emotional sincerity the theater version had. "},{"Title":"Continuing the TV series","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has been said before, but it bears repeating.  If you are considering to watch this movie, keep in mind that it is almost entirely based on the Highlander TV series.  It has nothing to do with the first three Highlander movies.In fact, I would say the movie plays out like an Highlander TV episode with a big budget, with lots of flashbacks and swordfights.  So if you liked the TV series, you'll probably like this movie.  If you didn't care for the series, or prefer the original movie, pass this one; you won't miss too much. "},{"Title":"Connor vs. Duncan vs. tv series vs. original movie","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off, i was initially introduced to Highlander through the original movie so therefore i have a special place in my heart for Connor Macleod. Nothing against Duncan but i just like Connor a little better because of this reason.  Second, i'm a fan of Highlander but i'm not a fanatic as some others here seem to be.  I've watched all 4 movies and some episodes of the series.  Now onto Highlander 4.WARNING SPOILERS BELOW...DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE MOVIE.Talk about false advertising, the movie left out so many scenes the trailer had in it.  The editing was very horrendous.  The movie did not flow smoothly at all...especially the flashbacks.  The scenes leading to the flashbacks of the first movie flowed well unlike this movie.  A more talented editor/s would have made the movie more fluid.  Kell was a major disappointment for a villain.  His lines were too over the top.  He was not believable as a real or major threat as the villain...Connor or Kurgan could have taken him out a long time ago.  I didn't buy the motivation behind this character.  The plot was badly inadequate and inconsistent with that of the previous movies or series.  Now the viewer needs to forget the 2nd and 3rd movies and take only some elements of the 1st and that of the series when looking at this movie...that is what needs to be done too for further sequels.  One of the many problems is the blatant disregard for the fundamental elements of the 1st movie and series.  Duncan was never married...they could have solved the problem of Kate by not making her his wife but of a love that was killed before their marriage.  Another major problem is Kell's gang...why are they doing his bidding?  What's their motivation for joining up with him?  They could have solved this by 1)showing Jin Ke's hate for Connor or Duncan because one of them has killed his family member or teacher 2)Kell promising them power and riches 3)Kell telling them he's the strongest and they must join him if they want to survive.  However, no reason at all, besides Kate, was presented to show why those people followed Kell.  One of the most baffling things is why those people just stood there and let Kell behead them?  No explanation was provided for this event.  Another problem is the Watchers and Sanctuary subplot that was really useless.  Dawson and Methos was just thrown into the movie and they did nothing to really advance the plot.  And what is up with the secret move Connor showed Duncan?...that was totally lame.  In fact, Connor's death and the way he died was lame and ineffective.  They should have both Connor and Duncan fighting Kell but in one key moment, Kell kills Connor while Duncan watched helplessly like Obi-Wan did when Qui-Gon was killed by Darth Maul...and then have Duncan kill Kell.  It was sad to see Connor die but it was necessary...Lambert was getting way too old...they needed to use Duncan instead of Connor if there is to be any more sequels. Even though Connor is my favorite Macleod, i can see and get use to Duncan taking the mantle of Highlander.  For any more sequels to succeed, it boils down to this  Do not ignore major elements of the first movie and the series and not to stray too far from their continuity, better editing, give believable motivations behind the characters, and more coherent plots.  If there are to be sequels, the director and writers should seriously take a deep look into the first movie and the tv series and examine the elements that worked well in them and not ignore them and stay in line with the continuity.  If they ignore all these things, then there is no warrant for any more sequels...i mean why would they want to make more sequels if all it did was to alienate fans of the mythos?  when the majority of the audiences are the fans of the mythos and they ignore the fans' input, pleas, and objections...all they are gonna do is drive fans away and when that happens, not many other people will be sitting in the theaters.I thought the fighting scenes were well done, especially the one between Duncan and Jin ke....the other ones were mediocre.  The special effects could have been better too.  They seriously need to get better (coherent) storylines and/or better directors, writers (ones that know and care about the continuity), and editors for the sequels, if there are to be sequels, for this franchise to survive.      "}{"Title":"There can be only one!","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The third and most superfluous sequel to a movie that should have had neither a first nor a second sequel.  Confusing script, catastrophic editing, disastrous camera, poor acting! There can be only one... one point on IMDb!  "},{"Title":"They're destroying the Highlander genre!!! (w/ SPOILERS!)","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Am I the only one who notices that whenever a new Highlander movie or series is created, it completely ignores or destroys the mythos of the previous or original that came before it. The original Highlander movie introduced fans the wonderful mythos of the Immortals and their tragic lives. With Highlander II The Quickening, they changed the immortals to alien beings from another planet (the worst story in the whole movie series). Highlander The TV Series created a whole new parallel universe in which Connor hasn't won the Prize at all after defeating Kurgan and that The Game is still continuing (with many many more immortals left for us to see decapitated every episode). A lot of fans, including me, accepted and enjoyed the series because Duncan McLeod is a better and far more interesting Highlander than the original (and Adrian Paul has better skills in handling a sword than Lambert), plus it elaborated more on the Immortal Mythos itself introducing us a new concept - the Watchers. Highlander III The Final Dimension continued on the story of the original movie (ignoring H2Q's alien immortals and other concepts and the TV series itself), but still ridiculous nonetheless since after the Game was finished with Connor winning the Prize there is yet another immortal left - one who wields sorcery powers (duh!).Then there's the spinoff series The Raven which centers around Duncan's old flame, the 1000 yr. old thief Amanda. I don't like The Raven so much because it also violates some Immortal canon which the fans are familiar with (one notable violation I remember was the time when an ordinary mortal killed an immortal in one episode, a Quickening event started which there wasn't supposed to be one since the immortal wasn't killed by another immortal, hence, no Quickening).Anyway, Highlander Endgame was then made hoping to show off Adrian Paul as the better Highlander with the support of Christopher Lambert himself. But alas, this version also ignores and violates the Immortal rules that was established before namely1. Duncan was never married.2. Connor's background story in the TV Series version3. Nobody should ever kill an immortal on Holy Ground since this could create a powerful natural disaster that even all immortals are afraid of.And what about Methos? How do they expect the Prize to be won and the Game be over if this particular immortal keeps on hiding within the Watcher ranks!? I had no problem with the The Sanctuary concept because this was made by the Watchers only to ensure that the renegade immortal does not get the Prize himself because of simply cheating (well, as he said, he doesn't care about the Game or the Prize anyway, simply revenge on all immortals for killing his adoptive father).(Note In the TV Series, many immortals have cheated in this way to get the Prize themselves)Aside from the disappointment of the overall story, I also wished Duncan had the chance to fight Kin Je (Kell's Japanese henchman) again since this was obviously the best fight scene in the movie. But as it turns out, all of Kell's henchmen was impossibly killed by himself alone and all at the same time!! And please, if they're going to hire a writer for another movie (if ever there's another), hire one who's familiar with the Mythos, for crying out loud! Otherwise, don't, because they're just ruining it for the fans!!! "},{"Title":"Lord is this a bad, bad, smelly movie","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know what any reviewer might have been smoking when he said this movie was good, maybe he was being brilliantly sarcastic and I didn't catch it.  This movie stank, badly.  I loved the original Highlander and Highlander 3, they were very entertaining and made sense.  Highlander 2 and Highlander 4 however are both utterly incoherent.  NONE, I repeat NONE, of the stuff from this movie's theatrical trailers OR TV commercials is anywhere in the movie.  Its like they cut out all the good parts just to use them in the commercials and trailer to con us into the theater to see this hacked up piece of crap.  This good have been a good movie, but the director handed his cajones and most of his directorial and editorial control over to the movie's backers, just like the director of Highlander 2, and the backers proceeded to hack the movie to bits until it didn't make sense anymore.OK, now that I've ranted, let me substantiate my claim that this movie doesn't make any sense.  First, the idea that it discards the main Highlander continuity (ie Highlander 1) is preposterous.  Highlander 1 is, by definition, canon.  This was the movie that started it all, everything that happens in this movie must be taken as canon, you can't just ignore it and start over.  To that point, secondly Connor is The One.  He got The Prize back in Highlander 1, all movies made after Highlander 1 must be prequels to it, unless you have a really good excuse like they did in Highlander 3.  There is no excuse in Highlander 4, just oops, no Connor hasn't won the prize, and in fact he never will.  Then we have all the footage shown in the trailers and commercials that didn't make it into the movie.  I counted at least seven different scenes that were shown in the trailers that weren't in the movie.  Then we have the death of Rachel, Macleod's 'daughter'.  According to the story of Highlander 1, Rachel lives happily ever after.  In Highlander 4, as a cheap ploy to show us 'just how evil Jacob Kell is', Rachel gets blown up.  What is this crap?  Then we have this BS about one immortal, Jacob Kell, who isn't near the warrior Macleod is back when they were both in Glenfinnen, Scotland, becoming this bodycount racking machine, without anybody noticing.  The Watchers are supposed to be keeping tabs on this crap, and indeed they have been on top of the situation just enough to know exactly how many people Connor, Duncan, and Jacob Kell have killed, yet they don't see fit to warn either Macleod until it is too late for either of them to stop Kell.Those are the story inconsistencies of the movie.  Beware, ahead I'm going to talk about the end of the movie, so if I haven't yet dissuaded you from wasting your money on this steaming pile of a movie, and you want to see the ending yourself, don't read any further.  Put simply, the end of this movie is easily the worst part.  One of the taglines for this movie (and the others are similar) is What has always been a fight for one now becomes a battle two must face together.  This gives you the idea (an idea I thought would have been great) that Connor and Duncan are gonna tag team this guy because he has somehow broken the rules and therefore all bets are off.  Instead we have this crap about, You have to kill me Duncan, I can't live anymore, but with my power you can take him.  What is this crap? Kill Connor so the second stringer can use his power to take on a supposedly unbeatable immortal?  This is one of the dumbest ideas I've ever heard of.To summarize, this could have been a great movie, who knows, they may even do a Director's Cut on video to fix it (though that didn't help Highlander 2 any).  But as its stands this movie stank, badly.  Please, please, don't waste your money.  Ask any of your friends that did make the mistake of seeing this movie, you can do a lot better for your five bucks than this very poorly done flick.  Sorry if the second half of my comments look like one BIG paagraph, I couldn't get the system to add paragraph breaks.       "},{"Title":"That was their last chance","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  All right.  Let's start at the beginning.  In the first film (which is one of my absolute favorite movies), we learn that Connor is an immortal, and that immortals are natural things.  Connor has to fight the strongest of the immortals.  Connor is the last man standing and the film ends. OK.  In the sequel, we learn that they are not from this planet.  They are aliens from Zeist and more are coming to kill Connor because...I don't know.  -SO- Connor has to fight the strongest of all the ancient generals from this other planet.  OK.  Then the director said that them being aliens was too out there, so instead he had them be ancient time travelers.  OK.  Fine. In the third one, we learn that there were some immortals frozen in a cave so Connor didn't technically win in the first movie, so the game continues. OK.  COnnor has to fight this super magician strongest immortal with super powers.  Fine.  I can deal with all this.  I've explained to all my friends how all of this is plausible, and how it all fits in with the series, which on the surface, seems to ignore the movies altogether.  Now in this final show of stupidity, we learn that NONE OF THAT HAPPENED, and that it is the year 199 something and that Connor is not the only one left, and that in fact they need to do battle again with The strongest immortal, the ultra super immortal priest guy.  Sure.  That's cool, and so as not to give away the pathetic ending, I won't tell you why I was so upset that they got away with this, but just stick to the first one, and maybe the next two if you have an open mind, but skip this final chapter.  The production values are sad, and there are way too many assumptions made by the director.  Much of the plot is reference to God knows what and the whole sub-plot about the secret chamber where immortals go to protect themselves from the game is just out there.  That's all I've got to say about this one. "},{"Title":"Just dreadfully disappointing.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Been a Highlander fan for a long time. Loved the series, have the other movies on tape/laser/DVD. Was *really* looking forward to this one.And then got...this.Badly edited, badly written, bad characterizations (I don't know who Christopher Lambert is playing here, it's certainly not the Connor that's shown up anywhere else). Concepts that aren't fleshed out, and the ones that are still make no sense whether you're a fan or not. Seems like it was filmed straight off a first draft. A few more passes and it could've had a decent script.Sure, the track record of Highlander film sequels isn't great, but after 5 and 1/2 seasons of a pretty good series, I thought they'd finally have a handle on things.The refrain still rings true; when it comes to Highlander films there should have been only one.  "},{"Title":"YUCK!!!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies *ever*, and I've seen some real stinkers. It doesn't even have the weird charm of Plan Nine.  I couldn't even watch the whole thing. Quite a few people around her felt the same way.  I work at a movie theatre and I've never had so many people ask for refunds.  If they were going to make another Highlander movie, couldn't they at least have done it right? "},{"Title":"Not the end endgame-May contain spoilers","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't think this was the end of the game.  Never got the feeling that Kell wanted the prize as much as he wanted to bug Connor.  I loved the first movie and the TV series but this didn't settle much for either one.  I think the only reason Connor got offed was so he won't have to make another one. This  didn't let either Joe or Methos in the movie, automatically making it less than it should have been.  I didn't see Kell as all that magical and still haven't figured out why an immortal as talented as Jin Ke would have sat like a stone and let Kell take his head.  Being immortal is about surviving any way you look at it.  Connor and Duncan ending didn't do it for me either as if Connor loved Duncan so much he would have fell on the sword and taken his own head and let Mac have the quickening, then Mac wouldn't feel so bad.  Also Mac never was married and where this past wife came from defies everything else we know about the Highlander.  She would have made a great woman immortal in her own right in a different story line though. She was too stupid to live though if she and the posse did all the fighting to make Kell so powerful and then let him have her too. That doesn't add up.  This was just another episode and a weak one for Duncan as it brings up more questions than it helps to answer.  Connor looked old in this one and  I can see where he wanted out of the next one-Bring On METHOS and let it be better!! "},{"Title":"What a dog.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie because I am a big fan of the original three Highlanders.  I, however, am not a fan of the series so that might be the reason that I almost fell asleep in the theatre.  There are many things about this movie that just disgusted me.  To begin with, the time line on this movie was screwed up.  The years that Duncan is supposed to be learning from Conner is actually when Conner was learning from Ramirez.  Secondly, how can one have a Highlander movie without any blood and guts?  I do not believe I saw one decapitation in this movie, not like in one through 3. All in all, if you really want to see this movie, I would say wait until it comes out on movie.  It shouldn't be to long of a wait. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been a fan of Highlander for a LONG time...  And I must say that someone dropped the ball when they made Highlander Endgame.First of all, the movie ended WAY too soon.  An hour and 20 minutes is not long enough.  This movie had so much potential.  I liked where the movie was going, but it didn't quite get there.I hope this movie goes down the way Highlander II went down... as an embarassment that everyone tries to forget they ever saw...THERE CAN BE ONLY ONE! "},{"Title":"Waste Of Time And Money.  Big Time.","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Highlander Endgame was nearly a complete waste of time and money.First of all, let me say that nearly all of the fight scenes were excellent, if not inspiring.  Donnie Yen proved himself capable of choreography at the level of Bruce Lee, whose movies to me will always remain, despite age (or lack of plot or acting) the standard for fight choreography.The acting was decent, no better or worse than could be expected.But the plot?  Depressing.  The movie had an incredible amount of potential, and if it had followed the format that was alluded to from the trailer, then it would have been four times as good.  There were several scenes from the trailer that were cut, (this happens, I know) and I think that those decisions were mistakes.For instance, (MASSIVE SPOILERS follow, don&#145;t read if you haven&#145;t seen and want to) one trailer clip showed Connor slicing Kell in half, from the top. Kell proceeded to split into two.  Never happened.  Cool effect of Kell stopping, in midair, a thrown sword .  See previous.Next, the movie went to all of the trouble of bringing a band of Evil Immortals under Kell, the likes of which have never been seen before, Four Horsemen included.  And they were all slaughtered WILLINGLY by Kell, so that he could grow stronger. The whole point in a movie of giving someone skills, is to see those skills in action.  In the case of a villain, they fight and die.  There was no fight here.  In Donnie Yen, they brought around a character with much of the same potential as Jet Li in Lethal Weapon 4. Unlike LW4, the guy with the coolest hand-to-hand skills (as shown in a scene 45 min into the movie w/ Duncan) and the coolest weapon, doesn't get to go up against the hero(es) in the end.  I would have much preferred to see Connor/Duncan/or even Kell fight against Jin Ke (Yen) rather than the contrived, and frankly, overly predictable end fight scene between the Highlander and Kell.Lastly, the chick.  After creating some back story for Duncan and Kate/Faith, they have some bad blood.  She's with Kell's bunch.  Duncan just gives her a shred of hope, and then Kell's entire band goes bye-bye.  Her included.What they SHOULD have done, was have Kate get a conscience, and have the three of them take out the band and the deleted twin Kell's.  They could have still killed off some heroes, and pulled off a seriously good movie. As it is, I can only hope, and I'm not holding my breath, that the Director's Cut kept the Twin Kell's, and did just that. . "}{"Title":"HUH???","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning May contain spoilersWanna waste an 90 minutes of your day? Watch this movie. I have been a fan of Highlander the Series as well as the original Highlander movie, and I was hoping this one would redeem the past mistakes (Highlander 2, 3). I was wrong. If anything, this movie gave yet another reason that Highlander should be left alone. I would really love to see a good sequel, but if this is what they're going to give us, what's the point?The plot was horribly choppy, not to mention ridiculous. Why has Kell never come up before? With the newly introduced, extensive ability of the watchers to track all the heads Immortals have taken for thousands of years, you'd think they would have seen this guy coming. And I have yet to grasp the scene where he murders his disciples. Why? What? Where did Kate come from? I thought Duncan couldn't get married. Apparently the writers of this movie didn't watch the show. I did. I was disgusted. Why was Methos in this movie? What happened to him at the end? I've heard he died...huh? Coulda fooled me. But then this entire movie fooled me. It was laughable. Poor Christopher Lambert got shafted. His character ends up turning into a puddle of self-pity. They could have done more for him considering they killed him off in a movie that wasn't worth half the ticket price. Adrian Paul tried, but what could you do with this script? And the editing, I almost got a headache. It was painful. The sex scene with Kate and Duncan came out of no where and had no point, I wanted to see if I could feel.. What? That's a lousy excuse for gratuitous sex if I've ever heard one, not to mention violence for the sake of violence. The end was horrible. I wanted to cry for Conner, but I couldn't because it seemed so unbelievable to me that they were going to remove him from the show like that... I'm waiting for the directors to tell us Just kidding. Thought we'd gone off the deep end, huh? Cause that's what I think. If there is one word to sum up this movie, it's ICK. Just ICK. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You must be kidding...","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Instead of seeing this totally useless and pointless movie you can spend those precious 2 hours doing something much more fulfilling... Like playing chess with yourself or drawing little birds on your feet... this was really the worst movie EVER! "},{"Title":"There can be only one.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It Sucks. Bad.The shots of the landscape were great, even if it was Romania. The rest of the movie was nearly as bad as Highlander II. I went right home and put the original Highlander in the player to wipe out the taste of this flic.If you liked the original be sure not to see this one.There was almost no one in the theater with me on a Saturday night so I'm hoping its such a financial loss they'll never do another sequel.Like the original said  There can be only one  "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying and disjointed.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Here's another try at salvaging the reputation and elegance of the original Highlander movie that falls flat on it's face just as II and III.There's something immensely unfulfilling in seeing the juxtaposition when the director feels obliged to insert vestigal traces of the original into the new - and in this case, the additional footage from the original is just barely enough to prevent me from giving a '1' to this movie.The scene with the attacking motorcycle lackies outside the crypt was both trite and unnecessary - do we really need to see a modern-day rebel on a motorcycle wearing a period-piece helmet? In addition, any time the film director decides to liven up a combat scene with fast-forwarded action, it's time for the audience to avert their eyes.The actor's accents in this film are both inconsistent, outright bad, and poorly matched with the period that they purport to portray.  Pathetic.Original Highlander a 9 (and a 10, given the right mood)HighlanderEndgame a good solid 2, maybe even a 1.  "},{"Title":"Where did they dig up this editor?","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted, Working from an eight year old series, there are going to be some details that slip through the cracks, But couldn't they have at least tried?A Conner has appeared in the series(only 8 years old), but he's been gone for 10, apparently. B In the series, Duncan never had or could be married. C We never actually see Methos die(and he appears near the end of the movie)My biggest complaint, however, was not the above-mentioned inconsistencies, but the editing. This film started out medium paced, then sped up, then slowed down, then sped up, then got faster, then slowed down, in the midst of which, it went through about 7 separate flashbacks(I'm not exaggerating here). I followed the series and movies(even the dreaded first sequel, The Quickening) and this confused me at points. Were these supposed to be the last immortals and the gathering, or was it just the end of Conner and this Kell guy? Why would none of the main characters ever of heard of this guy, or tried to stop him? There were just too many inconsistencies and loose ends. If they weren't going to wrap it up, they should of cut it out in the first place. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad.  And I'm a Highlander fan.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  *** POSSIBLE MINOR SPOILERS ***Opening shot  New York City, 10 years ago.One of the first things I see is a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria.I knew I was in trouble at this point.And is it standard procedure in New York to let bombed-out shell of a buildings stand for 10 years?The story is fairly standard Highlander stuff  Connor and Duncan vs. Jacob Kell.  I think he was supposed to be menacing or something, but I'm willing to give them the benefit of the doubt and believe he was 'supposed'  to be simply loud and annoying.  All the more reason to root for the good guys. Besides, it makes my memories of this movie slightly less painful.I'm not even going to mention the time descrepancy factor.  On second thought, yes I will.  According to this movie, Connor has been drugged and kept in the basement of a monastary for the past ten years.  Unless my grasp of elementary mathematics has failed me, that means since 1990, right?  So does this mean the guy who looked exactly like Connor in the 1992 pilot for the television series wasn't really Connor?  Maybe they let him out temporarily for good behavior.  Or maybe this movie is really that stupid.Maybe I should have paid more attention to the reviews, which universally denounced this movie as abysmal.  But then, I consider myself a Highlander fan, and Highlander has always been a bit of a niche thing.  And one of my co-workers told me it wasn't too bad.  So, I figured, what the hell.  What's $8.50 and an hour and a half of my time in the grand scheme of things?  But, this is the biggest disgrace to the Highlander name since the whole Planet Ziest fiasco.I'll admit it had it's moments.  I got a bit of a lump in my throat during Connor's big speech to Duncan.  And the fight scenes were pretty well done. But taken as a whole, this is a very, very bad movie.Despite the title Endgame, I suspect we have not seen the end of this franchise yet, and I actually consider this a good thing.  The Highlander mythos has brought enough entertainment to enough people (Myself included) to deserve a better curtain call than this.  I have hope for the future of the series.  But this particular installment is just plain horrible. "},{"Title":"Wait for the video","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For die-hard fans of the Highlander movies as well as the series, I can only say, save your money and wait for the video!  The lack of action was disappointing enough but the story line lacked any continuity of the actual story.  Especially for those who saw the last C. Lambert Highlander movie. Many more Highlander movies could have been made with A. Paul without twisting the story line.   "},{"Title":"And the winner for worst movie ever...","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has got to be the worst movie ever.Three sequels that have taken a good premise and wrung all the life out of it.This is the final embarrassment that is Highlander.The first movie was great. I was one of the few people that saw it in the theatre. Expecting nothing and getting something very maverick and original.The sequels all sucked. This one is the icing on that rotten bile filled cake.The only purpose this movie will serve is for you and your friends to sit around and make fun of.I wish I had those two hours back. I could of been doing so many more exciting things like clipping my toenails. "},{"Title":"????","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Does anybody understand what the hell happened in this total confusing flashback after flashback, corny onelining movie????? I mean, how many damn times do I have to see a Macleod in a kilt when the setting for the movie is supposed to be modern.  And the utterly pointless fight scenes, and sex, I mean come on.  No significance to the plot, oh wait a minute... there was no plot... oh i see... WoooooHo "},{"Title":"A waste of celluloid (SPOILERS)","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off, let me say that I was a HUGE fan of the series.  And I loved the first movie as well.  I can't say that I was expecting great things from this movie, but I was expecting better than *this*!  No mention of Tessa, a new love interest/wife that *never* existed in the movie - after all, part of the tragedy about Tessa's death was supposed to be that he had never been married before - he asks her to marry him, she's killed.  THERE WAS NO EARLIER WIFE!The acting was ridiculous - the main villain was a cartoon character with no real motive - You killed my father! - yeah, well, you roasted his mother. Deal.  It's been 450+ years.  The scene where Kell killed his 'disciples' - what the hell was that?  We see these guys kick butt in the earlier parts of the film, and now they just sit there and let him kill them?  The plot was bad, bad, bad.  And every time I saw Connor say they hadn't aged I wanted to burst out laughing.  Couldn't they have gotten better makeup people?At the end of the film, I was hoping Methos would jump out while Duncan was in his post-quickening haze, kill Duncan, and be The One.  At least that would have been satisfying and would have given Methos a reason to have actually been in the movie.  Methos and Joe were shafted - they were a big part of what made the television series enjoyable while Duncan went off in one of his self-righteous moods.I would have walked out of this movie, except that I honestly had nothing else better to do.  I've warned all the people I know who loved the original series - if you just *have* to see it, and can't wait until video, at least go to a matinee.  Thank god I only paid $5 to see this crap.I give it a 1 of 10. "}{"Title":"For Die-Hard Fans Only!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Will somebody please stop William Panzer and Peter Davis from making anymore Highlander movies. It is just so obvious from watching Endgame that they have no concept of what a good movie is. This is the kind of movie that you can just count the things that are wrong with it. First of all, there are five different stories thrown into an hour and twenty minute movie and naturally there's not enough time to go into detail about any of them. As a result, the movie is borderline incoherent. Some of the scenes are so incomprehensible that the footage explaining them had to have been left on the cutting room floor. The relationship between Duncan and Kate seems to have been thrown into the movie for no other reason than to make an opportunity for a sex scene. If you ask me, the movie would have been a lot better if they'd lost the chick and focused more on Duncan and Connor and Connor and Jacob Kell. And if someone felt that the movie couldn't do without a sex scene, then they could have just shown Duncan in bed with one of his floozies from the past. There is no explanation as to who the Watchers are or who Joe and Methos are so if you've never watched the tv series you won't know any of that. Joe and Methos seem to have been put into the movie merely for the sake of having them in there. Their characters are given no depth at all. One good thing that I can say about the movie is that the acting is very good. Adrian Paul and Christopher Lambert are both excellent. I didn't used to think that Christopher Lambert was much of an actor, but I thought that he was quite good in this movie. I also found Bruce Payne's portrayal of Jacob Kell very interesting to watch. The action scenes are very good. I CAN say that I thought that the movie was visually stunning, but overall I thought that it was poorly done and was a lame attempt on the part of Panzer and Davis to keep the Highlander franchise alive. I'd only recommend Endgame to die-hard fans of the tv series. I give it a 6 out of 10 only because the acting and fight scenes were good and also because there has to be somewhere lower to go for the last two sequels. "},{"Title":"Good diversion for fans of the TV series Highlander, surprises, and what's with the trailers?!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had a long review planned, but got delayed in posting it. Looking over the various comments, a lot of what I wanted to say has been said.I liked this movie, though I felt it could have been much better. The opening credits were overly long with no bravado that characterized the series or other movies (Queen, anyone?). The bad guy (Kell) was unremarkable, somebody who Connor could easily have taken had this not been based on the TV series (where Connor is more of a joker or depressed side kick than a real hero). Had he been the supernatural enemy that could split in two and create illusions and use magical effects like he was shown to do in the trailers, he could have been a real threat. Connor's fate was also odd because the press releases told us otherwise (liars!). Can you say Special Edition Director's Cut DVD? Continuity grates with all but the series (and even then there are some issues). Connor's character is ravaged he loses about every fight he starts, gets his house blown up, and loses about all his friends! Also troubling is how the movie dumps the Watchers and the other villians too quickly. The title is also misleading (there's too many immortals left even at the end of the movie).Good, but not great. Superior to Highlander 3, but that's about it. 3/5 stars "},{"Title":"Good movie--just too short","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A pleasant treat to have new Highlander material after a 2 year drought! Both MacLeods did admirable acting jobs and the villian(s) were superb. It's just too bad so much time was needed to tutor the newbies, as it seemed to require snipping things us longtime fans would like to have seen. Nonetheless, it was great to see the TV and movie series blend on the big screen.  Hope they go for HLV one of these days!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful combination of movies and series","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Endgame beautifully combined some of the best parts of both the earlier movies and the TV series. Performances by both Christopher Lambert and Adrian Paul were excellent, the interaction between the two on screen was especially wonderful.The short performances by Peter Wingfield and Jim Byrnes were also of note. Overall I felt that the balance between the action and romance aspects of the movie was well done, and while there are always things I would have done differently, I really enjoyed the movie. "},{"Title":"What happened? (CONTAINS WHAT SOME WOULD CONSIDER SPOILERS)","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After 9 years the highlander film seires is Resurrected.  (That travesty that came out in 1994 does not count due to the Van Pebbles factor.)  I was looking forward to this movie as I heard that they had waited till a good script came along.  I don't know if this was it or not and until a director cut comes out, like happened with the first two films, we may never know.  Here is where the spoilers are.  Half of the things you saw in the ads are not in this film.  The scene where Connor cuts the guy in half, unless I feel asleep is nowhere to be found.  Where you saw our heroes jumping through a portal of some sort....sorry not here.  The film is cut down to about 89 minutes I believe so as u can imagine much of the film much have been left on the cutting room floor.  Hopefully like with the first two films the DVD will explain everything and give us a version of the film that the director intended.  SO what about the film that we did get?  Well, if your a highlander fan you should enjoy it, especially if your the TV show's fan.  It is not however the shot in the arm to the franchise that I imagine they were hoping for.  Some of the fight scenes are great and the dialog in my option is not as bad as some reviews I have read.  Besides all the scenes that got chopped from the movie that looked interesting the other down side of the film is Lambert.  He has aged a lot since the second highlander film, and they did not do much in the way of makeup to help this fact.  It is a little distracting to be watching a man that does not age look a lot older than he did in previous films.  For a good part of this he just looks old and tired.  Later in the film he seems to look more inspired.  If they were looking for a world beaten man then that's what they got.  My only problem with that is he looks the same in some of the flashbacks.So IF your a fan then this should be worth a viewing if your not.  Wait for the DVD which hopefully will be more satisfying out of 10 i give it 7.5(and i'm a highlander fan so keep that in mind) "},{"Title":"Lush, beautifully done","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved the beauty and lightheartedness of the Duncan and Connor flashbacks, which contrasted so well with the darker present-day scenes.  The dynamic between the two men was presented gradually, making the stirring conclusion meaningful on many levels.  A wonderful addition to the Highlander universe. "},{"Title":"EXCELLANT/NEEDED LESS EDITING & LONGER MOVIE","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I joined the Highlander world almost 4 years ago. I had not seen the original movie until after a certain good looking Immortal by the name of Duncan MacLeod, Adrian Paul, caught my eye on USA Network one day. I have been a fan ever since.This movie had the unfortunate luck to have been left in the let's cut as much time off of it so it won't be any longer than 2hrs department. It is very well acted & the fights superb. It has not gotten a fair shake in the Reviewer World, but what else is new? If you're not between 12 & 30 something, forget it.I deeply hope that movie studios will notice the untapped talent Adrian Paul is. There are few actors as capable as he is. One thing that detracted from the film was that it didn't begin to show the range & talent & abilities of that actor.So, in closing, am I a little disappointed? Somewhat.  Will that keep me from seeing the movie again & again &? Certainly not! Will I beg & plead for a longer, uncut version from Panzer & Davis (the producers & owners of the HL franchise)? You bet! Will I encourage anyone I know to go to see the movie & not listen to people that think they know everything there is to know about movies? Absolutely!  "},{"Title":"There should be only one!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not nearly so bad as the other two sequels. You know, the ones that shouldn't exist. It provides a Generations-like transition from old cast to the new, yet doesn't have the benefit of Patrick Stewart to distract audiences from the otherwise abysmal dialogue and contrived plot. Don't expect to understand the characters unless you're a fan of the TV series or the (first) movie. The villain is, well, not very villainous. Some of the special effects look good, but others are laughable (eg., the morphing face bit). The over-the-top fight scenes are fun to watch and would have made it a nice guilty pleasure movie except that pesky plot kept getting in the way. "},{"Title":"UGH!  REALLY bad","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was warned away from this but, like an IDIOT I saw both thetheater release and the director's cut.  No big improvement w/thelatter.  I was never a big fan of the movies - I MUCH prefer AdrianPaul over Christopher Lambert(sp?) but I thought this was alet-down.  I hope they are just following the StarTrek tradition ofhaving the first movie be a let-down the very 1st Star Trek, themotion picture and the first Star Trek, TNG Generations filmswere flops) and then having the rest be good (I hope.)  I thoughtEnd Game was just awful. "},{"Title":"There can be only one... and they should have kept it that way.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The biggest problem in this film, but certainly not the only, is the fact the Highlander saga ended 15 years ago. Connor MacLeod won the prize and that was that.Of course, Highlander II introduced all sorts of weird story elements, but conceivably it was still part of the overall story. Highlander III worked around the original film, and even though it was just a rehash of the first film, it could still fit in the story... if you suspend some disbelief.But then came the series... which I watched a few episodes of, but it just didn't work for me... because Connor had won. It introduced all sorts of elements like there still being hundreds of immortals from all over the world, obviously including Duncan, Connor's relative, as the title role. And the silliness of Watchers and The Society and so on and so forth.Now this fourth installment of the Highlander movie series, if you can call it that, is basically a movie based off the TV series. But nevertheless, the TV series was a bad spin off, and this spin off of spin offs doesn't belong in the saga.To see Christopher Lambert take a back seat to his own series is depressing, as it is to see him die. He already won. To be honest, he doesn't look too bad for the amount of time that's passed. And the scenes with Heather (that weren't from old footage) shows that she's even better preserved.To get right down to it though, this movie just didn't click for me. It wasn't a Highlander movie... not just because it had nothing to do with the original apart from the character Connor (who's not really the same character, and forgot how to fight) - but the kung fu, the Matrix like techno metal soundtrack, the stylised action sequences... it just didn't work. It wasn't awful, but it was an unfitting end to a film which was a masterpiece and already ended 15 years ago.There can be only one... and they should have kept it that way. See it if you're a fan of the series, but if you'd rather not spoil the magic of the original Highlander, avoid it. "}{"Title":"Managed to ruin the movie and the series","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The main problem with this movie is that it doesn't follow either the movies or the series.  It mixes up elements of both so hopelessly, that it might as well not be called Highlander.  The only good thing about it is that we can finally be rid of an aging immortal Christopher Lambert.Plot mixed up beyond belief.  Completely redefines things from the movie and the series, such as who the watchers are and what their job is.  In the movies, the end of the immortals is near, while in the series, the end is off in the syndicated future.  Reconciling them apparently was too hard to come up with a decent story that we care about.Characters Duncan McLeod and Joe Dawson from the series, but Duncan's character is so completely different as to be unrecognizable.Action It could have all been forgivable if the action were okay, but aside from a ten second sequence between Adrian Paul and Donnie Yen (an amazing martial artist btw) there was no action.Bottom Line Any one of the series episodes is more worth watching than this movie.  Don't see it. "},{"Title":"The World Game","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Just because this is aimed at 13 year old boys, that it has poor production values and laughable acting doesn't mean it is without intelligence.There are a few books, TeeVee shows and films (even role-playing games) whose appeal lies not in what is seen but in the mechanics and details of the world behind what is seen.This is usually the domain of science fiction and fantasy. We enthusiasts will gladly put up with a poor window into a world if that new world transports with a cosmology that appeals. Each new episode adds information, and with each new piece, the viewer becomes addicted to greater discovery.(Soap operas and baseball exploit a similar dynamic concerned with just tracking the story of the moment. History is essential, but there is no underlying science to be discovered.)The Highlander world is a pretty interesting one because it leverages some Celtic magic that wonderfully differs from the Mediterranean traditions which power Western thought. That Celtic tradition has a recent story where Londoners around 1900 deliberately worked to reinvent German rosicrucianism into Celtic magic. Highlander adopts themes from this Order of the Golden Dawn.Now to this film and its versions. It is not bad simply because it has bad acting and horrible production values, nor even the stupid story. All had that. What this film does is break the rules, transgress the pact with the viewers who create the world. Once the logic of the cosmology is broken, this band of monks is betrayed. End of world.There is an ethical line that is crossed when this happens. I wonder what the implications are tolerance for doublespeaking politicians and evangelists, or a heightened sense of truth? "},{"Title":"A huge waste of potential - for Highlander fans only","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Second to the original film, Highlander Endgame is the most popular and biggest hit in the Highlander movie series. Part of this was, no doubt, the fact that the star of the Highlander films, Christopher Lambert, was united with the star of the Highlander series, Adrian Paul.The story involves immortal Duncan MacLeod (Paul) investigating the disappearance of his friend, mentor, and kinsman, Connor MacLeod (Lambert). Along the way he meets up with his ex-wife, Kate (Lisa Barbuscia). When Connor is finally discovered, the two must unite to battle an immortal no one can destroy alone - yet in the end, there can be only one.First of all, let me say that this film will make much more sense and be more enjoyable for Highlander fans. Had I not been a fan, I think I would've completely ignored the film.The cast isn't exactly extraordinary. Adrian Paul is great; it's nice to see Joe Dawson (Jim Byrnes) and Methos (Peter Wingfield) turn up as well, although in dastardly short performances. Bruce Payne as Kell is pitiful, making Kell the most dull, uninteresting villain in the Highlander universe; Barbuscia is fine in an unbelievable role. Christopher Lambert's performance is good, but the way the character is depicted - suicidal, old, feeble, insanely depressed - is horrible.Douglas Aarniokoski's direction is fine, with a very nice score by Nick Glennie-Smith and Stephen Graziano. It's great to have Bonny Portmore back as well.The film has two major problems. First of all, the movie plays out much more like one of the episodes of the Highlander TV series than a motion picture. Second, the film is a major disappointment. The potential for this film was enormous, and yet it wastes almost all of it. It is a very dark, gloomy picture.In closing, Highlander Endgame is hardly enjoyable, and nowhere near as good as it could be. As far as the Highlander films go, the rule still applies in the end, there can be only one. "},{"Title":"Continuity and plotting are a mess but this film has enough good moments to be worth watching","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In modern day Earth, a group of immortals are travelling the world, killing immortals.  Connor McLeod is part of the Sanctuary - a place held by the watchers where immortals are kept safe to prevent there only being one and the prize ever being seized.  When the Sanctuary is attacked, all are killed except Connor.  Meanwhile Connor's immortal clansman Duncan is targeted by the same group but escapes death.  With the personal agenda of Jacob Call revealed in a misty graveyard the race to stop him begins.I came to this film having seen all the other highlander movies, but not so much as a single episode of the television show.  I watched this film to complete the movie series (I hope) and found it to have all the weaknesses I feared it would but also to be surprisingly good in other areas.  The plot is a basic one of revenge but it is made very complex by various means of delivery and setting up of actions etc.  Continuity has never been a strong point of the series but here it all flies out the window from the start onwards.  The downside of the first few films covering the time they did is that new things have to be inserted in the past - making you wonder why 4 films in is the first time we hear of them!  Here whole back story is created as well as groups that never existed before (the watchers) who I assume were part of the TV series.  Needless to say the basic plot takes most of the film to thin itself down to something that suits a film of this type (ie being simple) and it is very messy for a lot of the time.What the film did surprise me with though, was some nice touches about the price they pay for their immortality.  There are some nice scenes with Connor and also a bit of back story to do with Duncan helping his wife embrace immortality that I found to be surprisingly touching.  However past these should be loads of action and, sadly, it doesn't totally deliver. It is the usual sword based stuff and, while the gore is up, they aren't as imaginative as they could have been despite still being pretty enjoyable. The fights are fun but a little mixed up by the use of guns - the straight sword fights are all enjoyable.The biggest addition to the fights (but also the biggest loss) is the addition to the cast of Donnie Yen.  He only has two fight scenes and 2 or 3 lines but his impact is felt - he is very skilled and I would watch a film of paint dry if he had a fight scene in it!  He is used well in the two fights but it is a shame that he shares the same amount of screen time as other `henchmen' types who have no real skills of their own.  If I was honest he was a big draw to this film for me and it's a shame he isn't used more.Of the rest of the cast it is immediately apparent that Adrian Paul (two first names no surname!) isn't a very god actor but he does try hard and does OK - luckily for him there isn't really anyone that good to show him up.  Lambert is OK but looks a little fed up with the role and, in the flashback scenes, has the look of a man who sees the cracks as he says his lines.  The main baddie, Payne, is all a bit hammy but does the job - but again I think (apart from the script requirements on the baddie) that Yen was a much more interesting character and a much more interesting face to look at and would have done much better.  The rest of the cast just fill space and it is evident that some of them are from the TV series as their performances would fit a cheap series more than a film.Overall I still enjoyed this film even if the vast weakness are evident to all but the most blind fan.  The action scenes are pretty good and the plot settles down to something presentable despite not giving a damn about flow or continuity.  The acting is not great but, to be honest, who is watching Highlander 4 for the sensitive performances!? "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Because I have never seen the first Highlander movies or Highlander the series, to most people my input would be worthless and useless.  In my opinion, though, this movie was very...interesting.  It had good qualities..action, sexuality, danger, and of course decapitated killings.  This movie was just interesting in my opinion.   7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The way I see it.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As big fan of the first Highlander and Highlander the TV Series, the best way to look at them is to treat them as separate stand alones.  I disregard Highlander II and III.  The first Highlander was a piece of art and the series was very good.(never missed an episode).  Highlander Endgame I don't think was meant to be Highlander 4.  I think it was meant to be the first movie spun off the series.  It matched everything in the series.  I admit it was not one of the best movies but was not bad.  As for the arguments about continuality the series rewrote Conner,s story way in the early part of the series.  One Conner in the series was not written the same as he was in HL 1.  Two when Duncan meets Joe for the first time Joe mentions that Connor did everyone a favor when he killed the Kurgan in New York. So the series essentially rewrote the HL to suit its storyline.  Of course lovers of the first HL don't like this.  So if you want to see Endgame as a continuation of HL 1 you will be disappointed. If you want to see Endgame as another chapter in the series story you should see it.   "},{"Title":"Yet another dismal Highlander sequel","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is very little good to say about this movie. Each Highlander movie after the first has been a severe disappointment. The TV series has its adherents, but I've found it repetitive, if not awful. Fortunately, this movie has more in common with the TV series than with the dismal sequels. There is still way too much reliance on swordplay, on pseudo-meaningful flashbacks, and on very artificial excuses for critical plot points. Avoid unless you love the TV show. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad, but certainly lacking context!!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The 4th installment of the Highlander series is not the worst, but 2 and 3 are also some of our finest examples of ludicrous flicks...There are some fairly good scenes, where they've used some footage from the first movie. The story and premise is OK but some major plot-holes and anachronisms plus the fact that the movie is very short makes it trite and unspectacular...The new villains are above-average, the fights are standard and Lambert's Scottish accent is as fake as never before, as it indeed has to be..5/10 "},{"Title":"Great stand alone movie.  Extremely poor created sequel.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I could swear I wrote a review for this movie.  Oh well..  I was gonna update it anyway.  Originally gave this a 9, now it's a 7.  I rented this over a year ago.  I now own it.  Someone says this basically a movie version of the tv show.  I don't see it that way.  True.. why Chris said yes to this movie is way beyond me. (money)(spoilers) (and somewhat confusing)This movie would have been pretty good if the first three movies didn't exist.  I assume some idiot over at Disney didn't know a thing about the first three movies.  In some respects this is far worse than Highlander 2. (renegade version... don't watch the Quickening)  The creators of H4 simply didn't follow history.  It would be like Clark kent marrying Lois.  (Wait a minute.  They tried that.  It killed the show.) You hear about the mistakes in movies.  Things that disappear and reappear.  Well this movie is a catastrophe.  By end of the first Highlander, Connor had won the prize.  Highlander 2 took it away.  Highlander 3 might have taken before the first one.  Highlander 4 ignore it all.  Basically what H4 seems to do is start things before Higlander 1.  But wait they killed Rachel.  But she's alive in in the first movie.Then they tried to explain why immortals exist.  A totally failed attempt.  How can we shock people into being immortal?  I thought Conner was born this way.  Sean Connery didn't explain a thing then.In the end, I like the movie as an interpretation of the series.  I think if they make another it should be like H2.  Raise Conner from the dead.  This time full of hope.  Not this numbnut without hope.  And who did the makeup on this movie.  Somehow Conner is aging and Duncan's tying a band to his leg to stop the bleeding.  WTF!!!  immortals don't need to worry about bleeding.  After Chris and Sean are shot to a pulp in H2 do they need to worry about blood??? In some ways you can compare this movie to Star Trek Generations.  They mixed two tv shows and killed a God. (Kirk)  Fortunatly, Shatner raised kirk from the dead in his books. )   Unfortunatly Rick Berman's an ___ and wants to control ST to his own ends.You can faint now.  I gave it a 7/10.  For it's basis as an interpretation only.  It doesn't remain true to the series however. (1/10) Quality 9/10 Entertainment 5/10 Replayable 1/10 "},{"Title":"I guess this was alright","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd rather watch the first one. I mean the ending, part of it was alright. The other part i was really mad at. But I wont say what happens. The fights were alright. If your a fan of the original I dont know if you'd ie this one. But I guess I recommend this movie to anyone who likes the show or the other Highlander movies. "}{"Title":"More of the same twisting and turning a story line until no logic is left.","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved the first movie, the original Highlander. I hated the second one, the Quickening. I liked the fact that the third film actually left of where the first film ended, making this the real Highlander II. I actually really do not understand the story in the fourth Highlander. I give it a 4/10.We see Connor die to give Duncan his strength, so Duncan can kill the bad guy. But this 4th movie clearly comes before Highlander I, since there are a lot of immortals running around. So how could Connor be alive to fight for the prize in the first film? I liked the flashbacks though. It shows some of the history of Duncan and Connor. It's a sad thing that the story was mutilated, twisted and turned around all through the sequels. They could have easily made a movie about Ramirez. Or they could have made movies about Connor's life in the past. Why not let him fight in the Napoleon war or something. A highlander movie with a twist so to speak. I really hope that the fifth Highlander will make all other sequels disappear like Highlander III did with Highlander II.Make a fifth movie where we can find out more about the past life of Connor. He knew that someday he would be drawn to a far away land to fight for the prize. How did he find out he had to go to America. What happened to him after he left Scotland. Did he go directly to America. Did he travel the world. Maybe bring Ramirez into the movie and maybe we could see more of his past. Or better yet. Maybe we can also see more of the Kurgan's past. This could be made into a very entertaining movie. And it would absolutely not f$ck up the story line and it would definitely not f$ck up the continuity.Forget about Highlander Endgame. Better yet forget about everything with Highlander in the title except the first film. Maybe we are even better of if no new Highlander film is ever made. But I hope they do anyway. Make a movie that works with the first one so that we can finally put an end to all the stupid sequels.My title for Highlander 5 would beHighlander 5 Highlander 1 continued - Forget about everything else. "},{"Title":"There should have been only one","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My comment about this, in particular, and perhaps sequels in general is...there should have been only one.Most sequels start to lose the dignity the characters  initially had, but, hello dignity in this series was given it up long ago... it's now simply exploitation - and worse...boring.Congratulations you have just lowered the target audience to eleven from what it was - twelve.  There must be a job for you in some studio somewhere. "},{"Title":"Enough already!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Bad sequel to the original Highlander has the returning Christopher Lambert (and now Adrian Paul, too) as the immortal warriors battling in a futuristic world for ultimate supremacy. Hey, we've had enough--the first movie wasn't even that good. Do we really need any more of these crappy so-called fantasy adventures?* 1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Awesome and purely entertaining!","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, what can I say? Highlander Endgame was what I have been waiting so long for. I have been an avid follower of the Highlander movies and the Highlander TV series. Even despite the fact that I abhorred the last two movie sequels (Highlander 2 The Quickening and Highlander 3 The Final Dimension), I had a feeling that this one was gonna be the one that was going to redeem the Highlander name. Boy was I right.Highlander Endgame is pure energy. From the sword fights to the hand to hand combat, everything is full of intensity. That's not to say that action was the only thing driving the movie. Highlander Endgame's story is very good as well. I would even say it has all the magic of the first movie, if not more. Things such as revelations of certain characters' past and the relationship between Duncan and Conner are brought out very well and you can't help but be absorbed in their world.On the topic of the first movie, it has to be noted that Highlander Endgame does not tie in with the first movie (nor any of the others for that matter). In fact, Highlander Endgame follows the story of the TV show. So like the TV show (and unlike the end of the first movie), Conner is not the only immortal left, and the prize still has not been won. That's probably the reason the producers decided not to title this one, Highlander 4. I have heard numerous people complain over the fact that this movie should not exist because of the end of the first movie. If you're one of those people, please understand that the TV show and the movie are not of the same universe, so the stories do not coincide.So if you're a big Highlander fan, I highly recommend watching Highlander Endgame. Even if you're not a Highlander fan, you should still check out this movie, even though there  are some things that you'll have to know beforehand to understand some of the elements in the movie. But do not let that detract you from this awesome movie. By the way, yes, there are some scenes from the trailer that did not make it to the final cut of the movie. But hey, that's what director's cuts are for. "},{"Title":"It may very well *be* the end","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off, this is definitely a movie for fans and not for general audiences.  Specifically fans of the series AND the movies, as fans of just the movies will probably be extremely confused (Watchers?  Joe? Methos?) and those new to the whole concept will be totally out of their depth.  That having been said, I still walked away a bit confused and I AM a fan of both the series and the movies.  You can definitely call this film a victim of overzealous editors, though I'm not entirely convinced of the strength of the underlying story in the first place.  Which surprises me, because I expected great things of Gillian Horvath based on past experience from both Highlander and Forever Knight.First off, the good things.  Adrian Paul is to DIE for&#133;and is definitely no slouch either as an actor or a choreographed fighter.  And it's always great to see Peter Wingfield and Jim Byrnes (though more Methos and Joe would definitely have been appreciated, along with a bit of explanation for the non-series-fans about what the heck Watchers were).  The opening scene was great and gave me some hopes for continuity (which were later dashed to pieces).  The flashbacks were entertaining and the Duncan/Connor interactions in places were definitely spot on.  Alas, we got too little of it.  The sword fights were visually very stimulating, though I think some of them were a bit gratuitous and ate up limited screen time that could have been used for story development.Now for the problems.   Mostly, they boil down to having waaayyy too many different, albeit occasionally intriguing story ideas in too short a time (only an hour plus some minutes; the two-part series episodes had more screen time!!!).  Some of the most interesting ideas are poorly developed, and some of the guest characters don't really seem to have a purpose.  The female guest character is really wasted; her backstory is interesting but in the end she only seems to serve as the co-star in the obligatory gratuitous sex scene.  Which is really a shame because, personally, I think she could have made a more interesting villain than Jason Kell.  Frankly, there were a lot of series villains who were *much* more believable as a real danger (Kalas, Kronos, Horton, etc&#133;heck, even Kenny was more threatening).  I don't buy his motivation, I don't buy that he's giving Connor such a hard time, I don't buy Connor's answer to the problem, and I REALLY don't buy Duncan's response to Connor's solution.  Sorry, folks, I just need a *bit* more justification to suspend my disbelief.  There's some problems with character AND chronological continuity between the story line of End Game and the series&#133;which wouldn't be a problem except, as I mentioned before, only fans of the series have even the slightest hope of understanding what's going on. I actually think things might have made more sense if they'd swapped what Connor and Duncan were doing (and who was angry with them) for most of the movie.So, overall, I give it a 3/10.  One hopes the Director's Cut fills in some gaps but, frankly, after season 6 of the series, HLThe Raven, and now this I really have very little faith left in the writers/producers of Highlander world.   I *want* to see more Duncan MacLeod/Adrian Paul movies, but after this I just don't think I'll get the chance.  > "}]