[{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I feel for those who had the unenviable job of marketing this movie. Who do you aim it at? Teens, most of whom know nothing about Nixon and Watergate, or adults, who will dismiss it as being another obnoxious, dumb teen comedy? Hence the box office failure. But what true hidden gem this film is! The writers have managed to put elements into this film that will be able to please the entire spectrum of viewers and knowledge of the Watergate scandal is not at all required to enjoy this hilarious film, but if you happen to have a grasp on it's history, your enjoyment will increase tenfold. The performances of everyone involved are top-notch with special notice going to Dan Hedaya (Nixon dead-on)and Michelle Williams (watch her shy expressions and mannerisms as she develops her crush on Nixon. Priceless!). Many, many scenes left me laughing hysterically (the beach dream scene, Haldeman's interrogation of the girls, Hello Dolly meets Breshnev, Bernstein hovering over Woodward at the Post). Add great music, costumes, sets and a fitting ending, and you've got a great movie experience. Don't miss it!!! (And for a treat watch this as a double bill with ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN!)  "},{"Title":"** Great Soundtrack ** Great Acting ** Best if you're over 35**","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time today and I was so absolutely impressed how FUN it was. The absurd explanations as to what 'may' have gone on during the Watergate scandal?! funny funny funny! Michelle Williams I was particularly impressed with. Her fumbling 15 year old quirks and adolescent insecurities were right on target and I really connected with her character. Myself being only about 9 years old when Watergate happened, I even found myself 'googling' the actual trial and the *real* facts just to re-familiarize myself with what now just seems a sort of faded time warp. Reading the *real* events I found myself feeling patriotic remembering a time that seemed so long ago (Vietnam etc.) but then sadly realizing here we are right smack dab doing what we thought we'd never repeat. (Iraq). But hey, this is supposed to be a Positive review of the film so lets get back on the soul train. I have to say I LOVED the soundtrack!!!! each song was a total flashback of my childhood. Popcorn by Hot Butter - Hooked on a Feeling by Blue Suede - Come and Get Your Love by Redbone - and esp Loves Theme by Love Unlimited Orchestra with that sexy unforgettable wakka wakka guitar sound and sadly outdated violin orchestra. Do yourself a favor. Rent this film if you want to enjoy a 90 minute flashback of a very clever send up of of real event. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Tricky Dick and Watergate in a refreshing light!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Much time has passed since the Watergate scandal of 1974. In the present day, we see so many scandals involving upper-crust politicians (including, but not limited to, the President), that we have become jaded to their importance. In 1974, though, this scandal marked the first time a president's authority and character had been publicly questioned.   The two main characters are two 15-year-old girls - one the only offspring of a single mother (who is played by Teri Garr) and the other the only sister in a standard nuclear family, complete with a pothead older brother who's about to be drafted. The events of the times are swirling around these two young ladies, but we see them all through their eyes. Some of us know about the events of the early 1970s because we were there, and others of us know about them through history books or from our elders. But now we get to see these events as they pertain to two teenagers. It's interesting how the basic character of a teenager hasn't changed - these girls dismiss Watergate and Vietnam initially and are more concerned with teen idols, school, and, well, teenager stuff.   Admittedly, the plot's a little contrived, but it never makes the mistake of taking itself seriously. One of the girls happens to live in the Watergate Hotel, and late one night they both innocently learn of the break-in. They subsequently get to meet many key Watergate players, including Haldemann, Liddy, Wooodward, Bernstein, Kissinger, and, of course, Nixon himself.  The most amazing thing about this script is that while nothing is really historically revised to tell the tale, the girls' characters are used to supply details of these historical events that may answer some old questions. What happened to the section that Nixon's secretary chopped from the illegal tape? Who was Deep Throat, anyway? The 'answers' to these questions will make you laugh.As for the acting, it's absolutely perfect. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams are a real treat as the giggly, naive teenage girls. Their characters are very well-written - at no point do they do something that seems out of character. But the biggest treat of all is Dan Hedaya as Nixon. Some people can do Nixon impressions, and some ARE Nixon. Hedaya captures the feel for the ex-President, from his creepy scowl when trying to be friendly to his state of panic when the truth of the scandal finally set in. He's the best thing going in this film, and possibly should be nominated for his work.  "},{"Title":"Overlooked and hilarious","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a huge bomb when it came out in 1999--it was badly advertised and disappeared quickly. That's a shame because it's a very fun movie. If ever a film should be rediscovered, it's this one. Two very dumb teenage girls (beautifully played by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams) in the early 70s, get separated from their tour of the White House, and accidentally meet Nixon. They start walking his dog Checkers and, inadvertently, discover all about Watergate without even knowing it! It sounds silly (and it is) but damned if it doesn't work! Dunst and Williams are totally believable (and very lovable) as the teenagers. Dan Hedaya does a perfect interpretation of Nixon. As for everybody else, I couldn't tell you. I'm no whiz on Watergate and who Nixon's staff was in the 70s. But the script is sharp, everyone has wonderful comic timing and the best bits were done by Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch who make Woodward and Bernstein out to be total idiots. Also an excellent selection of 70s songs which always complement the action. The final gag played on Nixon is uproarious! Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've seen!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved Dick! It was one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams were perfect as two ditzy girls who accidentally get involved in the Watergate scandal. What I really liked about this movie was that it took actual mysteries from the scandal (the 18 1/2 minutes of blank tape, Deep Throat) and gave it a false but hysterical explanation. For those of you who don't like this movie because it gives false information, lighten up!!! Dick is not supposed to be taken seriously! Dick was very entertaining, and hysterically funny. At many parts I laughed so hard I cried. Arlene and Betsy's final action at the end of the movie was the best. I don't remember the last time I laughed so hard. "},{"Title":"Uproarious","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... for anyone old enough to have seen the Watergate hearings on television the first time around, or who still remembers people telling Bebe Rebozo jokes.I have no idea how anyone under 35 would react, there were so few at the theatre.Dave Foley's H.R. Haldeman haircut had me in stitches. You see his scalp; what an unexpected trip down memory lane.Saul Rubinek was a hoot as Henry Kissinger, although he couldn't quite compare to Paul Sorvino, uncanny in that part in Nixon.Everyone's character seemed right on. Exaggerated of course, naturally. Even the two halves of Woodstein, a nice bit of caricature.The two young girls -- Dunst and Williams -- are stellar. The girls' final action of the movie seemed out of character to me, but that struck the only false note I heard in this funny film.  "},{"Title":"Betsy and Arlene Meet the Leader of the Free World","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	A good movie that deals with a significant event in history can be educational as well as entertaining; film is a powerful medium that can put a fresh perspective on why the world today is as it is, and a movie that does all of that can be a satisfying and memorable experience.  And `Dick,' directed by Andrew Fleming, is a satisfying and memorable film that unequivocally does NOT do any of those things.  Because it's too busy doing exactly what it was intended to do  Make you laugh.  It's a hilarious comedy about the Nixon White House and the Watergate affair that finally answers the questions everyone has been asking since Nixon declared he wasn't a crook.  Like what really happened at the Watergate that night and who alerted the authorities about the break-in?  Who was `Deep throat,' and why did he use that name?  Where did Nixon come up with the idea to flash his famous `Victory' sign?  And what was really on that eighteen-and-a-half minutes of tape that got erased?	Kirsten Dunst is Betsy Jobs, a normal, everyday teenager whose best friend, Arlene Lorenzo (Michelle Williams), just happens to live at the Watergate.  One night at Arlene's place, the girls are frantically working to finish an essay for Arlene to enter in a `Win a date with Bobby Sherman' contest; this is important stuff-- Arlene just HAS to win, but her entry has to be in the mailbox by midnight.  They manage to finish in time and rush out to the mailbox, but as they're hurrying down the stairs and into the parking garage, they inadvertently do and then see something that ultimately-- and history buffs take note!-- has a significant impact on the Nixon administration, and consequently on the course of history.  But for Betsy and Arlene, it's only the beginning of their personal involvement with the leader of the free world.  And all this time later, who knew?	What makes this movie so good is that it's clever without having to force itself on you; the humor is subtle without being too deep, which makes it accessible to just about everyone, as well as enjoyable.  You don't have to think too hard to get it, and it doesn't assault you with slapstick, silliness or the grossness that defines so many comedies involving teens today.  There's even a parody of Woodward and Bernstein (Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch) that works well, and though it's not among the film's most memorable moments, it is funny.	What is memorable about this movie is Dunst and Williams, and especially Dan Hedaya, whose take on Richard Nixon is a dead-on riot.  He's got the body language and the mannerisms down pat, and it's a hoot.  And the girls are endearingly frivolous; they've got the looks, the attitude and the spirit of everything Teen, to which they bring a carefree depth to their perception of the world and their place in it, kind of like a younger version of Romy and Michele with the freshness of youth and their whole lives ahead of them.  	This is a comedy that will appeal to a wide audience and transcend demographics because it's a multi-generational, nonpartisan, funny film.  Teens will identify with Betsy and Arlene regardless of the context, and everyone else will be able to relate to the politics and the era on any number of levels.  What's important is that it's presented in a light-hearted way, without malice and with the sole purpose of giving you a good time and a lot of laughs (which it certainly does).  And it's good clean fun; parents can watch this one with the kids without any fear of embarrassment, and on the other hand, you can take your grandmother to see it, as well.	The supporting cast includes Teri Garr (Helen Lorenzo), Dave Foley (Bob Haldeman), Jim Breuer (John Dean), Ana Gasteyer (Rose Mary Woods), Harry Shearer (G. Gordon Liddy), Saul Rubinek (doing a right-on Henry Kissinger), G.D. Spradlin (Ben Bradlee) and Devon Gummersall (Larry).  An uplifting movie with some bona fide laugh-out-loud moments, `Dick' gives a skewing to a serious event and time, but it does it with reverence, respect and good taste, and it emerges as something of a paean to eternal youth and the indomitability of the human spirit in the face of an ever-changing world.  In the end, this is a film that will make your heart light and put a smile on your face.  And that, without a doubt, is the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary satire on national denial.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Dick' performs an important function - it strips away the quasi-Shakespearean myth that has grown up around its titular anti-hero, and shows the ignoble, slightly insane, diminished (and diminishing) cartoon beneath.  'Dick' is one of the best American satires of the last few decades, while, cherishably, remaining faithful to its genre, the teen movie - the heroines' openness, spontaneity, energy and colour is contrasted with the sleazy murk of Dick's milieu.  Their rite-of-passage, as they become sexually aware young women, is linked to the final awakening of America to the dark heart seizing up at its centre.  The pun on the title, therefore, is very funny, with all the priapic monuments to presidential power dotting Washington, and leads to a priceless pay-off as Dick flees, humilated , in his helicopter.  For such a bleak and disillusioned film  (this isn't just about one cheating leader in the past, suggesting that America would rather forget the primal scene of Watergate), it exudes vibrant good humour. "},{"Title":"Easily one of the two or three best comedies of '99","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is so unbelievably funny. It's one of those movies that gets funnier with repeated viewing, kinda like Kids in the Hall Brain Candy (doesn't hurt that it has two former Hall cast members). And what a cast it has. Lets take a look, we got the SNL crew (Will Ferrell, Ana Gasteyer, Jim Breuer), the Hall boys (Bruce McCulloch, Dave Foley), Simpsons voice Harry Shearer, and two cute as a button up and coming young actresses (Kirsten Dunst, Michelle Williams). But the big surprises for me were Hedaya and Rubinek, who would gave the most subtle, brilliant performances, and some of the biggest laughs. Rubinek, for example, only had a handful of lines in the film as Kissenger, but they're the ones that stuck with me. Little things like, I'm familiar with these girls. Don't you look at me that way! and Yes, I know what nyet, nyet means. And Hedaya's evil Nixon was just hysterical, probably the most perfect comedic bad guy since Dr. Evil. How can you not love a villain with lines like, Checkers--shut up! Or I'll feed you to the Chinese!. These guys had me in hysterics.This from the writer/director of The Craft? Talk about a step in the right direction! But I could probably tell you without checking that The Craft made more money at the box office, sadly. But the centre of the film is Dunst and Williams, and if they weren't so incredibly good as the two air heads, the movie probably wouldn't have worked, despite the best efforts of the talented cast. Foley says it best, I have met yams with more going on upstairs than these two. The movie keeps sneaking up on you with these quite, brilliant little lines, like the girls walking down a hallway, I think it was left., That's because you couldn't turn right. Not to mention a terrific 70's soundtrack, and I don't even like music from that era (Nixon walking off to You're so Vain was the greatest!) Okay, I've said enough. Did I mention I liked this movie? See this movie. I'm Canadian, I don't understand exactly what Watergate was about (despite having seen Oliver Stone's Nixon twice), and I was just learning to walk when Nixon was forced out of office so I didn't recognize many of the names thrown around, but I loved it all the same and was able to get all of the jokes. 9/10 stars. G'night!  "},{"Title":"The best comedy ever!","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I give to this movie 10/10. When I watched this movie on the movie theater I got a little bit ashamed because nobody laughs... I think because the plot is too much America, and the Brazilian people didn't get in the mood of the movie. The two girls were great in the screen in this movie. And also the soundtrack is amazing, with the best from 70s. I got this on DVD and always that I can I watch it again. "}{"Title":"Wonderful, too bad it was ignored in theaters","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why this film only brought in $6.2 million total at the box-office is beyond me. I thought it was one of the funniest films to come out all year. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams are perfect, they never once got on my nerves. The music was great too. When it comes out on video, don't miss it, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Satire of the Watergate Scandal","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My husband and I laughed uproariously throughout Dick.As the youngest ones in the audience, I later heard the women in the Ladies Room afterwards complain that it was not respectful to a president -I said Have you ever heard of satire?. As it is, I wonder if younger folks who don't know the details of the Watergate scandal would get all the jokes? My son had to answer a homework question the other day on Watergate and just used Encarta as a source - and says that's it, he knows everything about it. It does help to know about Rosemary and the 18 minute tape gap (though Arlo Guthrie's alternative explanation is equally funny.) One also does have to get references to Gordon Liddy and the Plumbers, Checkers, Nixon and his youth outreach, Kissinger's ego, John Dean's crisis of conscience, etc. It also helps to have seen All the President's Men because this movie skewers that one hilariously, taking Woodward and Bernstein effectively off their pedestals.It probably could be funny without that foreknowledge --but not nearly as much. Dan Hedaya seems born to play Nixon, much better than Rich Little. Saul Rubinek is terrific as Kissinger. Dave Foley is not great as the fearsome Haldeman.I'm not sure all the music was actually year accurate, but regardless the numbers (I only spotted one cover version over the credits, with the rest the original songs) were chosen wonderfully well for very funny commentary. The clothes were also accurate, though I was bothered by the opening paean to Bobby Sherman - I thought I remember him being on Shindig circa 1965 such that Teen Beat magazine or whatever wouldn't have been featuring him in 1972-- wouldn't a Partridge or some such have been more appropriate? (originally written 8/8/1999) "},{"Title":"The Next Generation","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a teen girl, I absolutely love this movie. Granted, I was only 3 when it came out, but my older sister recently suggested it to me. I actually know a lot about Watergate, which made it all the funnier! I loved the soundtrack, even though some of it isn't historically accurate and the cast was amazing. I love the way they tied in all the mysteries to Watergate and how they went about setting everything into place. I loved how some of the minor characters were played by more famous actors than the main cast. I think the best thing was that Nixon was played by an actor who'd played Nixon before in a serious biopic and knew the character before stepping into his shoes. Overall, I just loved the whole dang thing! "},{"Title":"Wonderful political spoof and brilliant silliness","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Betsy Jobs (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene Lorenzo (Michelle Williams) are bubbly giggly 15 year old bffs. Betsy lives in the Watergate apartments, and one night, the girls cause the cops to catch the break-in. They keep being in the right place at the right time to cause all kinds of problems for Nixon (Dan Hedaya). When they come to the White House tour, everybody assumes they're clueless, and Nixon decides to keep them as the official White House dog walkers.I love the political spoof. When this starts with Woodward (Will Ferrell) and Bernstein (Bruce McCulloch) fighting on TV, it signals everything about the movie. All the political personalities are brilliantly played. Kirsten and Michelle are just wonderful. Their cluelessness is hilarious. "},{"Title":"Dick is going down","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A really fun movie, that takes a serious national mess and makes it a comedy. It is so much more fun to get behind official stories and get the real stories that move events. This is, of course, all make believe and fantasy, but the historical events- the break in, the tapings, the resignation, etc. really did occur. It is in fact a great way to introduce younger people to what happened, while getting a real laugh, actually a lot of laughs, especially at the end. A really fun movie- for those of us who lived through those times it provides a great flashback to the times, the scenes, the music and even the people that were making news back then. Not a grand educational type movie, but the good girls prevail in the end. Don't blame me if you spit your popcorn out a few times with laughter, and if you are old enough to get the jokes you just might. For the type of movie it is- a comedy, it is hard to see how it could get much better. "},{"Title":"One of the most intelligent pieces of comedy from the nineties","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dick is among one of the most charming satires of the nineties that I have seen, mainly because it does not stew in its indulgence and its leads are glowing and magnetic, making the film almost instantly win. The story behind those characters is intriguing nonetheless, involving the famous Watergate scandal that plagued and eventually ruined Nixon's presidency. It is also fitting to mention that Dick finally clears up the missing minutes from the Watergate tapes that any history buff or aspiring satirist would find hilarious.Betsy Jobs (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene Lorenzo (Michelle Williams) are almost like the female renditions of Beavis and Butthead. They are two young and naive fifteen year old girls, residing in the Watergate complex, who sneak down one night to mail a letter, securing the door with duct tape, only to evade getting caught because, conveniently, a group of burglars had broken in and were apprehended instead.The next day, the girls' class tours the White House, and the two get separated, overhear important, confidential conversations between officials, and eventually go on to meet the man himself, President Richard Nixon, played by the ever-so-talented and hilariously over-the-top Dan Hedaya. Nixon grows concerned about how much the girls know about this secret scandal, and kindly offers them the job of becoming the official White House dogwalkers, walking Checkers every day. They can't refuse - they are smitten by Nixon. Call him Dick. The film then connects all of the Watergate pieces together; how the scandal become known, how the tapes were discovered, the story of Deep Throat, and how two bumbling reporters (Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch) would become famous. All these pieces are put together to assure sly, devilishly intriguing satire of unbelievable proportions.Both Dunst and Williams are one of the two key reasons why Dick is so buoyant and a capable satire. They ignite electric chemistry, immediately giving providing us with an overwhelming feel of hip sassiness, not to mention just their total confidence with this material. Let's just hope their fans will be attracted to this unique, extraordinarily different material. It worked for The Virgin Suicides, if we're talking about Dunst.The second reason why the film maintains such a favorable status is Hedaya's exceptionally witty performance as Richard Nixon. Right down to his haircut and accent, Hedaya throws himself in this role, completely cementing the film's wonderful charm and essence. But let's not overlook that screenplay by Andrew Fleming and Sheryl Longin, which manages to direct itself away from satirical dead-ends, overwrought dialog, and complete heavy-handedness. This is certainly one of the feistiest, most intelligent pieces of comedy from the nineties.Starring Kirsten Dunst, Michell Williams, Dan Hedaya, Will Ferrell, and Bruce McCullouch. Directed by Andrew Fleming. "},{"Title":"Love this one","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of my favorites, and I watch it every few years. Obviously,this was an important event in history, and one that has achieved mythical status. Clearly it was ripe for satire. And, if you lived through this era, you probably have preconceived ideas about this whole Watergate thing. But, then you watch Dick. It's a totally funny satire, and it has good performances from a lot of quality actors-- some pretty early in their careers. Plus, it has a great soundtrack! I also appreciate the decor-- all that grass cloth and polyester. You can't let dick control your life! So true. "},{"Title":"Hey, it could've happened","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What if it turned out the central figures in uncovering the Watergate scandal were a pair of ditzy teenage girls? Is that so outlandish? Well, yes, I suppose it is. But that's what makes it so funny. This movie fills in the gaps in history (including that famous 18½-minute gap) with lots and lots of laughs. The story is implausible and impossible, a series of contrivances one piled on top of another. But in this bizarre alternate universe, one in which the fate of the free world rests in the hands of a pair of dumb blondes, the story works. The movie is funny, charming and thoroughly enjoyable.Our two ditzes are Betsy and Arlene, played by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams respectively. They really are a couple of airheads. Arlene is meant to be the more serious-minded of the two. You can tell this because she wears glasses. That's always the way it works in movies, right? Betsy meanwhile is totally out there, a 1970s hippie chick floating on the breeze without a care in the world. Quite by accident Betsy and Arlene lead to the discovery of the Watergate break-in. They're oblivious to this of course. They're oblivious to pretty much everything. But when G. Gordon Liddy, who saw the girls at the Watergate, sees them again as they take a White House tour he's afraid they might know something. Soon the girls are meeting President Nixon himself and they find themselves appointed official White House dog-walkers so that the administration can keep an eye on them. But they end up seeing more things they shouldn't see and hearing more things they shouldn't hear. And ultimately they bring down a presidency. All along the way the laughs come fast and furious.Dumb though they are it's impossible not to love Betsy and Arlene. Dunst is terrific with her portrayal of the bubbly, flighty, relentlessly charming Betsy. Arlene is slightly more grounded than Betsy (everything's relative) so Williams doesn't have as showy a part to play as Dunst does. But she's very good too. All the supporting players are spot-on as they bring real-life Watergate figures to comedic life. Dan Hedaya's a great, funny Nixon. Dave Foley, Jim Breuer, Harry Shearer and Saul Rubinek all capture their respective White House figures well. And famous Washington Post reporters Woodward and Bernstein are rather hilariously portrayed as bumbling, bickering fools by Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch. The more you know about the actual Watergate scandal the more you'll probably appreciate the movie. It definitely helps the movie along if you understand all the sly, subtle references to the real events. But even if you know nothing about Watergate at all the movie still has plenty to offer. Not all the jokes require encyclopedic knowledge of 1970s politics. For example when Nixon invites the girls to call him Dick you just know that's setting up for some cheap, easy, lowbrow jokes later on. But cheap and obvious as they are when those jokes do inevitably come they're still funny. This movie manages to make pretty much anything and everything funny. Dick is an enjoyable nostalgia trip back to the far-out '70s, complete with a totally groovy soundtrack. Who knew Watergate could be so funny and charming? "},{"Title":"Smart and funny","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is always interesting when someone makes a cross-genre movie, even if it isn't always successful. The two genres here are teen comedy and political satire, not the most obvious of bedfellows. And yet, in this highly improbable tale of two airhead teenage girls who find themselves right at the centre of the Watergate conspiracy, the two genres mesh together perfectly. What's more, the film works well as both a teen comedy and as a political satire.There is a very strong cast, including a number of names in the early days of their careers. Kirsten Dunst was already established, but Michelle Williams, Will Ferrell, and Ryan Reynolds were less well known.As well as being an entertaining take on true events, there are lots of entertaining little touches (the Bernstein character, for instance).I thoroughly enjoyed this unusual and rather daft movie. "},{"Title":"I think it's hilarious - but then I'm not American","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By this I mean I have studied the Nixon presidency and Watergate from the outside. I loved 'All the President's Men', 'Washington Behind Closed Doors' (Jason Robards as Richard Monckton) and, of course, the Oliver Stone 'Nixon'.I think it is a wonderful fantasy to have some of the most critical events in recent US history revolve around two ditsy teenage girls (all that squealy, jumpy-up-and-down stuff really got on my nerves, I had to tell myself they were acting in character, after all I have met yams with more going on upstairs than these two). The girls actually trace the same arc as the American public in the early 70's, from unquestioning belief in Nixon to realising he's a paranoid bigot with a potty mouth (and he doesn't even like dogs).In the course of the film our heroines manage to influence global diplomacy and bring about the downfall of their former hero (the adolescent crush on Nixon is excruciatingly funny). We even learn why there is an 18.5 minute gap in the President's tapes.The performances are great fun. Dan Hedaya is sublime as Nixon (young people trust me - oh, boy!), all scowling and growling. Saul Rubinek as Kissinger and Harry Shearer as G. Gordon Liddy make great caricatures of the real thing. The 'Woodstein' partnership is excellent, too, a relationship born of an irritated recognition of mutual need. Only Dave Foley's Haldeman seems too bland and unthreatening. I regretted not having a take on Howard Hunt.Having outsiders act as participants or witnesses to history is not a new idea, of course, but in this case I found myself almost wishing this could be true. "}{"Title":"Pleasant little film you actually have to watch to follow","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" On the surface, this seems to be just another teen movie centered around airheaded teenage girls (think Romy & Michelle's High School Reunion). Actually, the two main characters could be Romy and Michelle during their teens.What happens is that you slowly start to see the sly references to All the President's Men and the director does incorporate those elements from that film quite beautifully into this storyline. Yes, it is mostly played for comedy and some of it is a little bit too far-fetched but the film is essentially a big What if.Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams play their parts with just enough goofiness at the beginning that you actually laugh instead of wince. That they behave more like small children than teenagers is kind of baffling at the beginning but you soon understand that they are kind of considered to be freaks by their school mates, so it does make sense that they act that way.To be honest, I really didn't think that I would like this movie but it helped that I had recently seen All the President's Men. Maybe it's because you have to pay attention that it starts to grow on you.All of the main characters are kind of twisted and mostly portrayed as dimwits which kind of hurts the thing in the end but as you go along you kind of accept it because this is by no means to be a realistic presentation of Watergate.So an enjoyable experience but you can definitely see why it doesn't appeal to everybody. "},{"Title":"A Clever Satire","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dick is a culturally and politically charged satire that seems to mirror certain social images/issues that are current in today's world. As expected within most Neo-Classical comedies, Dick exploits the wide spectrum of cultural stereotypes. Included are Blonde and ditzy teenage girls, pothead older brother, Nazi high school teacher, lime-lit newspaper reporters, and a corrupt presidential campaign (which arguably and ironically continues to be a heated topic in today's world). Each stereotype, perhaps, is a reflection or commentary on how foolish America was in the 1970's, but each that nevertheless carries a timeless quality in to today's governing politics. I mean, there was the naïve public portrayed as believers of whatever the president said on national television as being veridical; a pair of airy teenagers that wagged the Nixon administration and ultimately ended his reign as Commander and Chief (not to forget a metaphorical insight into their position as dog walkers); and a pothead's magic cookie recipe that accounted for Nixon's paranoia when being pressured by the public. Although all of these elements are a satirical blast on previous political campaigns, they may not be too far off from where we are today. Let me explain.First off, I must admit I am not historically astute. However, I was not blind to the film's heckling subtext that seemed not only to ridicule Nixon himself, but also those who are typical of his character today. We see so many scandals in modern times involving corrupt politicians that, consequently, we have become jaded to their importance (i.e. Clinton scandal; Bush conspiracies; crooked corporations). This film merely emphasizes the catalyst of that ongoing corruption, when for the first time in American history (independent of Johnson's impeachment) a president's authority had been publicly questioned. Although the public is more aware today and less naïve towards the encroachments of governmental power, we have substituted our naivety for skepticism and cynicism (two qualities that are equally, if not worse than what we possessed before). Today the president's authority is also bombarded with an arsenal of attacks (and more). I only wonder if they'll one day combine the stars of both Dick and Romy and Michele's High School Reunion to make a satire out of the Bush Administration. I wouldn't be surprised. While nothing is really historically revised to tell the tale, the film does humorously provide a stream of satirical answers to some of the most mysterious questions regarding the Nixon administration. Questions like What really happened at Watergate and who alerted the authorities about the break-in? What was on the eighteen-and-a-half minutes of tape that got erased? Who was 'Deep Throat,' and why the alleged pseudonym? The answers given to these questions poke fun at how ridiculous the cover-up was really made out to be. Satires like this, I think, are made for one of two reasons (or both) 1). To release social tensions by remembering to laugh once in awhile at societal shortcomings, and/or 2). To make a political statement regarding the nature of whom, we, as societal members, vote for to run our country. Perhaps it's a little of both, but given the content of this particular film, I don't think it took itself too seriously. "},{"Title":"Dick; the way the 70's should be remembered.","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hands down the silliest political satire I've ever sat through. Equally lambasting everyone from Dick Nixon to Woodward & Bernstein, this is the way I want to remember the 70's.Humor may be in the eye of the viewer, but the only way to explain the panning this film gets is judging it in context with the time it was released. Whitewater and the Clinton impeachment.In hindsight the film becomes even funnier. At least Tricky Dick understood when he was an embarrassment to the nation, and himself; and didn't keep trying to pretend he wasn't a disgraced President.If only 'W' had employed teenage dogwalkers. Ah, the times they are a-changing. "},{"Title":"What the Dickens? This supreme yuck fest is a classic in comedy ten times over","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Betsy (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene (Michelle Williams) are typical teenage girls living in D.C. in the early 1970's. Betsy goes to a progressive, unconventional school while Arlene attends a strict Catholic academy. One day, as Betsy accompanies Arlene on a school field trip to the White House, the young gals go off on their own, end up in forbidden territory and breach security by walking into a sensitive room unannounced. President Nixon (Dan Hedaya) realizes that the girls may have seen something compromising to his administration and he asks Betsy and Arlene to be his secret youth advisers. The teens, totally unaware that they really saw anything special, are thrilled, as they often get invited to talk with the president in the oval office. However, one night at the Watergate, where Arlene lives, they stumble across G. Gordon Liddy running down the back stairs, showing a very bad attitude toward the teens. Things start to add up, especially when Liddy tells the Prez he saw them and cars start to follow and nearly run into the girls. The teens decide to contact the Washington Post where Bob Woodward (Will Ferrell) and Carl Bernstein are eager to hear a tale but are embarrassed that their deep throats are two young females. Can Betsy and Arlene really relate anything important to bring down the Commander in Chief? This is a highly comedic look at Nixon, the Watergate affair, and what might have happened behind the scenes to topple Tricky Dick. As the girls, Dunst and Williams are wonderfully funny and appropriately dizzy, at times, while Hedaya is a scream as the uber-paranoiac President. The rest of the cast is also downright inspired, with Ferrell just one of the many fine players. A special commendation should go to Len Doncheff, who plays Leonid Breshnev, in one of the film's funniest scenes, where he tries the pot-laced cookies Betsy has graciously brought for everyone to sample. But, even down to the smallest roles, this is a cast to savor forever. The costumes are great examples of that seventies look and the scenery in and about the nation's capital very fine indeed. Needless to say, however, the sharp, politically-charged but very humorous script is the big, big winner. Even if you were among Nixon's strongest admirers, you will chuckle over this preposterous but hilarious take on the downfall of the only President to ever resign. All others will be rolling on the floor as this classic comedy plays itself to completion. "},{"Title":"like seeing my teen years again","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Loved this - like walking through my HS yearbook, looking at the clothes, hearing the music. Especially loved the scene where Arlene and Betsy talk about their white house experiences to two VERY different teachers - Betsy gets kudos from her hippie teacher who thinks it is all a very creative writing endeavor, and poor Arlene is vilified by her strict old school English teacher for writing a treason-filled paper about the president. I SO remember having teachers from both ends of the spectrum like that.I probably was about 15 during Watergate, and I think the depiction of these girls at that age, relating to the politics of the era (at first no interest), then as it started to affect them - (brother possibly drafted), the awakening of interest and action, was right on target for the way I was.If it translates to today's world it would be great.The laughs are fun, the girls do well, as do so many of the boys from Canada, and Will Ferell and others. Great soundtrack also. "},{"Title":"I give it a B for Bombshell......","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  C'mon... c'mon... this movie is great. No, i don't care. They should make more movies like this where you learn AND laugh.  Sure, I saw All The Presidents Men and it was great, but c'mon.. the acting here is quality no better Nixon has ever been presented since the original Dick, then Dan Hedaya who's got Richard to a t as does Saul Rubinek with his Henry Kissenger impression.  Full of starring comedic roles like Will Ferrell, Bruce McCulloch, Teri Garr, Dave Foley, Jim Breuer, Ana Gasteyer, and Simpsons voice artist Harry Shearer and starring Michelle Williams and Spiderman's beautiful and talented Kirsten Dunst. If nothing else, you should see this movie to see Dunst play a 70's trippin hippy, plus she's hot.  But the movie is great, funny as all hell. The unanswered questions of the Watergate scandal are all answered through the eyes of two teenage girls who, growing up during Nixon's reign, wind up befriending the prez as the national dog walker as a bribe for having witnesses the Watergate break-in where one of the girls lives. I give it a B for Bombshell.. Dunst that is, and Breaking out laughing.. at least that's what I always do.  "},{"Title":"A comedy that has an eye for detail","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie, Dick is a comedy about the Watergate scandal, which occurs  during president Richard Nixon's term in office.  The movie portrays two ditzy high school friends named Betsy (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene (Michelle Williams), who work as  official White House dog walkers.  After a series of hilarious and coincidental events that occur throughout their employment, the girls discover that their president isn't the good-natured man that they think he is.  Betsy and Arlene  become the infamous Deep Throat information source, during a prank phone call to the Washington Post, in which they unknowingly reveal information about the suspicious events occurring at the White House.  These two actresses have a wonderful comedic chemistry between each other, and they are both able to play their characters very well with superb improvisations throughout their roles.  The critic's did not give Dick enough credit for the clever and unique screenplay.  The thorough details that are written into the script aren't often observed in recent movies, and certainly don't occur often in comedies.  If you've ever been curious about the Watergate scandal, or you're just in the mood for a good comedy, see Dick, it's a hilarious and witty movie.   "},{"Title":"Smart, very funny movie","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The more you know about the Nixon administration and Watergate, the more you'll enjoy this movie.  In typical National Lampoon fashion, this is a very smart, well written movie.  The subtleties are a riot, and picking out the little details, often in the background, are a lot of fun.  Double entendre's abound, and the way common occurrences develop (like the double peace sign Nixon made famous, and the 18-1/2 minute gap) are hilarious.  A must see. "},{"Title":"Very funny take on Watergate (minor spoilers)","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   If you've read 'All the Presidents Men' or seen the movie (or, for that matter, lived through the Watergate/Nixon era) you will find this movie very enjoyable. If you haven't done any of these things you should do so; you will learn about one of the worst (Nixon/Vietnam/Watergate) and best (journalists revealing corruption on high and the American people really being able to make a difference in demanding an end to war and corruption) periods of American history.  The main plot (that 2 teenaged girls are actually Woodward and Bernstein's 'Deep Throat') is a bit ludicrous, but this is a comedy. The story is very well done in how it ties in the girls to the actual events surrounding the Watergate investigation and the downfall of Nixon. The acting is outstanding across the board. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams play the clueless/innocent teenagers perfectly, Dan Hedaya plays an excellent Nixon without going overboard on the voice (his physical mannerisms really capture Nixon) and the supporting cast are all fantastic (Bruce McCulloch's Bernstein is very funny.) Over all a very good, funny look at the early 70's (9/10) "},{"Title":"Nobody saw it, yet it RULES!!!!!!!","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest movies ever. I wasn't even born when this stuff happened, but I still find it hilarious! Unfortunately, absolutely no-one saw it! C'Mon people! It's right in your video store now! WHY ARE YOU READING THIS?!? GO RENT IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've got to say that when I rented the movie I didn't think it would be nearly as funny as it really was.  The movie was a true comedy.  The movie is a semi-fictional look back at the Nixon years in the White House.  It is written around two girls who happen to find out a little to much about Watergate.  This is a great movie, and anybody who wants to have a good laugh should rent this movie. "},{"Title":"I laughed myself silly.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is the funniest movie I've seen in years.  I laughed through the whole thing, and believe me, I don't laugh at much.  It's about as close to the perfect satirical comedy as you can get.  The acting is great, the directing is brilliant, and the script is to die for.   SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"clever and fun","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  See this cute little movie before it disappears from theaters. Smart, well-written, and well-acted, Dick never takes itself seriously enough to be stupid, yet the wacky characters and situations are just believable enough to make the audience care what happens. Essentially the story of two teenage girls coming of age through learning about Nixon's corruption (something that no doubt happened to many real teenagers of that time), this movie presents that process of disillusionment as something to be celebrated rather than mourned. Deeper than it looks. But if you don't know much about Watergate, better see All the President's Men and/or Nixon first. "},{"Title":"The best film I've seen in 1999.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is a brilliant work of satire. Having lived through the Watergate era, I was impressed by the attention to detail and the remarkably clever way that the fiction was interwoven with the facts. At almost every turn, clever and subtle plot twists were depicted within the framework of real characters and situations. The casting was incredible. Is there an actor working today, who could look and sound more like Tricky Dick than Dan Hedaya? Ms. Dunst and Ms. Williams were outstanding and believable. This is quite a feat considering that they were born long after the events took place. Many of the supporting roles, particularly the president's men, were spot on, especially Saul Rubinek as Henry Kissinger.Sadly, this is not a mass audience film. But for anyone remotely familiar with the Nixon era, Dick is a must-see.       "},{"Title":"Crazy stuff!!!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was fantastic.  I just took US History in summer school, and it was fun to smack my friend in the shoulder and say Hey!  That's his dog, Checkers!  I learned that in school!!!  But seriously, this movie had it all; talented actors/actresses, comedy, and a fun soundtrack.  It was so much fun to try and figure out how the girls would fit into all the details of the scandal.  Even if you are bored by politics or don't understand Watergate (trust me, I was almost clueless to it before seeing this movie), you WILL be entertained by this movie.  Dunst and Williams sparkle as their characters.  They are 2 of the cutest actresses you will see perform this summer.  Go see Dick and love it.   "},{"Title":"What if Deep Throat had been the unlikeliest person imaginable?","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While mailing a love letter to '70s heartthrob Bobby Sherman, two high school blondes witness the Watergate break-in and, as part of the cover-up, are given jobs as official White House dog-walkers & youth advisers. As Nixon replaces Bobby Sherman in their hero worship, they become caught up in the shredding, the bugging, the payoffs, and the President's dislike of dogs. An absurdly fascinating premise starts off as well as The President's Analyst and promises just as much before losing its way & crossing the fine line into silliness. Dunst, who has the potential of Audrey Hepburn, brings grace, poise & even dignity to the role of twiggy airhead Betsy. Williams has the more interesting role of Arlene, whose unrequited love & heartbreaking loss frame much of the story. The film's strength is the surprising depth of the two girls, who could easily have been caricatures of shallow American teenagers from any generation, and the talent of the two young stars who bring them to life. It's interesting that the film resists the temptation to throw in one or more male love interests, taking the story away from the girls but possibly bringing in the ticket sales that this film deserved but didn't get. Hedaya nearly steals the show as Nixon, fine-tuning the character to stop short of a parody but not scaring us the way Anthony Hopkins did. Arlene's fantasy beach dance with him is a comedy classic, as is the background check in which the girls learn, to their horror, that the White House knows all about their overdue library books. When Woodward & Bernstein arrive, the film loses its way. The reporters immortalized by Hoffman & Redford are portrayed as selfish, bumbling nerds--about all the acting range that Ferrell has, anyway--which sadly lowers the film's satirical credibility. The accomplished, talented Teri Garr makes no impact here as Arlene's deliberately clueless mother. Dick makes use of light sexual innuendo worthy of a Marx Brothers film. Perhaps, if this had been cruder, it would have brought in more teenaged boys. The title is of course a play on both Nixon's first name and the moniker of the secret source, taken from the first mainstream porn movie, and the dialog makes hilarious use of both. It's easy to see why Dick is a marketing challenge it's too deep for a light chick flick, too light for a satire, both too cute & too sophisticated for a teen movie, with no sex and little action. But it is an original, if not daring effort, so the makers & cast deserve much credit for the effort. The delightful ending of Dick redeems much of its faults, but it seems that too few viewers were willing to hang around for that privilege. "},{"Title":"Dick is going down!","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two naive school girls become friends with Richard Nixon and become his official Youth Advisers and Dog Walkers. They accidentally become involved in the Watergate scandal and discovered to be the source known as Deepthroat. They then become threats to national security and become targets of the secret service, all without their parents finding out and completing a school assignment about turquoise jewellery. With a huge cast of hilarious actors I can guarantee a fun time will be had by all. It's super fun to see an alternate telling of how Dick went down. This movie also has a brilliant soundtrack of hits from the period that help tell the story. "},{"Title":"Daffy and endearing","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dick, aside from the inherent laugh value in its title (it's okay, you can admit it) puts an delightful spin on history, suggesting that Deep Throat was actually just two ditzy blondes who got really lucky. Even ten years after we all heard who the mystery informant really was, that's still funny. This whole thing feels like a counterpoint to All the President's Men, right down to the opening shot (and its explanation for the 18-minute gap in the Nixon tapes was pretty clever).But this is one hell of a cast (jeez, everyone is in this flick), and the chemistry between Williams and Dunst forms the bubbly and likable core of the movie. If the jokes aren't doing it for you, I guarantee you'll like the Ferrell and McCullough take on Woodward and Bernstein. Not to mention pretty much all of Nixon's staff.7/10 "},{"Title":"Nixon Sighted With the Title.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dick (1999) Dir Andrew Fleming / Cast Kirsten Dunst, Michelle Williams, Dan Hedaya, Will Ferrell, Bruce McCulloch Interesting film poorly marketed. That is not to say that it isn't good. It just isn't up there with All the President's Men. Title is a slang attempt at humour yet a media term for Nixon's downfall. It focuses on the Watergate break involving President Richard Nixon. This information was founded by Deep Throat, which protects two teenage girls who walk Nixon's dog. Both girls split on a class trip to the White House and are caught. Fearing that they might know something Nixon appoints them as official dog watchers. Entertaining story with many surprises yet it resembles a teen comedy. Director Andrew Fleming does his best to make it appeal to both audiences and is given hilarious performances by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams as the teen girls in question. Dan Hedaya steals the film as President Nixon who attempts to divert the girls but ends up being made a fool. Bruce McCulloch and Will Ferrell are superb as struggling journalists who were portrayed by Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman in All the President's Men. Whether it appeals to adults or teenagers doesn't take away from the fact this is a funny and insightful comedy where it is learned that sometimes the most unlikely factors can overthrow the big and powerful. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"A wonderful farcical spoof","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Keep humor legal, that's my motto. Those viewers with any memories of 1972 will enjoy the harmless situational humor in Dick. A few time line errors in music (Van McCoy and others). Chances of the brother being drafted in 6/72 were remote as nation prepared for all-vol army July '73. Nonetheless a fun flick. Saul Rubinek as Kissinger. My favorite character actor Dan Hedaya as RMN. DC scenery. Will Farrell as Woodward. The eighteen minute gap explained-- at long last! Writing is sound. Actors apparently had fun. G.D. Spradlin as Bradlee. And so on. Dick has stood the test of time. Viewers will love it.(There-- that's ten lines. Really dumb policy-- causes a writer to pad review.) "}{"Title":"Lovely comedy! Got to see this.","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a thoroughly enjoyable comedy. And yes, this is a what might have happened type of movie, so please don't get your knickers in a twist as you watch how two teenage girls got involved in the Watergate scandal.These girls are visiting the White House on a field trip and they end up meeting president Nixon because of taking a wrong turn in one of the corridors. They become official dog walkers and the president's secret youth advisers. Without realizing it, these girls are deep into the Watergate scandal and they become a source for the two reporters who revealed it all. I loved the way in which the script interleaves with actual events including the 18 1/2 minutes of blank tape - that was the best!!!One of the other reviewers mentioned that it is best enjoyed if you are 35 or older and I am inclined to agree with that viewpoint. If you do not have an understanding of the Watergate scandal and it's impact on American politics, then you wouldn't enjoy this movie. To quote another reviewer, this is truly a hidden gem. My actual rating for this is a 6.5. "},{"Title":"Betsy and Alrene in Nixonland!  All About Tricky Dick!","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Dick refers to Richard Nixon of course! What did you think it meant? With a fantastic cast including Michelle Williams, Kirsten Dunst (both absolutely adorable as Arlene and Betsy), and Will Ferrell (as Bob Woodward). With Terri Garr. It plays like an overlong SNL sketch, because SNL was involved in the production. It explains the entire Watergate scandal and so much more. Of course it's all tongue-in-cheek.Two 15-year-old teenage girls mail a fan letter to Bobby Sherman, late at night, and unwittingly run into G. Gordon Liddy which ultimately sends the police dashing to uncover the Watergate break-in. When they go to the White House (school tour), Liddy recognizes them, (they have the I-Q of yams) and Nixon himself asks the two girls to become the official White House dog-walkers for Checkers, to keep tabs on them. Her teacher refuses to believe this and says, more or less, that they both will go to Hell for telling such lies, but it's all true! Then they give all the details to two bumbling Washington Post reporters, including Nixon's staff shredding documents and packing bribe money for the people on the Creep list. All the major players, including Kissinger, are portrayed as either hotheads or complete idiots. Dan Hedaya, as Nixon, is devilishly funny and even looks like him. Even Checkers hates Nixon! There is 18.5 minutes missing on that infamous Nixon tape because Arlene sings I honestly Love You to Tricky Dick, and then Dick erases it. The Russian Peace Accord went so well because the girls unwittingly baked up a batch of pot-laced Hello Dolly cookies which mellowed out everyone, including Brezhnev. The girls steal copies of the other White House tapes by sneaking into Haldeman's house. They use the cover name Deep Throat because Betsy's older brother Larry is into porn. For a full synopsis, go to Roger Ebert.com. Marked down slightly for Nixon's anti-Semitic ranting and raving, and an F-bomb, which will certainly be cut for network and cable. A minor play-on-words as the girls blurt out comments about Dick at both a roller rink and the Washington Mall. The girls make American Flag hot pants outfits, and wave a banner at Dick as his helicopter flies over The Watergate and Washington for the very last time. The banner reads You Suck, Dick! You will love the1970's musical soundtrack and costumes. It's a funny and clever satire and well worth your time, especially if you are over 35. This did not do well at the box office, due to its peculiar title. (BTW That blur near the backside of Arlene is to mask a big tramp- stamp near her bottom.) Also, did anyone notice that part of Checkers the dog is not played by a cocker spaniel? "},{"Title":"Such a cute and funny movie","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The wardrobe and hairstyles are so amazingly authentic for the time period. This movie has a great soundtrack. Everything was so well done. It is obvious that they put a lot of work into the process of creating an accurate representation of that time in history. The sets must have been carefully researched, because they were well put together. I just loved the furniture. There are many fantastic character portrayals, especially of two energetic and curious 15 year old girls coming of age and discovering the realities of the world around them. I loved how the girls were always screaming and running off. Their characters were spot on and quite genuine. Very creative (and obviously fabricated) scenarios regarding the possible events surrounding the Watergate events. Definitely worth seeing. I wasn't too impressed with the Woodward and Bernstein characters - they detracted from the overall movie quality. "},{"Title":"These girls giggle their way in taking down the GOP!","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" See Watergate, the GOP and the White House as exposed by two Bobby Sherman loving high school girls. Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst light up the screen as the coming of age teenagers. Backed by an infectious and well timed sound track, this movie weaves this fictional fun tale within one of the most shameful time frames of American politics. It is this embarrassment that is preyed upon wonderfully by Dan Hedaya and Saul Rubinek as Nixon (bumbling) and Kissinger (the defensive apologist). The way little pieces of Nixon-Americana are not so subtly attributed to these two girls makes for a great running gag! Enjoy this romp through history spun by writers Andrew Fleming and Sherylyn Longin. "},{"Title":"All in good fun","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am a history teacher and if I tried to spot all the anachronisms and historical mistakes, this film would drive me crazy. However, it's all intended as good old silly fun and I had no trouble letting go of my usual habit of spotting the goofs.The film is like combining a dopey teen comedy (such as CLUELESS) with history--in this case, the last years of the Nixon presidency and all its scandals. Again and again, these Forrest Gump-like airheads stumble into one plot after another and accidentally trigger the events that led to the exposure of the Watergate conspiracy. The film begins with the girls stumbling into G. Gordon Liddy during his burglary of the DNC office and culminate with their giving Dick Nixon a rousing send-off at the end of the film.Of all the silly situations in the film, I particularly liked the movie's explanation for the missing 18 and 1/2 minutes on the Nixon tapes as well as the way Woodward and Bernstein were portrayed. However, these are just two of many silly and cute moments.Overall, a great laugh--particularly for those old enough to notice all the references in the film (such as the plumbers and Checkers--who was a Cocker Spaniel, not a pointer, by the way).A word of note--parents may want to think twice about having younger kids watch this movie due to its many crude references (after all, the film is named Dick--it should be expected) as well as drug use and glorification. "},{"Title":"You suck, Dick!","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was an absolutely hilarious satire about Richard Nixon and the Watergate cover-up. It was one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time.Of course, the fact that it had Kirsten Dunst (Spider-Man, Bring It On) as the lead was what drew me to the film, but there were so many great lines, especially those inadvertently said by Michelle Williams (Brokeback Mountain, The Station Agent). They were just so funny as two airheads that brought down the President.Dan Hedaya (Shaft, The First Wives Club) was a perfect Dick Nixon.The only thing that detracted from an otherwise hilarious film was the presence of Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch. Ugh! "},{"Title":"What really led to Nixon's resignation?","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Andrew Fleming presents a farcical comedy about the 1972 break-in at the Watergate Hotel. Two irresistible, but dim-witted teens(played by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams)stumble across the Watergate break-in not knowing all its implications. The two wander from their White House tour and accidentally meet President Richard Nixon(Dan Hedaya), who makes the two his official dog walkers for Checkers. Then the girls become Secret Advisors, before realizing Nixon is not the nice man they thought. Dunst is charming. Williams turns into a swan. Hedaya is a near perfect Nixon. And Saul Rubinek is hilarious as Henry Kissinger. Others of note in the cast Teri Garr, Jim Breuer, Harry Shearer, Dave Foley and Will Ferrell.DICK also features a very diverse soundtrack that features the likes of Carly Simon, Harry Nilsson, Jackson 5, Elton John, Redbone and David Essex. "},{"Title":"Funny, especially if you're eating the cookies","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The plot description was amusingly unbelievable, so I figured it was worth a try. The film was far funnier than I expected, and joyously absurd. If you know the basics of Watergate, you can tick through all of the elements which trigger recognition, and there are many. Loved the performances by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams and Dan Hedaya, but not those of Ferrell and McCulloch. The music was GREAT! I loved hearing those old hits again. For me, Dick defies categorization beyond comedy. It wasn't romantic, wasn't really a teen flick, wasn't making any highbrow political statements, but all in all a good, entertaining film. "},{"Title":"I Love DICK -- Genuinely Witty and Clever Gem","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Even tho I'm a Watergate buff, I didn't see this in summer of 1999. I wish I had. Pity the marketing department for this smart and clever deconstruction of what exactly happened to all those president's men in 1972 via the bumbling of two teen girls, expertly played by kirsten dunst and michelle williams.No need to recount the plot suffice to say that this film could only die at the box office since the youth market would not have appreciated this satire without knowing a chunk of the Watergate mythos. Marketed as a an indie type feature might have worked better.Fleming directs with stylish simplicity and captures a retro-extreme look. Special mention to Dan Hedaya for one of the great film Nixons. The supporting cat is tight if not completely realized, the worst being Will Ferrell and Bruce Mcoullough who would have been funnier if not allowed to mug like an SNL outtake. Take a chance and rent this if you're looking for what surely is one of the best comedies of the 90's. And a great, non obvious soundtrack. P.S. The DVD commentary by Andrew Fleming and the co-writer makes them sound less bright than the film. There's no mention of what made them write it, the casting directing process etc. It's amazing they could have so little to say about their film.So I will. Check it out.peace. "},{"Title":"Ri-Dick-ulous premise and stupid fun. The most (previously unknown) facts-filled bonanza this side of Wikipedia.","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE HIGH CONCEPT Two high school girls use cookies and charisma to advise Nixon to end the Vietnam War & get caught up in Watergate. Someone must have been eating a batch of those Hello Dollies when they wrote this script! If they'd had more foresight, they should've known that there was pot in the cookies, what would you expect if they were baked by the girl who went on to play the role of 'Mary Jane' Watson.Not only does this film suggest Nixon would pull out of Vietnam at the urging of schoolgirls and had knowledge of Watergate scandal, but even more frightening for the American public to think about was his taste in television programs We see him watching Love American Style at one point.Wondering what type of film this is? There is a moment in the film where one of the female leads shouts out, Alright, I love Dick! in a public crowd. That alone should tell you a lot about what type of historical film this is. It was directed by Andrew Fleming, the man who brought us the teenage witches film The Craft, which tried to retread a 'Lost Boys' type 'new kid in town meets supernatural' plot.The film stars Michelle Williams and the lovely Kirsten Dunst as the presidential dog walkers who become youth advisors to Tricky Dick. Will Ferrell and Bruce from 'Kids in the Hall' paint Woodward and Bernstein in a different light for us and we are provided a new take on exactly why there was 18 minutes missing off Nixon's infamous tape recordings. Dave Foley from 'KitH' also appears in the film. It's pretty funny at times and not a bad way to kill an hour and a half, but there are better movies. "}{"Title":"Not All the President's Men! It's funnier!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I bet Richard Nixon would love this film anyway. It's not so much about Watergate than it is about two girls played perfectly by Kirsten Dunst and unrecognizable Michelle Williams, who stumble upon the Watergate burglary. I love the set up and it's clear that they filmed this movie in Washington D.C. Of course, the cast is just impeccable. Let me just tell you who else is in it. Teri Garr as Arlene's mom, Ted McGinley as Arlene's mother's boyfriend, Dan Hedaya who plays Nixon is superb in the title role, Ana Gasteyer as Dick's secretary, Rosemary, Bruce McCulloch as the Watergate journalist Bernstein and the amazing Will Ferrell as Carl Woodward. This movie would be a good way to introduce high school kids to Watergate. I caught the film on Comedy Central and have watched it a couple of times. Of course, it's edited and there are probably more scenes that I didn't see. Also Dave Foley is in it from Newsradio as Alderman. Of course I think the film plays great seventies music and show the culture of what life was life in the early 1970s and how gullible the American public was in relation to politics. The Watergate scandal opened a lot of eyes and brought down a President. Dan Hedaya made Dick likable and flawed. A better title would have been Deep Throat but the man who really is Deep Throat is out and living in Santa Rosa, California. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wasn't around in 1973 (I would have loved to be). I was born in 1986. However, I am an avid history buff, especially the 20th century, and most especially, the decades which my parents were apart of (the 40's to present). Knowing quite a bit about the Vietnam/Coldwar era of the Western world, I thought this movie was a spectacular and cute insight on life in the early 70's. And I can't help but laugh at two 15 year old girls giving Nixon special cookies and playing a key role in his crumbling public image while in office. My parents were a little bit older than these girls during 1973, but its a trip down memory lane for them and for a history nerd/comedy fan like myself, its a light hearted delight. Highly recommended for the young and old! "},{"Title":"All The President's Men....high on grass","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If I had to pick just one word to describe this movie it would be, silly. And even if you aren't a fan of this film, you have to at least admit the premise is original. What if Deep Throat were actually a couple of typical 15-year-old girls? What if they just happened to be witness to the Watergate break in, then canoodle their way into jobs as Nixon's dog walkers through bribing the White House guards with a few homemade cookies&#133;.(which unbeknownst to everyone involved happen to be spiked with marijuana?) What if Dick Nixon himself ended up taking such a liking to the cookies that he served them to Brezhnev&#133;.thus creating an historic peace agreement with the Soviets? &#133;. Dick lovingly explores these possibilities.So you don't think such a concept could work? Well, throw in two members of The Kids In the Hall...(my two favorite members, by the way)&#133;Bruce McCulloch as Bernstein and Dave Foley as Haldeman, then toss in Will Ferrell as Woodard. And I have to admit that Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams are tremendously believable as two giggling teenage girls.Okay, now I was too young to actually remember the Watergate scandal, but I've always been a fan of All The President's Men, and I was actually enthralled by a four hour long documentary on the whole topic (yes, I'm a political junkie). Oliver Stone's Nixon was good, but why should everyone who touches this subject matter go about it in such a serious manner? After all, it did take place in the SEVENTIES! Give this movie a try! If you can relate at all to what it's like being a clueless 15-year-old girl, you too (just like the Michelle Williams character) won't be able to stop thinking about Dick. "},{"Title":"Dead-on funny","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wanted to respond to the previous review and say that I WAS around during the Watergate scandal, and I was living in the same general area. Not to mention the fact that I was the same age as the heroines when the whole Watergate scandal broke, and had about as much interest and awareness of it as they did! I found the movie to be hilarious, in part because it did bring back so many memories. I, too, was a dumb blonde, and my 'partner in crime' was as well. (She still lives in the Washington area). I would like to clarify one thing to the previous reviewer, however, namely that maybe the reason that Saul Rubinek's Russian accent was unconvincing was that it was actually a German accent, and his Henry Kissinger was wickedly accurate!Yes, the movie was a piece of fluff, but I enjoyed it immensely, nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"Not just great - WATER-GREAT!","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Who was Deep Throat, the high-level source that fed information to the Washington Post and brought down the Nixon administration? Was it a top FBI agent? Al Haig? Col. Mustard? Theories are continually advanced, none as entertainingly as this movie's explanation It was all the work of two starstruck 15-year-old girls who giggle and stumble their way through the snake pit that was the West Wing circa 1972-74, finding out secrets they barely notice as they fulfill their Presidentially-assigned task of dog walkers and 'Secret Youth Advisers.''Dick' is a farce with a strong sense of time and place, if a rather dubious take on the Watergate scandal itself. Especially brilliant are the many sly references to the best-known Watergate film, 'All The President's Men,' with both films beginning inside a typewriter as the date of the Watergate burglary is typed on paper (just not that quickly or professionally in the 'Dick' version.) Other scenes, like the one where Betsy announces they are being bugged, and the parking garage meets, are clear parallels to similar scenes in 'All The President's Men.' It's almost worth it to watch them as a double feature, saving 'Dick' for after. It's not good to rush things too much if you are about to have some 'Dick.'OK, that was lame. But be warned, if that offended you, it's something you will have to deal with here. There are a lot of silly crude jokes surrounding Nixon's first name in the movie, starting with the title. Like the other less-than-stellar running gag in the comedy (people are ingesting pot without knowing it and look how much fun they are having! Creating world peace even!) it's a byproduct of a film that is sometimes less clever than its creators think it to be. What carries it along and makes it truly enjoyable are the way-out elements, such as the set and costume design (which push the '70s identification as far as possible in every frame, with awesome gusto) and the verve of the actors, particularly the leads.Betsy (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene (Michelle Williams) are good enough characters to almost wish they were left alone, with no Nixon storyline, and allowed to gambol and gossip and deal with regular growing-up issues as buddies-for-life. The actors play so well off one another that it's hard to believe they are as young as the characters they play, and they're not, a relief for those of us who ogle them in their crazy pants in every other scene.Both actors have a fetching innocence, and a willingness to overplay that serves the comedy. Dunst grabs most of the attention as the leader, her guiding principle being any idea is a good one, even if that is to tape-record a mash note to the President on his private bugging system. (My favorite line is hers 'You've been on for.18 and a half minutes!') But Williams may give the better performance, with her quirky reaction takes and, of course, her gummy-eyed secret obsession for the Head of State, who she decides is 'way cuter than Bobby Sherman.'It helps to have lived through the 1970s when watching the movie. You will be taken back to the first half of that glorious decade, an era toploaded with denim, Hush Puppies, Wacky Packages, and bubblegum pop, much of which is sampled cleverly on the indefatigable soundtrack.The film kind of breaks down in the second half, after we learn this Dick isn't so sweet, and the farcical elements seem to overpower everything else. The presence of Ted McGinley has actually been defined as evidence of a television show 'jumping the shark,' and something similar happens in the movie, though he's not to blame so much as the filmmakers' apparent desire to tie the whole 'Deep Throat' angle in a tidy bow.It's a funny film, enjoyable, but not good history. It represents Nixon as having advance knowledge of the Watergate break-in, for example, when it fact no serious scholar of the scandal thinks he did. It was approving hush money after the fact that made Nixon's presidency untenable. I don't think Haldeman's son had a beer bong in his bedroom, either. "},{"Title":"YOU DICK!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Decent.  I laughed a few times, chuckled a few more, and generally enjoyed this reinterpretation of The Watergate Scandal.  For once, it was nice to see a movie end at the 90 minute mark, just when you've usually had enough.But I can sure see why this tanked at the box office, as it's got to be tough sell pitching the fans of Kirsten & Michelle a spoof movie about Richard Nixon.Other than a few quibbles about the chronology of the soundtrack (Brother Louie didn't hit 'til '73, yet is played early on in the film--and Dancing Queen wasn't even released until 1977), I think anybody who lived through the period should like it enough to warrant an instantly forgettable viewing. "},{"Title":"Funny but not for everyone","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems that this movie was made specifically for people like me teenagers who happen to have an in-depth understanding of the Watergate scandal.  And there aren't too many of those.  I personally thought this movie was a hoot but thats because I know enough about Nixon and Watergate to get the jokes and I have a sophomoric sense of humor.  Most adults who lived through that era probably won't like it because of  the juvenile jokes and most teenagers probably won't like it because they've never even heard of the scandal.  But it did contain some standout performances such as Kirsten Dunst, Dan Hedaya, Will Ferrell, and Bruce McCulloch.  All in all, I liked it.  Not everyone will.  "},{"Title":"see All the Presidents Men before you see this","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, I've never actually seen whole movie Dick, but I've seen a few scenes from it in my film class.  We were required to watch All the Presiden't Men for class, and I can tell you if I hadn't seen that movie I wouldn't have thought the satirizing scenes in Dick were all that funny.  We watched some clips w/ Woodward and Bernstein when Woodward is on the phone.  I was  laughing so hard I couldn't breathe!! It wouldn't have been worthy of a smile if I hadn't seen Men.  The hair, clothes, office, characters, awesome!  I def. plan on seeing this movie when I'm in the mood for a comedy.  "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is hardly brilliant political satire, and the Dick jokes keep coming long after they've stopped being clever, but if you're not expecting too much, this is a very enjoyable movie. Dunst and Williams are good at portraying teenage ditziness without going too far over the top or losing our sympathy, and the rest of the cast are fun to watch in their historical roles. The 70's music, props, and scenery are a hoot (check out the roller disco), and anyone with at least a basic knowledge of Nixon's downfall will have fun seeing the real story behind it, as it plays out through the eyes of these two teenage girls. "},{"Title":"Nothing to rave about....","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This show was funny, but it wasnt very realistic. I find it very hard to believe that the infamous Deepthroat was a fifteen year old girl who had a crush on the president(although they never did find out who they were.) I like the music on it though, it always suits the scene, like in the final scene when Nixon is walking to his helicopter to Youre So Vain. Michelle Williams acting abilities are mediocre at best, although she makes a fairly realistic airhead. All in all this film is not meant as a documentary, if you want a realistic look at the life of Richard Nixon, I suggest that you rent the movie Nixon instead. "}{"Title":"Extremely Funny. Finely Acted. A Marvellous Paraphrase Of The True Events.","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Quality Rating 4 out of 5This well-written (Andrew Fleming and Sheryl Longin) and well-researched movie is an absolute delight. Despite the downright absurdity of some of the 'other' explanations presented as to what 'may' have gone on during the Watergate scandal, most of them are entirely plausible. This fact may be lost in the total hilarity of the situations the three main protagonists - Dan Hedaya, Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams - are landed in. Dan Hedaya sends Nixon up magnificently, but he is almost acted off the screen by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams who play their giggling-fifteen-year-old-girls roles to a level of perfection other young actresses of their peer group should aspire to. (And by the way, the really *do* look fantastic in their home made costumes at the end of the movie!)The supporting cast - particularly Will Ferrell (as Bob Woodward) and Bruce McCulloch (as Carl Bernstein) - also delight in their nearly-over-the-top send ups.It is rare that I rewind a rented video and watch a film again, but this is one of the ones with which I did just that - even if only to try pick up more of the plot subtleties. (And to see Kirsten and Michelle looking so utterly delicious in those costumes!)My advice is go get the tape, watch the movie twice, and then just look at the *real* facts - then you'll see just how plausible the whole thing is. "},{"Title":"Dick Rules!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is a very funny comedy about two cheerful but totally clueless teenage girls named Betsy(Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene(Michelle Williams). During a school fieldtrip to the white house, the girls meet president Richard Dick Nixon(Dan Hedaya), and they become his official dog walkers and his secret youth advisors. This was a very funny and enjoyable movie. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams were absolutely adorable and great. I would give Dick 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't really expect a lot from this, but it turned out to be very funny in a silly sort of way.  The central conceit was clever and perfectly executed.  It does help a lot if you're familiar with the entire Watergate era, though; I suspect younger viewer won't understand the humor.  There's one gag (about how one of the girl's mother met her new boyfriend) that's absolutely hilarious -- if you get the reference, and I doubt anyone under 40 would.  Still, if you're looking for a light, silly comedy, give this a shot. "},{"Title":"Whimsical Parody","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      This is a delightful film.  Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams are charming and adorable as the clueless girls who naively help to topple a presidency. The polka-dot dresses they wear leave no doubt this story takes place in the more innocent, much less jaded decade of the 70's. My favorite scene is when the girls get their hands on a secret oval office tape. There's a new explanation, thanks to the girls, for the missing minutes on the infamous tape. Dan Hedaya as Nixon, and Saul Rubinek as Kissinger, are terrific and certainly evoke memories of that era.  The movie also has fun with the Woodward and Bernstein characters to hilarious effect. The perversely funny thing about this movie is it almost seems plausible, and that's what makes the humor especially great.  This is a laugh riot at times as it lampoons politicians who were gravely serious (to the point of pomposity) back in the 70's. Self-important people (like the famous journalists) also get taken down several notches. Dick drags in certain sections, but is a joyful and memorable satire of a very distinctive era. "},{"Title":"very very funny","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is possibly the funniest political movie ever made, yet just doesn't get recognized. Dick (which sounds like an adult movie to a lot of people, including my parents) is not the true story of Richard Nixon, and his watergate scandal (but it's inspired by it). What makes it so funny, is how two girls can overthrow a president. (WARNING SPOILERS COMING UP!)My favorite scene is the Hello Dolly scene, in which Kirsten Dunst's character gives the Nixon and all the people present at the time cookies--with a hint of marijuana.  The reason this is a good movie is because it has two very popular teen stars, yet it can also appeal to adults because a lot have lived through the watergate scandal.  4 stars/4 "},{"Title":"Hello Dolly!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dick is about two ditsy D.C. area teens (Dunst & Williams), who wander off in the White House during a field trip and accidentally walk in on then president Nixon's top-secret Watergate meetings. To keep them quiet, he appoints the duo Official Dog Walkers. They affectionately refer to him as 'Dick' in return. There are some totally roll-on-the-floor-laughing moments and plenty of drug references (e.g. when they make these cookies called Hello Dollies which contain a liberal dose of hash). The treats become instant White House favorites when a meeting of esteemed world leaders all get high and sing the song Hello Dolly! This movie is best viewed when you're with a friend, feeling slaphappy, or 14-years-old. Sure, Dick isn't exactly accurate, but it's funny as hell. "},{"Title":"A clever and funny twist to the Watergate scandal.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would recommend this film to anyone, it's an enlightening comedy about two all American teen ditzes that unconsciously wander into one of the biggest cover-ups in history. This satire was well thought-out and acted. But although Kirsten Dunst and Michelle seemed well suited to their roles, the comedy awards go to the forever bickering Woodward and Bernstein. Will have you in stitches.C U @ the movies, Kelly "},{"Title":"Bakin' Brownies","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What if Oliver Stone wrote comedy?  All the missing pieces of Watergate are cleverly revealed in a fictional and comical sense.  It's a great what-if kind of story based on reality.  I really liked the two girls, Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams playing giddy high-school girls.  They were a crack-up the whole way through.  I don't know why, maybe I just liked her glasses but I thought Michelle Williams was great.  The rest of the cast was great too; Will Ferrel, Bruce McCulloch, Dave Foley, Ana Gasteyer, Harry Shearer and Dan Hedaya (who was IN Oliver Stone's Nixon) was a great Nixion characature.  It HAD to be funny with a cast packed with Saturday Night Live and Kids in the Hall players.Two of my favorites were Ferrel and McCulloch as Washington Post reporters Woodward and Bernstien.  In the hands of these two, the characters came out like greedy 10-year-olds.  You know, the kind who fight over who gets to talk on the phone with Deep Throat.  Will Ferrel was very similar to his George Bush impression on Saturday Night Live while Bruce McColloch was like his thinks-he's-too-cool-but-realy-isn't rockstar character on Kids in the Hall.  Way over the top for both, hopefully not accurate but very funny.  Also pay attention to Ana Gasteyer as Nixon's secretary, she's hilariously passive-aggressive.The story moves pretty quickly and there is a lot to see.  Everything else about Watergate is revealed, like who Deep Throat is, where the name came from.  Then there's the added stuff, like Nixon's Cabinet eating special brownies with the Russians.  Generally everything that happened behind the scenes in real life is explained and just like Woodward and Bernstien everything is exaggerated and much funnier.POSSIBLE SPOILER HEREI have to disagree with another review that said the last scene seemed out of character for the two girls.  I thought it WAS in a way, but think of what all these girls had gone through and overcome.  They WERE different people by the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"An Okay Movie Featuring Two Of Today's Top Stars","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time in the movie theater.  Yes, I will have to say this movie is one of those better off rented than seen in the theaters.  Why?  Because it's not all that good.  I mean it's a fair movie, but it's not great.  Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams play Arlene and Betsy.  I am glad these two actresses were chosen for the parts because they shine and they work so well together.  This pairing was a good casting choice.  Also, this movie lacked substance, but you can always find a good laugh waiting for you in Dick. "},{"Title":"May only work if you are old enough to remember","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very funny, but if you don't know the history of the time period you may not get the jokes.  It would probably help to watch All The President's Men first also.  I really enjoy this movie and the premise. I don't think my children understand why it it so funny. "}{"Title":"Ridickulus!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie rocks! I'd never heard of 'The Watergate Scandal' in my life until I saw this film...The movie is about two best friends Betsy (Kirsten Dunst, 'Bring It On') and Arlene (Michelle Williams, 'Dawson's Creek') who wander off during a White House tour with their school, and end up becoming President Richard 'Dick' Nixon's dog walkers!All hell breaks loose when the two ditzy girls find tapes and creep lists from The White House and find out about Watergate... only to tell The Washington Post all about it, during a prank call.This movie is absolutely hilarious! It's subtle humour is used well, but isn't over-used and isn't shoved in-yer-face like in other teen films that came out that year.Kirsten Dunst is great as the eccentric Betsy - it's obvious Betsy and Arlene steal the show - but I think Michelle Williams is *brilliant* in this role! She's funny, smart, geeky and stupid all at once and she's such a great actress. Then of course there's her rendition of Olivia Newton-John's song - Go Michelle!Has great stories for all the missing gaps (ie. the 18½ minutes from the tape, who Deepthroat was etc.) and it's a film ANYONE could enjoy. I wasn't around in 1972, hell I wasn't even born until 14 years later. I never knew a thing about Watergate, and it's still one of my favourite films!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Did they really have to call the movie, Dick.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst play two ditzy teenagers Arlene Lorenzo and Betsy Jobs, who wonder off during there high school class trip to the White House, where they end up meeting President Nixon. President Nixon than hires them both to be the official dog walkers for his dog Checkers, and they become his secret advisors during the Watergate scandal. Things go a bit pair-shaped, when the girls find out that the President is not all he seems, during the Watergate scandal.Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst do well as the ditzy, strange teenagers, Arlene and Betsy. Saying that though, they've both done much better work than this. The film is not too bad, but some bits are a little annoying. And, the films title, well that speaks for itself. All in all, quite a good film. It's just nothing to get too excited about.  "},{"Title":"Four score and twenty years ago, our forefathers did........something.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst are absolutely delightful as two ditsy 15 year old girls who stumble cluelessly upon (and into) the Watergate scandal in this clever comedy from 1999.  The supporting cast, including Dan Hedaya as Tricky Dick Nixon, Dave Foley, Bruce McCullough, and the peerless Teri Garr, are all great.  This would be a good renter to watch along with Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion, another smart, funny piece of fluffy cotton candy.  Both are my ideal of what good chick flicks are all about.  Score 7/10 "},{"Title":"Anyone should enjoy it","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many of the user comments make the complaint that without knowing the specifics of the Watergate incident, you can't enjoy this film.  I disagree. I think the film tells you enough about the events of the time period to understand the action.  And being a comedy, it takes liberties with its history and so a complete knowledge of Watergate isn't even necessary.Did people raise the same complaints about Pearl Harbour, or U-571? The latter film took definite liberties with the truth, but not too many people complained about that.  People here have said that only those who were adults in the early seventies can appreciate Dick.  Yet how many of us can claim to remember World War II?  Do people assume that they know about the war already, and so feel confident enough to watch any story based on it? There is a bit of a double standard here.Dick suceeds admirably in giving you what you need to appreciate the events of the time.  Yet people complain that it is too age-specific.  Why are people still attending war movies and accepting (very often) distorted truths, without complaining the same way?Dick has two excellent female leads, and a fine performance from Dan Hedaya.  It was funny throughout.  We must be prepared to make an effort to engage in films that are set in unfamiliar times. "},{"Title":"What a hoot! (But only if you're old enough)","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a riotously funny movie.  Unfortunately, if you're not at least forty five years old (forty, if you were paying attention as a child), you won't be able to fully appreciate it.Other reviewers have referred to All the President's Men, and I agree that you should see it before you see Dick.  However, that will not be an adequate substitute for having lived through that time. "},{"Title":"Horrible title - Great movie","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Too bad, they sabotaged their own movie with a one-joke movie title that probably turned off 90% of the people.If you were old enough to follow Watergate and have a sense of humor about it, then you'll love this.If you love ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, you'll get all the jokes.If you don't remember Watergate, I think 70% of the jokes will go over your head and you'll wonder what the fuss is about - but if you're a boomer or older, this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"A great historic fantasy about the watergate scandal.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although Dick is a comedy, it really helped me understand what the watergate scandal was about. It´s a very funny movie, I was laughing all the time while watching it, especially because the story mixes real historic facts with hilarious situations involving the main characters.  "},{"Title":"Symbol of the Aimless '90s reaching for the Liberated '70s?","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie didn't work for me, althrough it is quite nice to think that most writers think that American history (especially the 1970s) is explored in detail in most high schools while in reality it is quickly and quietly ignored.  And for good reason while scandals seem popular to everyone who watches C-Span hardcore, they are in reality just fodder for the news when they don't have bad weather to report.The movie isn't interesting it seems to have been given the green-light in some vain attempt to cash in on the 1997-1999 craze that was trying to bring back the 1970s.  While I'm sure there are little references that echo real-life events, who would really care?  Most of the people who would pay money to see this film are either people who were alive and sober back in the '70s or (most likely) people who were born in 1980 and just want to see the two leads in skimpy '70s clothes.  The latter is why this is a bomb.More thought should have been put into this film and it should have been decided if it was a comedy or a teen flick, and that indecision caused this uneven film a fair audience.  Even still, it's very dull and unless you have a Jones for political scandals (even after everything in the 1990s!), save your time. "},{"Title":"Much better than the title","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is a great hysterical down right funny movie.Arlene and Betsy stole the show and deliver all the great lines. Having been born in the 80s', I didn't know all the details about the Watergate, but were quickly informed by my mom and knowing the details makes it all the more funny. If you are searching for a laugh out loud movie you have no doubt about it found the right movie. I don't think there is any bland or boring part about this movie. The lines are delivered wonderfully and laughs come with out a doubt. A+ movie! "},{"Title":"Dick and All The President's Men","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie is funniest if you're familiar with All The President's Men. I believe it to be a parody of that movie, more than just a Watergate fantasy. I thought that Will Ferrell and Bruce McCullough were doing a direct take on the Redford/Hoffman portrayals of Woodward and Bernstein.And I thought it was a brilliant possible answer as to why Woodward and Bernstein won't tell us who Deep Throat was. "}{"Title":"Very smart, overlooked film.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was surprised during the opening credits of this movie to see Gale Anne Hurd and EP among all these no-names. The former Mrs.James Cameron is best known for T2 and Aliens and this was a welcome change. Dick is head and shoulders above any teen movie made since Clueless and that may be because it isn't a teen movie. It is a very funny and very accurate satire that boasts an excellent supporting cast and genuine film making talent. The style of photography in the true Watergate scenes are as if they were puller from something staring Robert Redford or directed by Mike Nichols circa 1970. Dick is a treat for anyone who knows anything about Watergate and i would definitely recommend. *** of 4 "},{"Title":"absolutely genious","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is absolutely billiant.  I remember two of my friends seeing this movie one summer and I couldn't believe that they saw it.  I never had any desire to see it.  But one night I was at this girl's apartment and was looking throught her video tapes and decided to grab it.  Obviously, we got retarded before we saw it, which I'm sure had something to do with it being awesome.Every scene in the movie was exaggerated to the extreme and that's what made it so good.  Before seeing the movie, I didn't know too much about the Watergate scandal, but watching it gave me the basic jist of what was going on.  Everything that happened, from the walking of the dogs, to the cookies, to Woodward and Bernstein, to how the got the tapes and typed them out was hilarious and a pretty good reinactment of what actually happened.  I took a Constitutional Law class which studied the Nixon case and had no clue of what was going on from what I read.  But I thought about the movie and that's what made me understand the case.  I think the movie is even better now seeing how accurate is actually was, even though it totally made up all the scenarios that happened. Genious!!! "},{"Title":"Very funny parody","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having lived through the Watergate days, I thought this movie was great. It is not a great movie but they did a great job taking a serious subject and make fun of it.I also thought it was great that they got some of the really people to play themselves. I think this movie helps the cleansing process of the Nixon adminstration.BTW, I am not a Democrat. This movie is not about Republican bashing. "},{"Title":"A total charmer","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that this film plays out like a dream if you enjoy seeing Kirsten Dunst really rip into a role.  It's wildly uneven, but there are so many sweet moments of confusion, with double-entendres and minor drug jokes to boot.  It's a fun show to see Dunst as well as Michelle Williams wonder through the Watergate scandal, at first sheepishly and by accident, but slowly changing their motivation to the bigger issues.  This is a coming of age film that functions as political satire.  Dan Hedaya is also an appropriate Nixon for this film, taking on the role with enough conviction to make us forget who he is as an actor.  There are many parts of the film that are classics in their own right, such as Williams' slowly falling for Dick and what was really deleted from the 18 1/2 minutes of tape.The biggest weakpoint in the film is Ferrell and McCulloch as the two reporters that discover Deepthroat and the Watergate secrets.  I know this isn't a very serious movie, but they ruined the suspension of belief for me by making their scenes seem about as realistic as an SNL skit from which Ferrell is so used to doing his schtick.  They have some good lines, but mostly at the expense of losing some of what makes this film so charming.Overall, this is a very cute film that is lighter than air to watch.  The joy of watching Dunst and Williams going through an odyssey of the dark side of politics is something that could warrant many viewings of this film.  It's not necessarily a great film, but it is one that you could watch 20 times without it losing much of it's charm.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am only 14 and I thought this movie was great! I didn't understand everything at first until I read the book, All The President's Men, then it all made sense. It inspired me on what I want to do when I grow up and even sent me a message of who my favorite music group is. I heard the song Dancing Queen by ABBA in this film, then I looked it up on CDNow or something like that and I found out that the A*Teens also sing it and that they are modern. This movie is exactly what you need to watch on a rainy day or anytime you are feeling down. "},{"Title":"Smart and Funny.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that actually does have some research and thinking put into it. It also has a great cast and some excellent writing.'Dick' was off to a slow and ditzy start. But then it gradually became something that appealed to me. One of the problems that is started out with was the role and character of Betsy Jobs. Not so much the character bothered me, but having Kirsten Dunst act as a REALLY dumb blond started to annoy me. There was something about her attitude that made me want to shut the film off. Instead, I continued to watch and over time I got adjusted to her quirkiness. The other problem was that as much as the atmosphere was supposed to seem like the Watergate era, all it seemed like was that somebody grabbed some bell bottoms and a track from the Jacksons and yelled action. But again, this flaw faded away.The casting was put together real well. Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst are a great team and I would like to see this kind of duo work together again. Dan Hedaya fit the character of Nixon great. His speech, little remarks, and actions were almost down to the nail. The smaller parts played be Bruce McCulloch and Will Ferrell were also amusing to watch. I give two thumbs up to the crew for puting together a film about a very important piece of history with two fresh faces as the main characters.There's not much to say about the writing except that it was well thought out. Finally, a film that took some research to be made. Nothing worse than seeing a flaky and shaky film ruined by dull, inaccurate lines. Some people may debate that the writing was poorly done, but I happened to think that it was quite funny. It didn't have too much stupidity from the girls' parts, but enough so that it still made me laugh.While the setting and design for the movie was at first, touchy, I found it nicely done after about the first ten minutes. The reenactment of Nixon's farewell speech, and everything else that gave the mood of that period of time was clever. Not to mention that the ending was entertaining. And nothing better than a good old spin around the office on skates listening to ABBA.Good work for creating this not so typical Hollywood flick. One question who is the film supposed to be aimed for? Considering that you're over...thirty, you'll probably find this plot interesting but a little edgy due to the casting. If you are under that age, you might be asking yourself 'Watergate?'. I'm not saying that most kids haven't heard about this historical period. But how many kids are actually going to be able to follow this film? Anyway, the acting, writing, set decoration, historical accuracy and everything else was good. Definitely see this whenever you get the chance. History with a twist is great. "},{"Title":"Lot's Of Amusing Characterizations, But No Funny Lines","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The problem with this film is that all of the humor is derived from the over-the-top characterizations of all of the familiar players in the Watergate scandal. While Dan Hedaya, Jim Breuer, Dave Foley, Harry Shearer and Saul Rubinek all give funny perfomances, it's difficult not do so when your aiming at targets that are that easy. None of them really has anything amusing to say, and there isn't a single memorable or truly witty line in the whole movie.Michelle Williams also turns in an appropriately Jan Brady-esque portrait of a typically ditzy American teenager, circa 1973. The real stand-out supporting role, however, is Devon Gummersall's portrayal of Kirsten Dunst's zonked-out hippie older brother. Anyone who was in high school in the early 70's (as I was) probably remembers having at least one wasted pot-head in their class, and his performance hits a bull's-eye!Watchable, but immediately forgettable afterwards. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie. My favorite scene must be the one where one of the girls reveal to the other the meaning behind the expression Deep Throat, but there are many other great scenes, like when the girls first stumble upon the white house tapes, and reveal to them a Nixon they didn't know. The ending is also superb. What's great about this movie is the overall humor that was sorely missing in All the President's Men and Nixon in this film, Woodward and Bernstein are as much objects of ridicule as Nixon and Kissinger. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A truly original comedy, Dick stars Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst as two giggling high school students who unintentionally stumble across the Watergate scandal.  They meet Dick (President Richard M. Nixon) who appoints them the White House dog walkers.  The girls bring the President cookies (with an unintentional special ingredient) and one of them falls in and out of love with the President, and later they become the infamous Deep Throat, confiding in Woodward and Bernstein, who are constantly competing with each other. (and wait till you see how the 18 1/2 minute gap in the tape was created !)What makes this film such a treat is not only because it is such a bright satire, but the terrific performances.  Both young stars are great, and Dan Hedaya, the best character actor there is, is simply perfect as Richard Nixon.  He doesn't do an impersonation, but beautifully displays the paranoia and anger of the man.  Saul Rubinek does a great Kissinger, and Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch of Saturday Night Live are the famous Woodstein.  This is a film of SNL alumni, including Ana Gasteyer as Rose Mary Woods, Jim Breuer as John Dean, and Harry Shearer as G. Gordon Liddy. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable warped time-capsule","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is one of the most truly enjoyable comedies I've seen in quite some time.  Some part of that reaction is surely attributable to the fact that I grew up watching the whole Watergate scandal unfold, but--to some extent--the movie works regardless of your familiarity with the details of that time period.Saul Rubinek as Kissinger is side-splitting, Dan Hedaya as Nixon is just about perfect, and Harry Shearer, Will Ferrell and the two leads all hit the right notes in their portrayals (or, in some instances, caricatures). My favorite bit, among many, is the real story of the 18 1/2 minute gap in the Nixon tapes.  The occasional direct parodies of All the President's Men (obviously the serious movie to see about these events) are also excellent. Nice integration of mostly very familiar songs into the narrative and as background.If you weren't fortunate (really!) enough to live through all this, and can extrapolate from the comedy into how this all might really have come down, this really is about as close as you can get to both the seriousness of the situation and the relative underlying innocence of the seventies.Still debating on the grade, but this will probably get an 8 out of 10 from me. "}{"Title":"Great performance by Bruce McCulloch's hair","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an enjoyable film by itself even more so if you know some details from Watergate or have a special fondness for Kids in the Hall or SNL people.Both Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams do a great job with their roles. These are difficult characters to keep likeable and to not make them become too annoying.  Plus the supporting cast is outstanding.  Particularity McCulloch and Will Ferrell as Berstein and Woodward.The problems with the film is the play on the name Dick gets a little to overused and the basic premise does start to stretch thin.  This is where if you have a knowledge of Watergate or have at least seen All the Presidents Men a few times it keeps your interest in the movie.All in an it's a good lighthearted comedy and certainly is a not your typical formula for a comedy.  If you have a slightly strange sense of humor you will like this. "},{"Title":"An affectionate look at Tricky Dicky & the Seventies","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is a great movie. In my opinion it is a whisker away from being a classic. It captures the whole seventies era better than any other movie that I can recollect. I particularly likes its great use of seventies music to advance or highlight the storyline. Its use of young comedy actors (such as Harry Shearer) to portray Nixon's cronies was a master stroke. Dan Hedaya also gives a very funny and infectious performance as Nixon. The script and direction are great and the film contains many highlights, my favourite being the scene where Woodward and Bernstein first get involved in the Watergate story. The explanations that the screen writers have put in the film for some of the famous Watergate events are hilarious and inspired. It's a pity that Dick didn't do well at the box office. Catch it on Video if you can. "},{"Title":"Quirky comedy","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The basic plot We learn who deepthroat really was. And who are they? Two teenage girls.The praiseVery funny and precociously smart, it digests a hilarious script and big bites of pop culture and vicious satire into a treat. Once you feel it 's premise has wound down it comes up with a new satiric tangent, and it helps that the characters are cartoons, but played well by Kirsten Dunst, Michelle Williams ,Dan Hedaya etc.. It's uncanny that Hedaya was cast,since all his career it has been said that he looked like  Nixon. And the Tricky Dick he plays is comedy at its best ,with a complete range of comic emotions.Recommended.The flawsTasteless sometimes, but still funny.The orchestration ABBA, The Jackson Five "},{"Title":"Knowledge of Watergate is a big advantage, but not necessary to enjoy this film","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was better than I expected.  When I heard the original premise I thought it would be another stupid teenage comedy flick but surprisingly it wasn't that.  The actors give solid performances - I was in particular impressed by Dan Hedaya's portrayal of Nixon.  And Dunst and Williams were just plain likeable as the silly teenagers stumbling into everything.Needless to say the more you know about Watergate the funnier this film will be.  I already knew a good amount about the events surrounding the Watergate scandal and was able to pick out a lot of the more subtle jokes in the film. However my brother and sister, who both know nothing about Watergate except for what they saw in 'Forrest Gump' (Forrest reporting the burglary from his hotel room and Nixon then resigning) both enjoyed it as well, so it would seem safe to say that whilst knowledge of the events are a big advantage when viewing this flick, they're not a pre-requisite to having a good time.4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A good comedy","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film amy have a few laughs here and there (sometimes more or less), but it is actually (to me) a quirky yet working explanation of most of the questions asked about the Nixon administration and Watergate.  For instance, who was Deep Throat (the ultimate question, who were they)?  Well, this film suggests that it was 2 teenage girls (wonderfully played by Dunst and Williams) who also may have done a few things.  Another example is when the girls are giving cookies to the president and the cookies have a certain ingredient to them that might make him paranoid.  Funny moments all spread out, and well spread out for the material given.  Another good thing about this film is that if teens want to watch this film they don't even need to know the history behind it because it is given in the film.  And, if you do know about the whole watergate and Nixon thing before hand, you'll find it even more enjoyable (I bet that Henry Kissinger thought this was the best comedy of the decade).  Jim Breuer has a small but significant role as John dean, the counselor to the president (and resigns after a remark by the girls).  A- "},{"Title":"If you loved NIXON and CLUELESS!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dan Hedeya and Saul Rubinek are tremendous character actors (Rubinek also directed the brilliant JERRY AND TOM) whose faces you probably know from somewhere. A keen eye would spot both appeared together amongst the cavalcade of stars in Oliver Stone's NIXON, though were reduced to minor roles. They're elevated to positions of extreme power in DICK (Hedeya the president, Rubinek is Kissinger) and have a ball. Little touches like this contribute so much to this tremendous little film.Two clueless fifteen year old girls, Arlene (Michelle Williams) and Betsy (Kirsten Dunst) set off a chain of events that leads to the fall of President Nixon when they innocently break into the Watergate building. From that point forward, the very clever script sends up the answers to every mystery shrouding the investigation.This means that `the radical muckraking bastards' from the Washington Post are sent up mercilessly by Ferrell and McCulloch (Hoffman and Redford don't escape either).Of course the marketers have conspired to screw it up. After failing in the States it played for about a week in Australia (there were three other people in the cinema when I saw it on the opening day) under the tagline `If you enjoyed Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion&#133;'. Obviously they didn't want to scare away a teenage audience unconditioned to the significance of Watergate.However, you don't need to understand the significance of the details - the joy is that the jokes work on all levels, although the more you understand the more you will laugh. Few comedies promise to amuse across the age bracket as DICK.  "},{"Title":"It's a JOKE...","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And a very funny one, too!  I agree with the PoliSci prof... Lighten up, this is FUNNY.I do agree that it is probably better for those of us that lived through it and for whom it was all VERY serious at the time.  And if you wanna lionize Dick Nixon, go ahead...  but this is great for everyone that remembers that time, remembers the importance of the events, and STILL has a sense of humor about it all. Rent it. Relax. Eat some Hello Dollys. Laugh. "},{"Title":"light hearted, but very enjoyable","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to know a little bit about the Nixon ordeal to love Dick. I don't know a whole lot, but even a little gets me through a bunch of the jokes and there are a ton of those. The story is about these two girls who end up screwing everything up for the president and the funny thing is that for most of the movie it continues to be done by accident. The characters are intentionally idiotic and not really that funny, but the situation they are put into is great. If I was watching these characters anywhere else I would probably hate the movie. In Dick, they work out fine. The important thing is the situation and all of the references to history. A bunch of SNLers are in it too, but Will Ferrell is the only one who is great. The movie also has a terrific soundtrack. It's great for it's ideas, which is the same reason why it's funny. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Fluff","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think the major plus point of this film was the casting and makeup, especially Dave Foley as Haldeman, Harry Shearer as Liddy and Dan Hedaya as Tricky Dick himself. If you don't know much about the actual Watergate scandal, most of this movie will probably go over your head; but if you remember it, there are a lot of little details and little touches in the film that make for some great chuckles.You have to remember not to take this movie too seriously -- it's great satire, but the light, mindless variety, not the deep, intellectual type. "},{"Title":"Smart idea done well.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Set in early to mid-70s, two blondes stumble across the Watergate incident. Then before you know it, they're in the White House, walking the president's dog, feeding the staff cookies and mistakingly walking into the wrong places at the wrong time. The movie is cleverly made up, although boring at points, you'll always wonder what's going to happen next. The girls seem to get mixed up into everything. The boring parts are what really hurt the movie. When it begins, you are wondering when it will begin (the Bobby Sherman bit at the beginning although it was the causative incident, seemed really stupid compared to the rest of the movie) and when it ends you are wondering why it ended the way it did (the reporters later on did not seem well cast, they were dumber than the girls!). It was a good movie overall and a must for anyone who wants to be amused about another view of the Watergate scandal. "}{"Title":"The more you remember from the time, the better you'll like it.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a mighty funny comedy about Watergate.  The more you know about Watergate, and the more you remember from the early 70's, the better you'll like it.  Definitely one for the Baby Boomer generation.Younger folks should have fun too, even if they don't recognize the characters, the references, the music, the clothes, or the drugs. "},{"Title":"Laugh Your Socks Off!!!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I knew that this movie was going to be fabulous from the first time I saw a commercial for it.  It was in truth, the funniest movie I've ever seen.  Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams portray two ditzes who get caught up in Watergate, and they do a great job!  Ana Gasteyer does a great job as Rosemary Woods, the secretary.Bob Halderman I have met yams with more going on upstairs than those two.That is the funniest quote!  Go rent this movie!Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Best viewed by those who lived during Watergate","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie falls into my Romy and Michelle catagory. A film that has no real artistic value, but is so subtle and witty that it is genuinely real. Two brainless girls stumble onto the watergate scandal and become Deep Throat in a few deft moves of stupidity that it can almost be believable. Michelle Williams fills her role much better than any Dawson's Creek episode I've ever seen and Kirsten Dunst seems to grow more and more as an actress in every film she's in. It's hard to believe she's the little girl from Interview with a Vampire. Although I wasn't even alive during the Watergate scandal, I appreciated the movie's humor and wit. Dan Hedaya is hilarious as Nixon, as is Dave Foley's characterization of Halderman. The only part's that are painful are Michelle Williams singing, a scene that made me wince, and the whole singing Hello Dolly sequence. Maybe because I didn't live through it, I didn't find that bit quite as funny, but I do think the film was underrated by many who saw it. Probably better appreciateed by people who lived through it than the teens of today. "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a truly funny fictional movie about the Watergate scandal. Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst are wonderful and wacky as two girls who unbeknownst to them, get caught up in the Watergate mess. The actor who played Nixon had the role down so cold it was spooky, and Will Ferrell has a funny bit part. The script is very funny, and the clothes and music are great!  "},{"Title":"truly a riot","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   i didn't know dick about this movie before renting it, but i am so glad that i watched it!  i am a politics buff and don't know everything about watergate, but i am somewhat familiar with the overdone cliches of that time and this movie was such a refreshing twist to the incumbent theories!  i absolutely loved the forrest gumpness of the real occurences happening only due to the presence of these two ditsy but oh-so-lovable girls. their innocence could have so easily been overwrought, poorly acted and perhaps at times it is, but who cares? this is such a light hearted movie, i couldn't help but love these two girls for their innocence, held simultaneously with their depth of feeling. A plus plus for the writers, director and actors...a fine job!!! "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, it is not every day that one discovers a truly great actor.  Kudos to Dan Hedaya, whose portrayal of Richard Nixon is just as good as Anthony Hopkins.  Aside from that, and the fact that Michelle Williams is a sight for sore eyes and that Kirsten Dunst is a real good actress (as is Ms. Williams ... and Kirsten looks good also) ... this film is just a lot of fun.  Get some popcorn, get the film, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, it is not every day that one discovers a truly great actor.  Kudos to Dan Hedaya, whose portrayal of Richard Nixon is just as good as Anthony Hopkins.  Aside from that, and the fact that Michelle Williams is a sight for sore eyes and that Kirsten Dunst is a real good actress (as is Ms. Williams ... and Kirsten looks good also) ... this film is just a lot of fun.  Get some popcorn, get the film, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe anyone would take the time to make, act and much less a more awful film than Dick. I am ashamed to part of the group that saw this film because it made no sense in any shape or form. If anyone should try to make a film like this again; I have only two words, please don't. "},{"Title":"A Great Companion Piece To NIXON!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     A really great movie here, however far fetched, or not, it is hillarious.   Dan Hedaya makes a great DICK, and its great to see the various SNL members pop up as well.    Rent Oliver Stone's Nixon to see Anthony Hopkins and Paul Sorvino in the serious story of Watergate, and then rent this hysterical story of The Unmaking of The President.    For anyone old enough to remember Nixon, or for people with an interest in it, this really holds some great value.    Not a movie for teens unless they hold some interest in it.I give it an 8/10 "},{"Title":"oh so clever movie","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am not a Watergate baby nor did I live during Nixon's presidency, but from reading All the President's Men and watching the movie based on it, I can claim to know a bit about the Watergate scandal.  At first, Dick seems like a really cheesy movie with 2 real ditzy girls - like child's play. But as the movie progresses + more and more starts to develop about Nixon's involvement in Watergate, the level of the girls' ditziness becomes central to the movie.  And it's absolutely hilarious how these 2 girls are able to accidentally come upon all this stuff for Carl Bernstein + Bob Woodward of the Washington Post.  It is such a clever, clever movie. "}{"Title":"Hilarious trip down memory lane!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had wanted to see this on the big screen over the summer, but didn't get the chance.  I'm sorry I didn't get to see it in the theater - the small screen didn't do it justice!I was about the same age in the 1972-1974 period as Betsy and Angela were, so I was just as interested in the pop culture references as I in the Watergate story.  I sang along with the music, reminisced about the clothes, and laughed until I cried at the antics.  2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Romy and Michelle meet Woodward and Bernstein","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had hopes for this movie. Parts of it were very funny, but it ended up being another in a series of dumbed down Saturday Night Live sketch comedies for the 90's. The film takes more than a few liberties with the chronological order of things. Arlene sings Olivia Newton John's I Honestly Love You in Rosemary Wood's tape recorder before Haldeman and Erlichman resign. They resigned in April of '73, and the song wasn't released until 1974.But hey, who cares right? It's the 70's man, no one will ever know! Groovy Baby! Pass the white-out and Abba records!Lord knows what Monica and Bill can expect in 25 years... "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. I was expecting it to be some stupid comedy but I actually found it to be a funny, entertaining movie. It really helps if you've seen All the President's Men. Otherwise some of the in-jokes might be lost to you. Nothing deep, but an entertaining way to spend an evening. "},{"Title":"Dick is a dud","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While parts of this movie were quite hysterical, most of Dick is flaccid and limp.  The tale, about two bumbling 15 year old girls (Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams) who accidentally stumble on Whitewater, is an interesting enough premise, doesnt quite pack enough to carry it home.Kirsten Dunst is Betsy, and Michelle Williams is Arlene.  Two normal everyday space cadets in the early 70's.  One day, while on a tour of the White House, they come across a familiar face, G. Gordon Liddy (Harry Shearer) and end up coming face to face with the President himself.....Richard Dick Nixon (Dan Hedaya).  Nixon is afraid the girls know too much about Whitewater, and employs them as official White House dogwalkers to keep them quiet.  Dunst and Williams are hysterical in their roles, they play the spacy Betsy and Arlene to a T.  They are having fun with these roles, and it really shows in their performances.Dan Hedaya plays Dick.  He too is having fun with his role.  There are times he comes off as a bit too intense, as this is a fun movie and should have been played that way.  Overall though, his grade is good, and his performance decent enough.Supporting cast is good and skilled.  Leading the pack, is Dave Foley.  This guy can't seem to catch a break, but is really funny in everything he does.   His Bob Haldeman takes you back to the early 70's, and that haircut is priceless.Teri Garr plays Arlene's mother, not much of a role, and she cant really do much with what they gave her.  Too bad too, I always love her acting.Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch are Woodward and Bernstein, and play them almost as a feuding romantic couple.  Will needs to stay with the cheerleader on SNL, as that is his best role.The main problem with Dick is that it was trying to capture a market (using Dunst & Williams) that doesnt even remember who Nixon was, but alienating the older crowd by trying to be a bit too goofy.1 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Nothing serious here, just plain old fun","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie takes a very interesting and often humorous view of the Watergate scandal. Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst play their parts as ditzy teens perfectly. The true highlight for me was Will Ferrell as Bob Woodward. Though the part was a bit small, Ferrell made the best of it. Overall this is a fun movie that I would recommend to anyone with a free evening. 7/10 "},{"Title":"I was stunned it was that good","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is really funny!  I was amazed it was as good as it is.  I love silly movies but very few of them don't ultimately end up being stupid.  I was laughing throughout most of it and since I was roughly the characters' ages when all that was going on, it felt even better.  The soundtrack is one of the greatest and the cast seems to be having a good time.  All in all, I strongly recommend this, if you're in the mood for a Bill & Ted type movie.  "},{"Title":"You might even learn something...","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am 14 years old, so I don't know much about Watergate, though I have heard of it from time to time. This movie was great! It depicts the Watergate scandal in a humors and, for me, easy to follow way.Dave Foley was wonderful as Bob Haldeman. After reading up on the man he played, and asking my mother endless questions; it occurred to me just how wonderful a job Dave Foley had done.Another performer that stood out to me was Bruce McCulloch, a former Kid in the Hall just like Dave Foley. Bruce as Carl Burnstein was genius.The entire cast kept me laughing through the whole movie. And, I even came out having learned something. "},{"Title":"Groovy Baby!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a real funky movie! Being young I knew nothing about the water gate scandal and this movie explained it all. Cute, funny, cool, awsome, Groovy, Shagadelic this movie is everything.  Those Hello Dollies were classic. The young women in this movie have so much talent and potential  "},{"Title":"Brilliant! The best movie of 1999 so far.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was born in 1980 and so I did not live through Watergate. I'm sure most people my age think that Nixon is an actor on Dawson's Creek, but I am fascinated with American politics and am aware of the basics about the scandal.Dick was absolutely brilliant. It was 100% fun. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams were perfect, as were Dave Foley, Teri Garr (!), Will Ferrill, the brilliant actor who played Nixon and the entire cast.This was certainly the funniest film of the year so far. I laughed all through it. I especially love how the film wonderfully blended political satire with slapstick. The Woodstein parody was amazingly funny. The writing was sharp, the acting was fabulous, and the historical references were great (I especially loved the vans with The plumbers painted on the side.)This movie isn't exactly earth shattering, but that is its best quality. It is about two naive girls that crack Watergate on the surface but really about how are society has become so cynical and negative. If you go into this film expecting Schindler's List you'll be dissappointed, but go in to enjoy yourself and you'll agree that this is the most easily enjoyable film of the year.I think sometimes we forget that movies can be made simply to entertain. Dick was a joy to watch.  "},{"Title":"Great Satire","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A well done political satire. The story line is so good that if you remember the Watergate era it will make you think that it could be true.Unfortunately young people won't remember or care about what went on at this time in history and older people may think that it's a kids movie. NOT. Go see this Film!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Absolutely hysterical!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick was one of the funniest movies of the summer. It was so remarkably clever how it perfectly tied into Watergate. I was not born yet when Watergate actually happened, but I have seen the movie All The Presidents Men several times, so I understood most of the in-jokes.The funniest thing about this movie is the actors. They all nail their characters perfectly. Dave Foley, as Bob Haldemen, is absolutely hysterical. And This movie's version of Bernstien and Woodward's relationship is priceless.Great movie, see it! "},{"Title":"Arlene and Betsy's Excellent Adventure","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of history's notable footnotes is the legend of &#145;Deep Throat' from the Nixon Watergate debacle.  Did this Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein source really exist?  Was it Patrick Gray or Henry Kissinger or could if even have been two adolescent, screaming, giggling girls (combined age 23?) named Arlene and Betsy.  The highly irreverent film, Dick, does less to set the record straight than it does to make a case that anything is plausible.  It is a smartly written comedy that does a thorough hatchet job on Richard Nixon.  The film uses the intrusion of these two girls into Nixon's company to explain momentous turn of events - the decision to end the Vietnam war, Brezhnev's peace pact, John Dean's confession, and the paranoia surrounding Nixon himself.  But the best part is how they use their eyewitness accounts as first, the official dogwalker, and later as the secret youth advisers, in order to nail Nixon to the Watergate burglary.   The film also bemuses itself with an interesting predicament - the impetuous crush Arlene has for Nixon that eventually plays itself out in the famous 18 ½ minute gap in tape recording.  Dick is also not above tweaking some important personalities - Henry Kissinger has an abnormal attraction for the girls, Woodward and Bernstein appear like Laurel and Hardy rather than serious journalist (at one point both are paralyzed when one has a pen without paper while the other has paper but no pen) and Nixon remembers daughter Julie's name but fishes around for the name of the other daughter.  Lastly the interplay between the &#145;Hello Dolly' cookies and the resulting mischief is well thought out.  I thought the film overplayed its well conceived concoction when it showed repeatedly the van marked, &#145;Plumbers of Washington D.C.' following the girls and at the end when Carly Simon's &#145;Your Too Vain' drowned out Nixon's pitiful exit from the White House.  Dan Hedaya plays Nixon with a proper proportion of sympathy and distaste and the two girls, Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst are just clueless enough to make Arlene and Betsy believable. Overall, Dick is one big belly laugh with just the right ingredients of sense with nonsense.  "},{"Title":"Great! Twits bring down government","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wonderful silliness! Two young girls accidently see a historic event, and they way they handle it helps to bring down Nixon's administration. The movie is set up like Forrest Gump; the characters' actions affect history, but with none of that movie's sadness. Truly inspired version of events. It will make you want to re-watch All the King's Men. "},{"Title":"The Political Obitury Of Richard NixonThe Sequel.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   All right friends let's go over a few things first. How many American teenagers today know (a)How many Presidents we had in our nation's history?(b)Who came before Richard Nixon as President?(c)Can they name the year Mr.Nixon was born?If you had asked these questions to these kids in the public schools today they would probably say for (a)100(b)Abraham Lincoln and (c)1776.You will be lucky if some teenagers do come up with these answers for they will not come up with the right ones anyway.  The new movie Dick is geared for such bottom feeders.The average American teenager doesn't care about history and wouldn't spent a minute trying to find out anything about the history of the country they currently reside in.There is just that much apathy about education on part of the students.Their way of finding out about history comes from the brief and skimpy details brought out by the crowd that brings you People magazine and the TV show Biography.    Now you add the liberal left wing radical Hollywood establishment and let them loose on a target hated by the liberal left for so many years that a prescription for disaster is made.No one can believe such a spoof of Nixon and the Watergate scandal can actually be made to seem funny and it is not.The movie is too lightweight,the jokes are too obvious to take seriously(Guess who they will concentrate on?),and the writing and direction is just horrible.   The media ,liberal as it is,hates Nixon so any spoof of him is fine,it has worked before it will work again.The movie is set in the 1970's but has 1990's political correctness as the two heroes here are two teen age girls(Sounds very familar,Buffy Xena,Sabrina,Alex Mack,heroes who are female from men who bend over too much for females for their own good).Kristen Dunst has done better and Michelle Williams could have done better.In the ad photo they look great but in the movie they look smaller than life.   You know if Hoolywood can make a movie about Watergate and Nixon ,how about making a movie about 1960 election,when Nixon ,the true winner of the election,had it stolen from him by a liberal icon John F.Kennedy and his mob friends?How did Kennedy win Illnois after all it would make a great film.How about a movie concerning Clinton and his many scandals,he has had so many in his two terms one could take a pick and make a movie out of it.But don't hold your breath,liberal Hollywood is still too busy making lightweight films filled with sex,drugs,and violence the type of things the movie industry does best.   Quick now for all you teenagers out there,who ran for Vice President with Nixon on the 1960 GOP ticket?Did you say George Washington? I see a lot of teenagers out there nodding their heads saying yes. Thus as you can see Hollywood knows its' audience and knows it well. "},{"Title":"A clever comedy.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick - ***Betsy Jobs (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene Lorenzo (Michelle Williams) are two ditzy fifteen-year-olds who inadvertently find themselves playing a crucial role in the Watergate scandal.  Arlene lives in the Watergate hotel with her mother Helen (Teri Garr.)  When Betsy and Arlene sneak outside to mail a fan letter to Bobby Sherman, they place duct tape on the door to aid in re-entry.  A security guard stumbles upon the infamous tape, which leads to the apprehension of the Watergate burglars.  During a field trip to the white house, Betsy and Arlene are recruited by Nixon (Dan Hedaya) to be the official white house dog walkers.  The intrepid girls even become involved with Woodward and Bernstein (Will Farrell and Bruce McCulloch.)Dick is a cross between Clueless, Nixon, and Forrest Gump.  Like Nixon, it deals with the downfall of our nation's most notorious president.  But unlike that surprisingly sympathetic Oliver Stone opus, this movie, while a comedy, cuts the president no slack; the title says it all.  Similar to Clueless, the central characters are shallow, uninformed teeny-boppers who never-the-less possess insight and compassion for others.  And, like Forrest Gump, the stars of this film walk through history and make crucial contributions without ever realizing it.  Some of Dick's funniest passages come when Watergate secrets are finally revealed.  We learn what was on those 18 minutes of erased tape, for instance.  We even learn the identity of Deep Throat.  But the heart of the film lies in Arlene's infatuation with Nixon.  During school one day, she practices writing the name Mrs. Arlene Nixon!Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams are good in the lead roles.  They both manage the tricky task of being ditzy without inspiring contempt from the audience.  Dan Hedaya is strong as Nixon.  He wisely copies Nixon's general posture, mannerisms, and tone of voice, without resorting to a full-fledged impersonation.  Ditto for Saul Rubinek as Henry Kissinger.  However, I believe it was folly to cast so many Saturday Night Live alumni, including Will Farrell, Jim Breuer (as John Dean,) and Ana Gasteyer (as Rosemary Woods.)  In small roles, their campy overacting is nothing more than a distraction.  Dave Foley acquits himself nicely as Bob Haldeman.Despite its light tone and silly plot lines, Dick is a surprisingly scathing film.  Betsy and Arlene, basically representing innocent America, are devastated when they learn of Nixon's illegality, bigotry, smallness, and potty mouth.  Arlene's romantic image of the president is shattered.  So the girls conspire to expose Nixon's treachery and help remove him from office.  But despite their sobering lesson in the true nature of politics in Washington, they retain some naivete.  Watching Nixon's resignation speech, Betsy remarks, Well, they'll never lie to us again.  "},{"Title":"A great cast pokes fun at the Nixon administration","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great cast, including alums from SNL and Kids in the Hall spice up this story of two girls who find themselves hip-hugger-deep in the Watergate drama of the Nixon White House. Both Dunst and Williams are over-the-top as seemingly brainless teenagers constantly bumping into Foley's Halderman, Shearer's Liddy, and best of all, Hedaya's Nixon. It has a few Gump-ian moments where the girls will occasionally set something into motion that has historic consequences. And entering into the equation are Farrell's Woodward and McCullough's Bernstein who are almost buffoonish, especially Bernstein's hair. A lot-of-fun film with a great 70's soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Very good satire, yet a bit stupid.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was dead funny, but it got a little cheesy in the end. It was, however, VERY well filmed, and it starred some of the best actors and actresses in existence. The casting could not have been better, the script could have been a little sell moronic. The idea itself was genius and effervescent. Henry Kissenger and the Hello Dolly scene was probably the best scene, and the psychotic tangle that was worked up over time was extremely amusing. It was like SNL material.What I liked most is that each role was embellished and given just as much character and depth as the others, but the movie didn't seem stuffy and overbearing i.e., the two reporters. It was certainly believable, yet it was so obviously unreal. One problem was that for about 20 minutes, it seemed to get vague. But that was it's only flaw. "},{"Title":"You don't know Dick","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Today marks the 25th anniversary of the resignation of President Richard Nixon. This is also the opening week of Dick the first film to look at the Watergate scandal with a comedic slant. A good friend once gave me a quote which I think applies to perfectly to the film, Tragedy plus time equals comedy. I suppose it was only a matter of time before someone decided to make a comedy about one of the worst constitutional crisis the United States has ever faced. Thankfully, Dick is a beautifully written film which pulls big laughs from the situation without being trite or demeaning to the historical importance of the event.The film introduces us to two girls Betsy, and Arlene who find themselves unwittingly involved in the Watergate scandal. The girls end up being key players in the eventual resignation of President Nixon through a series of coincidences and missteps. Betsy, played by Kirsten Dunst, is the attractive dumb one. Arlene, played by Michelle Williams is the slightly less attractive slightly less dumb one. If the basic plot of Dick sounds contrived that's because it is. However this basic plot is executed very well, and the laughs in this film are the result of intelligent writing and excellent acting. One thing is for sure, I will never be able to listen to Hello Dolly again without thinking of Soviet Prime Minister Leonid Brezhnev.All the bigger players from the Nixon Administration are on hand for this film all played by classic character actors. Harry Shearer plays G. Gordon Liddy with the perfect combination of paranoia, while Saul Rubinek, who looks nothing like Kissenger, nonetheless gives a spot on performance as Kissenger with subtle mannerisms and that classic Kissenger celebrity craving. Of course the biggest kudos must go to Dan Hedaya who portrayed Nixon not as a caricature, but as a real man embroiled in a scandal he cannot stop no matter how hard he tries. I have always liked in Hedaya in almost anything he is in, I also used to think he was a one trick pony since he was so often cast in roles similar to his Nick Tortelli character from Cheers. Dick proves that the man has incredible range as an actor Hedaya's Nixon is the best portrayal of the man Hollywood has attempted. I believed I was really watching President Nixon talking to two 15 year old girls by the end of the first scene.Only two characters in Dick are played solely for laughs and funnily enough it is Woodward and Bernstein. Woodward is played by Will Ferrell of SNL fame. He is portrayed as a  self-absorbed jerk who is only interested in furthering his career off the Watergate scandal.  Bruce McCulloch from The Kids in The Hall plays Bernstein as a no-talent hanger on who desperately attaches himself to Woodward's coat-tails for a shot at the big Pulitzer roller coaster ride. Both men dislike each other intensely in this film, and it is played for excellent comic effect. This is not the Woodward and Bernstein we saw in All the President's Men, and quite frankly I enjoyed Ferrell and McCulloch's portrayal more than I did Redford and Hoffman's.One of the most remarkable aspects of Dick is how well the film incorporates actual historical events surrounding the Watergate fiasco into the film to help advance the plot. All the unanswered questions of Watergate are answered in the ingenious script by Andrew Flemming. Flemming also takes the helm and directs the film with a subtle touch, His recreation of famous film clips with his actors is incredibly realistic and at the same time tinged with a dark wit and classic political satire. I have not seen any of his previous work, but I believe Flemming will be one to watch in the future.This film will play well for most anyone who sees it, but people who have some previous knowledge of the Nixon administration and The Watergate affair will enjoy it much more. For real film/history buffs a repeat viewing of All the President's Men before watching Dick will heighten the experience tremendously. The word on the street is that Dick is getting killed at the box-office mainly because of all the big budget new releases which have come out in the last few weeks. This is a real shame since Dick is easily one of the funniest films of the year so far, and it seems that this brand of political humor is almost extinct from American Cinema.Overall score A  "},{"Title":"Who will get this way-nasty comedy?","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is a brilliant little satire that is likely to have little success in theaters, but may find an audience eventually on video.  The titular Dick is none other than Richard Nixon in this wicked comedy about the Watergate scandal.  Through a series of coincidences, two 15 year old girls find themselves working at the Nixon Whitehouse as dog walkers during the critical months of the scandal.  They discover the oval office taping system, feed pot-laced cookies to the president and end up providing critical information to the Washington Post about what they see.  Finally, we know the identity of Deep Throat! The tone of this movie is like a Saturday Night Live skit, but the boundless energy of actresses Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams keeps this film bubbling along pleasantly.  Dan Hedeya plays Nixon as the evil, paranoid Dick he was.  Funny stuff, but the intended teen audience may not get it. Unless you've seen All The President's Men and know at least a bit about Watergate forget it. Also worth a look for the cool 1973 fashions and music. "},{"Title":"If you know anything about Nixon, or even if you don't - see it!!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To those of use who have read All the President's Men, were alive during the Watergate scandal, or at least have some knowledge of the Nixon era, Dick is absolutely hilarious.  The movie takes on the same formula as Forrest Gump by cleverly having half-wits unknowingly change the course of history.  Dunst and Williams do an excellent job playing the two bumbling teenagers that unwittingly stumble in on every one of the corrupt on-goings of Nixon's Whitehouse.  How Nixon and the rest of the staff deals with them compromises the rest of the movie. Everyone who's anyone is portrayed in this movie from Haaldeman to Kissinger to Brezhnev to Woodward and Bernstein.But to those of you who don't know much about the Nixon era, don't be dissuaded from going.  Left to its own devices, the most is hilarious nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Consistently entertaining, but unaccountably weird","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Weird project seems to have little overt political intent - the use of so many SNL and B-grade comic faces reduces the landscape to a parade of buffoons, and the material too often tips over into sheer idiocy (the childish bickering of Woodward and Bernstein; Brezhnev and Kissinger singing Hello Dolly). All the more bizarre that it's such an apparent labour of love, digging up surely forgotten nuances and details and bits of Watergate mythology. The two girls are too generic a pair of airheads, but Hedaya nails Nixon almost ideally and seems to be acting in his own, much more subtly and blackly comic project. It's consistently entertaining, but has a pervasive superficiality - it doesn't really tap the glorious vein of absurdity that's surely inherent in the very premise. The goofy exuberance of the final few scenes, coupled with the apparently sincere vein of patriotic enthusiasm, suggests an irony that's not really evident anywhere else, and seals the impression of squandered potential. Still a fun movie, but occupying impossible territory. "},{"Title":"Let's face it, Bobby Sherman never was Dick.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The run-amok adolescence just keeps gushing from the moment they tear down their B.S. photos and put up Dick pics, right up until we discover the real reason for the 18 ½ minute gap in the tapes.  I didn't know whether to howl or barf;  no doubt, Nixon didn't know, either.I haven't seen either Kirsten Dunst or Michelle Williams in anything else but both should have bright futures on the screen - though, knowing the old cliché, one probably will while the other will end up on IMDB's Celebrity Lost & Found.And as for Dan Hadaya as Nixon - he puts in a touch of pathos amidst all the farce.  No mean feat.  But the more I watched him, the more I kept thinking of Bob Dole - hmmm .I thought the rest of the cast were good in their parts, given the limits they had in screen time (always more important in Hollywood than character development!)  Give Terry Garr credit, she hasn't gone in for L.A. plastic upkeep even if it would have done her some good.  I had the feeling Harry Shearer called dibs on the Liddy part when the phone calls went out.  And as for the pair of idiots playing Woodward and Bernstein as a pair of idiots . The movie struck me as written by SNL-type sketch-writers.  I've noticed that sketch-writers can come up with a good concept put have a hard time playing them out over a full-length feature, when they have to fill out the rest of it.  There were bits in this movie that had great humor or dramatic potential but weren't panned-out to the gold.  The laughs were scarcer in the second half of this picture; so was the character development.So, do I sound like a screenwriting student?I saw this with my sister who was at the age back then that the two lead characters are in Dick.  She said they looked like they were supposed to be 14 or 15 but the teeny-bopper giggling and gushing were those of 11- or 12-year-olds (they were 16 & 18 when they made this.)  Still, Dunst and Williams play the yuppie teen girls to perfection - perhaps better.  I found them charming; back then I found girls like these annoying.  Call it age, call it memory-tricks, call it time .After casting, the best thing they did with this movie was to shoot it on location in Washington to get the same atmosphere as All the President's Men.  It makes for the whole believability of the pic.One last note  I saw this on the Friday night it opened.  Later that night the History Channel ran AtPM.  I wasn't quite sure which one to believe.  "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie was pretty good. it took a while to get  going,but when it did,it was pretty good. but it wasn't  always entertaining. there was still some slow spots after it got going. some scenes were amusing. like the ones with the two washington post reporters. all in all pretty good. i give dick **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Dick is just too funny","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for a hilarious satire to see this summer, surely your best bet is to go see the roll-in-the-aisles funny Dick.Kirsten Dunst as Betsy and Michelle Williams as Arlene sparkle in their teenage parts. They are great playing clueless teenagers in the 60's, and the final scene with the flag and banner is not to be missed. Dunst and Williams remind me of a younger Romy and Michele, a little ditsy but with a heart of gold.The plot is really funny; Richard Nixon, nicknamed Dick by the girls, hires them as official White House dog walkers when they accidentally stumble upon the Watergate scandal. Things just get funnier and more twisted from there.. and everything in this movie wants to make you laugh out loud! I especially liked when Arlene and Betsy are in the roller derby and Arlene crashes into the pole. FREAK! is quickly uttered by a person skating by.The whole movie builds up to a great closing credits sequence, with the girls roller blading to Dancing Queen by ABBA!!!My review 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dick,Funny with some help!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick had me rolling in the aisle, but put my wife to sleep.  Then I figured out why?  I know alot about Nixon and the Watergate era.  US history being a hobby, I enjoyed the satiristic lampooning of those involved in Watergate, from Tricky Dick and G. Gordon Liddy, to lessor known figures like The Rat John Dean.  Even Woodward and Bernstein can't escape, with them being portrayed as idiots seeking fame and glory.  Even old Henry(Kissinger)is Lampooned.  There is also the great play on the mysterious Deepthroat. This movie will make you laugh, but get a history lesson before you go to really enjoy it!!    "},{"Title":"Inspired farce","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie invents a perfectly consistent, and perfectly insane, explanation for the major news stories of Nixon's second term. Even if you're too young to remember the real  stories and haven't learned them in school yet, you'll still love this movie.  Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams are wonderful as the two heroines.  If you ARE old enough to remember the Watergate era, you'll laugh yourself silly.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dick is a kick!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We really enjoyed this movie.  It's great fun.  It takes a true historical event and add a really cute twist.  It blew me away to see Carla's husband from Cheers TV as Richard Nixon (and a good one at that!)...and several other actors straight from the TV screen.  While one of the lead-in comments says it's for teenagers of all ages, it is really aimed (I think) at those of us who lived through Watergate.  I think younger people might miss much by not knowing the characters, but they may still have fun with the story. "},{"Title":"Priceless...An Absolute Treasure","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe I'm saying this, but let's hope this is only the first pairing for the comedy team of Dan Hedaya, Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams. Dick is one of the funniest films of the year, and this trio of stars shines every second of celluloid.As always, Hedaya (a hilarious yet lovable Dick Nixon) gives a top performance--grouchy, human and hilarious, even topping the blustering lawyer father he played opposite Alicia Silverstone in Clueless. Dan Hedaya in the cast is your assurance of a great evening at the movies. Take my word for it.Almost as wonderful are the comic antics of Kirsten and Michelle (I'm still hoping I will eventually have reason to call them by their first names on a regular basis) as ditzy, sexy historical giants. Kirsten plays the same horny/scheming/horny lass she was in the excellent film Strike!, although the 1970s fashions are a groovy new bonus. Winning my heart for the evening, though, was Dawson's Creek sweetie Michelle Williams, who plays a tenderhearted teenager with a jones for the Dickster.DO NOT MISS THIS FILM!! If you are in Bolivia, in jail or if your wife refuses to raise your allowance so you can afford a movie ticket, then you have an excuse. If not, and you miss Dick, you are a moron. Oh, and by the way--stay for the credits--the lollipop scene will heat up your summer! "},{"Title":"inventive, witty take on a turbulent time","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is the most clever political satire to come out in a long time (save Wag the Dog).  Smarter than the one man changes history take that was Forest Gump, Dick employs clever dialogue with hilarious and preposterous situations....that almost seem to make sense.  With almost the entire cast made out of members of Saturday Night Live and Kids in the Hall, Dick shines as a smart alternative to another teen comedy that opened this summer.  However, unlike American Pie, perhaps baby boomers and older will get more of a kick out of Dick than the intended teenage audience. "},{"Title":"It's a Hysterical, Historical, Red, White and Blue Farce!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best skewering of Washington and its grandiosity since Being There.  Here's what you need to know about this one See it.  Nixon gets off pretty easy.  Woodward and Bernstien get minced like onions.  Everyone obviously had a great time making this film.  And you will too.The best comedy of the summer, this leaves Drop Dead and Pie in its merry wake.PKL "}{"Title":"Now it can be told!!!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So, you thought you knew the truth about Watergate. You thought you knew the real reason for the erased tape and why Nixon and his men were brought down. You thought ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN had the real inside story. Think again!At last this film gives us the unvarnished, ugly, stinky-poo truth. This is a wonderful satire based on the historic events and spoofing ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN as well as all the skullduggery behind the uncovering of the cover-up. Dunst and Williams are delightful as the teens who stumble upon all of Nixon's stumbling. Hedaya is a riot as Tricky Dicky himself who, at least for a time in the film becomes -- believe it or not -- Sexy Dicky. See this one. It is hilarious! "},{"Title":"A red, white, and blue teen fantasy with lots of surprises...","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hysterical and historical, a blend of Romy and Michelle and Oliver Stone.  It bravely sets forth on its own very odd course and never wavers.  The result is a brilliant and likeable film, absolutely the best mass-market film comedy of the summer.  It leaves American Pie and Drop Dead Gorgeous in its merry wake, roller discoing it's way where no movie has yet dared to go.  Many, many laughs await the viewer, but none are more truly gratifying than the yuks which attend the skewering of those heroes of my generation, Mssrs. Woodward and Bernstein.  I deeply suspect that the real characters of these investigative reporters is and always has been closer to their portrayal here than in All the President's Men.  But it is this movie's sweet-natured way with Nixon himself that forms the comedic core of the story.This is truly an ensemble picture, and all performances are nuanced and fun to watch.  It does not take itself seriously, and is very funny right through the final credits.  Unlike other so-called major films this summer, this one really does deserve a chance to unfold in the viewer's conciousness, in the theatre. So I will not spoil the picture by supplying details.Go.  Forget the teen-pic slant, the political thing, the starlet-feature hesitation, and perish the question  Is this my kind of picture?It is.  It is your kind of picture because it is just plain funny.  Want to laugh?  Go.  You'll thank me. "},{"Title":"Tricky Dick Jokes & 70's Sentiment","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Aside from the omnipresent threat of yet another dick joke (they are doled out sparingly), DICK has much more in store for those too young to enjoy HAPPY DAYS and those too old to sit through TV's CLUELESS.  If your cup of tea is more Fox's THAT 70's SHOW, then DICK is for you!  A flawless script and production design never disappoint even when the jokes seem a bit thin (towards the very end).  Though chock full of faces from SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE to KIDS IN THE HALL, this is far from sketch comedy.  As in FORREST GUMP, gal heroines find themselves making history despite themselves.  Triumphant fade out is a hoot - and the best dick joke IS saved for last! "},{"Title":"a nice little comedy","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie, while set up as kind of a teen movie, is actually for us older fogeys.  Those of us who grew up when Watergate was happening, will enjoy the movie more, because we have a better understanding of the inside jokes.  Dan Hedeya as Dick was excellent, the two young ladies (Dunst and Williams) played the innocent scorned teens well.  An enjoyable evening if you're looking for some laughs.  If you are looking for a deep movie with a meaningful message, don't see this. "},{"Title":"Romey and Michelle meet Tricky Dick","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With everybody cashing in on the 70's lately and nostalgia, why stop now? Dick basically takes us down memory lane to the Nixon Administration and his antics. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams play 2 dizzy blondes who fall in love with Dick...and somehow manage to undermine him at the same time. Few laughs, teens will enjoy...Great Soundtrack....Go see Detroit Rock City..will the 70's never end?? "},{"Title":"Although Dan Hedaya as Nixon (and others) are great, there are really few laughs.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying I was 17 in 1972.   I grew up hanging out in Greenwich Village, and was more than aware and involved as a teen of that era.   Dan Heyada as Nixon is priceless.  So are Saul Rubinek as Kissinger and Harry Shearer as Liddy.   Others were also done well.  However, our stars, Betsy and Arlene (Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams, respectively) played their roles as if they were transported (like the space cadets they portrayed)  from Clueless in 1990's LA to Washington DC of 1972.  (at least Betsy's brother Larry played his role appropriately)  The laughs came mostly from seeing the actors imitating the historical characters.  Not from the lines.  (the laughs were few and far between in the audience) And there were at least six dick gags too many.   Was that the only joke the writers could write?  As a teenager of the era, I had really looked forward to this movie.   Afterwards, I was quite disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Funny and satisfying. Go see this movie!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  DICK was a funny movie that put a way different satiric slant on the whole Watergate/Nixon situation. Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst play their roles as teenage flower children to the T and leave you laughing at how true to life they are. Don Hedeya deserves an award for his role as Nixon, and the casting director could not have done a better job in casting the movie. DICK will probably go over the heads of anyone who is younger than 35-40; the teen-agers I saw in the row ahead of me were puzzled by all the sly in-jokes that only someone who lived through that era could understand. In all, I give it an A! "},{"Title":"great movie... nothing like it","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick was one of the wittiest comedies I have seen in a while. Although has a stereotypes of what teenage girls are like, it isn't insulting... it's roll-on-the-floor funny! I also love how it incorporates the Watergate scandal in with such a hilarious twist involving a couple of ditzy teens! If you like to laugh and/or like the 70's... this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Unlikely but giggle-worthy in tradition of CLUELESS","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Priceless comedy of teens invading the White House during Watergate--who would've though of girls with unlimited access to the Oval Office? Smart without being smug, this is good fun. "},{"Title":"Aimed at teens of today and yesterday, Dick is a wildly entertaining look at life love - and the Whitehouse.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Starring 'Dawson's Creek' beauty Michelle Williams, and Interview With A Vampire's Kirsten Dunst, 'Dick' chronicles the life of two ditzy blonde teens living under the Nixon administration.  Williams' character, Arlene, lives in the Whitewater building, and both she + Dunst's character fall in love with President Nixon. Soon after they develop this comical crush, they are designated Official White-House Dog-walkers! The misjudged girls take pride in their job and end up trying to pursue 'Dick' in the form of a wildly entertaining movie. 'Dick' is generated toward teens, however, those who were of that age during the Nixon administration can relate as well. If you like comedy, and like to have a good time- go see Dick, you'll leave the theatre laughing.  "}{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever!","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was the best movie ever!!!! I never stopped laughing, even after having seen it several times. I love both characters-Betsy & Arlene, but Arlene is my favorite of the two just because she's always made out to be the smart one, but ends up embarrassing herself several times in the movie.Favorite part of the movie & quotesNixon & staff are discussing Vietnam, then go on to argue about the Administration's foreign policy w/Betsy & Arlene (2 high school girls)ARLENE I have something to say. NIXON Go on Arlene... ARLENE War is not healthy for children & other living things. BETSY Yeah. NIXON Henry, that's the voice of the youth of America! KISSINGER Well, first of all, it wasn't a war that this administration started. HALDEMAN (as he leaves the room) Hey! You know, if you have a problem with Vietnam, talk to Johnson! "},{"Title":"Four score and seven years ago, our forefathers did something, I don't remember what.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DICK is a surprisingly fine comedy based on real events during President Nixon's final months as President, whom we fondly called Tricky Dickie. Those of us who remember those days vividly recall the Watergate scandal, the resignation of some of Nixon's close advises, and finally the resignation of Nixon himself over the Watergate break-in and especially the subsequent cover-up. All of that is fairly faithfully presented in this film. However, one of the remaining mysteries is the identity of deepthroat, the news informant that is credited with exposing the truth. This film takes a look at the fantasy supposition, what if everything was a result of two school girls bumbling into White House secret information?some SPOILERS follow, please read further only if you have already seen DICK.The whole film feels a lot like Forrest Gump, but with two teenage girls who on a tour of the Whitehouse see a man with paper on his shoe. Thinking it was TP, they call him down, the paper comes off, he doesn't notice it, they keep it as a White House souvenir, and it fact was a list of creeps (committee for re-election of president) to be paid off for keeping Watergate quiet. Through bumbling, the president gives them the job of dog walker and, after they bumble into a paper-shredding operation, he tells them they are secret teen advises and, to keep them quiet, they must not mention anything that they see at the White House.Of course, they eventually swipe some tapes, give a transcription to reporters, and soon after Nixon resigns. During their visits to the President they are credited with his pulling troops out of Viet Nam and, with some MJ-laced Hello Dolly cookies to the Russian president, ward off a global nuclear war. They even become responsible for the infamous 17 1/2 minute gap on one tape, a love message one teen left for Dick, and he erased in embarrassment. And, in this fantasy script, the two of them are the deep throat informant that has never been revealed.The DVD is nice, with a few extras. Dan Hedaya as Nixon was just perfect, the right blend of seriousness and humor. The girls were fine but their roles could have been played by almost any young actresses.Overall, a much better movie than it had rights to be, a result of excellent writing and direction. "},{"Title":"Absolutely GREAT!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I agree with some others that those to young to remember might miss it all.But a great parody of one of the biggest events of the century.I avoided it for a long time, as I was sick of Nixon movies. But after a friend loaned me a copy, this has become one of my favorites.If your 4ish+ you will love it, if you are too young, watch it with Mom & Dad so they can explain everything.Yeah, they don't look the right age, and there is a lot of silly stuff, that makes it more fun.Who knows, maybe it's true.Sing Hello Dolly with the guys!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, if your in the right mood","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brilliant film about two fifteen year olds who become dog walkers for president Nixon. The humour makes it a very girly film, and you have to appreciate that to find it funny.But its well worth seeing it especially if you're supposed to be revising for history of that decade!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh My Goodness!!!!! Kristen and Michelle are so funny together, Its nice to think of deepthroat as young girls instead of some old yucky man!!!! The cast couldn't of been chosen any better!!!! This has to be one of the funniest movies of all time? "},{"Title":"Kirsten Dunst & Michelle Williams are the best duo since Laurel and Hardy!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the first time I'd seen Michelle Williams in a film, but Kirsten Dunst is by far my new favorite female lead, and in DICK, she and Michelle are absolutely hysterical! I bought the DVD as soon as I saw it on Cable and have watched it 4 or 5 times since then. It's a hoot!!!!! I'd give it 15 stars if IMdb would let me!!! "},{"Title":"As a gen x'er...","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie ruled.  I've read about Watergate, learned about it in school... and I feel that I'm rather well informed about American history.  And as someone who didn't live through the scandal, I found the movie was easy to follow and VERY cleverly written.  Smart humor, as I call it... someone not as well informed would not enjoy it, is that I mean.Anyhow, that's all!  Thanks for reading my first quick review. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I could watch this movie many times in a row and never get sick of it. It was absolutely hilarious! 94 minutes of pure fun! Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams play two 15-year-old girls who become involved with the Watergate Scandal, and become the official White House dog walkers and the Secret Youth Advisers to President Nixon, whom insists upon the girls calling him Dick. Kirsten and Michelle are fantastic! It looks like he's wearing blush!, A creep list! I guess all of the people on this list must be creeps!. Dan Hedaya was also excellent as Tricky Dick. Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch were hysterical as Woodward and Bernstein, reporters at the Washington Post who try to get info from the girls-- Deep Throat!!!. This film is endlessly funny! I'm sure anyone will enjoy it. Betsy's brother in the film was also very funny as the tripped-out stoner guy--My stash!. And the Hello Dolly cookies! Oh I could go on and on, just rent the movie and see for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Watergate, Anyone?","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Dick' is a movie that is funnier than its previews would leave you to believe, but not as funny as it could be.The premise is silly yet appealing.  Two 15-year old girls (played by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams) bungle their way into the White House, talk Richard Nixon into ending the Vietnam War, and then become the mysterious Deep Throat informants who bring down the Nixon administration after the Watergate break-in.  But the girls are not only dumb, they're annoying.  And the filmmakers can't decide how to cast the film.  Veteran character actor Dan Hedaya turns in a wonderful performance as Nixon--perhaps the most dead-on portrayal of the president we've yet seen (surpassing even Anthony Hopkins' impersonation in Oliver Stone's `Nixon').  The reason is that he plays Nixon relatively straight.  We sense Nixon's nastiness, insecurity and vulnerability all at the same time.The rest of the key roles are played by sketch comedians such as Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch as a forever bickering Woodward and Bernstein, Dave Foley as Bob Haldeman, Jim Breur as John Dean and Harry Shearer as G. Gordon Liddy.  Unlike Hedaya, they play their roles for laughs, and as a result we never believe that these are the characters they are portraying, as we do with Hedaya.  There are some inspired scenes, however, such as the explanation for the 18-minute gap in the conversation recorded by Nixon secretary Rosemary Woods and the girls being shadowed by a van with the words `Plumbers' on the side.  But these are more than offset by the endless `I love Dick' jokes, and other puns involving the phallic name.  One of these goes a long way.The real issue is what is the audience for this film?   Only people over 45 years of age remember Watergate, and most of those have moved well beyond that incident.  This movie might have been move successful 20 years ago.  It isn't now.  "},{"Title":"They're called Hello Dollies!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was a tad surprised when I saw this movie on Entertainment Weekly's 10 Best Films of 99 list.  Then I saw the movie and realized how incredibly funny it is.  Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst are genius at playing 15-year-old girls.  They seem so true and also so funny.  One of the best moments is when Arlene (Williams) accidentally swears and the two girls shock themselves and start giggling.  Dan Hedaya is priceless as Nixon, just the way he talks is hilarious.  I wasn't around for the real Watergate so it doesn't hold any nostalgia for me but it is still charming and hilarious. "}{"Title":"Charming, Intelligent, Funny--But A Quarter Century Too Late","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is a very clever comedy that proved to be too unusual for the studio to market to the masses. They tried to market it as an Austin Powers-type slapstick-goofball comedy. That's not what it is, however, and the movie-going public was understandably befuddled once the finished product was put before them.Dick is a well-written, well-acted, intelligent re-examination of the now-legendary events that brought down the Nixon administration in the early 70's. It's a what if story that speculates that all the loose ends of the Watergate scandal were the result of the unwitting involvement of a pair of dimwitted teenage girls. As much as it is a work of comedic speculation, however, Dick is also a goofy ultralightweight comedy in the style of Disney's live action movies from that same era (like Superdad and Million Dollar Duck). Could you ask for a odder mixture than that?Dick is a unique movie searching desperately for an audience. Really, who was it made for? Is it for the teens that know the young stars from TV and love wacky humor? Of course not. You have to remember Watergate to understand the clever mechanics of the what if plot. And what teen of the new millenium remembers anything about Watergate?Is it for the now-middle aged crowd for whom Watergate is still a vivid memory? The 45+ crowd isn't really the target audience for jokey movies with lame-brained teenagers as lead characters (unless you're talking porno).If only Dick had been made 25 years ago, when these demographic groups were one in the same, it would have been one of the most subversive comedies in film history.  "},{"Title":"witty sendup of Watergate","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the cleverest scenes in Forrest Gump involved Forrest gazing out of a Washington D.C. hotel room and calling the police to report some suspicious activity in a building across the street, thereby inadvertently setting into motion a series of events which would end up with the downfall of an American president.  The makers of Dick, a new comedy timed to celebrate the 25-year anniversary of Nixon's resignation, have expanded this concept to a full length feature film, envisioning the mysterious Deep Throat as two blithely addled teenage girls who manage to be at the root of each and every one of the major events that would eventually make up the scandal known as Watergate.  The film, in fact, emerges as a clever, lighthearted and likable mixture of Clueless, All the President's Men and The World of Henry Orient.  Our two illustrious heroines sneak out one fateful night of the Watergate apartment in which one of them lives to mail off a fan letter to '70's teen idol Bobby Sherman at the exact same moment as Nixon's henchmen are burglarizing the Democratic National Headquarters.  Through a loopy series of absurd misunderstandings, the girls eventually befriend Nixon himself, walking his dog periodically and inadvertently supplying him and the entire white house staff with marijuana-laced cookies.  As the story progresses, these befuddled youngsters, more interested in shopping than political drama, come to learn of the many layers of deceit occurring right under their noses and somehow blunder their way into exposing the greatest political scandal in the history of the nation.  The film succeeds on three levels as a scathingly funny survey of the paraphenalia and mores of the 1970's, as a witty takeoff on the scatterbrained nature of teenage girlhood, and, most impressively, as a clever parody of the many characters who inhabited the Nixon White House and the offices of the investigative Washington Post.  The most sharply drawn caricatures are Henry Kissinger, ludicrously justifying his foreign policy decisions to two utterly uninformed and uninterested young ladies, and Carl Bernstein, more concerned with his blow-dried hair and not being scooped by Woodward than with the gravity of the scandal they're uncovering.  Though brilliantly portrayed, the Nixon caricature is less effective.  The main problem is that he comes across as a rather likable buffoon, particularly in his affection for the young ladies, so that, when he begins to utter anti-semitic and obviously duplicitous statements, he seems to jump too far out of character.  The girls seem to be able to believe and accept this turnabout much more easily than we can.  Nevertheless, the high energy script and performances make Dick a fun, albeit skewed, history lesson for both those who lived through the events and those for whom the title has even more sinister implications. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt the cleverest film I have seen all year.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For those of you old enough to remember the Watergate scandal and how it brought down the Nixon presidency (he resigned in disgrace), you will be very surprised to learn that the whole scandal was brought to light by two 15 year old airhead teenyboppers. And they were directly responsible for bringing down the whole Nixon presidency.At least that's the story told in the movie Dick. And it is a very clever and entertaining story and can be enjoyed even by those who aren't old enough to remember the original scandal.The two lead actresses are Kirsten Dunst (Interview With The Vampire) and Michelle Williams (Dawson's Creek), two really outstanding actresses who both do a terrific job. They also have great wardrobes and you never see them in the same outfits twice....most of which are retro sixties stuff. Bright plaids and prints with headbands, capri pants, platform shoes....the works. And then the music is all the hits from that era....I had forgotten how many good tunes there were back then.Anyway....I recommend Dick very, very highly. I see over 70 movies a year and I liked this one as well or better than anything else I have seen in quite a while.  "},{"Title":"An elongated sketch...","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Failed attempt to turn the Richard Nixon/Watergate years into a quirky comic satire. Two teenage girls in 1972 (Kirsten Dunst, Michelle Williams) are befriended by the President (Dan Hedaya, acting the good sport) and become his official dog-walkers, but soon they learn their hero is up to no good. Nothing much more than an overstretched sketch, with sketch-like performances, might've been funnier broken up into acts and run on Saturday Night Live (although it's no longer so topical). Silly material actually asks us at some point to start taking it seriously (!) which really damages the slapstick end of it. The production design is colorful and there are some scattered laughs, but overall it's more cheapjack than cheeky. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Remember MAD magazine and Mel Brooks' movies?","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must admit, this is the funniest movie I have seen for a long time. Everyone who grew up with MAD magazine and Mel Brooks' movies will like this. It is pure, sophisticated parody, laced with nostalgia. They drew the material for Dick less from the real events (the Watergate scandal) than from the movie All The President's Men. This becomes evident right from the start A mechanical type writer pounds loudly away. I suppose the Woodward and Bernstein characters were less derived from the real characters than from Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman playing them. The script is very good, the performances formidable. Michelle Williams and Kirsten Dunst do an admirable job they play cute, lovable teenagers with just the right mixture between fooling around and being serious. They are not just clowns, but credible personalities. Dan Hedaya in the role of Nixon is a heavier kind of parody, but equally funny and memorable He plays a head of state who is truly tormented and hardly finds peace. Even at night he is plagued (by his wife's snoring). Watch for the highlight &#150; a dream sequence in which one of the teenager's romantic love for the president finds ample expression.  "},{"Title":"Amusing and harmless","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was not even born when the Watergate Scandal occurred, so I can't directly relate to the political satire conveyed in the film.  Many who were around claim the satire is dead-on and hilarious, though it seemed a little too low-brow and exaggerated at times.  Again, I wasn't around during that time period.  Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams play dumb blondes, a stereotype that has been done to death in cinema.  I have to admit, I'm a bit tired of it and think the joke has run dry, but that didn't exactly ruin the film, in my mind.  Also, I felt Saul Rubinek's Russian accent was very unconvincing and drifted heavily.On a positive note, I did laugh.  This film worked for me, for some reason.  I guess it's because the gags, though some fell flat, were never over the top.  I thought the bit about the marijuana in the cookies was quite funny.  Dick is not laugh-out-loud hilarious, but it delivers.I can't say I had an immense knowledge of the Watergate incident after watching this movie, but I don't think it was meant to be a biting satire.  It seemed to be more of an SNL sketch version of the scandal.  That explains appearances by SNL regulars/alumni, including Will Ferrell and Jim Breuer.  And the seventies atmosphere was emphasized--often too much.  At times the characters seemed more like they were going to a seventies theme party than they were actually in the seventies.  Dick is not a great movie, but it makes good entertainment.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"They're All Clueless","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick has a very clever premise, that President Nixon's exposure and downfall were the result of two ditzy teenage girls (played by Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams) living at the Watergate complex. After having inadvertently witnessed the Watergate burglary, the young ladies are identified by G. Gordon Liddy during a high school White House tour and are hired as dog walkers in order to be kept under surveillance. While at the White House they learn all about the dirty tricks and their cover-up. To blow the lid on White House misdeeds the two become the Deep Throat and rat out Dick to Woodward and Bernstein. Dick should have been a better movie than it is. Its first problem is over-reaching in its story and characters. It should have been more focused, relying on fewer events and characters. Event as a fantasy, it's too much of a stretch to believe that the girls were responsible for every White House event between 1972 and 1974. And, other than the two girls, the characters are too broadly drawn, and drawn as cartoons. They're unbelievable.  The second problem is that the humor should be more biting and penetrating. Dick plays too much like a 90-minute Saturday Night Live skit, not political satire. For these reasons Dick is still a cute little movie, but just an average one.  "},{"Title":"You Suck, Dick! (minor spoilers)","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dick is the hilarious, historically inaccurate film that reveals the identity of deep throat two haphazardous teenage halfwits who got a job as Dick Nixon's dog walker and stumbled onto an abuse of Presidential power.The movie starts out a lot like The Brady Bunch movie, where Larry Ditmeyer is talking to his boss about the Bradys not wanting to sell their house. The boss asks, What's their story? And then, they cut to the Brady theme song and introduce the horribly and hilariously goodie family.This film has a similar introduction. A Larry King-like interviewer is asking Woodward and Bernstein about Deep Throat, the informant for their Washington Post coverage of Watergate that brought down the Nixon administration. The interviewer jokes that Deep Throat doesn't exist. Soon enough, we're introduced to the Deep Throat--two clueless teenaged girls who just happened to be at the right place at the right time, though they had no idea about the repercussions and severity of what they were about to embark upon. Arlene Lorenzo (Michelle Williams) lived in the Watergate building with her mother. One evening--the same evening in which Nixon's crew busted into the Democratic headquarters--the girls (Kiersten Dunst plays her best friend, Betsy) were heading out of the building to mail a magazine contest entry. They ran into Nixon's henchmen. Though, they misunderstood that these men with flashlights in the stairwells were just security who were after them for leaving the building. They had yet to realize--if ever--what it really was. While on a school fieldtrip to the White House, Bob Haldeman (Dave Foley) recognizes the girls and invites them on a quick tour. More importantly, he just wants to talk to them. On the way, they actually open a door to guys shredding papers and exchanging large suitcases of cash in the West Wing. To thwart their attention from any wrong doing the girl's have witnessed (even though they hadn't a clue that anything was going on), Nixon gives the girls the job as his official dog walker. They're thrilled. Thinking that Nixon actually cares about what they have to say, they make some anti-war comments to him (war is bad for children and other living things) amidst the years of that disgusting Vietnam War. He even goes so far as to delude them with the title of Secret Teen Advisors. Despite Nixon's attempt to alleviate as to what he sees as two girls who know too much, no one takes them seriously. It is their unfettered access to the White House that provides them with all the information that they, as Deep Throat (which started as a prank call), would provide the inept journalistic duo, Woodward and Bernstien. They pick up a paper caught on the bottom of John Dean's shoe that was the Creeps list, identifying the perpetrators. They found Nixon's recordings (which also makes fun of the case of U.S. v. Nixon, in which Nixon didn't want to release the tapes--here they justify his refusal because Arlene records a love song for Nixon). Eventually, everything they find becomes the incriminating evidence against Nixon and his administration. (Halderman, while at home, even opens his brief case while talking on the phone and says, I have some very incriminating evidence here I'll read to you).I especially like the scene where the van is following Arlene and Betsy from school. Betsy says,  that van has been behind us since we left school. Don't look. Arlene says, I have to look. And when she does, the van speeds away. The writers took a historical moment (Watergate) and added a hilarious explanation for the unknown variables--that of the identity of Deep Throat and how the informant(s) got his information. This is one incredibly funny movie that pokes fun at everything. Woodward and Bernstien (Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch), history's journalistic heroes, are made to look like total buffoons. Especially, Bernstien, who is made to look like he just tried to hound in on Woodward's investigation, which only arose out of a prank call. Nixon, Brezhnev, and Kissinger, all get together to sing Hello Dolly after getting high on some Hello Dolly cookies that the girls made famous (no one knew the recipe). Nixon is made to look like a total loser as he tries to relate to the girls (he doesn't recognize the peace sign Betsy flashes him). There's so many hilarious things here that makes fun of the entire pivotal moment of Presidential history. Once again, Kiersten Dunst, proves to be damn good in stupid comedies like these. (See her previous performance in the beauty pageant mockumentary, Drop Dead Gorgeous). Plus, she was a perfect duo with equally clueless Michelle Williams. I highly recommend seeing it. And, if you're in the mood for parodies of history, check out The Company Man, a parody of The Bay of Pigs Invasions. Although, it is not nearly as funny as this. "},{"Title":"Bunch of good actors making fool of themselves","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why I rent those sorts of films, I never seem to like them.  Here they try to create some funny explanations as to the Watergate/Nixon scandal and the mysterious Deep Throat identity.  I read somewhere that the film might have been better if everyone would have been serious/more real, while keeping the two girls being the only idiots.  That might have been better, as here everyone is just so idiotic and stupid that you just get bored of the whole thing.  Most of the extras here are great actors, and I just can't understand what made them want to be part of this fiasco.  The humor is only about stupidity, with close to no wit or funny parts at all.  I think Hollywood should leave it up to the Brits to make fun of the government as they really know how to do it.  Coming from Hollywood it lacks everything, and what is left standing is just another fast scripted, simple minded, under the average popcorn comedy.  Do yourself a favor and just miss it!  3/10 "},{"Title":"Not Funny","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Quite a waste of talent here. Dunst/Williams really sparkle as they two ditzy girls. If only the business types could have been kept away. They probably wanted everyone to be funny. Nixon HAS to be funny, Kissinger HAS to be funny. Etc. Thinking about profit ratios or something I expect. Had someone with movie making skill been in charge they would have kept the rest serious and let the 2 leads stand out as the funny part. Well that's Comedy 101, and a pity that no one in the 90's or 100's seems to have taken the course. Dumbed down movie for dumbed down times. "}{"Title":"A dull 3 rating.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie wasn't complete trash, but at the same time it just wasn't going anywhere for me. Kirston dunst and Michelle Williams I found to be cute and entertaining. However, even their on screen presence could'nt help out this movie.I turned this movie off after watching it for 45 minutes. The movie was semi-cute, but after 45 minutes it was just dragging on to long for me. "},{"Title":"A limp film. Could it have possibly been WORSE?","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In all my years of film-going, only once have I walked out on a film, and that was the dreadful Stay Tuned.  Fortunately, the cinema refunded the ticket and I went to see Buffy the Vampire Slayer instead (a minor improvement).  That film is Gone With the Wind compared to Dick, a comedy so unfunny that it nearly became the second film I ever walked out of.  Dick was so unfunny it was even impossible to laugh AT it, let alone laugh with it.Granted, paying to see a movie with a title like Dick suggests that it will be filled with inane dick jokes and wind up a huge letdown, and yet I had high hopes because of the notable cast (Daniel Hedaya, Bruce McCullough, Dave Foley, Kristen Dunst, etc., etc.) and a premise that at least promised something fresh.  What the film delivered was, as portended, four woefully predictable dick jokes, comic timing suffering from jetlag, and a premise that wore thin after the first five minutes.  In short, it was the Watergate scene from Forrest Gump stretched--nay, laid on a rack and mangled--over 90+ excruciating minutes.As soon as you understand that the two main characters--airless, insipid squealers who gasp and roll eyeballs incessantly--will participate in every major Watergate event, you begin to mentally check off the plot as it progresses 18 and a half minutes erased from the Nixon tapes, CHECK; the Deep Throat meetings with Woodward and Bernstein, CHECK; John Dean getting a change of heart and testifying, CHECK.  The process drags out more languidly and about as engaging as the real Watergate affair with about as much laugh-getting to boot.  And though it posits to be an amusing re-deconstruction of the events leading to President Nixon's resignation, it turns into a paint-by-the-numbers, choose-your-own-adventure, fill-in-the-blanks comedy that says very little and entertains even less.Even the film's strong point--the aforementioned cast--is bewilderingly unproductive here.  The most disappointing of all is Harry Shearer as G. Gordon Liddy.  Trapped as he is behind the thick Liddy moustache and strait-jacketed in this numbingly morose screenplay, Shearer mumbles a few lines, tries desperately to leer from behind the prosthetic nose and eyebrows, then disappears.  Dave Foley, one of the comic masterminds from Kids in the Hall (two others, Bruce McCullough and Mark McKinney also appear in this film--ah, the blessings of nepotism) fares badly as well.  His H.R. Haldeman occasionally lends a much-need lightening of the funeral plot, but the funniest thing about him is the buzz-cut he sports--perhaps the films funniest bit of all.  And then there's Daniel Hedaya as Richard Nixon--oops, I mean Dick.  (Ha ha how amusingly funny.)  He manages to play a solid Nixon, avoiding the pitfalls (such as overdone make up, rubbery nose and false teeth a la Anthony Hopkins) while preserving the essence (the vacillations between human tenderness and coarseness).  I seem to be forgetting someone . . . oh yes, the two stars of the film, those over-bubbly teenagers.  Can't remember their names, perhaps because I have repressed their performances.  Nothing could be farther from funny; nothing could be more painful than having to endure their deliverly that ran the gamut of hyperactive and super-hyperactive with an occasional pouty tossed in.This film seemed to be a bad excuse to string together a 70s soundtrack and parade outrageous period clothing, both of which seem to be the norm these days for films and TV shows set in the  Me Decade.  But the clothes and the music wind up being an ersatz substitute for true characterization and plot, a kind of extra-plot shorthand that the producers hope will compensate for anemic writing.The only possible use for this film is years down the road when any one of its talented cast appears on David Letterman or Conan O'Brien.  This dreadful cinematic excretion will be dragged out to embarrass and hopefully humble the stunned guest star.  The sad thing is that the real bad guys in all this--the writers and producers--will be far from the cameras gaze, possibly cooking up another disaster such as this. "},{"Title":"Simply not funny","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick, despite a fun performance by Dan Hedaya as the title character and a spot on turn by Saul Rubinek as Henry Kissinger, plays like an unfunny Saturday Night Live sketch.  Yes, that is indeed damning with faint praise. Woodward and Bernstein are played like a pair of bitchy drama queens. I'm also REALLY tired of movies that paint the 70s in such candy coated hues...any one who lived through the decade knows they were drab and depressing as hell.  "},{"Title":"You might suck, Tricky Dick. But this movie rocks!!!","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie from 1999, is nothing short of amazing.Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams star as 15-year old Betsy Jobs and Arleene Lorenzo, very sweet, naive girls but really not that bright at first glance.They happen to witness the infamous events at Watergate and to secure their silence, President Nixon (Dan Hedaya) hires them as the Official White Hose dog walkers, which they appreciate so much they give the President special cookies, more special than they know. This grants them almost unrestricted access to the White House and they see the scandal unfold from the inside.When the Administration learns that they know too much they try to get rid of them, but they want to tell everything they have seen to Woodward and Bernstein before the White House get to them.The movie has a talented cats full of comedians, yet Dunst and Williams manage to be the greatest and funniest characters in this assemble. Their characters are so sweet you can't help but fall for them. And the film in general is so funny and entertaining and with a little more real events that you would think a parody could ever have. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DickThe White House would make an excellent setting for a porno, with all of its dick-heads, pussies and assholes.Unfortunately, the Deep Throat in this comedy is really a whistleblower.On the White House tour, Betsy (Kirsten Dunst) and Arlene (Michelle Williams) are whisked away by G. Gordon Liddy (Harry Shearer) and interrogated on their accidental involvement in Watergate.Dumb but dangerous, President Nixon (Dan Hedaya) appoints them White House dog-walkers.Around the oval office, however, they continue to unknowingly influence the course of history.When dismissed from office, they decide to tell-all to Woodward (Will Ferrell) and Bernstein (Bruce McCulloch), under an assumed name inspired by a blue movie.A witty re-imagining of the Watergate scandal, Dick has enough history to be educational and enough laughs to make history tolerable.Incidentally, the only ones having sex in the White House during Nixon's reign was Checkers and Spiro Agnew's leg.Green Light vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Cheesy and Innocent ...","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was 'OK'. It's a comedy that's light, innocent and goofy. It's filled with the music and bright style of the early 1970s. Every character is essentially a goof/clown. While this works OK in the beginning, it's a little excessive as the movie progresses.The film is about two 15 year old girls who stumble into the audience of President Nixon around the time of Watergate. They walk his dog, give him advice, make him cookies and more. But they also see things they shouldn't. That gets them tangled up with Woodward and Bernstein and more.This movie sounds more interesting than was. The two lead characters are kind of ditzy and over-acted. After a while, it is difficult to watch them because they are always giggling excessively and saying nothing intelligible. They just stumble into one thing after another.On the plus side, Nixon and Kissinger were fun to watch. The visuals and sounds of 1970s were also pleasant. The whole tone of the movie was a goofy kind of innocence - which is nice if you're looking for a change from serious dramas.Even given though the movie has it's plus points, it's nice, but not quite recommendable. "},{"Title":"Fun, but dated","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DICK is enjoyable, though it might have been more fun to see before Deep Throat revealed himself as W. Mark Felt instead of two women who had been teenagers at the time. Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams convey the frenetic energy of fannish teenagers before the disillusioning of the American public, and a cast drawn from the comedic stars of the day give the film loads of surprises. Still, it is disturbing to watch a 15-year-old girl fawning over Richard Nixon as Michelle Williams must do for the story to have its weight. I enjoyed how the various mysteries of Watergate were explained by the two teenagers' behavior, and the costuming, makeup, and hair crew worked miracles turning some of those comedic actors into their historical counterparts. Saul Rubinek is a creepily uncanny Kissinger. "},{"Title":"Nixon and the girls.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Want to rewrite history?  Make a movie with the many faces of Watergate and see what happens.  There is an unbelievable amount of talent in this movie.  There were several funny scenes including the first time for walking the President's dog.  The movie was just not funny enough.  I might watch it again on cable if it is the only thing on and I'm too lazy to pop in a DVD.  Just an average movie that would have done better if the deleted scenes had been put back in, if Terri Garr had a more memorable roll in the hay with the pretty boy from Married with Children.  The reporters are the best part of the movie.  They are truly NUTS.  But that's Will Ferrell and the guy from Kids in the Hall for ya.  Ending was above average but ya gotta make me laugh more folks.  The movie is a 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Good Idea / Good Cast / Lousy Script.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a waste of a great idea and great cast - all the leads give cracking performances and the concept of two ditzy teens getting muddled up with Tricky Dicky's Watergate Scandal is a novel one. However, in order to keep the movie mainstream and dumb enough the poor players are put through a load of lame gags and uninspired set pieces - the level of the humour is way below the 12 certificate the film carries.It's unlikely that the audience this movie is suited to would know the name of current US president, nevermind the complexities of the bungled Watergate break-in! "},{"Title":"Giggly puberty","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Deliciously irreverent satire about two frankly very, very silly girls who sorta kinda happen upon the American president, happen upon Watergate, and almost, but never quite, grow up while doing it. Dialogue is outrageously crotch-oriented, as suggested by the movie title, and the two girls are simply as amazing a portrait of giggly American cheerleader puberty as is to be found anywhere on celluloid. "}{"Title":"Average","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really don't know what to think about Dick. I mean, the idea is very funny and I guess it's fun to see two Kids in the Hall-members in the same film, but it seems to me that the film isn't successful. It's certainly not a bad film, but for being a comedy the really funny scenes are few and far apart. Could have been much better given the premise. However, as a Swede it was fun to hear two classic Swedish songs from the 70s in the film Hooked on a Feeling with Blue Swede and Dancing Queen with ABBA. But like I said; the film is funny at times, but not nearly enough to be a good comedy. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Could've Been Great","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  DICK   * * 1/2    Lazy screenplay eventually sinks this semi-entertaining comedy about two airhead teenage girls who get themselves wrapped up with Nixon and the Watergate scandal.  Could've been really good with a more inspired screenplay.  "},{"Title":"worst than I thought","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie was cool, cause it has an excellent cast, but it was a sally comedy. it isn´t bad, but i didn´t like it very much, i think that the kids about 12 years old will enjoy it its about two 15 years girls in years 1973, who are very silly and the plot isn´t very interessant, it´s all about the president Nixon, the war, and the Watergate problem... it´s boring and more boring if you are not from the U.S.A, like me. I recommend you the see this movie only if you have not another better movie to watch. I rated it with a 6 (of 10) "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Bad very bad movie","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had to be one of the worst films I've seen in quite a while. I think I cracked a smile once or twice during the entire proceeding. It was poorly acted and totally historically inaccurate. I realize a movie based on historical events will take liberties with the truth, especailly comedies. But this movie bares very little resembalence to the truth. For those who wish to know the truth about the whole Watergate scandal (not the fictionalized version that Woodward and Bernstein foisted upon an unsuspecting public) read the book, Silent Coup-Removal of a President. It's the most researched book on the subject ever. This movie was not only unfunny but it got really mean-spirited about half way through. Every copy of this video should be gathered up and taken to an empty lot and burned and then the ground should be tilled until no remnant of this aweful movie can be seen and the earth on that spot should be salted so nothing will ever grow there again. "},{"Title":"I started out skeptical, but it grows on you. Delightful!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I notice that the young seem to like this movie more than the old-timers, which really surprises but also pleases me. I guess my over-50 peers have lost their sense of humor, or prefer to obsess over their stock portfolios and forget that they once cared about politics. I'm a political science professor--and I'd love to show this movie to my classes. It's a wonderful and clever parody on Watergate that should not be missed--especially if you want to know what really happened to those 18 1/2 missing minutes of tape! Relax and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Will Ferrell = Funny","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, for the most part.  But the reason I'm taking the time to comment on it, is because of Will Ferrell.  As one of the Washington Post reporters, he is absolutely hilarious. He makes nearly every line he speaks his own, in a rhythm and tone of voice that cracks me up each and every time. He doesn't have a whole lot screen time in Dick, but this movie is a must see just for his performance.    As for the film itself, I knew enough about Watergate to get the majority of the jokes, but being under 30, I know there were a lot of jokes I probably missed out on.  Still, the film flew by, with lots of great character performances, and some great bits of humor (though there were far too many dick jokes, so after awhile those got old).  The rest was enjoyable, if light, and i'd recommend it for a good laugh... "},{"Title":"Grist for Watergate freaks, funny enough, but could be better","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For a dyed in the wool Nixon hater like me,  Dick is the first cinematic drink of water since Oliver Stone's oddity. The characterizations are wonderfully recognizable. I especially loved the portrayal of Woodward and Bernstein as sanctimonious and just a bit hypocritical in their pursuit of the Trickster. The idea of the film, the undoing of Nixon by two teenage airheads, is wonderful; it just could have been funnier, not nastier, not better acted, just funnier.     "},{"Title":"Beware!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite some positive reviews (i.e.,N.Y. Times) beware. I saw it in a theater full of giggling adolescents girls. The idea is great, but, unfortunately, has a b picture feel. Poor direction,photography, sets, costumes, sceenplay. Maybe I'm too old.The only mildly redeeming attribute was the cheesy 70's score.       "},{"Title":"Over-praised","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick was over-praised by the critics.  It was cute, not hilarious.  The last shot of the movie, though, is very bothersome. Out of place and more perverse than anything in Lolita.  How the shot stayed in a PG-13 movie makes the MPAA more mind-boggling.  "},{"Title":"Impeach the Filmmakers!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brilliant concept largely squandered by incompetent directing and editing, inept writing, horrible miscasting, and lots of extremely extremely unfunny acting. Dick could be used to teach people how not to make movies.The casting is liberally poisoned by SNL refugees like Farrel who rehash the same schtick long ago worn out on television and play everything over the top, mugging endlessly over things that aren't funny or clever in the least. The dopey guy from 2 guys & a girl is more wooden than Al Gore and less amusing. The druggie brother could have been really funny, but sucks all the energy out of his scenes.The two leads and Nixon and Kissinger give the movie what life it does have, but the rest of the cast torpedos the premise. The approaches the other actors have to the material are so widely scattershot that the director must never have communicated any actual direction to them, like the director just set out to record the actors reciting the script and never gave any thought beyond the dialogue to the movie at all. The two girls randomly overreact or underreact with no logic, some big emotional scenes are nearly flat, some minor moments are overplayed. The whole tone of the movie is similarly uneven.The awkward writing takes forever laboring to set up jokes, stumbling massively over the least bit of exposition or character establishment or plot point so that the audience is waiting for the jokes, and usually knows what they are, rather than being surprised by them.The film editing seems to have been performed by somebody with narcolepsy. (Very Minor Spoilers follow). Look at the victory montage near the end of the picture. Woodward and Berstein walk, in very slow motion, cheered by their office. This is shown once, quickly, we get it. Then a cut to other characters. Then a cut back to the same slo-mo W&B shot for about ten seconds. Nothing funny happens in the shot, nothing new, we just saw it. It goes on and on pointlessly. Often the same jokes could be presented in half the time. Look how long the set-up for the fly-by at the end is. The same scene could be told much more easily (and without telegraphing each joke, either, as is done). Where we could have seen dick looks out window, houses go by, girls go on roof, dick sees sign with cheap joke, shot of sign, dick reacts, girls wave; instead there are 4 times as many shots. Even basic technical things are screwed up. Watch for several sloppy jumps where the timing of the character's actions don't match.The filmmakers think that the way to make a good comedy, let alone a satire, is to make everybody act funny. A comparison might be made between this film and, for example, The Freshman (with Brando and Broderick). One of the reasons that film worked so well, and Dick does not, is that while both stories are centered around characters confronting mythic/historic/etc. situations, The Freshman treated the whole Godfather reference as if it were REAL. The humor came from Broderick's interaction with 'reality'. Dick is a very clever idea, but tries to milk every aspect for laughs (and often cheap laughs, or worse) and in doing so destroys much of the situation that is truly comedic. When the historic situation around the girls is played seriously, which is limited mostly to the Nixon/Kissinger scenes, it was really amusing and the audience had some decent laughs. When the parade of sketch comedy refugees starts trying to yuk up every bit part as if it were the 8th minute of a SNL scene, the movie shoots itself in the foot.  Even funny over-the-top comedies, like Caddyshack or Animal House, don't play everybody and everything for laughs. The comedy of Dick is constantly being defused by the fact that rather than let us believe the girls are encountering history, Dick instead shows them encountering people parodying history. (Or at least hamming it up as if they want to parody history.)What if Liddy were really menacing and dangerous, not a skittish paranoid? It would be funny that the girls were even talking to him and really funny if he was scared of them.What if Woodward and Bernstein were not complete schtick figures bickering like children? It would be more amusing to suggest that the girls really fooled the press, that somehow they had evidence that would impel a reasonable adult, not two bumbling oafs, to bring down the presidency and did so.When it is the story of two girls stumbling into the Nixon White House, it is hilarious. When it often is two girls stumbling into a weak parody skit, it is not remotely hilarious. "}{"Title":"A movie","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Have you ever seen a film that did nothing terribly wrong but just never really did anything incredibly well either?  Well Dick is the epitome of that.  There is nothing really funny, exciting or even really entertaining about the film.  But at the same time it wasn't like I felt like I wasted my afternoon in the theater with this one, it was just, well it was just a movie.What I enjoyed about the film was how it rewrote history in a somewhat funny way. By taking the two silly 15 year old girls and have them be the infamous Deepthroat, and have it be them that caused that 20 minutes of tape go missing and so on, well that was cute.  Also good was the performances of Williams and Dunst and Hedaya.  They were believable. But that is as far as I can go in the praise of this film.  It was just so flat in so many ways.  And again, it's not like I groaned or felt overly uncomfortable in the movie, it's just that it didn't do anything great.  I thought that at least I was going to see a funny film, and that was not always true either.  It had it's moments, but it severly lacked most of the time.  It is a good political satire and maybe people will enjoy it more on that level, but for me, it was just a film.  One that I will never give a second thought about seeing again. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of 1999 (for adults)","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick was a very funny movie. It had a lot of good jokes that teenagers to adults will laugh at. But those were only a portion of the jokes. Most of the jokes were poking fun at the Watergate scandal, jokes that will go right over the heads of most teens who thought the movie to be another fun summer comedy. I could tell that the jokes were hilarious, from my aunt who watched the news coverage of the scandal, and explained what parts i didn't get after the movie. This movie is probably the funniest movie of 1999, for the adults who were there in the time. Teens won't be totally confused though, the drug jokes are funny at all ages. "},{"Title":"Ferrell and McCulloch highlight what went wrong here","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't understand how you can go through the time, effort and expense to make a motion picture and forget that a comedy needs jokes. It's like making an action flick where no one gets punched or a musical where no one sings or a tragedy where no one cries. Dick certainly has a humorous tone and some potentially funny premises but when it comes to honest-to-goodness jokes, there are very few here and most of them don't show up until the film is half over.Betsy and Arlene (Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Williams) are a couple of 15 year old girls who get caught up in the intrigue of the 1972 Nixon White House. At first, they just walk the President's dog and Arlene develops a school girl crush on Tricky Dick (Dan Hedaya). When they inadvertently discover Nixon's dark side, the girls turn into Deep Throat, the inside source that fed Woodward and Bernstein (Will Farrell and Bruce McCulloch) information on the Watergate cover up.Aside from a weirdly large number of double entendres about Nixon's first name and Ferrell and McCulloch firing off bits of shtick every moment they're on screen like they were signaling for someone to come and rescue them from this desert island of comedy, there's very little to laugh about in Dick. That's not the fault of the cast, though there are a few times when they give performances that could have been acceptable in a docu-drama. These actors are just not given enough to work with. For example, there's a scene where Arlene has a romantic fantasy about Nixon sweeping her off her feet. The idea provokes a snicker but it never goes anywhere or leads to anything. Instead of ending on a big laugh, the dream sequence merely trickles away. Or when Betsy and Arlene realize the truth about Nixon after hearing an audio tape of him ranting and cussing and kicking his dog, the scene ends with Betsy saying I don't think the President of the United States should be recording conversations like that. The people who made Dick consider THAT to be a big punchline.Dunst and Willams are bright and bubbly but, as promising as this concept seems, it's a big, fat nothing burger of a film. Unless you're a hard core Nixon hater who can never get enough of seeing him mocked, you won't enjoy this Dick. "},{"Title":"Dick and Janes","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film caught me just right. It uses the twee dumbness that kids use to make fun of themselves (`Clueless'), or that we use to make fun of them (`Romey and Michele'). That's the distance that is applied to the watergate events, in a very clever way.I lived through those events as a young adult they profoundly affected all of us  who thought of ourselves as politically astute. History is never reality, but always digested and shaped by the notions of the sender and receiver, and constrained by the medium used. Apart from point events (JFK assassination, moon landing) Watergate was the first long-term real political development that came to us by TeeVee, was shaped by TeeVee in what happened, and whose historical truth was set by TeeVee. Along the way, tape recordings -- another mundane technology -- played a role, and the whole history was wrapped up in `final form' in several highly celebrated films.But no film can be `true,' no history disentangled from its context. And the context in this case included the shattering of our childish trust and soulful acceptance of platitudes. So instead of getting another Oliver Stone essay which exploits that link between film characterization and the history we want to see, here we have a film that turns it on its head.The protagonists are trusting children, as dumb as we were and in much the same way. The characters and events are deliberately comic, and likely no further from `real' than Stone's. But here the distance between what we see and what happened is made explicit -- we know it is not real. This remarkably intellectual cleverness produces a film more true than the others, and of course while watching this one, we see two or more as we replay the others (and our notion of history) in our mind. The effect is that this film has the effect of being about how films shape history and our world, in a small way shattering our trust in them. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Film! Kirsten Dunst & Michelle Willaims are great!!!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I just recently bought Dick on dvd, because it is sooooo funny! Kirsten Dunst and Michelle Willaims are great! This film is hilarious! It is a very funny film, and you are hooked on the story from beginning to end! The story is very funny and great, the acting is great, and the directing is terrific! I mean, a great comedy, a funny story, and two cool stars! (Kirsten Dunst & Michelle Willaims)! What more could you want? I give this film a 10 out of 10!!! ) "},{"Title":"Some clever stuff coupled with unfunny jokes and tacked on plotlines.","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  DICK (1999)THE GOOD--I found the movie to be quite clever how it takes the true story of the Nixon's betrayal to his country and couples it with the fictitious story of the cause of the revelation of his betrayal being two normal teenage girls. I don't know the Nixon story very well, but I enjoyed some of the neat writing done in the film to show a less serious and more fun side to the true events.--Michelle Williams was very entertaining in the film and is quite funny as well as pulling some dramatic stuff off too. I especially liked her song to Nixon, it was hilarious. Dan Hedaya is also splendid as 'Dick' - he stole the movie.--I loved the classic 60's-70's music used in the film, there were some great tunes. I especially like the use of that 'You're So Vain' song at the end of the film, it was neat!THE BAD--I thought this movie had real potential to be an uproarious comedy, but too often to the jokes fail. The worst of all was the ongoing drug cookies joke, which was never funny in the first place, and dragged out far too long. I just don't see how anyone could find those government figures singing songs and getting stoned funny. It just looked lame to me. Dick is certainly no ordinary teen movie comedy in the vain of She's All That or Drive Me Crazy, but it does feature too many 'Oh My God!!' lines and annoying teen girl screaming. And try counting the unfunny 'dick' jokes in the film - it's hard, there's so many. --I actually never thought I'd say this about Kirsten Dunst, but to be honest, I found her very annoying in this film. I loved her in movies like Drop Dead Gorgeous, Spider Man and Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles but here her character is so cliché and she overacts throughout the entire film. Very disappointing for such a stellar young actress.--The story with the reporters felt tacked on and was the most boring part of the film. I much preferred seeing Michelle and (to a lesser extent) Kirsten strut their stuff. The reporters were pretty unnecessary and bloody annoying characters and the actors got on my nerves too. They dragged the film down too much and made it feel long-winded and slow in some parts.RATING6/10 - There was some clever stuff in this film, no doubt, but the experience of Dick is definitely lessened by some very unfunny 'comedy' and annoying tacked on storylines.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDDeep Impact (7/10) Drop Dead Gorgeous (7/10) Forrest Gump (10/10) Halloween H20 20 Years Later (8/10) Hanging Up (2/10) "},{"Title":"Finally, the truth behind Watergate!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick retells the Nixon/Watergate saga with two ditzy 15 year old females (Dunst & Williams) leading the way as Deep Throat explaining many of the mysteries such as the missing 18.5 minutes of tape, etc. as they uncover the truth behind the scandal as the President's official dog walkers. Cute, fun, and kookie, Dick is 90 minutes of PG-13 silliness and a fun romp for those who remember that bit of tainted American history. "},{"Title":"Pretty Feeble Stuff","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although Dan Hedaya is excellent in spots as Tricky Dick Nixon and there are some other mildly funny parts of the movie, this filmreally doesn't succeed very well in my estimation. The play Nixon's Nixon -- about the relationship between Nixon and Henry Kissinger -- is a far more effective satire. Dick falls much more into the category of burlesque (as in the recurring joke where one of the teens tells the other in a loud voice in a suddenly silenced crowd that she's much too fond of Dick.) The script might have done well as a Saturday Night Live skit or as a set piece for an improv group like Second City but it doesn't measure up for full screen treatment.  "},{"Title":"Skip it.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is only one reason I gave this movie more than one out of ten my new future wife, Kirsten Dunst. She is a good actress, and on top of it all, I am going to marry her (hey, she and Jake Gyllenhall broke up, so she's fair game).I suppose if you're a teenager and you have no concept whatsoever of history, you might think this is a cute movie. If you have any historical clue, however, you'll realize that this movie is a wasted two hours out of your life. Unless you are in love with Kirsten, in which case any time spent watching any of her movies is worthwhile (but remember, she's my Future Wife, so don't get your hopes up). The plot pretty much sucks. You can see what's coming miles away, even if you're not sober (which pretty much fits with the historical perspective as told by her character's brother). I respect Saul Rubinek (a fellow Canadian) but this is not much of a performance - he's basically coasting (plus, his German accent comes and goes scene by scene). Really, there's not much here to recommend, and the only reason I watched the whole movie, instead of simply deleting it about 20 minutes in, is my gorgeous future wife.So, since she's going to marry me and the movie pretty much sucks, save your time. PVR something else.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie of the year!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And I thought that Never Been Kissed would be the most painful sit this year. This poorly made satire set in the '70's takes two very obnoxious and unlikable Romy and Michele clones, facing them up against Dick Nixon, somehow never manages to evoke any laughs or any charm. Writer/Director Andrew Fleming obviously can't write or pace a film well; 97 minutes feel like 3 hours here. The big faults mostly go to the cast; the very talented Kirsten Dunst, who was great in Drop Dead Gorgeous and the non-talented Michelle Williams, are both howlingly awful and you keep hoping for one of the spies to deck them out. The Saturday Night Live members are embarrassing to watch, as they try and play it straight here, never bringing in any laughs. The only guys who try for laughs are Will Ferrell and Bruce McCollogh, and are terrible. I think the critics were on those drug cookies the girls keep sending Dick when hailing this movie. I found it to be quite a painful experience. I even brought my mom with me who I thought would enjoy, and she dozed off halfway through. The only person in the movie, one man by himself, walked out thirty minutes through. If you want to see a more funnier look in the 70's, check out Detroit Rock City or for a more biting satire, Election.  "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I actually feel dumber for having watched this film.I wasted 90 minutes of my life that I could have spent scrubbing my toilet bowl with my toothbrush.I just kept waiting for something to happen to make it all worth while, but other than getting to watch the 2 female leads running around for an hour and half (only reason it got a 2)there was nothing of value. It gave me a headache watching two giggling girls that were being forced into roles in history. What made it even worse for me watching it now is that Deep Throat has already been revealed, so it just made the film even dumber and more insignificant. Save your time and watch something else. Not even worth a rental. Not even for fans of Kirsten Dunst or Michelle Williams. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I hated, hated, hated, hated this movie. The first sign that trouble was on the way was seeing Will Ferrell's idiot grin and realizing he and the other guy were supposed to be playing Woodward and Bernstein, roles previously played by real actors Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman. I laughed, maybe, twice. This is a perfect example of a film that deserved to flop, since it wasn't any good. For some reason, some critics gave this film good reviews which is something I will never understand. There is a good, funny movie featuring clueless teenagers wandering around the White House. It's called Beavis and Butt-Head Do America and it is much more entertaining than this stinker could ever be. "},{"Title":"See Romy & Michelle's HS Reunion instead","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was amazingly, stunningly unfunny.  The two lead girls do not have a funny bone in their bodies.  Someone should rent Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion for them so they can see how ditsy comedy is supposed to be done.I haven't watched Saturday Night Live in 10 years so I have no experience of those cast members who helped populate Dick, but it is obvious the movie depended your knowing them.  Dave Foley is not even remotely funny, he plays it straight &#150; and excuse me, HR Haldeman must have been in his 40's at least when Watergate happened and Foley looks about 25.  I can forgive this, except then they bring in that he's supposed to have a son in college; this just doesn't wash, Foley's not old enough.   And I can't stand Will Ferrell, it's so painfully obvious he is going I'm Will Ferrell, you're supposed to laugh now rather than creating a character and acting.Dan Hedaya is a great actor and can be extremely funny (see Clueless) but the lack of jokes and character humor in the script leaves him stranded.  And has anyone ever told the director that a long-winded, slow-paced practically silent climax is not the way to end a comedy? While the future of the entire country was at stake during Watergate, there was nothing at stake for the two characters who drive this movie.  Dick is a totally ill-conceived self-referential anthem to square-eyed, late-night nimrods who have never gazed beyond the comedy horizon of the last 10 years of television.  And somebody please offer Will Ferrell an office job so he can stop cluttering up the movie screens of America.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen since Clueless.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is one of the least enjoyable movies I have seen in quite some time. The two lead characters play a couple of 15 year old girls who display the intelligence of 6 year olds. They often jump up and down and scream to display their excitement about anything and everything. Dan Hedaya, who I normally enjoy, spends the entire movie doing a Nixon imitation instead of acting. There are very few scenes that do not have a dated 70s song playing in the background lest we not forget the setting of the movie. Most of the jokes have been lifted from other movies and sitcoms and will only be enjoyable if you haven't been watching TV since Watergate. Some jokes you can guess before you even start the movie, like when one of the stupid girls says I Love Dick! Gee, I wondered how long we would have to wait to hear that one. The worst part is that we are supposed to believe that the two girls are so dumb that they don't realize the implications of the comment. As if 15 year old girls don't know what a dick is.  And then they have to repeat this joke over and over again like I Hate Dick! or You can't let dick run your life! Alright already, I got the joke the first time! If this stuff sounds clever to you or you are of the age that you will be embarrassed if your Mom hears you laughing at these immature jokes, then you may actually enjoy this movie. For the rest of you, just watch All The President's Men. You'll probably laugh more during that movie. "},{"Title":"Biggest Piece OF Muddled Garbage YET!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was horrible. Sure, it included plenty of history surrounding the Watergate scandal, but who really cares anymore? There is nothing good about this movie.The writers attempt at making the two girls ignorantly responsible for everything that happened surrounding the events fails miserably. The presentation of the characters was absolutely annoying with no depth what so ever. The two girls were supposed to be 15? Sorry, but no 15 year old I have ever met is that annoying, and bubbly.I realize that its supposed to be a cheezy comedy, but aren't comedies supposed to be funny? Honestly the only dialogue that was funny were the play on words jokes surrounding the name Dick, and even those weren't as funny as when the Don and Mike show did the same thing.I could pull better writing, and better acting out of a dumpster. I hated this movie more than I hated the Blair Witch Project and thats saying ALOT! "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dunst tries desperately to capture Silverstone's magic from Clueless and fails miserably.  Like nails on a chalkboard.  The pace of the film flowed like wet cement.  The writing was terrible, the Dick jokes predictable, the Nixon jokes done to DEATH before, and the story was SO incredibly boring that I almost walked out.  However, since I had read some favorable reviews I stayed to see if a miracle happened at the end.The only miracle was the rolling of the credits. "},{"Title":"The Worst!!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't understand how anyone would think that this waste of film was any good. The acting was so over the top it was distracting and most of the jokes fell flat. Plus which I hate movies about actual events that bear no resemblance to the facts. The movie started off innocent enough but then turned into some mean spirited attack on Richard Nixon. There were a few laughs but they were very few and very far between. I wouldn't even recommend renting this film, it's just not worth the time it takes to watch it. "},{"Title":"Trust the IMDb User Rating for 7000 votes.  This film is not very funny!!!","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is lame, mean-spirited, and unfunny! I'm always amazed at how the written user reviews can be so glowing for a movie that the majority of IMDb voters clearly thinks is a waste of time.Also, I cannot honestly say that I liked the late President Nixon. But perhaps if I had actually despised him with a bitter passion, then I think I might have found this movie more amusing. Dick is a total waste of a good cast, and it's a waste of two hours of your day. If you want to see a funny, intelligent, good-natured movie about a president, then I would highly recommend the movie Dave. "},{"Title":"It's hard to believe what flies off the screen...","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dick is a hideous, offensive movie that's awfulness is shocking. I've heard a lot of people complain about the political liberties taken in a movie like Forrest Gump...but those can't even compete witht this film, which plays like a liberalist fantasy about how bad the Nixon administration. It's idea of comedy is a young girl falling in love with Nixon only to discover that he's a bastard, and then she and her best friend decide to get revenge on him by becoming the legendary Deep Throat informant (Woodward and Bernstein are portrayed as a couple of morons who stumble on to the truth.)There was once a time when movies took American political history seriously, as it should be - but that's obviously over now. I just hope that people will have the sense to ignore this crap, which treats the importance of their country and civilization as a big joke. "},{"Title":"This film is a disgrace!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot believe this film was made. As a fan of the Nixon administration, I felt that I had the duty to watch this film. However, this film pokes fun at Nixon, the greatest president of the 20th century. I was disgusted by the way they made Nixon out to be such an evil man. This movie made me cry, not laugh. "}]