[{"Title":"Brilliant and Enchanting. The most beautiful example of poetic realism in modern cinema","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"54 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For years I was asking myself the beauty of the early French films, the poetic realism, the simplicity and magic of the early Italian neorealists - where have they gone? I was missing that moment of pure cinema magic, the feel of people, the love for life in the movies. The unforgettable pictures of our childhood created by people like Carne and Vigo, Rene Clair, de Sica and Fellini. Now they are back. Patrick Leconte has created a very original, highly enjoyable little masterpiece that has it all in a modern movie. This beautiful black and white love story is a great moment of contemporary cinema that leaves you with that deeply happy feeling, that cinema sometimes seem to have forgotten  about. As a producer and director myself, I was searching for a long time for any modern piece of film that picks up on that wonderful poetic movie tradition that combines reality with a flowing, surreal dream-like storytelling that your heart directly understands. Leconte's gentle and lighthearted, yet perfect command of visual language and editing makes this simple little story about a knife-thrower and cabaret artist and his victim and partner, a suicidal young woman,  one of my happiest cinema experiences in the last 20 years. That people do this kind of movies these days, gives you hope. We need more movies like this. This is a film that nobody should miss that loves poetry, love, life and circus as major elements of cinema and human existence. Congratulations to Patrice Leconte and his inspired DP Jean Marie Dreujou. "},{"Title":"An instant classic.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Girl on the Bridge is an absorbing piece of film fiction and, to my mind, an instant classic.  From the choice of its stars to the use of a gritty, many shaded black to white spectrum, it is a spellbinding expression of director, Patrice Leconte's, mastery of the art of filmmaking.  Every throw of the knife notches up the suspense to an ecstasy of fear on behalf of the characters you come to love.  This is an unusual romance that leaves the viewer enlightened and lighthearted without any sacrifice of reality.The Girl is portrayed by Vanessa Paradis, who, in her person and in her manner, invokes memories of both Brigitte Bardot and Audrey Hepburn, a radiant, sensuous mix that is haunting and captivating.  There's rapturous innocence despite her frequent and intense sexual encounters, and some part of her remains pristine throughout the most seemingly perverse scenes. Seduction for her must be emotional and intellectual, not merely sexual, because her body is routinely given, and through her experiences, we realize its satisfactions do not ultimately satisfy.Although some scenes recall other great pictures of yesteryear, such as The Seventh Veil, Girl makes new, inspired use of beloved film moments to make its own statement  the human spirit deepens and expands to the extent to which it trusts in, and is dedicated to, love.  To love is to risk, and in this film of heart thumping suspense, we come face to face with the dangers love entails.  Love, like this film, is not for the faint of heart.  I, for one, am looking forward to my second time.  Many compliments to Patrice Leconte and his wonderful collaborators! "},{"Title":"Great acting, wonderful dialogues and beautiful cinematography","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A 'quirky' story from a director who likes to keep the viewer guessing - as in the wonderful 'Hairdresser's Husband'.The dialogues are wonderful in this movie, far wittier than the semi-silly 'Ridicule'; Although the subtitles are not perfect (which they rarely are, it's a very tough craft), they were difficult to read on top of that, at least in the film print I saw. But the storyline and the relationship in the movie more than carries it. Because of the occasional awkward subtitling, some of the lines might seem sillier than they are in the original French. The black & white cinematography is truly outstanding, beautiful & fitting. Daniel Auteuil shows more physical liveliness in this role than usual, and he's a true pleasure to watch; but the heart of this movie is truly Vanessa Paradis - an outstanding performance, full of charm & and pathos. The chemistry between the principles is enchanting. Leconte has completely succeeded in presenting a 'higher love' story. "},{"Title":"Pont Neuf","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Patrice Leconte's The Girl on the Bridge is a film that on second viewing seems better than when we first saw it. In a way, it appears to be a change of pace for M. Leconte, a man whose films have always been received well by his fans. As written for the screen by Serge Frydman, the movie presents a different take on love between two lonely people.In fact, this original film begins and end on bridges with a reversal in what Adele and Gabor are trying to do. At the start, it's Adele the one that is at the end of her rope, and at the conclusion, it's Gabor who does a complete role reversal when everything seems to be hopeless for him.Adele and Gabor never consummate their love as we follow when their lives comes together. Adele, during the interview with what appears to be either a social worker, reveals the sordid aspects of her life to the camera in an amazing sequence that sets the tone to the rest of the film. M. Leconte and his camera seem to be in love with the lovely Adele.The two principals, Vanessa Paradis and Daniel Auteuil are perfect in the film. Both actors do excellent work together.The magnificent black and white photography by Jean Marie Dreujou is perhaps the best asset for the film. The music score adds to the mood of the film. "},{"Title":"An erotic, funny, strikingly original romantic comedy","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The old Hollywood formula, Boy Meets Girl, Cute, is given a nice French twist is this very funny and intriguing romantic comedy starring Daniel Auteuil and Vanessa Paradis. Paradis is Adele, a twenty-something waif who looks like a Parisian model except for the charming and disarming gap between her two front teeth. She's sur la pont and looking to jump off into the Seine. Auteuil appears as Gabor, a forty-something carnival knife thrower, looking for a new and more exciting target. He taunts her a little, shames her a bit. She gets insulted and jumps. He jumps in right after her.Well, I have it on good report that Nora Ephron is jealous as hell. I mean wouldn't, say, Meg Ryan and Mel Gibson just be adorable meeting like this?I...don't...think...so. For one thing, this would never work in the American cinema since one of the essentials is that the boy be twenty years older than the girl so that his patience with her frequent liaisons is plausible. Hollywood would have to find another slant on their relationship (something banal no doubt) and alter the ending to make it more romantic. But Hollywood can do that! Watch for the remake--a Nancy Meyers film, directed by Ephron--in theaters everywhere, circa 2010. Since the script, containing some very witty dialogue by Serge Frydman, and the fine acting by Auteuil and Paradis, carry the show, Director Patrice Leconte was able to film this on the cheap in glorious black and white, which doesn't detract from the film at all. I didn't really notice there was no color until about twenty minutes in because I was so taken with, first, Paradis as the girl who could never say no, and then Auteuil who is funny, commanding, and obviously having a great time. By the way, the device of her being interviewed to open the film makes us think for a moment that we are being shown a video recording of that interview. Following a well-established cinematic convention of rendering video recordings in black and white, this makes our minds accept the black and white cinematography without question.Paradis is child-like and sexy by turns. The scene after the train passes and she says to Gabor something like, You KNOW what I want to do, and I want to do it NOW, leads to a rather strange, but clearly erotic, symbolic sexual experience. Paradis plays her part very well.The theme is the mystery of capricious luck, believed in passionately by those who feel they have none, which is how Adele and Gabor feel before they meet each other. Together, however, they can call the number at roulette, win at the lottery, and find gold on the ground!The enigmatic and rather predictable ending warrants some pondering. Are they going to live happily ever after as man and wife, lovers, or as a kind of father/daughter team? It's not clear, and that's deliberate. Draw your own conclusions, but don't miss this one. It's definitely worth seeing.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Magnificent and Delightful Fable About Two Half-Souls Who Meet Each Other in a Parisian Bridge","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Paris, the needy and unlucky Adèle (Vanessa Paradis) is a complete loser, used by all the men in her life. In a Parisian bridge in the night, when the Adèle is close to commit a suicide, a knife thrower Gabor (Daniel Auteuil) invites her to be her target in his show. She accepts the invitation, and they become a great success in show business. Like to halves of a bill, when they separate, they become losers again, and realize that only together they would succeed in life. La Fille Sur le Pont is a magnificent and delightful fable about two half-souls who meet each other in a Parisian bridge, completing their lives with lucky and happiness. The story in some moments recalls the wonderful movies of Frank Capra, in other moments is quite erotic. The performances of Daniel Auteuil and Vanessa Paredis, showing a perfect chemistry, deserve a nomination to the Oscar, most of their dialogs are fantastic, the direction of Patrice Leconte is splendid as usual and the black& white photography is stunning. La Fille Sur le Pont is a movie to be revisited many times and highly indicated to fans of filmed poetry. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) A Garota da Ponte (The Girl of the Bridge) "},{"Title":"So Sad, So Happy","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Two tragic characters A beautiful girl, on the edge of a bridge contemplating suicide, and a broken man, on the same bridge for the same reason. The man is a believer. He believes in fortune. He's been around, and he's seen many things. He can tell when the wheels of fortune are turning, and in the face of the young girl he sees salvation for them both. He senses a feeling stronger than fate or Kismet or whatever you want to call it. A conviction that two people can be made for each other, that two people can connect in a way imperceivable and unobtainable for most of the world, a connection so deep and so strong, that it can make them invincible. In most movies of this kind, you expect the characters to discover how right they are for each other along the way. In this movie they know it the instant they meet, but they're too proud and too overwhelmed to accept the fact that it could be so easy.Patrice Leconte takes us on a wonderful journey around Europe, and fills each black and white frame with such colorful feelings that it's next to impossible not to be taken in by the mere suggestion that there can be a perfect match for each person, and that together they can take on the world.La fille sur le pond, is a movie about fortune, destiny, love, danger, lust, luck, romance but above all, I think that it's about connection. Connection on a level so high that it becomes divine. This movie is unique and in it I find refuge whenever I feel alone or lonely. "},{"Title":"Man, woman, knives, love.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An artfully shot, black and white contemporary French film, Girl on the Bridge is a peculiar sort of romantic drama about a man and a woman bound together by an alloy of danger, fatalism, luck, libidos, and sharp steel. On one level the film is preposterous; on another, implausible; and yet on another a compelling, fantastic drama. A good watch for the jaded. "},{"Title":"Two Leconte movies are on my list of favourites, but...","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... this one's very far from being one of them, unfortunately.Populist detractors of French cinema, knee-jerk Europhobes, phobics of subtitles, blinkered viewers who divide all cinema between Hollywood vs. pretentious art-house if you really want to pick on a French movie that you think embodies all the clichés of Gallic cinema you so love to hate, take your vitriol out on this one! Leave masters like Rivette, Truffaut, Resnais, Rohmer, Denis, Varda and other, much better Leconte movies alone! La Fille Sur le Pont's main players Gabor, a middle-aged man played by the ubiquitous, but always pleasant to watch Daniel Auteuil and Adèle, a lithely beautiful, gazelle-like young woman who has the face of Vanessa Paradis. Predictably, Adèle is emotionally messed up, fragile and yet sexually promiscuous. The two meet when the charismatic grouch, Gabor, intercepts the girl on a Parisian bridge and prevents her from committing suicide (wasn't that also how Emmanuelle Béart's character and her boyfriend met in La Belle Noiseuse?). Gabor is an itinerant knife-thrower, by the way - sans toit ni loi. Naturally enough, since we are talking about a girl who has nothing to lose, Adèle becomes his target. Despite the rocky beginning, in which the two spend much time squabbling, there is naturally a strong attraction between them (in fact, as clichéd as all this may sound, the first 20 minutes of the movie, in which Gabor and Adèle's relationship is first established, were my favourites). We even get to meet a previous living target of Gabor's, a woman now performing in another circus number, at the venue where Adèle is about to perform for the first time. We see that this ex of Gabor's is also fragile and messed up, besides still preserving a clingy dependence on the knife-thrower. So, it seems that what Gabor has to offer women is somehow life-affirming, and better than sex. And in fact, watching Gabor and Adèle at work, you cannot help thinking who needs these two to literally have sex when all that knife-throwing is more suggestive of penetrative sex than a steamy Tinto Brass scene of your choice? In retrospect, I think this movie's main merit was to make me discover how charming and beautiful Johnny Depp's squeeze is - I had no idea. Sadly, Vanessa Paradis could not save the little movie from being just a nice-looking, superficially funny, substanceless piece of fluff, furthermore a hit-parade of French movie clichés that I thought would be beneath Leconte. Beineix's Betty Blue, Senta from Chabrol's silly La Demoiselle d'Honneur, Romane Bohringer's character in L'Appartement, even Jeanne Moreau as Catherine in Jules et Jim, and countless others why are so many women in a certain category of French cinema invariably characterized as fragile and irrational, unsettlingly unpredictable and self-destructive, even suicidal? Yet, they are also intoxicatingly seductive and sexually voracious, fickle and capricious. They're the ultimate misogynist's sex fantasy, a woman that frightens (the vagina dentata myth being a symbolic exasperation of this fear of femininity) and enslaves the male (because sexual attraction is biologically inescapable). Paradis's Adèle was in fact a rather tone-down, sweetened version of one such stock female creation - in fact, perhaps a part of Leconte was distancing himself from this prototype and playing with it, though the other part of him was embracing it. But the fact that in the end Leconte shows us Gabor's fragility and Adèle's nascent strength goes some way towards showing that the director was also partly turning the stereotype on its head. The Betty Blue is what I call the female French movie prototype of the fragile-sexy-doomed heroine, which DOES certainly also exist in other cinematic traditions, though I seem to observe it more often in French movies. It's a fictional embodiment of womanhood that can be traced right back to the doomed femme fatales of the 19th century French artistic movement The Symbolists.The scenes of La Fille Sur le Pont that were set in Italy, Greece and Turkey were rather dubious in their astonishingly twee and simplistic stereotyping as well. They were the equivalent of accompanying any scene set in Paris with sappy accordion music and a view of the Eiffel tower in the background. Was Leconte trying to be Fellinian in that raffle scene in San Remo? Oh, puhleez! Give me Tandem, Ridicule or L'Homme du Train any day over this candy floss, Patrice. "},{"Title":"Daniel Auteuil as charismatic as ever!","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a surreal and light-hearted romance story between a lonely middle-age man in solitude and a promiscuous young lady who decided there was no more to her life and would be desperate to try anything and put herself to the most of the extremes in a quest for excitement and sexual satisfaction. The fact that the movie was done in black-and-white added a layer of drama and mystery to the story. It seems to me that the writer was trying to get across a message that sometimes true love can surpass the materialistic desires like money, sex and lust, and the pair managed to find a unique and non-sexual way of connecting to each other.Not a bad cinematic experience, especially with Daniel Auteuil being as charismatic and captivating as ever! There is something with this guy which you just can't find from other actors and which will glue you to the screen just to watch him in any type of actions with amazement. And he is one of those guys who can do the very witty and sometimes dream-like dialogues so naturally as in this movie that the audience will not be left with a feeling of pretentiousness or disbelief. "}{"Title":"Leconte est Bon once again","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A trustworthy value of contemporary French cinema (in 1996, the French Minister for Arts and the director of the national center of the cinematography hailed him as a French worthy ambassador), Patrice Leconte can brag himself to rank among a handful of French filmmakers whose popularity is continual in France and abroad, especially since Ridicule (1996) was virtually unanimously lauded. On this site, several of his films exceeded the 1000 even 2000 votes mark. This one la Fille Sur Le Pont is near to the 3000 votes mark and appears to be the most well-known of Leconte's flicks abroad. A word to his devotees and they seem to be numerous I urge them to watch Tandem (1987). It is Leconte's towering achievement and his sleeper.To come back to la Fille Sur Le Pont, this cracker basically revolves around a young girl, Adèle (Vanessa Paradis). She's only 20 years old and she got a raw deal. Apparently interviewed by an emcee on the telly, she assesses her rueful life and can't see her future. One evening, she's cracking up and is about to jump from a bridge into the river Seine. Fortunately, she's saved at the last minute by a knife-thrower, Gabor (Daniel Auteuil) who becomes fond of her. He hires her as the target for his show and will make her enjoy life again. From then onwards, luck smiles on them, the lead a freewheeling adventure and Gabor becomes increasingly enamored of his young protégée.La Fille Sur Le Pont is the movie in Leconte's filmography which heralds a series of films in which a love story is one of the staple elements of these flicks. It is perhaps the artistic success of this film which incited him to continue in this vein with the subsequent pieces of work la Veuve De Saint Pierre (2000), Félix et Lola (2001) and at last Rue Des Plaisirs (2002). In reality, Leconte had already adventured in the domain of the love story well before la Fille Sur Le Pont. Love stories were main threads in the nearly dreamlike Le Mari De La Coiffeuse (1990) and Le Parfum d'Yvonne (1994) and they gave brilliant results.When I read Leconte's intentions on this film, I had misgivings. The director wanted to make a work which was supposed to be a homage to the New Wave, hence the shooting of Gabor and Adèle's adventure in a black and white cinematography. Leconte had lauded François Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard as masters. Ahem!... There's no accounting for taste. But he kept his trademark and his movie remains accessible to everyone who likes being told a story. The liberties dear to the New Wave clique are subdued and tamed, a stabled content and form with perhaps an emphasis on the content, no amateurish side in the directing, except in the very first sequence and a scenario which encapsulates several directives including a classic but absorbing storytelling and an analysis of the two main protagonists' persona.Leconte pulls off with gusto to create a timeless atmosphere. The first sequence comes out of the blue and sets the scene for the unique aura in which the film bathes. It is realism and fairy tale in the same package. Everything in the scenery, the costumes, the cinematography and the directing seem to be dovetailed to produce this pristine poise. An impression reinforced by a discerningly chosen music. But also, la Fille Sur Le Pont is a success story and Leconte is very astute at this game. He refuses a good number of constricting codes of the genre or diverts them in a neat way. For example, the viewer will have to wait the tail end to see Gabor and Adèle exchanging their first kiss.The scenarist Serge Frydman did a first-class job with an abundance of witty cues. My favorite lines are Knives are dangerous you know, everything's dangerous nowadays... or  the first time I had sex, it was uncomfortable yes the first time you have sexual relationships it is usually uncomfortable no no, it was in the toilets of a gas station. It was uncomfortable.Always on the plus side, Leconte was obviously interested with the persona of his two main characters and perhaps more Gabor than Adèle. In spite of his apparent self-confidence and his deadpan humor, he conceals a deep vulnerability and has his own weaknesses. Like Adèle, he's unsure about the future (check the sequence when he's on the rails and a train arrives in front of him). He's a Lecontian hero par excellence. He's apparently sure of himself but hides a deep fragility. He is also admirably portrayed by Daniel Auteuil who garnered a deservedly César in 2000. As for Vanessa Paradis who when she was 14 years old scored a big hit in France with Joe Le Taxi, she unveils another face of herself with unsuspected skills of actress.With a feel-good sentiment which suffuses the whole movie, la Fille Sur Le Pont is the ideal flick to restore confidence to the ones who lost it. Gabor says that luck is a matter of life and death but when it affects someone at a loss, it can work wonders. A wondrous movie to rank among the magnum opus in Leconte's filmography. "},{"Title":"Pretty to watch, 2 knives out of 5","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  REVIEW Basically a 'two hander' for the leads, this is the story of Gabor (Auteuil) the aging knife thrower, and Adele (Paradis) the seemingly luckless in love 'belle fille sur la pont'. Fate thrusts them together on a cold night in Paris as Adele stands on a bridge and contemplates ending it all in the dark waters below. When Gabor approaches her, he says you look like a girl who's about to make a mistake...and seals their fate together upon offering her a job as his human target, informing her that he recruits suicidal women because he wants to help them on their way!What ensues is their journey together into a world that is suddenly on their side...where luck is an everyday phenomena at last instead of an elusive phantom.The premier film for the 2000 French Film Festival was one of those films that I felt I should like...that even had most of the ingredients of at least an 'above average' film...but just didn't have the payload I was looking for.For example - the opening scene in which we get some background on Adele's past. While the intention of the scene was clear, and the information provided helpful to the viewer to build up to the next moment of the film, the way in which it was done alienates it totally from the action of the film itself - how can it be contextualised?Auteuil and Paradis are both quite fine actors - the knife throwing scenes were well executed and the sexual undertones shone clearly threw. And the dialogue between them is pacy and quite funny, delivered especially well by Auteuil. But outside of this, there was this constant feeling of there being very little in the way of emotional dynamics, which, although possibly a directorial choice, left the emotional landscape of the film far too flat.It being shot in black and white meant there were some great images, and this certainly helped evoke the circus/freak show aspect of the world the main characters inhabited, and also the freakish nature of  life itself.In the Director's notes for the film, Patrice says  I don't know why I made 'The girl on the bridge'. I just know I did it. I would encourage such sentiments to a degree - making films for the sake of film making is wonderful for the film makers...but in this case, not so wonderful for the audience who I almost feel are considered secondary to the action.So - a film with some strong moments...some good pictures to look at...but not entirely satisfying as a whole. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Sharp as a Knife","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful, poetic, absorbing and intensely romantic movie.Daniel Auteuil won a Cesar (the French Academy Award) for his performance here and he certainly deserved it. His portrait of a knife thrower is chilling and warm at the same time. It is amazing that Auteuil did not become a Hollywood star. He has been nominated for Cesar's 12 times and has won twice. Only Gerard Depardieu has been nominated more (15 times and 2 wins). While Depardieu has made more than a dozen Hollywood films, Auteuil has been in none.Bsides Auteuil's outstanding and soulful performance, Vanessa Paradis is astonishing. She is as sexy and openly seductive as Greta Garbo. It is easy to see why she has been Johnny Depps lover/companion for the past 20 years or so.The film is artistic. So do not expect a linear Hollywood plot or easily understood characters. Just let the film's ambiance sweep you away to another world. "},{"Title":"Mr. Leconte's camera is more in love with Vanessa Paradis than it is with the story.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patrice Leconte, who swept us deftly and colourfully through the Age of Ridicule which preceded the French Revolution, has taken a moment here to stop and smell the roses in the form of Vanessa Paradis. She, in the nubile image of a youthful Jeanne Moreau melded with the timeless Audrey Hepburn, has apparently captivated -no-make that seduced Monsieur Leconte, diverting his attention from the excellent premise of the story which asks Why, my tasty little cumquat, commit a tiresome suicide, when you could die before an audience, pierced by Daniel Auteuil's -and other's-knives? The literally breathtaking and intimate moments of the film are unfortunately diluted when the director and the story lose focus because of taking time out to play with the talented and seductive Miss Paradis. Not a bad thing in itself, and thank you, but why waste a good black and white film (and, incidentally, good actors)with gratuitous voyeurism?  "},{"Title":"I was checking my watch","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had great direction (remniscent of Godard) and wonderful photography, but the point it was making was somehow not too earthshaking. What are we supposed to learn here Don't trust knife-throwers whom you meet on bridges? Luck can change? If you are beautiful and photogenic nothing else matters?After three-quarters of an hour I found myself checking my watch at frequent intervals. I need a lot more than close-ups of a cute face and stunning scenery to keep my interest. I would have loved to see the character of Adele develop and change; however she seemed not to have learned anything from her experiences. "},{"Title":"A French AMERICAN BEAUTY. (possible spoiler)","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite cleverly, Patrice Leconte, cinema's most celebrated misogynist, has managed to make a film that is supposed to be about one thing (the girl on the bridge) and is really about another (male, middle-aged self-pity; fans of AMERICAN BEAUTY are recommended this movie).  The film opens with the heroine answering questions about her life, her dreams and hopes, her failures.  It is not quite clearly why or to whom she's doing this - she speaks to an unseen female interviewer in a blackened room with a small, unfocused audience.  Is she on trial?  Being interrogated?  On a television chatshow?  The interviewer seems too benign for the first two, the questions too direct for the latter.  The point is that she speaks in her own words, she can articulate her own crises, and, in making the objective interviewer disclose personal information, breaks down the barrier between subject and object, one of the film's main themes.The peak of her power comes straight after this, as she takes the decision to commit suicide.  After ten minutes all her power and individuality is used up, and she becomes the pawn of a mysteriously powerful middle-aged man, a mere projection of his fantasies.  The film ceases to be about her trauma and becomes his.  There are quite a lot of films like this.Gabor takes Adele to be the target for his knife-throwing act.  A man hurling knives at a passive woman is, of course, open to the most obvious suggestions, but throughout his career, Leconte has displayed a very strange attitude to sex.  People who have a lot of it feel empty and disillusioned (LES BRONZES, LE PERFUM D'YVONNE); some men desire it, but, fatally, don't get it (MONSIEUR HIRE); mostly, they don't seem to desire it, and don't get it (LES SPECIALISTES).  There is a weird puritan streak in this supposed sensualist.  It is initially, crudely suggested that Gabor is gay, but the literalising of the knife-throwing as sexual sublimation in the railway shed (a very disturbing 'sex' scene, Adele writhing in orgasmic ecstasy, at one point literally lying down, pinned, awaiting the phallic attack), suggests that Gabor's problem is impotence, that his inability to ultimately control Adele rests in his inability to sexually claim her.So, instead, he tries to stop anyone else having sex with her.  He tames this promiscuous beast because, in a very bizarre morality, her sexual freedom has led to her despair.  He tries to iron out her sexuality, her femininity, by making her look like a boy, and also a stature - the film is a kind of Pygmalion, about a knowledgeable man who takes an unformed girl and makes her a woman fit for society, except it's an anti-Pygmalion, because she knows quite enough about society and the world.  He turns a worldly woman into a statue, into the world of (male) fairy tale and magic.  Her attempt to break away from him, like Eliza Doolittle, leaves her adrift and betrayed and lost in the narrative - we never see her again except as a projection of his suicidal desires - his gambling, than, is just a figure for failure and misdirection.You wouldn't mind this rather dubious subject matter if it was fuelled with the misanthropic glee of TANGO or the dreamy melancholy of THE HAIRDRESSER'S HUSBAND.  But this is, if I may say so under IMDb guidelines, Leconte's least interesting film cinematically since LES BRONZES - most of the information is conveyed verbally.  He tries to break this through a few desperate tilts, cranes and swoops, and a thumping score. Because it is filmed in black and white, some undiscriminating critics who haven't seen many films have compared it to the nouvelle vague, but it is actually the complete opposite - phoney, contrived, absurdly over-composed; all danger, spontaneity, LIFE drained out of it.  When we get to Italy, we get some cod-Felliniisms (the statue at the car raffle; the ship of fools), and there is a dubious attitude to foreigners in the Turkish section. Ultimately we've here before, and the actors, the permenantly dour Daniel Auteuil, and the charming, inconsequential Vanessa Paradis, are rarely allowed to enliven a very slight story.  The backstage of the circus is briefly engaging, and you have to watch this film for a wonderfully shocking, cruel, hilarious and (of course) misogynistic joke involving an abandoned bride and a badly timed loss of concentration. "},{"Title":"I'm Sorry","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best moments of the quirky love story, Girl on the Bridge, come in the beginning sequence when the introspective Adele (played by the beautiful Vanessa Paradis) is questioned about her clinical depression by an unseen voice in a room full of unseen therapists. Adele explains both her natural attraction and her bad luck with successive men who mistreat her in one way or another. Then comes Gabor (Daniel Auteuil) who tries to 'rescue' her from the bridge she is about to jump off. Their relationship starts out like a Pymalion story with the more intelligent Professor Higgins and the unrefined Eliza but then turns into a road show, like La Strada, with the experienced showman Zampano and poor waif Gelsomina but finally ends up looking like Two for the Road with two sick puppies who can't do without each other. You come away from Girl on the Bridge thinking about love in the abstract rather than love you can feel. Do we really care that in the end, the knife thrower and the target have changed places? Can we really understand the pathetic lives of a younger woman and an older man who instinctively know what the other is doing and whose sexual gratification comes from experiencing the fear of dying? Given the high drama of their lives, you would think Girl on the Bridge could come to some conclusion about two desperate characters trying to find some meaning in life. Instead we meet them back on a bridge where they started out in the beginning, with an oddly chosen Brenda Lee tune thrown in to accentuate the strangeness of a strange film.  "},{"Title":"Another Stylish Film From Patrice Leconte","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's another very, very different movie. The dialog is quite different and so is the fact that it's a modern movie filmed in black-and-white. It is part romance, comedy and drama.The camera-work is excellent, but that's no surprise considering Patrice Leconte is the director. He's my favorite European director because his films are visual feasts. His facial closeups and different camera angles are fascinating.Vanessa Paradis is captivating as the female lead character Adele. She's unusual in that she has a very pretty face but horrible teeth! It's tough not to focus on both the face and teeth at the same time. The dialog between her and Gabor (Daniel Auteuil) is different, at least for me as an American. I think the French have a totally different sense of humor....and are superstitious, big-time.I wish the tape had been dubbed, so I could have concentrated more on the great visuals instead of having to read the subtitles. "},{"Title":"On and Off","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The main character here is played by a young woman who we discover in an extraordinary opening sequence, an interview placed outside of the film proper, where we learn her character and her way of carrying it. This scene is memorable, because of the firmness with which she clings to damage and vulnerability. It is long and intimate, and placed in an audience of which we are a part.The actress playing this girl is perfect. She really is a plain woman, with bad teeth, a sagging chin and misplaced forehead. But when she decides to turn it on, the sun opens up and you receive the sort of beauty film is made for. This actress in fact is a top model; that is her talent, her job and presumably her life.The story surrounds this as a folded wrapper. She finds a man who sees her as his partner, but not as she is used to. He wants to make love of course; we all yearn for this with someone who is a soulmate. They are soulmates, to the extent that they can speak to each other across cities. His love is dangerous and penetrating. It carries the extremes he is capable of and she is of supporting. (The metaphor is knife throwing, but that is as much an abstraction as the water and bridges images &#x97; all of which are brilliantly conveyed using pure cinema.)A scene has her begging for him at a train platform, now, anywhere and they retire to a shed where he throws at her in the most erotic scene I have seen in years. She is more than radiant, he more than master.The switch here is the switch between good and bad luck, which he introduces. While we are the audience of the two, he is the audience of her; we both throw, we both risk, and we both are rewarded.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A fine bit of Patrice Leconte fluff revolving around luck, sex and flying cutlery","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" She Suicidal, about to jump off a bridge. He A carnival knife thrower. Would you like to be my target, he asks. Sounds like a match made in heaven. Patrice Leconte's La Fille sur le Ponte may be a bit of quirky romantic fluff, but its great fluff. It's a diverting entertainment without much purchase, thank goodness, for the admiration of deeper meanings with which some Anglo cinephiles deaden the experience of good French movies. It's the story of two people who probably could only exist in the movies. Adele (Vanessa Paradis) is 21, endlessly compliant and endlessly unlucky in love (and with just about everything else, too.) She's a charming gamin, especially if you're the guy trying to pick her up. Boys attract me, she says, like beautiful clothes. I always want to try them on. At last she figures out that, for her, while sex is a friendly thing, it never seems to last or to work into anything else. Funny, isn't it, how people can seem madly in love when they're not. It must be easy to fake. So there she is one evening about to jump off a bridge. Gabor (Daniel Auteuil), an older man, tries to talk her out of jumping. He'd like her to be his target. With her figure and his skill, they'll be a hit...although, he points out, past the age of 40 knife throwing becomes erratic. She decides to jump anyway. He rescues her and before long they are an act. Adele continues to offer her innocently explicit friendship to those she encounters. She discovers a gift for luck. Gabor? Well, Adele and Gabor develop a distinctly odd approach to intimacy...knife throwing. Giving and receiving seems to bring out all the heavy breathing and beads of perspiration one would expect from the other activity. Note Do not try this at home just to find out for yourself. What starts as a clever, funny suicidal set up moves into a clever, amusing story about knife throwing as a metaphor for sex and roulette as a metaphor for...well, maybe a relationship. It's so off-kilter, and Adele and Gabor are so attractive and interesting, that their quirky relationship is almost a guilty pleasure to watch. Will Adele decide to move a little so she can find out if one of Gabor's thrown knives is better than a young man's.... Will Gabor ever decide to try something other than a knife to intrigue Adele with.... Will Leconte's amusing mixture of luck, cold steel, eroticism, clever dialogue and shrewd acting come to a happy ending? When things begin to edge a little too close to what passes as seriousness in the movies, about three-quarters of the way through, Leconte has the good sense to pull back. This, after all, is a quirky romantic comedy done with flourishes and knives. You should see the movie. It's well worth it. Daniel Auteuil, one of the screen's great actors, manages to make of Gabor a man with an interestingly unspoken life for us to think about. When a movie depends on quick, clever dialogue, it needs to be delivered matter-of-factly, with no delays for glances, sighs or eye work. Auteuil's matter-of-factness is as deliberately amusing as his lines. Paradis, on the other hand, must make this young woman who lies down so willingly someone we like. Not only does Paradis give us pleasure in sex, when she's around she makes us feel almost young, innocent and erotic ourselves. And how nice it is to see a beautiful star actress without perfect teeth. Some critics have noted the several affectionate references to well known French films Leconte places in The Girl on the Bridge. I wouldn't know. I was too busy enjoying the movie. However, for those who might be intrigued enough to watch some of Leconte's other movies, he'll give you a variety of emotions to deal with. My favorites include Monsieur Hire, full of uneasiness and uncomfortable feelings; The Widow of Saint-Pierre, which comes close to tragedy; Ridicule, as malicious and amusing as you could wish; and my favorite to date, Man on the Train, a wonderful, thoughtful movie of sadness, regret and fulfillment. The Girl on the Bridge is beautifully photographed in black and white. "}{"Title":"Has its good moments, but I expected much more...","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know, maybe it's just me, I expected another kind of film. What I thought this was all about was another study in the inexplicable nature of Love. The movie is partly about this, and partly a dream-like journey in the search of Luck. After the first half-hour,which is very,very good,quirky,funny,touching,the film loses it, everything remains pleasant enough,but really nothing special, I'm afraid... What I liked about FSLP,and was quite taken by surprise,was Vanessa Paradis. Not only she's achingly beautiful - but we knew this already,didn't we? - but she's very good as well her initial monologue left me quite stunned.. Other things I liked1)Daniel Auteuil - Always heard of him, but never saw anything with him, until today. He is very, very good. 2)The relationship existing between the 2 leads -  They're distant,yet so close...3)The Cinematography - the movie is shot in b&w, quite nice indeed One more thingwe soon understand that for the 2 characters the act of knife-throwing is kinda like having sex. Fine, I thought, that's an interesting idea. But the director works upon this too much,and it rapidly becomes boring. In short, not a bad film, the 2 leads are quite wonderful, but I expected something else. Rating6 "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this film based on Leconte's previous films. Previews sounded good, great actor etc but left feeling disappointed - it all seemed rather contrived, even down to Daniel Auteuil's eyeliner and Ms Paradis short intakes of breath - she does it so well - as usual - all seemed a bit misogynous (older man throwing knives at younger woman) rather than sexual chemistry! and hey lets call this romantic comedy. Black and white cinematography was brilliant and slick though, and yes I do agree Laconte shows his versatility - how to make good films and bad!!  "},{"Title":"Sweet Romantic Fantasy","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Girl on the Bridge (La Fille sur le pont) is mostly an updated, black-and-white, non-musical, French version of Lili with Vanessa Paradis extraordinarily similar to the original cinema gamin Leslie Caron--she's the one who sang Hi Lili Hi Lili Hi Lo so convincingly to the puppets. She looks quite a lot like Winona Ryder, which is a bit freaky as she's Johnny Depp's new paramour. Only instead of puppets it's now knives thrown at her, and instead of an innocent belief in the power of imagination, it's an erotic thrill in challenging death and fate, and instead of finding puppets irresistible, she can't resist sex with any soulful looking guy.It's a sweet romantic fantasy with cute dialog and some nice sad songs on the soundtrack, including Brenda Lee and Marianne Faithful. But in this day and age can't they solve the problem of unreadable white subtitles on a white background? This is a lovely date movie.(originally written 9/2/2000) "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  La Fille sur le pont is an excellent film. It's about luck, bad luck, but also about love and passion. And there's a lot of passion in this one. The acting is fantastic. Daniel Auteuil and Vanessa Paradis are just incredible. Once again, Patrice Leconte delivers. This is one of my favorite director. See his other movies La Veuve de Saint-Pierre, Ridicule, Le Mari de la coiffeuse. You'll never be disappointed by Leconte.On a 4 stars rating system, I gave this one ***½. Seen at home, in Welland, on Oct. 10th, 2001. Marko Roy. "},{"Title":"Simply, A Pleasure","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Every once in a while &#x97; too rarely &#x97; a film unexpectedly hits you like the burst-in-your-mouth of a fresh, flavorsome tomato. You're left sitting with a grin, thinking simply, Wow. I really enjoyed that. For me, Patrice Leconte's The Girl on the Bridge (La Fille sur la Pont) was one of those films.The film opens with 21-year old Adele (Vanessa Paradis) explaining to a roomful of psychology students why she is suicidal All her life she has been luckless, especially so with men. She cannot resist men (she feels compelled to try them on, Adele says, like other girls her age try on pretty clothes). Yet men treat her abominably.Cut to a bridge over the Seine. Night. Adele stands on the edge staring down into the water, trying to screw up the courage to jump, the sounds of samba music coming from a passing tourist boat. A man's voice from the dark You look like a girl who's about to make a mistake. One of the great pickup lines in film.The voice belongs to Gabor (Daniel Auteuil), a knife thrower in search of a target. He recruits on bridges, he tells Adele, because the women he meets there have little to lose &#x97; so if he hits them, it's no big loss. Adele promptly jumps into the river.Fortunately, Adele survives, and she and Gabor perform his knife-throwing act to great acclaim across Europe. In a reversal of fortune for them both, they find that together they have astonishing luck in every facet of their lives. But Adele soon ends it, for with her newfound luck, she has met her Mr. Right, and she leaves Gabor behind.But Gabor and Adele are, as Adele remarks, like the two halves of a torn 50-franc note Apart, their luck is all bad. Working on a cruise ship, Gabor puts a knife into the thigh of Adele's replacement; he is immediately offloaded in Istanbul, with no means of returning to Paris. Adele is abandoned by her Mr. Right in Athens; she is left lost and destitute.But just as Gabor has lost all hope and is about to jump off an Istanbul bridge, he hears a woman's voice You look like a man who's about to make a mistake.The film charms throughout, not least because of the charisma of Paradis and Auteuil. Paradis, in particular, is mesmerizing as Adele, a naive waif with a striking, confident beauty buried inside, waiting to emerge. But Leconte balances the film's charm with a certain gravitas, as throughout Gabor and Adele balance on the edges between life and death; fear and ecstasy; happiness and despair; sexual penetration and emotional laceration. The result is, simply, a pleasure to behold. "},{"Title":"Lucky in Love.","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film opens with an extended shot of a somewhat bedraggled Vanessa Paradis explaining to a woman off screen how her life has been a meaningless mess. The camera watch Paradis carry on for about five minutes, while tears begin to roll down her cheeks. The scene is never referred to again.There is a cut to the same Paradis, still bedraggled, ready to jump off a night-time bridge in Paris. Just as she's about to take a nose dive, she's interrupted by an observer standing nearby, Pierre Auteuil. He doesn't rush to her aid or anything. He tells her that her run of bad luck is just a patch of rough road and, besides, she looks too good to waste. If she's so anxious to off herself, she can come and work for him. He's a knife thrower at a circus. The bridge is where he picks up girls so depressed that they're willing to take the job, regardless of the danger.At this point I began to shudder all over with fear. Not fear for Paradis, but fear that I was in for a long, very French disquisition on the nature and meaning of life, all shot at night and in the rain.But, lo, it's much better than that. In fact, it's pretty good. Briefly, Auteuil and Paradis make a splendid team and they rise to the top of their profession, if that's what it is. The tricks get more difficult. Auteuil throws his knives blind, and then at Paradis while she's rotating rapidly on one of those wheels that the simply dressed target always spins on. They're luck in every respect; they win big at Monte Carlo.Now, your typical-standard American romance has them quit while their career is at its zenith. With their considerable stash, they buy a well-appointed beach bungalow, Auteuil puts himself through medical school and becomes the avuncular brain surgeon he's always wanted to be, and Paradis is ecstatic at finding herself a pregnant housewife with a room dedicated to her home sculpture and macramé.Not here. Paradis is happy enough having knives thrown at her, but she and Auteuil never play doctor together. Instead, he's merely annoyed when her whimsy takes her to somebody else's bed. At one point she's about to make it with a contortionist, an interesting concept.Just when the going is great, she finds Mister Right aboard a carnival boat. (I missed the original French for Mister Right, but that's how the English subtitle came out.) She bids Auteuil a quiet good-bye and she and her new flame depart in a lifeboat. I haven't figured out how they got off the cruise ship in a lifeboat in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea either.But no matter. The plot forges ahead. Mister Right deserts Paradis immediately in Istanbul. She drags herself around the city. It's never explained how she manages to support herself but it's easy enough to guess. Auteuil loses his uncanny skill with the knives and is reduced to selling them for a few dates or a cucumber. He wind up dressed in tatters and about to jump off a bridge himself.I never took the knives/luck business too seriously, figuring it must be a symbol for something else. By the end, I figured the something else was total commitment in a relationship, including outright expressions of love and including physical intercourse, both of which had been missing. The movie itself prompts this kind of conjecture. Vanessa Paradis hauls him into a dark tunnel, saying that they both know what they want. And what do they want? Another knife-throwing episode, while she writhes orgasmically and Auteuil sweats up a storm, both of them totally glandular.I've always liked Auteuil. He has the face of Humphrey C. Earwicker, a kind of everyman. His nose is as big as his eyes. Paradis' body is flawless. And her face is almost inhumanly handsome except for her teeth. Lots of attractive women have gaps between their two upper incisors, but she has gaps between all of her teeth, so sizable that Auteuil, if he wanted, could throw knives through them.I enjoyed the thing. It was in black and white, and free of those crazy tilted camera angles and wobbling shots and instantaneous editing that more recent films are susceptible to. Try it. You might like it. "},{"Title":"Daniel Auteuil and Vanessa Paradis find they need each other","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Girl on the Bridge tells of a May-December romance, poetically, darkly in theme, and with noir overtones. The film is as alluring as its lead actress, Vanessa Paradis, and as intense as the deep eyes of its leading man, Daniel Auteuil; but it is also light, escaping into flights of fancy and imagination, breaking the limits of human communication.The acting of Auteuil is flawless. I felt some discomfort at the efforts, not always successfully convincing, of Ms. Paradis, but sympathetically, because her role is a very large and challenging one.The darkness of the movie is not only its black and white photography, but also its themes. A movie that begins with a suicide attempt is bound to be serious. Knife-thrower Auteuil talks Paradis out of suicide and into becoming his target on the entertainment circuits. She is naturally loose sexually, and not that happy about the results, while he keeps his distance. His tension has to be directed at throwing knives around her in some tense scenes, while she begins to find her way back from promiscuity.He is as broken and incomplete a person as she is, but together they make a kind of performing magic. And this extends to the casino and their luck. Luck in this movie is not what you make of it. There is no such bourgeois theme here. Instead luck is something that is more ineffable, yet you grasp it at times by a kind of sublimated release into something beyond oneself.These two souls find that together they have the luck. Apart they do not.The story is unusual and told unusually with some poetic license. Has poetic realism returned? The charm of Paradis and the intensity of Auteuil plus the beautiful images and the story carry us right along. This will be a poem that you will want to see again. "},{"Title":"Don't Jump!  A Film for The Closet Romantic, Lushly Photographed","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you want a provocative romantic double-bill for the weekend, I strongly suggest this film followed by Luc Besson's odd but engaging Angel-A; both films open with an individual about to jump off a bridge in Paris--they are each stopped from leaping by another person who wanders by--leading to complications. Both films are lushly photographed in black and white (odd for such contemporary films, but highly effective), and both give us quirky lead characters who attempt to find some meaning in their lives; The Girl On The Bridge takes us to other cities beside Paris, and Angel-A has a hair-raising shot from the Eiffel Tower--Paris really a major character, too. While adult in nature, neither film is excessively violent,although the language in Angel-A can get pretty salty. Both are often funny in their look at relationships, often satirical, though seldom biting; while not masterpieces, both are good fun for the closet Romantic--and in this case, the director being Patrice Leconte, fun for those of us who like a little weirdness tossed into the narrative. "},{"Title":"Not just a rom-com...","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" La Fille sur le Pont truly is the grown up fairy tale. Here, our Prince Charming is replaced by the unlikely Daniel Auteuil, a quick-witted, straight talking knife thrower whilst our Princess (Vanessa Paradis) proves to be a promiscuous, doe-eyed waif fallen on hard times. Both appear to live in an incomplete world, short of both companionship and luck. As expected they meet (all be it in rather peculiar circumstances) and we embark with them on their frantic journey to far off lands, fame and fortune. The film raises the age old questions of destiny and luck and the possible existence of either. Yet the director, Patrice Leconte, carefully creates an atmosphere of hope and belief and so despite all cynicism an audience does become seduced by the ideology of a good old romance.It's rom-com exterior proves highly deceptive as in fact it is a film of great detail and intense beauty. The absence of colour only enhances further the lavish and glamorous surroundings through which the couple saunter. The soundtrack is equally bohemian with elements of swing, samba, Asian folk and jazz all enhancing the exotic nature of the film. Combined with dynamic camera work and fast paced dialogue, the intensity of the knife-throwing scenes permeates throughout the entirety of the film.Patrice Leconte has created a charming piece of cinema that is sentimental, pretty and endearing. Definitely recommended as a quiet night-in, feel-good film. "},{"Title":"What is love?","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Daniel Auteuil (Caché) and Vanessa Paradis certainly give us a good answer to that question.She is ready to jump off a bridge when he comes to save her and convince her that, if she is going to kill herself anyway, she might as well be his target in a knife-throwing act.But, her luck changes when she learns to trust him and give herself to him. She has a need to sleep with anyone she fancies, but not with him. Their intercourse is in the act, and you can can see the passion on her face as he uses his knives as a means of penetration. Well, not penetration of her, as that would be messy.Auteuil was extremely funny with a script by Serge Frydman. The direction of Patrice Leconte ensured that the film's 90 minutes packed the wallop of a 3 hr film, and cinematography by Jean-Marie Dreujou gave this black and white film a magic that was captivating.Love? It's trust and concern and belief in your partner. "}{"Title":"ADÈLE NOT AMÉLIE","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Un coup de des jamais n'aborlira le hazard' (A throw of the dice can never abolish chance.)The film starts in a great wayour protagonist ADÈLE(perfect for this role Vanessa Paradis)in a interview,she talks with frankness about her short but turbulent life full of misfortunes.the first 15 minutes of LA FILLE SUR LE PONT is perfect!(a visit in the hospital never have been so anecdotical).This also include when Adèle is about to jump from a bridge then she encounters her lucky `associé'.the conversation between this odd couple it's great!!.Girl on the bridge is the most `youthful' film  of Patrice Leconte. I even liked the characters,the story,the smart script,photography,the song from Marianne Faithful(á la Edith Piaf). I don't know if the story is realistic but in a old interview ROBERT BRESSON commented that because he lived near The Seine,he saw many people jump into the river in front of the window.(` To be aware of a certain emptiness can make life impossible.'RB). This film is my `Amélie'.Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles. "},{"Title":"Oh, for more of the same!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film achieves a unique surrealistic tone throughout, without resorting to special effects. No gimmicks are required for the dialogue and setting carry the day. Even the absurd situations (which I will not divulge here)seem logical within the confines of the action of the film.When viewing surrealist paintings, few need to ask what the artist is attempting--the same is true of this film. The direction and the acting are so seductive that the viewer is willingly led from one illogical scene to another. And it all makes sense, especially in today's film world where suspending disbelief is so difficult. This film is testimony that black and white works just fine indeed, color would simply detract from the effect of this film which is truly surreal. This film is more than a ten, it's a borderline 'leben.Oh, for more of the same!   "},{"Title":"I tingled after I had watched this","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I borrowed this on video and only got round to watching it the night before it was due for return.  What a great movie!  Some have criticised the film for the tired old trick of older man / younger woman, but the way this is presented is utterly charming.  Auteuil is as stunning as ever (I admit he is one of the few older male actors I really have time for but he just gets better and better) and Paradis is a real treat.But the key to the movie is its use of a track from the heavily under-rated and quirky City of the lost Children.  Marianne Faithful's aching voice accompanies all the main knife-throwing sequences in Girl on the Bridge and I was astonished at how powerful it made the film.  The hairs on my neck stood up and my spine burned - what a charge!  Why this track remains so obscure breaks my heart.Translation is always tricky and here is no exception.  Subtitles from French are often difficult to capture in English (that notoriously slippery language) and here it is compounded by the Black and White cinematography sometimes obscuring them physically.  But stick with it because this tragi-comic drama-romance (how else could one describe it?) is worth the effort even for those who avoid sub-titled films. "},{"Title":"breath-taking","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is one of those rare ones that haunt you - in the most beautiful way. even though (or is it because?) the main characters never kiss, smooch, let alone have sex, the atmosphere is charged with something sensual, something erotic from the time they first meet to the end (or is it more like a new beginning?). simply wonderful - a tale of love, and life. "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very unusual plot, strange characters, beautiful black and white cinematography. I was delighted with this plunge into the circus world of odd characters. It was delightfully sexy, sensual and yet not the least bit specific in its sexuality. "},{"Title":"A perfect ten","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this wonderful French movie was for me so enchanting that I was compelled to go back three days later for another fix.  The lure of the photography, editing (superb!),sound track, acting --and the chemistry between Auteuil and Paradis makes this my favorite movie ever.  Congratulations to Patrice Leconte for delivering a true love story -- adult, innocent and timeless -- that it was possible to lose oneself in it.   This is a TEN!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful in every way","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I knew this would be a good film before I saw it, simply based on the plot description and the reviews, but I was surprised to find it much better than I had expected.  Auteuil and Paradis are a wonderful couple, and the chemistry between them gives their bantering a sparkle and bite from the first moment they meet.  The dialogue is witty and sardonic, especially on Auteuil's side.  The black and white photography is gorgeous - could anything be whiter than those glamorous Monte Carlo facades, gleaming in the sun as Gabor and Adele arrive to make their fortune?  Some have complained about the psychic connection between the two leads, seeing this as a flaw in a good love story.  I think this is taking the matter too literally; what this surely is is an internal dialogue, the struggle between the body and the mind.  The final happy resolution, where the two halves meet and accept each other, takes place on the bridge crossing the Bosphorus, the link between Europe and Asia. A beautiful film, that gives one to think as the French say. "},{"Title":"French New Wave-y + evocative soundtrack","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked how there were very strange, bizarre mind-reading moments. I liked the choice of black and white. And the intro scene when Adele speaks to the camera.The storyline was pretty predictable, but i didn't mind that too much. The visuals were very French New Wave-y, which i loved.But to me, the most outstanding (or one of) points about the film is the soundtrack. I thought the music really added a great evocative effect to the knife scenes. An almost trance-like feeling.  "},{"Title":"Older man, younger woman, love beyond sex.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this lovely film very thought-provoking.  It's symbolism and it's view of life, love and sex are quite remarkable, especially in a French flick. The philosophic idea that life and relationship are games of chance are not new, but the use of a knife-thrower and a suicidal young woman was very affecting.  The tension between them, although certainly sexual, is far more...their intuitive reading of one another (suggesting that we all can tap into one another with enough sensitivity) draws them into a profound trust...even a dependence that they ultimately recognize is love.  Very beautiful and original movie and I commend the writer and the director.  The soundtrack is terrific...parallel to the action, but not intrusive or manipulative.  My only complaint is that too often the subtitles, white on white, were unreadable. Happily, though the images were sufficient to hold interest and allow comprehension. If you like innovative, challenging, professional cinema, see this one! "},{"Title":"A story of two lost souls who find one another,","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A superb, original love story that opens with a homage to Francois Truffaut. Twenty-one year old Adele who has drifted into la vie active is interviewed by an unseen psychologist whom Adele totally eludes, in the same understated way that Antoine Doinel evades the well-meaning psychologist who interviews him in The Four Hundred Blows.Serge Frydman creates a provocative heroine in Adele who can have casual sex with any man except Gabor. Gabor, in turn, can only express his passion for Adele in his knife throwing skills. The knife throwing scenes between them are original, electric and more intensely erotic than any conventional love making could ever be. Serge Frydman's clever use of the knife throwing metaphor, Adele's easy physical availability to every man except Gabor and the mysterious ability of these two eccentric people to share their most intimate thoughts over great distances whenever they're separated, help free us from the merely sexual, make us concentrate on the deep spiritual bond between them and their growing need for each other.Another visual surprise in Serge Frydman's scenario is the quick, dramatic cuts from close interiors to wide panoramas; for example, from a knife throwing performance on a cruise ship to Adele and a would-be lover in a life boat in the middle of the ocean. A lyricism is conveyed that reminds me of Fellini's Armacord and, more recently, Benigni's Life is Beautiful.Every now and then the French, with about the same frequency as the English and the Americans, get it right. In this rich, deeply moving story, Serge Frydman shows an acute understanding of Adele and Gabor comparable to Gabor's precision when he aims his knives at Adele.   "}{"Title":"It's a nice movie with some original features","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are some special things in this movies. In general it has many elements that make French movies my favorites. The black and white of photography gave a different touch. Daniel Auteuil was as always great. Vanessa Paradis was OK but she doesn't compare to he great partner. The thing that I really liked in this movie was its cut and the sudden shift from a scene to another accompanied with a similar shift in the music. The soundtrack is very interesting and it contains a collection of songs in many different languages and music styles. The plot itself was not that interesting for me. I expected more surprises in the French  way. I would recommend the film but without making big promises. "},{"Title":"A road movie - with style","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yet another modern French movie where a beautiful girl barely out of her teens (and a nymphomaniac, no less) falls head over heels in love with a fifty-something loser. I should go French more often. It does wonders to my ego.Frivolity aside (and who's joking), Patrice Leconte, who also made the equally enjoyable 'Ridicule', does a good job in rehashing the old chestnut about two kindred souls finding, losing and refinding each other. The film is shot in gorgeous black and white. The story moves interestingly and fast in mostly exotic locations. Daniel Auteuil, who is always good value, is in top form (although a few young actors must be plotting an accident by now - he is in every third French movie made). Vanessa Paradis looks and acts like a young, and more accessible, Bardot (no pun intended). Knife-throwing metaphor is served with a large ladle and gets a bit repetitive after the sixth helping. Also, the ending also the feel of a focus-group-decided cop-out normally expected from a Hollywood production. All in all, however, the film is above average entertainment with some art-house aspirations that doesn't disappoint. It also has one of the most derivative and richest soundtracks on offer. "},{"Title":"A sublime view from this bridge","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The strength of this film lies in the the fact that it has a plot - a simple one - but it attempts to tell a story which is a welcome return to old fashioned movie making.  The black and white wide screen photography further places this film in the realm of something special, something so confidently realised and self-assured that it does not need to gaudily, noisily market itself to the audience.  What the audience gets is a playful reworking of the conventional romance which, in its own way, reinforces the power of love and trust.The film opens with a six-minute sequence, where Vanessa Paradis as Adele is interviewed by an unseen woman in front of an audience.  It may be a TV studio, or a psychologists' convention - this is not important, but what is important is the honesty and the confidence with which the questions are answered.  All this sets the tone and the mood and the theme of the film.  Adele speaks about luck (all of it bad) and banal, failed, empty sexual encounters. She says, I've never had a day where I wasn't taken advantage of.   Adele, then, is like all of us in a modern society.  We desperately buy into the images before us, never checking out the depth behind the facade.  On a lonely Parisian bridge at night, Adele contemplates suicide and is saved by Gabor (Daniel Auteuil) a knife thrower looking for a new target.  They team up and the story begins.  This is not a story of a fortysomething lusting after a nubile young thing but rather a story of people who deserve each other, people who have been damaged by society and who need more than just sex.  When the couple part, they cannot function without each other - physically and mentally.  The story ends where it begins, on a bridge - a perfect symbol of transience and change and also danger (what lies on the other side?).There are some serious Jungian and Freudian symbols here, the most obvious being the phallic throwing knives and the act itself as the perfect substitute for sex.  Have fun connecting with the symbols - dwarves, leopards, boats, the ocean, fire, wheels, cars - and the music from Marianne Faithfull, Brenda Lee and North African rhythms and you will not be bored by this quirky look at the human condition.  A worthwhile view from this  bridge. "},{"Title":"A magical and relaxing film which...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This engaging French romantic comedy may take a few liberties with the nature of life and luck, but its original take on a well-worn genre (two strangers meet by chance and hit it off) works thanks to good performances from the two leads and the old-fashioned charm of simple, black and white, no-frills cinematography. Funny yet serious, stylishly modern yet nostalgically antique, it captures the heart and the imagination and draws the viewer into a state of relaxation that is rare in cinema these days. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Modern slice of French cinema dazzles....","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cinematography is groundbreaking, the images so rich, the sound haunting and the editing precise. You'd think black and white would limit a film like this, but it only enhances the evocative, sexual nature of the film. Vanessa Paradis and Daniel Autueil dazzle as a knife thrower in the circus and his new prop he uses for throwing his knives. This is a modern slice of French cinema well worth seeing, and although not entirely convincing it certainly does impress. **** "},{"Title":"funny, sad, ironic, intense","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What I liked about the film is Its black and white photography which emphasizes its irreality - apart from being beautiful. Its sadness, which goes along with an ironic sense of humor, its intensity, which derives from the tension between life on a knife's edge - literary and the lightness with which the characters live through the main part of the film - apart from the beginning and towards the end, regaining their optimism in the very end. Although I must say that the end is somehow pathetic. But it is a fairy tale anyway. Daniel Auteuil proves himself as a great actor, an artist in relation to the precision with which he gives life to the complex attitudes and situations lived by Gabor. Vanessa Paradiss is very good as well. "},{"Title":"Glossy actors shine!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Daniel Auteil and Vanessa Paradis look great together and the sexual tension between them, especially during the knife-throwing scenes, is electric. However, the movie seems marred by its glossy B&W stock and ever-moving camera and resembles more of a music video or television commercial. This hinders the emotional weight of the film. The characters are thoroughly engaging and the film does have a unique look, no matter how disorientating it may appear.  "},{"Title":"Quirky, offbeat but beautiul.","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happend to come across this movie while in Paris so I had to watch it with no sub-titles, which made it hard to follow to a certain degree. However I was surprised by this little gem of a French movie mostly because of the superb performances by the two leads especially a remarkable Paradis. It's a quirky, offbeat but beautiful film that engages you from start to finnish. The chemistry of the two characters, when they're together,is magical and the light comedy touch over blatant comedy, which they could have gone for here, is the key to it's success. I must also note the excellent direction and the black and white cinematography which is as stunning as Ms.Paradis herself.     "},{"Title":"Vanessa Paradis grows up","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  in this beautifully filmed (in black and white) road movie by Patrice Leconte. Vanessa Paradis, France's heretofore favorite nymphette blooms into a real woman, opposite a top form Daniel Auteuil as her mysterious significant other. Very original. "},{"Title":"Monotonous monochrome mystery...???","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We enjoyed this film, but I am mystified as to why it was made in black and white...???Apart from possibly conferring a dubious, instant 'world cinema/art movie' status it did absolutely nothing for the plot in my opinion and wasted some superb location and costume opportunities.It wasn't even executed particularly well, as most of the direction seemed to be in the modern style involving camera angles and sweeping movement and it had none of the classic 'set pieces' and static shots (panoramas, buildings etc.) of the earlier masters like the Japanese greats (Ozu, Kurosawa et al) The storyline, characters and acting should (and would) have been enough to lift this flic from the average - it simply does not benefit from being shot in black and white.Top honours must go to Vanessa Pardis for a superbly consistent performance which captured the (my) attention every time she was on the screen. I always have a little trouble with Daniel Auteil (it's the blank stare) but even he did very well despite signs of his advancing years making him look a little old for his leading lady - he is 22 years older than her after all!!Don't let all this put you off though - I rate this movie 8 out of 10 for still being refreshingly different in its treatment of unusual subjects and for carrying a story that was both engaging and entertaining. "}{"Title":"very good fantasy-romance--with an amazing monologue as the film begins.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an odd little film, partly because it's filmed in black and white and partly because the story has some strange elements. Some of the strange elements involve Daniel Auteuil's job (he's a knife thrower), the weird psychic bond that develops between him and Vanessa Paradis, and the unusual spate of good luck she has once they meet. However, it seems when they are apart, neither does particularly well. However, Auteuil's character is very apprehensive to profess his deep feelings for her--perhaps it's because he is quite a bit older than her or because he's not a particularly handsome man--the movie never really says.What really stood out for me was the monologue that Vanessa Paradis did at the beginning of the film. This really blew me away because this actress had originally been a model and singer--and began acting only later in life. It appeared to be in one take and she went from normal to producing real-looking tears without a cutaway scene--now THAT'S brilliant acting. Additionally, the film dared to be different--and for that it scores big points. Plus, it's a nice little romance--so what more could you want? "},{"Title":"Bridging Lone(r)","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this when it was released some five or six years ago and found it only so-so perhaps due to my aversion to Vanessa Paradis, a Goldie Hawn clone who seems to be under the misconception that acting is all about looking helpless and 'cute' and standing back as all the men within a hundred mile radius roll over and play dead. However the DVD is now available at a giveaway price so I watched it again and found more to admire. I have, of course, no problem with Patrice Leconte, indeed with some twelve titles he is the French director most represented in my DVD collection, similarly Daniel Auteuil is right behind Depardieu in the front rank of French actors currently working. So it was just a question of getting round Paradis which I found somewhat easier this time around. At the time (1999) Leconte had a penchant for using one actor twice in succession - Paradis appeared in his previous film Une Chance sur deux and Auteuil would appear in his next, La Veuve de St Pierre - so having just seen Paradis acted out of sight by Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo may have had something to do with it. The film is laced with wry, cynical lines and seems to be heading into Billy Wilder (The Apartment) territory except that the growing attachment between Auteuil and Paradis is largely on a subconscious level and even at the end it makes do without a conventional clinch. The idea of the obvious 'loser' - here Paradis - becoming stronger than the obvious 'stable/strong' one - Auteuil - is far from new, in fact SO far from new as to be formulaic so all that is left is to do it well and here all hands oblige. Leconte has one of the most eclectic ouevres of any director French or otherwise so it's ironic that he's chosen to come full circle inasmuch as his latest film - which opens in February -is a return to his roots; his second film was Les Bronzes and his latest Friends For Life or Les Bronzes Revisited. Meanwhile La Fille sur le pont is well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Art above everything...","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like many other french movies, this movie is about the beauty of film making, it's about the art that does not necessarily depend on a story. There is a great amount of fantasy in this movie, like most good things in life. One thing that I really liked about the movie was the fact that you can take almost any frame and it could be part of a photography exhibition. Some people may complain about the story, which may be bland by itself; others may complain about the fairytale-type romance in the movie, which may seem too sentimental. But it is the excess of emotions that gives it the flavor of a fairytale. I'd never watch a movie to learn something, because good movies like good poetry is beauty itself, and we don't analyze that. "},{"Title":"LA FILLE SUR LE PONT (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The day Vanessa Paradis conquered the world with her childlike 80's hit Joe Le Taxi nobody could have thought that a decade later she would be one of the leading French icons, and certainly not a brilliant actress. Cos that's really the least you can say about Vanessa's performance who look like some circusgirl from the fourties, you know the kind of circuspeople like they are filmed in Lynch's The elephant man. Vanessa plays the role of a young girl Adele who stands at a bridge ready to jump into the river, but just like in every fairy tale she is saved by Gabor (Danny Auteuil) who likes her to be his assisstent for his knife throwingact. She has nothing to loose, too weak to say no (she goes to bed with every guy who is asking for it) and soon she is the muse of Gabor. Even if the two never have any sex with each other, their knifethrowing act is an orgasm itself. And the two might lead a total different life (Auteuil is like a psychotic De Niro) they are made for each other... Is it a love story? Perhaps, but it's just more...at times it's even art (certainly due to the magnificent black and white cinematography) but most of all it's just an ordinary tale from two people who just live their life. La fille sur le pont is a genius movie from one of the most original directors France have, and quite unbelievable he started his career with the soulless comedy Les Bronzés. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun, even if a bit empty","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Style over substance can be a lot of fun, like in this movie. It's about a knife thrower (Daniel Auteuil) who recruits a suicidal girl (Vanessa Paradis) for his act. She doesn't want to live anyway, so why not die in a more interesting way than jumping off a bridge? The story's too vapid, and that's what makes it fade from memory so quickly after it's over, but there's a ton to offer while you're watching it. Leconte's quick pace and flashy direction is aesthetically alluring. The black and white cinematography is very beautiful. Although their characters aren't especially great, the two leads turn in excellent performances. Paradis is very cute (she could stand to get her teeth fixed, though), and I love Auteuil's look. He's got the most interesting nose since Jimmy Durante. Okay, so maybe its not the performers who are particularly great but their appearances. Good casting, perhaps. The script does have a nice vein of comedy running through it, too. I had thought it was going to take itself too seriously, which would have rendered the whole project rather useless. 8/10 "},{"Title":"a lyrical allegory in black and white","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Trust is dynamic.  Two individuals attempting suicide bookend this lyrical fairy tale, shot in black and white with tones reminiscent of a Renoir shot in the 30s.  If you can trust, you awaken great possibilities, good fortune unfolds.  In this allegory it comes to lucre, and commitment; in life, (for the rest of us) perhaps a house payment and affability.  Not everyone requires submission to the skills and profound dark stare of a professional knife thrower; Vanessa Paradis finds emotional fulfillment in her trust of Auteuil, and sexual satisfaction in her safe position as target of his worthy intentions.  The film's rhythm becomes a bit disturbed upon their separation, even a bit hackneyed; however, the final coda on the bridge with Paradis saving Auteuil and returning the favor is worth the down time wondering through cliched Turkish bazaars.  The French have not forgotten romance.  "},{"Title":"fantastique!","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Loved this film.  The theme is the 'two halves, one whole' idea - two people who become miserable losers when apart, but who together, cannot fail, nomatter what outrageous risks they take. In their first scene together, Gabor isn't on the bridge looking for a new target - he's there for the same reason as her, but once they're together it can't happen, as the luck is with them. Gabor's been in that situation before, as is evident at the casino - as the management know, he's no beginner. The final scene is almost a reprise of an earlier gamble he takes on the train tracks.  Auteuil is incomparable, as always. Hadn't seen Paradis before - reminded me a lot of Meg Ryan actually. The whole thing is beautiful to look at and the soundtrack is wonderful.  And above all, the film is funny. "},{"Title":"a fairy tale on the roads","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This can be considered as another fairy tale but with lots of twists No colors, or color busted scenes, it's all in black and white. The characters save each other. They are continually on the road, traveling from one city in Europe to another and from one bridge to another.Filmed entirely in black/white, the eye is not focused on the panoramas but on the characters themselves. Especially the knife-throwing scenes are quite craftily edited. The acting is quite well, and Vanessa Paradis is a surprise, she can actually act apart from singing. The soundtrack is very gripping.To sum up Girl on the Bridge is a road movie about love and luck which starts on a bridge in Paris and ends on another bridge in Istanbul.  "},{"Title":"Optimistic","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admire this very strong storytelling of theme - intuitive trust. The film tells that if you want to love someone there is no other way than trusting each other, how difficult it might be. It tells that if you do not believe on your emotions you will be lost. I could really live with the characters and feel the emotional knowledge when seeking the right relationship. There was no other way after they knew where their happiness will be. A really nice story. You will not be the same after seeing this film.  "},{"Title":"effective portrayals by Auteuil and Paradis","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The plot in this film, like most of director Leconte's films, is more of a situation than a storyline. The events and environment are shown in black and white; I suspect to minimalize their inherent sensationalism, and allow the viewer to focus on the characters, so surprisingly and effectively portrayed by Daniel Auteuil and Vanessa Paradis. Gradually intrigued by them, I finally cared for them, then understood them enough to let them go their own way.Mary Cadney, Oklahoma City  "}{"Title":"Far better than others would have you believe","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie's humor and simplicity redeem it from the trough to which most French romances fall prey.  The characters have a simple motivation. They are both desperate, and want more than anything to believe life holds a second chance for them.  Whether it's romance, fortune, or just glamor, that second chance happens because two people try a little harder.  More than camera work, dialogue, or suspense, these characters' faith carries them through a simple, engrossing good movie.  "},{"Title":"no wonder we broke up","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My ex-girlfriend suggested this movie.  She actually gave me a copy.  I had thought, previously, since she dug (or seemed to dig) Henry Fool (she later said that she must've been influenced by me, after having attempted to watch Surviving Desire and turning it off because it was too talky) that perhaps the movie would at least be remotely intriguing.  It wasn't.It was a definite case of style over substance.  Clearly influenced by MTV (or in Canada's case, Much Music), it was chock full of interesting camerawork, beautiful cinematography, but the sentiments were bland and the story annoying and the characters unappealing.  The story is about two incredibly needy, albeit unusual people (well, one is a knife thrower and the other is suicidal) who are tied at the hip and experience this serendipity and esp regarding each other.  Several scenes show them walking aroung talking to each other (each one is in another part of the world).  The movie is meant to show this tragic, romantic love affair full of magic and wonder and telepathy, but in the end, it's just a load of hogwash.  The film suffers from overwrought sentimentality and a grating, unbelievable storyline that is all about the forces of fate etc.I was just really put off by the whole fairy tale, Cinderella aspect to the story, which seems to broadcast that people can't survive alone, and there is one person out there who is your soul mate.  I realize that my own personal biases may influence this opinion, but so be it.  I'm not a big fan of fate/ destiny/ the idea that our lives are pre-written.  This film is a sickening lecture on the presence of serendipidy and fate and, in the end, I wanted to watch something real and gritty (Trainspotting or something).  I mean, I don't mind flights of fancy etc., but this film was trollop.If you're a hopeless romantic who believes in needy, clingy relationships full of jealousy and mistrust, then you may enjoy this flick.  If you have more of a philisophical bent and you believe in choice and free will and aren't usually pursuaded by layers of glossy style to conceal the fact that the film is a drab fairy tale, don't see this film.  Go see Swimming Pool or 400 Blows if you want excellent french cinema.  Avoid this at all costs.I give it 1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Just because it's French, it DOESN'T mean it's good!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reading some of the pompous, pretentious crap that some of the other reviewers have written about this piece of drivel, I can't help wondering what substances they consumed shortly before viewing it. This is just like those dreadful books that we had forced down our throats at school during English classes, where the teachers kept saying this is a fantastic piece of work and we all thought this rubbish?????.You meet characters like those portrayed in this movie in real life, and ten minutes later you realize that what they need most is a swift kick in the a** to get them to help themselves. Turgid, unsympathetic, unhelpful (as in unwilling to help themselves) drones. At the end of the day - in fact, well before the end of the movie - I found myself asking who cares?Yes, the black and white strengthed the movie somewhat, and there were a couple of clever lines. But they weren't enough to save one from ennui. There ARE excellent foreign movies, I've reviewed at least two very favourably on IMDb, but this is not one of them. "},{"Title":"this sucks","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you want to see a bad crappy movie, that is highly praised by anyone, see a french film. Or just see this one.Just like many other french movies, everyone talks great about it. Oh it is fabulous, so beautiful, so full of meanings, so intelligent... Wether it's crappy or not, the praises are there. Well this one sucks.Why? Well i'll try to be short.The story is simple and it's nothing out of the ordinary with it. Nothing special. But there are moments when it totally sucks. This film wants to be an analysis about luck, fortune and... bad luck, of course. But some moments of the plot are so not credible... like the huge number of Zeros coming out one after the other in the casino...The characters are poorly built and you just can't figure out what's driving them. The dialogue - good sometimes, but bad some other times. And last but not least, the ending horrible, and predictable.There is one good thing about it though the acting. I have to admit that Vanessa Paradis and Daniel Auteuil are very good. Vote 4 out of 10. "}]