[{"Title":"The many deaths of Chucky.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, as you can see, everyone's favorite blue overalls-wearing psychopathic doll has survived for a fourth installment. An excellent fourth installment, at that. I was very impressed with this one, especially after the dullness of Part 3 that got me completely bored that I doubted that there would even be any more sequels. . . Boy, was I wrong. But it just seems that in Bride of Chucky you actually feel some chemistry going on between him and Tiffany. Not only that, but it always seems that in the Child's Play series you could never really tell if Chucky's dead or not, whether he's shot in the heart, exploded into bits of pieces, or hacked up in a huge fan.This film also includes some memorable scenes, for example, the stunning segment where that guy gets blown to bits by getting hit by that huge truck. Pure genius from the film's screenwriter, and creator of characters, Don Mancini.Yes, shocking was the movie, the ending especially. Some good dialogue, a great plotline, pulse pounding suspense, and a hard-hitting soundtrack, Bride of Chucky promises everything the previews do and may become a famous pick-out in the horror genre. Highly reccomended for die-hard fans of the Child's Play series. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chucky (the murderous doll from Child's Play and 2 crappy sequels) is dead. But his ex-girlfriend Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) gets his remains and (using Voodoo for Dummies) revives him. Then, through circumstances too convoluted to get into, SHE is killed and has her soul put into another doll! Together they fall in love and kidnap a nice couple (Nick Stabile, Katherine Heigl) to take them to Chuck's coffin to get an amulet to make Chucky and Tiffany real people again...A lot better than it sounds. After the last two sequels to Child's Play (both of which were horrible) I was expecting the worst, but this actually was lots of fun. The movie doesn't take itself seriously for a second (seriously--how could it?) and the lines and situations are actually quite funny. Also there are a few VERY gory murders thrown in to satisfy us horror fans and the film never stops moving. The movie also has a few things usually not found in a horror movie--a gay best friend (Gordon Michael Woolvett) who is intelligent and not played for laughs and a sequence in which Stabile has his shirt off just to show his muscular body. John Ritter has a nice cameo too as a sheriff.The acting is good--Stabile is young, VERY handsome and likable; Heigl doesn't have much to do but pulls it off and Brad Dourif (the voice of Chucky) and Tilly are hilarious as the murderous dolls. My favorite part is when the dolls have sex (don't ask) and she asks for a rubber and he responds, But I'm MADE of rubber! The special effects are good (no lousy CGI here) and this is one of the few horror films to mix humor and violence in an entertaining way. Well worth seeing. I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Realizing he needs to turn back into human form, the killer doll and his former lover, now a doll as well, enlist a couple to accomplish the task but find their murderous personalities preventing it from happening.This here is one of the more impressive entries in the genre and one of the better ones in the series. One of the main issues is the fact that there's an utterly perfect balance between the horrific and the humorous, as this combines utterly perfect laugh-out-loud moments, from hilarious one-liners to sight gags and puns, mixed in with the horror- centered areas present here. It's the comedy here that wins out for the most part, from the failed ceremony, the continuous references to the other toy dolls she has laying around and the utterly hilarious running gag of everybody's reaction to Tiffany and Chucky dolls throughout the film, though the greatest material is their quips and jokes to each other. These are truly gut-busting as the dolls begin conversing about being out-of-touch in regards to movie-killer practices and trying to instill the need for variety in the kills to be committed or in their relationship woes which sound like real, actual relationship arguments but come off as hilarious due to the nature of being said by plastic dolls. As well with the comedy, the horror elements here are wholly impressive including the extravagant visual flair found in many of the scenes here that readily turns this into a comedy, from the initial attack in the trailer-park house that gets her into doll-form as the distraction from the movie allows for the trap to be deployed which is just suitably perfect here. The road-trip nature here allows for the great traveling scenes as well, with the diner attack coming off nicely with the explosive reaction and general panic or the utterly insane kill at the motel which is really impressive here and gives this a spectacular centerpiece sequence. Even the finale at the graveyard is fun with the numerous stalking to get the upper-hand, the confrontation over the grave is fun and there's a lot to like with the great action in the big brawl here to finally end this. All of this means the pace is perfect with tons of outstanding encounters to keep the pace going strong with tons of high-energy action and plentiful gore provided by the outstanding kills here. As well, the film gets an absolute ton of positives from the stellar special effects work for the dolls, as this is an absolutely amazing part of the film. Given that this one spends as much time as it does here showcasing them on-screen, they need to come off flawlessly and they manage to come across as realistic dolls and puppets throughout here due to these perfectly conceived creations. Mixed along with a return to the more horror-centric side of Chucky, these manage to create an overall winning film. While there's a ton to love here, there are a few small, near-inconsequential flaws to this. One of the biggest is that it does tend to homage too many other films at times and feel more like it's actively trying to be funny or clever without doing anything important to the film trying to awkwardly shove the reference into the scene. This also bleeds somewhat into the other flaw, that the comedic one-liners are a bit much to get over and wear themselves out somewhat. However, since this one doesn't have too many real flaws there's so much to like here it becomes quite impressive.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, a shadowy puppet sex scene and some drug use. "},{"Title":"Played Mostly For Laughs And Cleavage","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this thing (movie) three times. Sometimes I thought it was the worst piece of garbage I've ever seen, made by Satan himself; other times I laughed my head off and thought it was one of the most entertaining-yet-stupid films I'd ever seen. Finally, the first part won out and I got rid of it....but it was fun while it lasted.Jennifer Tilley, one of the all-time low-life-character-playing actresses in Hollywood along with Jennifer Jason-Leigh, complete with ditsy voice and humongous breasts with cleavage that meteors could get lost in, is the star here along with the demonic doll Chucky, who never seems to go away. So.....a few questions How many years now have we seen this little guy and how many times does he have to die? In many movies does Tilley have to use just for another chance to flaunt her boobs?This movie is so bad it has to be considered camp. It's more comedy than horror, although both are there in abundance. You can't take any of this seriously. The movie is simply incredibly sleazy and yet incredibly funny at times, and dumb, and......you name it. "},{"Title":"Who The (Beep) Is Martha Stewart?(**** Out Of ****).","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well my opinion has changed for this one because if you remember last time I gave this movie 3 1/2 out of 4, now it is up to the full 4. So just why is this one the one sequel that I like out of all the others? Well a lot of good reasons come into mind.The film picks up about a month after Child's Play 3, where Chucky's remains are stolen by Tiffany played by Jennifer Tilly and she takes them back to her house and sews them together. When her wannabe goth killer boyfriend comes over, Chucky comes alive and kills the boyfriend in a very bloody death. It is revealed that Tiffany and Chucky were dating before Charles Lee Ray was put inside the doll. They at first are happy but Tiffany locks Chucky in a playpen because Tiffany was under the false impression that Chucky was going to propose to her. Chucky, Now raging mad, Kills Tiffany and puts her inside of a doll body. They take a couple played by Nick Stabile and Katherine Heigel hostage and plan to posses their souls.The first good thing is the story. I really like how they don't really go after Andy here and instead go after new people. However They at least could have mentioned him more than they did, at least more than a newspaper article. Also I love the idea of giving Chucky a bride so he can have another doll to interact with.The next is the Bride Of Chucky. Her character is really well done here and I like how Jennifer Tilly does voice Tiffany. The look of the Bride is pretty cool with the doll starting out as a wedding doll and then transformed in this goth/biker chick look. Plus Chucky gets lucky, twice. The first is, obviously when he gets married but the second is when he really gets Lucky if you know what I mean.The next is the special effects which are better than the last two. Chucky is now all scarred up and this look is pretty frightening but to be completely honest I found his appearance in the first film more scary, But I do love the look they go with and this look does continue into Seed Of Chucky.The last is the acting. Stabile and Heigel do a really good job and are believable as a couple, John Ritter, yes he is in the movie, does a good job as a dirty cop. But I want to talk about the dolls. The voice acting by Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly are great. Plus Jennifer Tilly is hot. Both in and outside of the doll.The Final Verdict for Bride Of Chucky is 4 Out Of 4 Stars. Great acting, amazing special effects, also not to mention the movie is extremely funny. My favorite quote is from Chucky and it was used for the title of the review. Go out and watch this because it deserves to be seen.Rated R For Strong Horror Violence And Gore, Language, Some Sexual Content And Brief Drug Use.1hr 29min/89min.15 uses of the F-word.Cost $25,000,000.Box Office $50,692,188.IMDb Rating 5.2/10.Rotten Tomatoes Rating 42% Rotten My Rating ****/**** "},{"Title":"glass ceiling has a new meaning","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They obviously made Bride of Chucky with the aim of impressing only people who really like slashers. It doesn't disappoint in that sense. To be certain, they're clearly playing everything for laughs. As the title explains, Chucky (voice of Brad Dourif) takes on a mate (Jennifer Tilly)...and she's as much of a wise-cracker as he is.Yes, these movies have no real point. They're just excuses to show people getting killed. But they're so much fun! The best scene is easily the sex scene. Number 2 is the glass scene. But whatever the case, this is one movie that you're sure to enjoy - assuming that you've decided in advance that you like it. Really cool.Also starring John Ritter and Katharine Heigl. "},{"Title":"A rough ride to Hackensack for Chucky and his bride...","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Clever is the word that comes to mind when I think of the mixture of horror and comedy that makes up a good deal of BRIDE OF CHUCKY, much of the humor due to some good one-liners by Chucky (courtesy of BRAD DOURIF's voice). And JENNIFER TILLY does an exceptional job as a dim-witted, evil partner of the doll eventually turned into a doll herself who is just as manic as her boyfriend.NICK STABILE and KATHERINE HEIGL are the leads, the unsuspecting victims of much of the mayhem, who have to confront the evil they're dealing with which leads toward a cemetery in Hackensack where the evil dolls hope to retrieve an amulet from a corpse that will restore their original bodies.It's photographed expertly, well directed by Ronny Yu and there's an unusual amount of range to the expressions on both dolls that make them seem eerily real. The final scene in the cemetery is guaranteed to give you a final startled moment.JOHN RITTER plays his role as Police Chief Kinkaid with some restraint, but it's not much of a part until his gruesome demise.Summing up Not bad as far as these sort of horror capers go. "},{"Title":"tounge-in-cheek","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   From the opening with certain movie killers masks, glove-knife, and chainsaw, to the final scene which looks like it could have been straight from It's Alive, this movie was camp all the way.Good point They didn't bring back Andy. New characters and new homes for Chuck and Tiff brought a sense of freshness.Bad point John Ritter. Need I say more? (Although he DOES make a pretty good Pinhead)If you're looking for The Shining or the original Psycjo, spend a couple of bucks and rent them. If you want a good laugh mixed in with some gore, then spend the money here. Just don't take your Siskel & Ebert mindset with you. Sit back, relax, and enjoy the movie for what it is--self-depreciating schlock. "},{"Title":"Wicked fun!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The soul of Satanic serial killer Charles Lee Ray is, by misfortune, incarcerated in the body of a seemingly innocuous doll. Ray's long time girlfriend, Tiffany (the seductive Jennifer Tilly) has found a book titled Voodoo for Dummies. Now, she has called on the spirits of Hell to revive this left-for-dead doll...and to make him alive and well again!When everything is botched in a misconstrued matter...Tiffany imminently finds herself in the body of another plastic doll as well. The two notorious murderers, known for their multiple crimes, fall in love again...and the world needs a prayer...Yes, Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif) the killer doll is back...and he's out for anyone's blood! Chucky's new bride Tiffany has also found herself enjoying all the twisted, creative murders Chucky has made. Chucky and Tiffany have one goal to retrieve the Heart of Omzilla, an amulet that will thus allow both of them to return to their former human selves...You better watch out! Chucky is no more mister nice guy!BRIDE OF CHUCKY is a sinister guilty pleasure! The Chucky franchise earns its much desperately needed (and deserved) revision. Thanks to Ronny Yu's (who has directed so many Hong Kong martial arts films) direction and the wizardry of special FX make-up artist Kevin Yagher, Chucky is livelier...and deadlier than ever. Yagher does a great job giving Chucky such human traits and attributes. Chucky is one demonic and realistic character whom I would NOT like to run into in a dark alley! Chucky himself looks especially deformed, with the appropriate stitches on his face and everything. For a pint size villain, he packs one mean attitude! Also, the facial expressions of the killer puppets Chucky and Tiffany are so bizarre, yet wonderfully genuine. One fact for sure, I was impressed by all the elaborate special effects... Hey, you must also adore the cogent and delightfully deviant love-hate relationship between Chucky and Tiffany.John Ritter (!) is excellent (though unusually cast against type) as an uncompromising Security Chief Officer. Ritter should also earn an award for the best (and most unpredictable) demise. He certainly knows how to be dying in style! Brad Dourif really knows this Chucky character inside out. He delivers the wisecracks with impeccable timing before and after each killing. Alexis Arquette (THE WEDDING SINGER) is in top form as a Goth who encounters the devil doll. Jennifer Tilly is one fantastic, nefarious temptress.There's plenty of bloodletting in this pleasantly entertaining (and sleazy) thriller. Lots of gory murders abound to keep bloodhounds ingratiated. This grotesquely violent and sanguinary film will easily scare away the squeamish. In addition, there are lots of cool (and sometimes subtle) references alluding to other horror flicks. I also learned from this movie that a person should not take love for granted.BRIDE OF CHUCKY is an imaginative journey into everlasting terror. You will laugh and churn as you witness the brutal slayings as the consequences of this couple's rampage. If you appreciate dark, macabre humor, then this movie is perfect for you! By far the best film in this series. This movie is even better than the original CHILD'S PLAY ...RATING **1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Chucky Gets Lucky, and we Get Luckier!","Date":"14 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By far, the film was the most superior in the Child's Play Series. It was amazingly hilarious and refreshing. Unlike Child's Play 3, we didn't repeat the boring process of Chucky Goes after Andy for revenge and his body. We had a fresh array of characters, a brilliant Cliffhanger and a new Killer Doll. The film really displays well how Chucky, like the rest of us, can have an relationship, and how he is still Human, despite being a Doll. Good examples of his Humanity are when he listens to music in the car, treats Tiffany like a House-Slave and has Sexual Intercourse with Tiff. These display that Chucky is a Human being, and while some fans disliked this, I say the film was pure comic genius, comedic and horrifying. Inventive new murders were used such as the Champange Bottle and Celing Mirror, the Nasils in the Car and the Bus hitting that poor fellow. The film ended amazingly as Glen appeared to burst out of Tiffany's womb, leaving a good idea for a sequel. That is until Seed came along. "}{"Title":"The best in the series","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky is a breath of fresh air in the Child's Play horror series.Cleverly combining over-the-top gore with a huge dose of black humor; Bride of Chucky is easily the best of the bunch in the series. Visual stylist Ronny Yu delivers quite the eye candy here, some set pieces not only beautifully filmed and realized, but with disgusting and convincing gore to top it off.The cast here is great. The usually intolerable Jennifer Tilly is a hoot as Chucky's bride and her chemistry with Brad Dourif is wonderfully wicked. The human actors are quite decent as well, with a nice supporting performance from the late John Ritter. "},{"Title":"The bride is a refreshing boost to the franchise","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chucky is brought back to life by his ex-girlfriend Tiffany (Played wonderfully by Jennifer Tilly), but as we all know Chucky can't behave himself for long and winds up killing her and transfers her soul into another doll, so now Chucky has got a playmate. In order to get themselves back into human bodies they hitch a ride with 2 teenage lovers on the run to New Jersey where Chucky's human body is buried with the amulet that can posses they're souls into the 2 teenagers, and plus causing mayhem and carnage on the way.Chucky is back with finally a worthy sequel, after the disappointing part 3, Bride Of Chucky breathes new life into a franchise that was basically dead and heading into a whole new direction by giving Chucky a partner in crime Tiffany who is a well welcomed addition to the series.The death scenes are much more gorier and inventive this time round, even though it doesn't have the suspense the first one had, it's still the best one in the series, mixing slasher with humour especially the bantering between the 2 dolls and especially the sex scene which was hilarious.Jennifer Tilly is the star of this movie, playing yet another sex pot role with her human self and her doll self which was fantastic a welcome addition to the franchise Brad Dourif's Chucky voice will delight Good Guy fans again. Katherine Heigl (Jade) gives a very solid show Nick Stabile (Jessee) also does good, his chemistry with Heigl works and the ladies will dig his six pack and John Ritter (Warren) plays an evil Jack Tripper and dies a great death.All in all this film truly boosts the franchise It's witty, violent and looks great. "},{"Title":"Played entirely for laughs and there are lots","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've only seen the first and last installments of this series and tho I approached them with some trepidation as to the quality and if I'd get my rent money's worth, I have to say that I have.  I've rarely laughed during a movie as much as I did for this one.  Brad Dourif is back with his wacked-out laugh and the script is a gem, poking fun at itself and the horror genre and pop culture like Martha Stewart.  Now I just have to go out and buy a copy for myself so I can enjoy it over and over. The doll FX are pretty good and cheesy all at the same time, which was the intention.  Jennifer Tilly and Dourif make such a bizarrely charming couple.10/10 "},{"Title":"Funny as heck!","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a good film for die-hard Chucky fans.  Okay I'm sure it's not as good as what the Child's Play movie were like, but this can get really funny and enjoyable, Chucky's laughs are hilarious.(SPOILERS)Now not one doll, but two, meaning double the impact, Jennifer Tilly played the part really well and definitely pulled off the best kill of the movie.If you have seen the Child's Play movies this would be a worthy film on your Chucky collection, but if you've never seen the Child's play movies before, this'll will be a new start.  Of course you'll not have a clue on how Chucky got into his current state (cause I'm not telling you) but you'll figure out why Chucky is very popular.Overall a very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"This is goofy stuff, but it's still hilarious.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of **** There seems to be a similar pattern going around that affects the latest sequels to the most popular slasher series of the 80's.  These  90's sequels tend to try out something pretty different from its predecessors, to the point of even negating parts of the series.  Such films include Jason Goes to Hell The Final Friday, New Nightmare, and H2O, of which the former two managed to instill new energy back into their respective series again. In this case, Bride of Chucky is going all-out for laughs, and it's quite successful at doing so, making it easily the best film in this not-so-good series.The movie's first scenes already let us know just how tongue-in-cheek all of this is.  A cop enters an evidence room, which includes such items as Michael Myers' and Jason Voorhees' masks, Freddy Krueger's glove, and Leatherface's chainsaw.  The cop picks up one specific object we can't see, though it's obvious it's Chucky, the serial-killer possessed doll. Eventually, the doll gets to the hands of Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly), who actually turns out to be the killer's (when he was a human)  former girlfriend.  Using the help of a voodoo book, she revives Chucky, and ends up imprisoning him because she's still angry at him for never marrying her. Chucky escapes, kills Tiffany, and puts her soul into another doll. Naturally, she freaks out when she sees what's happened to her, but Chucky informs her they can still be human again. The only way for them to do that is to use the amulet that was on the human Chucky's body when he died. Thus, they have to get to that specific cemetary in Hackensack, New Jersey, so they enlist the aid of Jessie (Nick Stabile) and Jade (Katherine Heigl) via phone to deliver some dolls with the promise of big cash.  The two young lovers agree and decide to get hitched.  All seems well for the two, until murders start popping up around them and they begin to suspect each other, all the meantime never noticing that the dolls are the real culprits. Bride of Chucky is, simply put, a dark comedy that only has the concern of making its viewers laugh.  And boy, some of these jokes are absolutely hilarious.  My favorite part is probably the scene where Chucky is crawling back to his van when some stoned pothead sees him.  Chucky proceeds to give him the finger, resulting in the pothead's hilarious deadpan response, Rude f***ing doll!  Another one of my favorite lines must be when Jessie asks Chucky how he got to be this way, and he responds by saying, It's a long story.  In fact, if they made a movie, it'd take 3 or 4 sequels to do it justice.  If that doesn't get you laughing, then I wouldn't recommend this movie to you. But for all those who enjoy tongue-in-cheek horror, this is a treat.  The scene-stealers are Chucky and Tiffany, spouting a lot of memorable lines without ever getting into the hip style that has annoyingly permeated virtually every other slasher film in recent memory.  Brad Dourif, of course, voices Chucky and he hasn't lost that same sense of fun over the years the series was in hiatus.  Jennifer Tilly is equally as fun as Tiffany, making for an effective foil to Chucky, and is all the more hilarious because of their love/hate relationship that's positively psychotic. The special effects are among the movie's highlights; the dolls look mostly flawlessly rendered and amazingly lifelike.  But how could any review of Bride of Chucky go by without mentioning the doll sex scene.  It's probably the reason it got half the money it did at the box office.  Let me just say this, you probably won't believe it, but this sex scene is the most tasteful part of the entire movie!  That should give you some idea of what to expect from the rest of the film. The movie's also got the requisite blood and gore, with particularly memorable death scenes.  Despite all the violence, this isn't a movie for die-hard horror fans looking for a scary or suspenseful gorefest.  The movie doesn't actually kick into thrill ride mode until the last 10 minutes in the cemetary.  Even then, you have to ask yourself just how exciting it is to see dolls and humans duking it out. Now, even as an intentionally goofy horror/comedy, the movie still has some big flaws.  There are no rooting interests at all.  The dolls, while obviously funny, are pretty damn crazy.  As for the humans, they're either annoying or simply display nothing approaching charisma or good acting. The movie also takes too long to get going, and considering the movie's only 89 minutes, that's certainly a problem. It's not until the half-hour or so mark that Chucky comes to life again and the road trip to Hackensack doesn't begin until the movie's a little over halfway through.  This is a flaw that's made forgivable because once the movie gets going, the pace is unflagging. I enjoyed Ronny Yu's high-energy direction, which is an approach that closely follows all the other most recent slasher sequels (it actually only worked well in Jason Goes to Hell, but New Nightmare was decent in this respect).  After the pedestrian work of the other installments, it's nice to see some sturdy direction.  This film's final scenes sets itself up for another sequel, and considering it's box office success, I don't see any reason why it won't happen.  Bride of Chucky is goofy and certainly lacking in intelligence, but it's got a hell of a lot of entertainment value, and that's all you could really ask for out of it. "},{"Title":"Worst One of the Series","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky is the worst horror film I have ever seen. It is worse than Seed of Chucky (Seed of Chucky is still horrible as a movie but not as bad as Bride. I speak for most Chucky fans when I say that I disliked Seed more than Bride). This movie was at the point in the franchise where it was leaning towards goofy and self aware but still wanted to be scary, and as a result it failed in both respects. It certainly isn't scary, unless gore really scares you, and the... film has many jokes but every single one of them fall flat. Not to mention the movie doesn't have a plot. They just drive around in a car for 140 minutes and kill some people along the way, then at the end Tiff has a demon baby which sets up the infamous Seed of Chucky. So basically this was an hour-and-a-half long commercial for Seed. Also, I haven't seen the movie in a while but I'd imagine the acting (besides Brad Douriff) isn't very great either. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrendous","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think this a new low for the already flailing franchise. Really screenwriters? You had the nerve to give Chucky a wife? That's pretty stupid by itself, but you had to take it a step further and include some boring relationship drama that no one really cares about! Nobody wants to see Chucky argue with his wife! Nobody wanted that! Anyway, even if this huge blunder wasn't in the movie, it still would have been pretty bad. The characters are annoying and expendable and the acting is as laughable as ever. I'll be surprised if you've made it this far into the series. (Need 10 lines, need 10 lines, need 10 lines, need 10 lines) "},{"Title":"After ten years a deranged woman brings back to life Chucky, the toy doll possessed by the soul of mad serial killer, Charles Lee Ray.","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a big fan of horror movies, but this movie will always be controversial because some will never like the much more humorous approach this film takes over the previous three films that were straight horror films. But this is a really good movie if you're willing to except two things.. that this is a dark comedy not a horror film per say and that some of the major continuity from the previous films are disregarded. So if you're willing to except those two things, you can enjoy this film. Let's start with the story, Don Mancini wrote the story for all three films and wanted to reinvent the franchise, so while this film takes place where the last one left off and this film acknowledges the events of the last three. It also disregards certain things for the plot of this one. If anything this film is more of a sequel to the first film then the third one. This film is made on the 10th anniversary of the original horror classic Child's Play where a Chicago serial killer named Charles Lee Ray aka Lakesore Strangaler is gunned down by the police in a toy store and he uses a voodoo spell to transfer his wicked soul into a toy doll. Now ten years later Ray's old girlfriend and possible serial killing accomplice, Tiffany steals his doll parts from a police station and uses the same voodoo spell to resurrect Ray's soul in the doll. But in anger Chucky kills Tiffany and puts her soul into a doll. The two then go on a Mickey & Mallory like road trip to possess some human bodies. Now as a hardcore fan I have to point out how some things fit with the other films. Through out the series there always been inconstancy's with the voodoo spell, the words are the same but depending on the plot the spell can be very long or very short, the same here. The major plot for the first three films is that Chucky could only transfer his soul into the body of the first person who found out he was alive in the doll, which happens to be six years old Andy Barcley and if he didn't do so in a few days his soul would be trapped forever in the doll and in the process he would become more human on the inside of the doll, developing organs and what not. All of this is disregarded in this film. Here Chucky says he and Tiffany have to go to Hackensack New Jearsy to get an amulet called the heart of Dambella(the voodoo god) that was buried with Chucky's body as he wore it as a neck-less the night he was killed, this has nothing to do with the plots of the first three and not logical if you go by the first three but it would be very hard to continue that story with the introduction of Tiffany, also there's no worry from Chucky about having only a few days to find a body to transfer his soul into before it becomes trapped in the doll, so Mancini decided just keep the broad sense of the story arch of a good guy doll possessed by a voodoo worshiping killer. Another major difference is the change in tone, this film is very much a comedy with characters almost breaking the fourth wall and parodying the slasher genre much like the movie Scream did around this time and in the process Chucky's personality changes a bit. He's more mellow here, the first three portrayed him as a innocent looking toy doll with the mind of a foul mouth killer with a bad temper and the murders were shocking but here the murders are done with dark gallows humor. Neverless the film does a great job with what they wanted to do, a lot of the humor here was funny and to be honest even in the first three Chucky showed some dark humor. Ronny Yu did a great job with directing, the visual look, pace and camera shots were great. The best part of the movie is the opening, revealing Tiffany retrieving the Chucky doll and Rob Zombie's Living dead girl song playing in the opening credits. Don Mancini did a great job with creating the twisted relationship between Chucky's and Tiffany. Tiffany is in love/obsessed with Chucky while he likes her but doesn't need her in his life. The plot unfolds nicely you don't really know where it's going to go and the protagonists Jesse and Jade works well as a contrast to the evil Chucky & Tiffany. But the real stars are the sexy Jennifer Tilly as Tiffany and Brad Dourif returning for the fourth time as Chucky. The two have great chemistry together. Tilly was the perfect fit to be Chucky's bride and she looks really sexy especially when she wears that tight leather outfit in the opening. Dourif has perfected his Chucky laugh here it really sounds psychotic. John Ritter is fun as a jerky cop and Jade's dad. The film pays homage to Freddy Kruger and other slasher icons, Mickey& Mallory and The bride of Frankenstein. So while some including me would like to see a less comedic Chucky, and despite plot holes this is a great film for what it is, a horror comedy. "},{"Title":"At this wedding the bride wears red","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After two massively underwhelming sequels, I figured the Child's Play series had exhausted its charms and was destined to fade into the annals of horror lore. I can't express how glad I am that I was wrong.Bride Of Chucky re-imagines the killer doll saga as a pure black comedy, and the outcome of this metamorphosis makes it really easy to forgive the sins of the previous two films. While the entire series up to this point was liberally sprinkled with attempts at integrating humor into the horror, the sophomoric, cheeseball approach of the antics only served to undermine any potential for Child's Play 2 and 3 to match the deft balance struck by the potent original. Bride Of Chucky has no such pretensions, and the film doesn't even bother to suggest you should take it seriously. Instead, the emphasis here is solely on demented splat-stick, and the result is a truly witty and twisted gem.It's probably not all that important for our purposes here to delve into how Chucky's improbable resurrection comes to pass, and if you're the type to question the plausibility of a serial killer's former girlfriend tracking down the doll his soul was transferred into, reconstructing his dismembered frame, and performing a voodoo ceremony over the rubber carcass to successfully bring him back from the dead, it's a safe bet that you're not in the demographic for Bride Of Chucky. All the rest of us need to know is that Chucky does indeed return from the netherworld to stalk and slash once more, and this time out he gains a co-conspirator when he repeats the ceremony and channels Jennifer Tilly's essence into a companion doll who turns out to be a leather-clad, gothed out femme fatale with a serious mean streak. The film follows the pair as they embark on a road trip with an unsuspecting young couple to reclaim a mystical medallion that will allow them to permanently return to human form, leaving a trail of hijinks and bodies in their wake. Again, if any of this sounds ridiculous to you... Okay, well, it probably is, but Bride Of Chucky wears its camp elements like badges of honor, and going along on this ride proves to be an immensely entertaining experience.Well aware of its target audience, the film is loaded with in-jokes for horror fans, and just a cursory scan of the police evidence inventory during the prologue handily sets the tone for the extended knowing wink sustained throughout the film. On that note, Bride is also chock full of gore, something sorely lacking in the rest of the series, and even though most of the increasingly creative killings are played for laughs, the humor doesn't dilute the potency of stellar gruesome gags like the nails to the face bit or the fate that befalls an amorous couple who make the mistake of canoodling on a water bed with a mirror mounted on the ceiling above it.The casting is equally inspired, and Jennifer Tilly proves to be the absolute perfect choice to accompany Chucky on this journey. Her sparring with Brad Dourif is priceless more often than not, and their farcical domestic interplay provides the film with some of its wittiest moments. The presence of John Ritter is likewise a huge boon, and the late great funnyman shines here as always despite the brevity of his involvement in the proceedings.I'm sort of bummed that I didn't see this until after Seed Of Chucky had already been released, because the cliff-hanger denouement doesn't have quite as much of a punch when you know what's coming next. But even if you are aware of what's in store, the finale provides a fitting segue into the next installment and ends the film on a definite absurdist high note.If the notion of two homicidal, foul-mouthed dolls embarking on an interstate killing spree and having frenzied, plastic-bumping nookie doesn't sound appealing to you, then these clearly aren't the droids you're looking for. But if you have a skewed sense of humor and can spare 90 minutes to check your analytical mind at the door and giggle like a stoned hyena, then you'll have a hell of a good time embarking on Chucky and Tiffany's trek. I know I did. "},{"Title":"A diabolical movie crushed with an abrupt ending.","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Apparently this is the fourth installment of the Chucky series. And Was I the only one who thought this movie was short? I liked the beginning of it, and how the main character, Tiffany, worked her voodoo powers to bring back her boyfriend from the dead. I also liked how much of a diabolical genius Chucky is, and how nobody suspected the dolls of the frequent murders. But as the movie reached its high point, it started getting lazier and more superficial. I was expecting a lot more people to get killed and more hell to break loose. However, towards the end nothing much happened other than the downfall of the bad guys. Overall it's an average movie that did not put me on the edge my seat. "}{"Title":"Funny how?","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are people who laughed their head off with this and the makers of this movie are really proud of it. Even the actors are excited if you watch them in interviews talking about the movie. But I didn't feel the excitement. It's not really horror, it's not really comedy, it's a mix of both.A mix that doesn't entirely work out for me, but maybe it's something for you. If you're a fan of the series, you'll obviously gonna like it a bit more than I do.It's no necessary to know the other parts to understand the movie, but if you do, you might get a few more laughs out of it! "},{"Title":"This movie is about a pair of murderous dolls who take a road trip.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie. It strangely appeals to me. I think its hilarious. Well it has told me I have to write 10 lines so I will continue. I think It's better directed than its sequel, Seed of Chucky. Ronny Yu directed this one and the writer Don Mancini directed the seed of Chucky. No offense to Don Mancini but I think that Ronny Yu did a better job of the Bride Of Chucky. Brad Dourif is the best choice for the voice. He has the right voice for a manic doll. Likewise with Jennifer Tilly- She is the only choice for the voice of a murderous doll. Also I prefer this one to the first 3 movies. Child's Play,Child's Play 2 and 3. I think Chucky is an ingenious character also who has evolved over the course of the movies. In this movie he has developed a sense of humour which is slightly chauvinistic but good. "},{"Title":"Now this is how to do a horror movie!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Stupid, unbelievable, cheesy, violence, blood, inventive killings, and a HOT Jennifer Tilly, what more could you ask for? Now does this plot really make sense? Hell no! Why the hell does chucky need to kill tiff to put her into a female doll to then go and get the amulet so they can then go back into human bodies? Thats the plot and it doesn't make sense, why not just keep her alive so she can go drive to get the amulet, yet there's the fact that chuck is a possessed doll in the first place...Anyway, it keeps you entertained the whole way through without bad stupid slow parts or any padding, this is a bad movie, there are worse movies, but if you like bad horror movies, and the chucky films, (I don't really like the first ones) you'll like this. "},{"Title":"superb horror comedy with some memorable lines","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" SPOILERSIt feels like a distant memory since the original Child's Play movie was banned way back in 1988. The film and it's sequel, both banned for being encouraging to children to kill, were good films. It was this forth of the series ten years later that would really make the series however. Whilst never scary, Bride of Chucky was superb in that it was a wonderful mix of comedy and horror with an extra large chunk of gore.Set a while after the third film, Bride of Chucky focuses primarily on the relationship between Chucky (Brad Dourif) and his girlfriend Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly). Convinced that Chucky planned to propose, Tiffany resurrects him, only for him to then deny her belief and to kill her. Bringing her back in a doll of her own, Chucky then works with his girlfriend to possess an amulet which will allow them to take the bodies of young lovers Jesse (Nick Stabile) and Jade (Katherine Heigl).The brilliance of Bride of Chucky is that it never takes itself seriously. Like so many other horror films in recent years, this film is devoted to the idea that deaths should be as gruesome, inventive and frequent as possible. Irrelevant of whether the plot is decent (a rare plus side for the Child's Play series), the essence of this film is simply to kill off countless members of the cast in extreme, sudden (if possible) ways.Acting wise, before becoming the doll, Tilly is superb as human Tiffany, in love with Chucky and feeling trapped dating the irritating Damien Baylock (Alexis Arquette). The acting though, Tilly included, feels slightly irrelevant when Chucky is around.All in all, there's relatively little which can be said about a film like this. With acting an irrelevancy (the only characters of any importance being puppets) and a script which is better than expected, the only real thing to focus in on is the gore and the horror. Whilst not in the slightest amount scary, Bride of Chucky does satisfy on the other count. This film features some superb moments of violence and some equally wonderful lines (a brief tribute to Pinhead from Hellraiser being one of many) and ultimately it's just good fun. It's the ultimate film to watch on a Friday night. Simple, easy going, fun. "},{"Title":"Bride of Chucky 7.5 from 10","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of ChuckySerial killer Charles Lee Ray is back! This time his girlfriend Tiffany has revived him, once again in the form of the popular Chucky doll. Shortly after the happy couple's reunion, Chucky kills her and brings her back in the form of a girl's bridal doll. The two then embark on a killing spree en route to dig up Ray's corpse, which was buried with a Satanic voodoo charm capable of bringing back the dead.Child's Play was a very exciting and clever thriller. Child's Play 2 was not as good but still suspenseful. I never saw child's play 3 but I'm planning on renting it. Then came Bride of Chucky... a guilty pleasure.I enjoyed this, probably the best of the series. It was the funniest and the deaths were much more full-w/-energy and humorous. Chucky was just as evil this time around and Jennifer Tilly was good. Jade and Jesse were a bit unneeded and annoying but Jade was hot. I am very excited to see Seed of Chucky coming out this November. 7.5 from 10R- comic horror violence/gore, some strong language, mild sexual content and drug use. "},{"Title":"Not A Horror Movie, But VERY Funny","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like this movie, not because it's a horror movie, and not because I am a fan of the Child's Play Series, but because it is a very funny flick with some really cool gore scenes. Like Child's Play 2 and 3, it is really cheesy, but it is an excellent film when your looking for some good laughs.Here's how it goes people, we find out that while Chucky was still a human, he had this girlfriend that was also a psychopath. She gets the body of the once living doll, and brings it back to life. Then, when she finds out that Chucky never had any plans to marry her, she locks him up where she plans to keep him for good. To taunt him, she puts a female doll in his cage. So he breaks out of the cage, and sends her soul into the female dolls soul. Now, not only does the world have to deal with one killer doll, it has to deal with two.This movie had some VERY funny scenes, and some pretty gory scenes as well. If you are a fan of the horror movies with a lot of comedy mixed in, this is definitely the film for you. This movie is way better then the other two Child's Play sequels. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Good, but a bit lacking","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I recently bought this movie simply because I am a collector. I'd seen it on TV once or twice and figured I might as well get the uncut version, and I needed it to complete my Child's Play collection. The one thing I don't like about this film is how often you see chucky. In the other films he was sneaky and would be play with his victims, in this one he just kills people quickly. You see him so often he isn't scary at all, you sort of are anticipating his next clever kill. Some scenes are pretty neat (such as the nail scene), but he moves so much you think he's trying to be caught. People never suspect him as in the other films, anyone who sees him move he slaughters in a few minutes.......or less. Not scary at all (at least after the bed scene), but very funny. It was worth the $10 I spent on it. 6.6/10 "},{"Title":"May only work for fans of the genre.","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   From the beginning of the movie you can say it's all about a horror comedy with Chucky's style. The movie got fresh air after ignoring the whole Andy Barclay story (it got pretty old in part 3) and adding new characters to the series. The humor in this sequel is brilliant and works perfect for a movie with a doubtful premise. The title BRIDE OF CHUCKY may sound very cheesy for non fans of the genre but it's a great title for the movie (parody of Bride of Frankenstein in many aspects). In 1998 the horror genre was on a decline mainly because of many attempts to copy the style that Scream copied from the 80's slashers. Ronny Yu and Don Mancini created a great horror comedy that has nothing to do with the previous Child's PLay movies. The stylish direction and entertaining script are the best features of the movie. There's plenty of great gore! and great deaths. The Pinhead reference was hilarious. Also, the motel death scene was brilliant. The humor is great as I said, there are plenty of references to other horror movies that only fans of the genre could understand. The dolls sex scene may freak you out but it's damn funny. The acting is pretty good this time. You can't go wrong with Jennifer Tilly (she's extremely hot!) and Brad Dourif. Katherine Heigl also delivers a good performance and her beautiness helps a lot. The score is perfect for the movie (specially Rob Zombie's contributions). Chucky rocks again!BRIDE OF CHUCKY isn't an easy watch for non fans of the genre, specially for the in-jokes and black humor. In the other hand, this movie is a delight for fans of the genre and of course, of the Chucky movies. Watch it with low expectations and don't be influenced by it's title because BRIDE OF CHUCKY is a great horror comedy. One of the bests from the 90's, seriously. It may not have the suspense and great script from the original Child's Play but it's interesting on it's own way. Chucky's return was very welcome.8/10  "},{"Title":"4th time is the charm","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky's back and better than ever in the fourth film as the innovator and creator or murder, mayhem, thrills, chills, and laughs. Bride Of Chucky is the best of all the Chucky films because it does not focus on scares and violence, rather it focuses on the more important elements. Instead of having scene after scene filled with violence, the director combined all the elements of action, drama, suspense, horror, and even comedy into Bride Of Chucky. The only actor to act in all four films returns; Brad Dourif reprises his role as the voice of Chucky. Jennifer Tilly lends her voice to the Bride Of Chucky as Chucky's bride, Tiffany. Chucky and Tiffany fit together very well for a pair bent on creating malice, chaos, havoc and mayhem.Though Chucky and Tiffany are definitely the main focal point of this movie, but they can't make it a successful film by themselves. Strong performances by relative newcomers Nick Stabile, Katherine Heigl and seasoned veteran John Ritter made this a tremendous hit. Katherine Heigl may be known for her portrayal of Steven Seagal's niece in Under Siege 2 Dark Territory plays Jade. Nick Stabile is Jesse, Jade's boyfriend. John Ritter plays a police chief and who hates Jade's boyfriend, Jesse. I commend the creator and the puppeteers of the Chucky and Tiffany dolls for their original and unique movements. Also, I loved the maniacal laugh that Brad Dourif created after each crime Chucky and Tiffany committed. Bride Of Chucky is filled with laughs, scares, and chills from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"Horror-Comedy Must-Rent","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie starts off with some cool shout-outs to Elm Street, Jason, Halloween and only gets better from there. The dialogue is refreshing because it's not a bunch of preppy kids talking about how scared they are. Everything moves along in this movie fast and connected leaving no plot holes. Jennifer Tilly is a great actress with a huge pair of knockers! Chucky has some great one-liners. See if you can catch his shout-out to Hellraiser. Overall ****Anyone who doesn't like this movie is trying to put horror movies down. I've read some of the criticisms and I just don't get it. Well I guess it's true what they say in Jay Silent Bob Strike Back, If you make a movie, the net nerds are going to have something bad to say about it. Well horror fans, ignore those few nerds and rent this movie.  "}{"Title":"Get Off My Knife.","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ever since I saw it on opening day back in 1998, Bride Of Chucky has been a personal favorite of mine. I have been a big fan of the Child's Play franchise since I was about seven years old, and this movie pretty much sums up everything that makes a Chucky movie great. In this fourth installment, the focus is finally taken off of the saga of Andy Barclay (which was getting a bit played out by the end of Child's Play 3), and instead on Chucky and Tiffany, a previous flame who was with him up until his original death. After Tiffany (played to perfection by the wonderful Jennifer Tilly and her wonderful cleavage) finally gets a hold of Chucky's remains (basically a trash bag full of Chucky parts see part 3) and resurrects him with some strategic sewing, he turns on her and ends up passing her soul into another doll. Together, they hitch a ride with runaway couple Jesse and Jade (Nick Stabile and Katherine Heigl) to New Jersey to find a stone that Chucky was wearing around his neck the day he died that will help resurrect them to human form. As you can predict, lots of hectic things happen on this road trip. Blood is spilled, pot is smoked and Chucky does indeed get lucky (in a hilarious and memorable scene that will be burned in your memory forever). Don Mancini, the creator of Chucky, writer of all three previous installments, returns as writer and fleshes out a beautifully demented and imaginative horror comedy. With the flare of director Ronny Yu (who would later go on to direct Freddy Vs. Jason), Bride Of Chucky is the best installment in the Chucky series thus far. Everything about this movie works. The death scenes are elaborate and somewhat comedic in parts, the music rocks (check out the soundtrack), and the story is so much fun, you just can't turn away in the 90 minutes this movie spans. Add that to a knock-out ending -- which leads us into the upcoming Seed Of Chucky (November 10th) -- and you have yourself the perfect Saturday night horror flick.10/10 "},{"Title":"so cool and well done,hope to here of more childs play movies in the future!I love these movies ur #1fans in las vegas  love yall","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was especting for the day of # 4 finally u did.awsome,me and alot of my friends are so much fans of childsplay movies,and so we all went together to go see bride of chucky well we loved it except that it had to much comedy and less horror,please try to make them more horrorfying cause YOU BETTER MAKE ATLEAST 5 more,we want you to beat friday the thirteens'record ok?so keep on the GOOD WORK,and take care. "},{"Title":"Not bad.  Hell it's better than the second and third","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to admit the very first Child's Play was awesome.  It was perfectly made and i thought the graphics of the doll (Chucky) were awesome.  Then came the second and then the third and they pretty much sucked! I thought it was the worst trilogy ever, well except for the first anyway.  Well around 7 years later Don Mancini wrote another script!  I thought it was crazy and I almost didn't go and see the movie.  I don't regret to this day watching Bride of Chucky.  I thought the plot was good and acting wasn't bad either. I strongly suggest for you to go see it if you liked the first original Child's Play! "},{"Title":"A disappointing sequel","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the fourth Child's play movie and it is very bad. The original Child's play is very scary. Child's play 2 is very scary. Child's play 3 is very scary. And this is an awful movie. Come on dolls that are possessed by ghost having sex. There is a scene in Child's play 2 were some toy maker rebuild him. They take off this pants because he was burned in first one. Nothing is there. The story line is awful. The ending is awful and makes no sense. Is not scary at all. Brad D.o.u.r.i.f is great actor. He wasted his talent being in this awful movie. Katherine H.e.i.g.l is a great actresses she wasted her talent being in this awful movie. "},{"Title":"good, silly fun","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Considering the franchise is based around a killer doll, the Child's Play series isn't meant to be taken seriously.'Bride of Chucky' lives up to the silly premise. Nearly a decade after the disappointing 'Child's Play III', BOC reunites Chucky with his last human girlfriend Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly, who straddles the line between sexy and annoying). After electrocuting Tiffany, he casts her soul into a female doll and go on a quest to the grave of Charles Lee Ray to steal the amulet that will free Chucky's soul from the Good Guy doll. It's a ridiculous, twisted, horror-road movie, backed by a rock-metal soundtrack and a few horror movie references and injokes. At one point, Chucky says 'It's a long story...if it was a movie you'd need three or four sequels to do it justice', typical of the self-aware humour of horror films in the late nineties/early 2000s. If you like the Child's Play series, you'll know what to expect blood, lots of deaths, a few laughs, a few scares and plenty of silliness. BOC also features Katherine Heigel (now the queen of terrible rom-coms) in one of her earlier roles and one of the later roles of the late John Ritter.If you like the Child's Play series, or horror movies in general, then 'Bride of Chucky' is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Far superior sequel.","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chucky's back...and it's about time! This time, with the help of Jennifer Tilly and a little spell from Voodoo For Dummies. Well, at least with this installment, the camp is back. This was the more gruesome of this series, so far. It has some good twists and some good action scenes. This one was by far, the most fun of the series, and successfully, if unintentionally, bridges the gap between pure horror to horror/comedy. I am looking forward to Seed of Chucky. It'll be a hoot!Jesus, the music scene's gone to h3ll since I've been dead! ChuckyWe needed the levity, as the doll thing's getting old. The added comedic element, and the better action scenes brings this one back up to equal the quality of the first, when the idea was fresh and new-ish.6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"It sure is different to part 3... it's also just as bad.  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS)","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Feeling that the Childs Play series had garnered itself a little too much adverse publicity since its inception, the makers of this one decided to change tack and approach the material with an almost exclusive comedy angle. Sure, it still has gore; but as far as I'm concerned, you CAN have a comedy that's gory. Maybe that's a worrying indication of exactly WHAT makes me laugh. Not to worry, though because nary a titter was to be raised from me whilst watching Bride of Chucky. It's more one long giant in-joke than a film, and the joke sucks. Did we really need the series to get any sillier than it already was? I don't think so. It's honestly as if the makers got bored of doing horror and decided that they wanted to make an X rated episode of The Simpsons instead, only without ANY of the originality...A pal and I had rented this to veg out in front of with a few beers. In those circumstances, you WANT to like a film; but try as I might, I couldn't and still can't muster up any good feeling toward this.So it's a parody of sorts. Isn't a walking, talking and killing cherubic doll parody enough? Obviously not. The people behind this can't even stick to lampooning their own created universe, they've got to impinge on ones imagined by others as well. The snide reference to Freddy/Michael/Jason et al at the beginning only serves to illustrate how out of its league this film is. Comparing this film to any of them (Even Friday the Thirteenth Part 26 Jason Buys a Golfing Umbrella to Protect Him from a Shower of Nubile Teen Blood - coming to a cinema near you soon kids!) in a favourable light is surely asking to be laughed out onto the streets.The kids in the movie are just 'cool'. They can't be bothered to be witty (Musn't be seen to upstage the plastic props, must we?) As far as I can remember, not one of them displays a smidgen of talent between them. Don't fret, however, this even extends to the adults too. It's almost as bad as the lead character in part 3 (Justin, was he called?) But not quite.Thus, we are left to rely on the 'mutant Ken and Barbie' for our yucks. To be fair, it is neither the fault of Dourif or Tilly that things are this bad, but there is only so much they can do in such a haphazard production. Tilly even acquits herself quite well, enough to suggest that she is right for the part, and that the concept itself may have worked better in different hands. She deserved (and got) another shot at the role. Unfortunately, this necessitates a sequel. If it's as bad as this one, it may just be the last film I ever watch. Suicide being more preferable. It MUST be cackhanded treatment of the possible material by Yu and the writers; because as I said, Tilly is great. There is even ONE good moment (count it!) By the time we reach the ending though - 'Tiffany' the doll' going through the agonies of childbirth - I'd had about all I could take of such abject stupidness and blatant non-acting by most of the cast, doll pair excepted.The Childs Play series was tootling along fine until the needless aberrations that were parts 3 & 4. On the evidence of the latter, it can only get worse. Leave it alone now, eh? I would've said different, had this one actually been any good; but it wasn't, not by a long chalk. ... and don't even get me started on the dolls having sex...(EDIT On 28th of June 2006 I got to see Seed of Chucky... As expected, it makes the same mis-steps as its predecessor. There is no reason to recommend it if you find yourself agreeing with my dislike of this, because its problems are only exaggerated to worse effect. The distinguishing feature between the two is that what passes for 'satire' isn't even consistent anymore after the six-year wait... I took a raincheck on the idea of offing myself, but neither foray into the realm of send-ups is worth the time, by my estimation.) "},{"Title":"Another comedy-horror posing as a Slasher, just like the first three. Yawn.","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Please bear in mind that my harsh criticism is mostly due to my being 30 when I've first started watching the Chucky anthology. Had I been 20 years younger, I would have probably loved it. As an adult Horror enthusiast, each and every Chucky film up till now have been a remarkably unrewarding experience.While attempting to infiltrate the pantheon of slashers (and failing miserably), Chucky has made sure to let everyone know that logic is never a necessity. Freddie and Jason only get banished/defeated, so their return for each of the sequels is at least remotely comprehensible (which is all that's necessary considering mostly everything else about the slasher-monsters' supernatural strength and potency). Chucky, on the other hand, is constantly resurrected. How? How come? Who cares, Chucky's back and he's hilarious! Ha ha ha, right? Just what we want in a Horror film, to be half-entertained by a third rate comedian without a moment of actual fear.The good news is that the fourth sequel recognizes Chucky for what he is - a joke. That's why several scenes present a comic breaking of the 4th wall and some well deserved homages to those who actually succeeded where Chucky would forever fail (like Mike Mayers, Jason Voorhees and Hellraiser). In order to complete the comic effect, Chucky is this time accompanied by a female counterpart, the wonderful Jennifer Tilly as Tiffany, Chucky's Bride. Their interactions and dynamics are quite hilarious.Adjectives such as comic and hilarious have absolutely no place in a Horror film. True, Freddie has always been the ultimate morbid comedian, but the story-line and plot have been eerie and at times terrifying (words that in no manner can be used to describe anything about any of the Chucky films so far). Just like the first 3 films, Bride of Chucky is good for a few laughs with your friends on Halloween, or maybe even as a drinking game. However, as a Horror film? Another moderately entertaining let down. "},{"Title":"Bride of the Original.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky (1998) Dir Ronny Yu / Cast Jennifer Tilly, Nick Stabile, Katherine Heigl, John Ritter / Voice Brad Dourif A strange and sick little horror. Possessed doll Chucky finally lands a bride who happens to be a witch. Viewers are subject to an assault of perversion including a love scene between both dolls. We witness the birth of baby Chucky, as if the sex scene wasn't enough. Directed by Ronny Yu with fine production effects. This is at least an improvement over his last effort, Warriors of Virtue. Jennifer Tilly is ideal for the role of Tiffany who uses voodoo to resurrect Chucky. Their warped relationship bares reference to Bonnie and Clyde and Natural Born Killers until betrayal and carnage set in. They hitchhike with an eloping couple who are blamed for a murder spree. Nick Stabile and Katherine Heigl play the couple who are on the run but get caught up in a string of murders they didn't commit. John Ritter appears as Heigl's tyrant uncle and the role is something different for him but more would have been great as oppose to a murder that occurs way too early. Brad Dourif provides the snarl of Chucky. Pointless puke fest where viewers cheered when a truck mashes some poor dote into the pavement. The honeymoon murders are also unnecessary. This is one wedding celebration that gushes in its own explicit mess. Score 4  / 10 "},{"Title":"A glossy, self-referencing comedy","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As post-modern, self-referential horror comedies go, this one isn't bad. With a tongue firmly in cheek, BRIDE OF CHUCKY is definitely more comedy than horror. As a horror film, it's a total failure, with a string of gory murders having little impact on the viewer. It could be viewed as a shining example of all that's wrong with the genre at the moment - a lack of the real understanding of horror. As a comedy, though, there are plenty of laughs to be had from the two bickering dolls and the amusing storyline which recalls NATURAL BORN KILLERS. Another plus is that it's an improvement on the previous sequels in the series - but then what couldn't be? Besides, how can you not laugh at a film where two dolls share a very intimate scene?The violence here is played for laughs and there's a lot of it. The puppet animation is rather good too, coming from old hand Kevin Yagher. Coming after SCREAM, there are lots of references to horror films, as you would expect. The obvious influence here, though, is THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, seen playing on television at one point.Brad Dourif returns as the voice of the foul-mouthed doll, Chucky. However it's Jennifer Tilly who provides the most laughs as his bad-tempered and psychotic companion, Tiffany, both in human and doll form. Other characters come and go (usually in bloody ways) and make little impact, apart from the leads playing the teenage couple - the usual flawless and talentless young actors. Apart from this, the plot is contrived and hopeless, and far too simplistic. The film works best when focusing on the love/hate banter between Chucky and Tiffany. It's worth a few laughs, but viewers looking for serious horror should go elsewhere as this is just the latest in a long line of recent lame-brain good-to-look-at glossy films catering for the mainstream crowd. "}{"Title":"Doable fourth Chucky installment.","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Chucky 'episode' is much more a comedy than a horror film, but I'm fine with that. This is a fun flick to have seen, but I doubt if I'll ever try it again.Jennifer Tilly is always a joy to watch (though Brad Dourif, John Ritter and Katherine Heigl deserve a mention as well). The dolls were quite entertaining as well. The movie references to 'Bride of Frankenstein' and 'Hellraiser' were pretty funny. The scene with the mirror above the bed may or may not have inspired a similar scene in 'Un long dimanche fiancailles' (2004)... they're based on the same idea, in any case.All in all, just about doable. 6 out of 10. Perhaps I'll go see the three following this one as well, but this might also be the end, friend. "},{"Title":"An interesting way to start a new trilogy","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although he was late in the decade, the foul-mouthed serial killer Charles Lee Ray who transferred his soul into a Good Guy Doll still made a name for himself as a famous horror icon. After transferring his soul into the doll, Chucky (as he would later be addressed) gained quite a following for his disruptive antics and morbid enthusiasm. Upon his first appearance, Chucky had an imposing presence that made several viewers uncomfortable because of how creepy dolls are in general. However similar to other franchises, the scare factor and level of seriousness viewers began to accept was beginning to stretch too thin. By the time Child's Play 3 (1991) came out, fans and viewers a like became fed up with Chucky's goal of trying to transfer his soul into the body of Andy Barclay. For writer and creator Don Mancini, a small hiatus was in order after being pushed around to make sequel after sequel for his brainchild. A decade after the release of the original Child's Play (1988), Mancini returned and wrote for this feature that began Chucky's new trilogy.To some this was an improvement over Child's Play 3 (1991), while others were shocked the see the abrupt change. What Mancini had changed was the tone of the script. For the last three films Mancini wrote them as if they were literal; happening in the real world. The new intonation was that the story would be self aware in its execution but still continue from where the last film ended (roughly). An old lover of Charles named Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) acquires the shredded remains of Chucky (Brad Dourif) and resurrects him. After being brought back, Chucky decides in order to finally get out of his body, he needs the amulet he had from the time of Child's Play (1988) located in his casket where he was buried. Paralleling these events is troubled couple Jade (Katherine Heigl) and Jesse (Nick Stabile) who are constantly harassed by Jade's uncle Chief Warren Kincaid (John Ritter) for Jesse supposedly being a bad influence.As much as some viewers find the self-aware script jarringly different, having the series turn a comedic cheek to that of serious was a good move. Considering it became sillier as time went on, parodying it seems like an okay solution even with its flaws. For example the fact that it pays homage to its own films by clearly making a comment about it is funny for the fans to see. Even better, it references other horror icons directly and indirectly. It does bring up some clerical issues though. For example, other than Chucky how would another character know how Chucky killed people in the prior films? Also, is this now a universe where all the horror icons have been locked up or killed that their item that made them popular is now in storage? It doesn't make sense even if it is funny to see on screen. As for physical comedy, there are some ironic moments in the film involving Chucky's plastic body. Yet again, some bits are silly because of how physically impossible it works out.One other component to the writing that may make the plot feel predictable is because of how familiar viewers are with Chucky's nature. If you know how Chucky works, well then things may be more transparent than expected. The acting is adequate for what is asked though. Brad Dourif again succeeds at voicing his plastic counterpart with just the right amount of comedic and quotable lines. Jennifer Tilly as Tiffany matches Dourif's chemistry nicely by being just as foul-mouthed and violent. Nick Stabile and Katherine Heigl as the troubled couple feel authentic and end up demonstrating the power of teamwork later on. John Ritter as the annoying uncle plays his part like it should be too. There's even an appearance of Lawrence Dane from Darkman II The Return of Durant (1995) playing a detective. Since this is a comedy now, there is no scare factor unless the viewer doesn't like stitched up Chucky. The violence though is just as bloody as were compared to its other sequels. The kill scenes just keep getting more and more inventive by the jigsaw doll.The cinematography shot by Peter Pau was decent too. Pau as director of photography has had more experience in the action genre and his skills are highlighted when the few action scenes in this feature show up. For every other frame, the scenes are well lit and conceal the illusion of the living dolls. Also an important side note; as time has gone on, Kevin Yagher's production of puppet effects designers / puppeteer coordinators has really gotten the knack for lifelike movement. The original Chucky was pretty convincing but now it looks great and perfected. The film score by returning composer Graeme Revell was unique. For this entry, Revell creates a new theme for Chucky and keeps some old ones from his score of Child's Play 2 (1990). He also has a theme for Chucky and Tiffany, which consists of solo guitar and chanting girl choir. The rest of his score has a mix of the classic horror cues and action related arpeggios. The soundtrack containing songs sung by Rob Zombie and others is an okay addition but not necessary per say. It does make it feel quite 90s.It still has its problems of unexplained loopholes, ridiculous concepts involving physical comedy and continuity errors but it's a nice self- twist. The self-aware referencing script, the violence, the musical score and acting help make it watchable fluff. "},{"Title":"Mischievous duo","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With the boring entry when it came to the 3rd installment that Don Mancini didn't want to do because of the lack of ideas. This is a refreshing start to another level. Although this is not a serious suspenseful horror like the first one it's still a fresh entry that does have entertainment value. Especially with the Marilyn Mason massacre scene I could tell this is going to be a different style of entry. Actually the beginning scene where you shows Michael Myers, Jason Voorhees and Freddy Krueger items. This is a balls to the wall kinda entry to this franchise (although the doll sex scene is uncomfortable to watch even if it's off-screen. It sort of reminded me of Team America World Police). Which doesn't make any sense since Chucky doesn't have a penis, well at least when shown down their in the second installment. The plot keeps contradicting the rules of the previous movies in this franchise to bring Chucky back and the direction to go with it. Yes, I am talking about the revival of Chucky and the amulet/medallion thing (well they always have to think of creative ways to bring Chucky back). This time Chucky has a more sinister look with scars, stitches and all. While the previous movies dealt with the chemistry with Andy, this one deals with Chucky's chemistry with a seductive and psychotic woman named Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly). Jennifer Tilly is just fine and reminded me of a real life Harley Quinn. The chemistry between the two is far from a normal generic relationship, kinda reminded me of Bonnie and Clyde on adrenaline. Sure some horror franchises with a iconic goes in a very silly direction after the 3rd or 4th installment this one actually does work. Also Chucky's mischivious, foul mouth and evil bad boy persona with a mean attitude goes up another notch with this one. Even the kills this time is in another creative level and includes memorable segments to go with the whole package. Even the ending brings something new instead of sticking with the previous Child's Play formula. Watching this was like watching a cool horror slasher comedic road trip movie.7.8/10 "},{"Title":"Chucky's Chimeric Chuckles","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Normally by the time a franchise has reached the fourth instalment most people involved from the (paid) scriptwriters through to the (paying) public are beginning to lose heart. This is an excellent exception to that rule.The premise of the film is that the soul of the late Charles Lee Ray is trapped inside Chucky the doll. Charles' former girlfriend Tiffany plans to retrieve the doll and by use of magic, bring it back to life. If only life (and death in this case) could be so simple! Once revived, Chucky would much rather occupy Mr Ray's body, which was buried with the amulet required to complete this transformation. By this time of course, due to the treacherous machinations of both Tiffany and Chucky, they are now both dolls. What follows is a road movie as the pair kill time and people whilst implicating two nave star-struck lovers Jesse and Jade who finally piece together what is happening.From the opening scene as corrupt cop Bailey makes his way through an evidence room to the Grand Guignol finale played out in a graveyard there are nods to various kindred films and characters from Michael Myers to The Exorcist, from Friday the 13th to Pinhead, throwing in clips from 'Bride of Frankenstein' and 'Murder, She Wrote' and an hilarious reference to Martha Stewart.The entertainment value comes largely from the relationship between two deadly dolls, their snappy one-liners, love-hate relationship and competitiveness in murderous invention.Director Ronny Yu and writer Don Mancini keep both action and dialogue pacey and ensure an excellent balance of comic moments and sanguinary shocks. At an hour and a half good editing ensures no outstaying of welcome and the accompanying music tracks from Rob Zombie, Slayer, et al is suitably heavy. Special and visual effects are extremely well done and almost seamless. Of the acting, most of the cast do what is necessary despite being upstaged by the deadly dolls. Special mention should go to Jennifer Tilly for her dangerously beguiling femme fatale.Interestingly, with only minimal references to previous films in this series, it is quite possible to treat this as a stand-alone item and derive just as much entertainment value from it. "},{"Title":"Definitely has its moments, but I prefer Seed of Chucky","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) is Charles Lee Ray's old flame, before he was shot down in the original movie. She retrieves the Chucky doll, and revives him back to life. Chucky's amulet is required to transfer his soul into another body. Tiffany & Chucky use Jade (Katharine Heigl) & Jesse (Nick Stable) as pawns to get them to Chucky's resting place. Jade & Jessie get framed for murder, because nobody knows Chucky & Tiffany are on a murdering spree. This passes the time decently enough, and it has flashes of brilliance, but it lacks that special something that made Seed of Chucky so entertaining. It starts off with a bang. We get nods at infamous horror franchises, and Rob Zombie's Living Dead Girl. One thing I'll say is that this movie is filled with amusing inside jokes; even Christian Slater isn't safe from exemption. There are also references about how dated Chucky is, and his struggle to adapt. It also goes the full comedic route. Chucky gets stoned, fires off the one- liners and is now a comedian. He was firmly into Freddy Krueger territory when it comes to one-liners. The gore will have gore hounds pleased. We get John Ritter with a bunch of pins stuck in his face, slit throats, stabbings. A doll is burned alive in a nasty way, a gory birth. Somebody gets drilled with a truck, gunshot wounds, and more. My personal favorite is a death involving glass shards and a water bed. I won't spoil it, but man is it messy. My main problem with this movie is that the characters of Jade & Jesse aren't interesting enough. The characters of Chucky & Tiffany are the glue that holds this movie together, and despite how enjoyable they are, it's not really enough. Katharine Heigl had yet to achieve stardom at this juncture, and it shows. She has the innocent thing down pat, but she's rather bland to watch, and doesn't have much character to speak of. Nick Stable is even worse. He's one of those wooden hunks that can't act all that well. Women will probably adore him, though. I didn't believe they were in love for one minute, despite that I was supposed to. Gordon Michael Woolvett looks like Aaron Carter. I actually dug his gay shtick. John Ritter is amusing as the chief of police. He played a great jerk. Brad Douriff is always reliable as Chucky, while Jennifer Tilly's provocative and sexy show had me grinning from ear to ear. Alexis Arquette annoyed the crap out of me as the Gothic dude. Final Thoughts It's fairly enjoyable, don't get me wrong. But I think Seed of Chucky pulled it off much better. It's definitely worth a look6.2/10 "},{"Title":"a great Addition to the Child's Play franchise )","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" what a great addition to the trilogy, most of the effects are great in this one, we have a new villain with Chucky, and a whole new cast. Bride of Chucky is a funny addition to the series and a whole lot better than it's 1991 predecessor it's great to see Chucky for a fourth round and coming back, after a few years of silence. We have Jesse and Jade as the newest people, a cop named Neddlenose, a nosy uncle cop, and with moments of calming down and other moments with scary stuff.8 out of 10Bride of Chucky is a great addition to the Child's Play series! - John Bartus "},{"Title":"Murderously entertaining!","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Please let's remember that we're talking about a pair of murderous dolls in love! Film snobs and critics just won't get it, the only way to actually enjoy this film is to watch it expecting the ridiculous and to absolutely NOT take it seriously in the slightest. I did that and guess what? I loved it! Bride of Chucky is a title, blatantly spoofing that other hilarious film, Bride of Frankenstein only here, Chucky's bride appears in it for basically the whole film. The Child's Play series are films not to be taken seriously with and so Ronny Yu runs with the idea and decides to take it to the limits of daftness and successfully creates a really funny guilty pleasure. Whoever said they didn't even giggle slightly at the sight of two dolls having sex has got to be the embodiment of Pinoccio.The film starts like a completely fresh new start, if you haven't seen the other Child's Play films then you could actually just watch this one and you wouldn't know any different. The idea of Chucky getting into the little boys body (who isn't so little now anyway) has obviously been scrapped and a new plot of Chucky on the quest to getting some amulet has been added like The Little Vampire. Do we care about this blatant plot shift? No. Well I didn't anyway, die hard fans might be a bit brassed off, but I just enjoy the series and I don't necessarily think they're my favourite films ever! So the basic formula of Chucky is there only this time he has a girlfriend who has an uncanny resemblance to Patsy off my favourite comedy series Absolutely Fabulous. Even though they're meant to be the villains, you can't help but love them for their utter mischievousness towards the poor teenage couple. We as an audience egg them on to kill off any randomer!Although I did thoroughly enjoy Bride of Chucky I do feel that it didn't earn its 18 certificate. It could've afforded to be much bloodier, especially as the kills are so creative (thanks to Tiffany!)The screenplay is crazier than ever, the directing fills the film with the life it deserves and the puppets are really well made I could just imagine the puppeteers during the sex scene thinking, what s**t are we making here? But they really did look terrific and resembled a bit less of a midget in a costume, although obviously it was at times, it merely added to the complete nonsense filled fun the film possesses. This film just goes to show that not every film has to be all serious, sometimes its good to be as daft as you can be, just to lighten up a sometimes dull world. "},{"Title":"I love this film and the whole story concept of this film picture.","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I had watched this film I was impressed by the fact that chucky found his ex-girlfriend and married her. I didn't like the fact that chucky and tiffany(in doll form) were trying to get the amulet to turn themselves human again(they could have used the voodoo magic spell to possess bodies) and try to possess a young couple who wanted to get married and run off together. I do think that Tiffany was right for chucky because they were both killers and studied voodoo magic in different ways and that Tiffany would kill people similar to the way that chucky kills people(tiffany slits throat of police officer+ chucky(second film)had tied a woman to a chair and slit her throat) and they think in different ways and they are both similar to one another. I suggest to any young couple to not watch this unless you both agree to do the same thing. If I had offended anyone let me know, if I did , Sorry! But I don't suggest this film to anyone younger than 12 yrs. or younger. But the film was great and I love this film a lot, but beware Chucky may come back for more victims! "},{"Title":"Good, Scary, Funny, But Kind of Sad...","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is probably the best of the series. I do like them all (I haven't seen Child's Play 3, though) and they are all pretty scary. Seed of Chucky wasn't really scary, but that's besides the point.If you don't know the summary, Tiffany, Chucky's former girlfriend and accomplice bribes a police officer to get the remands of Chucky from his injuries / death in Child's Play 3. She stitches him up using new doll parts, and then brings him to life. After she is heartbroken by the killer doll, she shuns and teases him so he kills Tiffany. He transfers her soul into a doll, and they then settle on transferring both of their souls into a teenage couple. Tiffany secretly pays the male in the couple to drive the dolls to New Jersey, so they can get the Heart of Damballa. With this, they can transfer their souls into Jesse and Jade, the couple. They, of course, leave a spree of murder and mayhem behind them, pointing evidence to Jesse and Jade.Now onto the review. I totally thought the movie was a great horror and thriller film, but it was a bit sad for me. Yes, I know. It's dark comedy. And some of the scenes were a bit too gory for me. The two prime examples the couple in The Honeymoon Sweets (hehe, pun) Motel. Tiffany throws a bottle of champagne onto an overlooking mirror, and it shatters and falls onto the water bed as the couple is making out / foreplay and the water and blood goes EVERYWHERE. The bodies are later shown. Also, David's death. He is startled by the appearance of Chucky and Tiffany and then backs up into an interstate road, gets hit by a truck, and chunks fly all over the place. I almost threw up. Anyways, I know that Chucky is an evil b*****d, but the weed-smoking and cynical jokes were kind of annoying. And the end was pretty freaking creepy. When Tiffany briefly comes back to life and gives birth, that was a big holy crap. With the blood going onto the detective's face... Ew...Anyways, I really enjoyed the movie as part of the horror genre, giving it an 8.3 / 10, which equals to a B. I DO NOT recommend this to ANYONE who is easily scared with blood and / or gore. I watched Scream, and I wasn't really scared. And I'm a 13 year-old male. But I think that this was more disturbing because of the fact being that they are homicidal dolls. "},{"Title":"bride of chucky","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" thought that it was a neat idea for Chucky to get married, but unfortunately it think that this one was more of a comedy than a horror,, yeah there r some cheap kills, but not what you would expect from a Chucky movie,, there was however a lot of comedy in this,, and Chucky does have a lot of funny,, humorous,, dark lines. Jennifer Tilly plays the bride in this one,, she is real,, then goes to being in doll form as Chucky's wife, had trouble figuring out if they were real or not.. John Ritter plays the Police Chief in this one,, i thought that his performance was totally brilliant in this one. as the overbearing dad checking up on his teen daughter, a man after my own heart. the daughter tries to sneak dating this one guy so she presents a friend to the dad to try and fool him,, he catches on and busts them,, they are on their way to New Jersey to do a favor for Tiffany, i'll leave the rest for you to watch,, cuz it does get interesting from here, "}{"Title":"So, Chucky's Buried where Miss Teschmacher grew up?","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I would say 'Bride of Chucky' is a return to greatness but the series was never really great. Very good #1 was, #2-3 were throwaways, and I think this 4th installment is equal to or even better than the first movie. And it contains the best subtitle/tagline Chucky Gets Lucky. So he does, in the role of Jennifer Tilly, who thoroughly rejuvenated this series as Jeri Ryan did for 'Star Trek Voyager.' Tilly didn't just create a presence; she added much needed humor, back-story, drama, tension and a great little sidekick/play-thing for Chucky. And as much as I liked her in the feature, she can't get all the credit the props (watch the first 1-2 minutes for horror-homages), the writing, the inside jokes (again, the opening + Pinhead) and Chucky lines were great (In fact, if (this) were a movie, it would take 3-4 sequels just to do it justice, among others.) Mercifully, Chucky and the series has given up on Andy the Hide the Soul quest, and just settled for a new way out of his body. He teams up with his ex (Tilly) whom he transfers into a Bride doll and a couple of Bonnie & Clyde teens (Really, Heigl?) to regain this pendant buried with Chucky's human corpse. This is for any Chucky fan, 1980s slasher-horror fans or even to those who's never seen any of the previous 'Child's Play' films. It's funny, dark, harmless, gory &#x96; but not over the top and despite Tilly's literal 20 minutes of screen time, it's always great to see her. After all, you barely see her play poker anymore. (Side note of course, I picked up on the Superman reference &#x96; Hackensack, NJ.) "},{"Title":"Simply Entertaining","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Child's Play film franchise was going downhill until this movie showed up. Bride Of Chucky was a very enjoyable movie. It's funny, much violent then the previous movies. This movie was also new in the series to have sex which wasn't even mentioned in the previous films. The story is better in teleplay then lines.What was also new and eccentric in this movie, a sex scene between two dolls.I just can't get enough from this movie. I rented it and owned it for a week back in 2001 in VHS and just watched it about 24 times. I also had a familiar history with this movie towards my fox. You know that spell that Tiffany chanted to give Chucky life again; i totally memorized it back as a kid and i've used to chant the same words on my toys while playing for sometime. "},{"Title":"One of the most satisfying comedy-horror films of the 90s","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By now, the Chucky franchise was starting to get stale. The film had run out of control. I personally feel that the writer, Don Mancini, knew that he couldn't top the second film in terms of being scary and horrific. The third film, despite being entertained, was pretty stale. The second film was a really over-the-top gorefest of a freakshow horror film. The first film was a decent, but pretty flawed, horror film. Now we have BRIDE OF CHUCKY which is more humor oriented, which is what I thought they should have done in the first place due to how funny the visual idea of a doll attacking people is to me. So, does BRIDE OF CHUCKY work? Well, you already read my summary.The plot may not sound much like a Chucky film. A teenage couple are on the run and are accused of murder. What they don't realize is that the two dolls in the back of their car are slaughtering people wherever they go. It turns out that Chucky has a girlfriend named Tiffany. She brings him back from the dead using voodoo. She locks him in a cage. He escapes from the cage. He kills her and then he turns her into a doll!!! Yeah, you probably realize by now that this film really isn't to be taken seriously in the slightest. This isn't like the other three films that try to be scary. While this does have some creepy moments for sure, the film aims more for comedy, action, and gore and it satisfies in all three areas! The comedy may not be completely be inspired, but it is extremely amusing. You can tell that this is a true 90s film. The interaction between the two dolls is just completely hilarious. Take, for example, the scenes where Tiffany constantly scolds Chucky for being clich and old-fashioned. I thought a lot of the material was fantastic. The film just hits all the right notes for me. It's satisfying in all the right ways. The gore is amazing. Both of the love stories were interesting and you actually care about the characters. I loved this film. This was just as good as the second film! Check it out! "},{"Title":"Sort of a low point to the series","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie actually looks better than it is. It is actually a pretty stupid movie. One, where is Andy? He doesn't even make a CAMEO, I mean really. Shouldn't we know what happened to him after part 3? Also, the movie overall is really dumb. Chucky is back (again) and he finds his old love, so he kills her and puts her soul into a body of a doll like he did to himself back in 1988. They go on a rampage, and look for Chucky's amulet/locket thing that he was wearing when he was shot down in 1988. Sounds like a really nice mystery kind of thing, right? Wrong. It is more like a comedy-thriller. If you cannot gain access to seeing this one, don't bother. It really is not that great, and that is coming from a die-hard Chucky fan.6/10 "},{"Title":"You got your wish, you're mine now doll!","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky is my ultimate guilty pleasure, the movie is in essence pretty stupid but I feel like I'm watching a comedian with so much energy that we don't necessarily care if he hits all the targets. Really though a comedy was the right place to take the never dying Chucky because the situation was all ready pretty comical to begin with. Child's Play could be considered one of the blackest comedies ever made. The humor there was dry and mixed with horror. Bride of Chucky knows what it is and is willing to indulge into self-parody and for that I most give it tremendous credit.Brad Dourif reprises his role as Chucky who is stitched up and brought back to life by his sadomasochist trailer trash love Tiffany. Tiffany wants a traditional marriage and think Chucky is the one for her despite his maniacal tendencies. We are led to think that her attraction to Chucky is largely based on sex and sex alone. The night Charles Lee Ray was gunned down he left a ring on the mantle. Tiffany finds it and thinks it is a proposal of marriage and spends the next ten years searching for the remains of the Good Guy. Chucky tells her the truth that she was ****ing nuts Heartbroken Tiffany traps Chucky in a playpen and plans a grand revenge scheme for him by ridiculing him for being a doll. She gives him a present a bride his own size but Chucky is one step ahead of her and turns her into his bride I don't think anyone genuinely likes Chucky as a character but we love the scenario of a doll being possessed by vulgar sociopath. I was hard on Seed of Chucky because the humor didn't work but I like Bride of Chucky for the Tiffany character. She is a lot of fun and it makes Chucky all the more palatable. Child's Play was a film that worked because it created fear and because Chucky wasn't the central character of the story. Child's Play 2 and 3 were terrible movies because Chucky got the most screen time. Bride of Chucky realizes the scenario all though interesting is ridiculous and because it realizes this it is able to take more risk. Really though maybe Chucky needed a bride to vent all that homicidal rage. The interaction between the two playmates is the highlight of the film because their views of the world and marriage are so deranged and twisted that it makes for fine dark humor. Tiffany walks in with a plate of cookies that you all most think it is a 50's show where the loyal wife is at the husband's needs after a hard day's work. The highlight of the film is when Chucky and Tiffany are making love in doll form, I don't care what you think that scene was risky and hilarious.Don Mancini is not a comedian and he doesn't know what the movie going public will find funny. There are a few moments in Bride of Chucky were you look at the screen and wonder to yourself whether or not a joke was just told. I am forgiving to this however because Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly breath so much energy into their performances.The film is less interesting when our teens take center stage. With the iconic characters we don't care who they terrorize we just care that they get out and cause chaos. Mancini took the Drive-In book of horror clichs to create these side characters which includes an offensive homosexual stereotype written by an openly gay man.Bride of Chucky isn't a good film in the traditional meaning of the world but it is a hell of a good time for the horror fan who wants a good laugh. The little guy should have hung up his knife after this outing but his prophetic declaration applies to all horror villains.Go ahead I'll be back, I all ways come back... but dying is such a B***h! "},{"Title":"if i liked it, you might too. give it a shot!","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I cannot believe I'm going to say this, but I enjoyed this movie. Take it from me, I did not want to like this movie, but it was, as another reviewer put it, just a guilty pleasure. To me, the plot of this movie sounded ridiculous, and the title even more so, but I recommend giving it a shot. No movie about a killer doll and his killer doll girlfriend is going to be a masterpiece, but the people who made this film actually did about as good a job as anyone could have with it, and the end product wasn't too shabby. This movie is more of a comedy than anything, and as far as B-horror movies go, it actually has one of the better scripts out there, I kid you not. There were a few moments when I caught myself laughing out loud and rewinding scenes. Now don't go me wrong, some parts are silly, some stupid. However, in the end, I feel confident you will be surprised with how much effort went into this movie to actually make it entertaining and not a complete, retarded mess. Sometimes movies with low expectations that end up being a fun ride are the best rides of all. "},{"Title":"Part scary but mostly funny.","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought that this was the most hilarious of all of the Chucky/Child's Play movies. What made it so funny was that they gave Chucky a wife and they constantly argued and bickered the whole time- kind of like a real life married couple.The downside to this movie is that it isn't really that scary, so if you are looking for a scary doll movie, skip this one. This one has a couple scary scenes but it's mostly a black comedy. Although I thought the death scene in motel was pretty awesome.It's a hilarious movie- go rent this one. You won't regret it, I promise. "},{"Title":"A Step In The Right Direction","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To tell the truth, not much can be said about Child's Play 1, 2 and 3. All three of the movies proved to be disappointed horror movies with comedy and no thrills or scares, at best. Of course, anyone could say the series died with Child's Play 3, but this is a horror franchise we're talking about, so of course they're going to make more. Bride of Chucky goes for a more modern horror movie feeling, and this actually works to its advantage to sticking out as the best Chucky movie yet.For those that don't know, Bride of Chucky has left Andy Barcley behind, so he's long gone. But Chucky still has some victims to fool around with, and this time he's gotten a facelift gone wrong. Chucky goes and finds the pleasure in making the lives of two lovers more miserable, as they're for some reason forbiden to meet each other. As if Chucky wasn't enough for these two, an old girlfriend of his is turned into a Good Guy look-alike. Conflicts also brew between between Chucky and Tiffany, but it also has the film act like it can't decide whether Chucky and Tiffany love each other or not.With some fresh faces and a more modern feel, Bride of Chucky also goes to making a bit of fun towards the series history and to other horror movie genres. There are also some teen-aged party, drug and alcohol scenes, but the movie keeps this more-or-less on the down low. The acting is somewhat cheesy, but not as horrible as say Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 bad. The best performer of the movie is once again Chucky, his personality just doesn't seem to get old.Now, while this movie is a great step in the right direction for the Child's Play movies, it isn't without noticeable flaws. Again, the performances are pretty cheesy with the exception of Chucky, it's more a comedy than a horror and the movie itself does drag on with awkward parts. Other than that, Bride of Chucky a step in the right direction for Chucky's movie series and indicates good possibilities for future Chucky movies. "},{"Title":"Chucky gets lucky, and so does the audience","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like it when one of my plastic friends gets lucky, especially if he gets lucky with a hottie doll voiced by Jennifer Tilly. Bride of Chucky, from Ronny Yu, the director of The Bride With White Hair, injects fresh blood into the series and, thanks to a sharp, black, hilarious script by Don Mancini, is immensely entertaining. Yu, who demonstrates a deep understanding of marital conflict amongst dolls, creates a moody, gory, audacious comedy-thriller that never lets up and never insults the franchise. Jennifer Tilly as deliciously wicked as the voice of Tiffany and Brad Dourif is delightfully vile and foul-mouthed as the voice of the killer in a doll's body. The talented Peter Pau, who shot Hong Kong classics such as A Fishy Story (see review) delivers stunning images that raise the bar for future entries. The much-discussed sex scene between Chucky and Tiffany is a ripper and has only been challenged once since by the marionette sex/scat sequence in the brilliant Team America. The dolls are clearly making their mark, and not only does Chucky get lucky (bless his plastic heart!), but so does the audience. You can't beat that. "},{"Title":"Funny and scary at the same time!!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you like humor, stupid good humor in your horror movies, then this one is defitnently for you!! It has a lot going for it. The two dolls, chucky and his bride, are very real like, and they make you think they are actually real people the way they express themselves at times. The writing in this film, I thought was great. Good Job, writers! I was entertained most of the two or some hours watching this. The acting was good enough as well. All in all this movie deserved my 8 out of 10 stars, it was just that, 8 out of 10, very good! This movie should be a classic, that all horror buffs should see, because it's funny, fun, entertaining, and gory all in one.Very nicely done!! "}{"Title":"Funny  and entertaining ,reinvention of the chucky movies.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of chucky is a rare thing , a fourth entry to a horror movie series thats great in its own right! Its a hilarious and inventive horror comedy packed with some great scares, despite being played for laughs .Childs play creator don Mancini seemed to be aware of how ridiculous the concept of a killer doll was - which explains the postmodern , self mocking approach to the film.Its an approach that works- the way the film decides not to take it self seriously like its predecessors allows you to sit back and enjoy the ride.And a fun ride it is too.Adding to the morbid fun is the highly watchable pairing of chucky and tilly (played with gusto by a super sexy jennifer tilly ).Any one trying to reinvent a flagging horror franchise should use this highly entertaining childs play entry as a blue print.Tons of self effacing fun . "},{"Title":"Child's Play versus Problem Child","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe I am completely dense. I've always been a fan of both the Child's Play movies, Bride, seed, etc... and that of the Problem Child trilogy. I always thought there was something similar about the movies, but guaranteed my theory when I saw Child's Play 2. In that, Andy is seeing this foster parents home for the first time. His views on the home, the coloring, even down to the clowns they put in his bedroom were ripped and spoofed into Problem Child. Even the situation where Andy's foster father thinks he's been killing and wants to get rid of him, mirrors John Ritter's response. The only difference is, John Ritter has an actual sociopath for a kid, rather than a doll. Too bad, lol. Makes for humorour spoofing, though.Am I totally off on this? Maybe I'm dense, but it certainly gave me a kick to see that. Anyone agree??? "},{"Title":"I really like this movie lol!!!","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just want to say I've been a Barbie doll collector in my life and I really loved the Barbiesque transformation sequence of the Jennifer Tilly character doll lol!!! This is definitely more of a comedy/horror. Lot's of fun!!! I just bought this DVD, I've wanted it for some time now, just in time for Halloween coming lol. I still have to see Seed of Chucky. My son's name is Chuckie, he is 22 now, and when he was small the first of these movies came out and I had to put my hands over his eyes in a hurry one day in a video store and rush him outside so as not to scar him for life from the hideous Chucky did it movie poster with a knife! So, its come along way for me to say I like this movie in the series lol! Though I still would not want a small child to see it, of course. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Bride of Chucky","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was the very first I had seen of the Child's Play series, or rather, starring the infamous killer doll. Basically, Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) who was Charles Lee Ray's girlfriend brings him back to life in the reconstructed doll. When 'Chucky' (voiced by Brad Dourif) wakes she won't let him out because he acts like a bastard. After he kills her he places her soul into a doll too (hence the title). Basically the two dolls travel with two teens to the graveyard with Chucky's corpse, with a voodoo charm on his neck which will help them transfer their souls into human bodies. Along the way they obviously have fun making their drivers look guilty by killing many people along the way, in really violent ways. Also starring Katherine Heigl as Jade, Nick Stabile as Jesse, Alexis Arquette as Howard Fitzwater/Damien Baylock, Gordon Michael Woolvett as David 'Dave' Collins, John Ritter as Police Chief Warren Kincaid and a cameo by Kathy Najimy. A great horror comedy, and as far as I'm aware, a good comeback from the unpopular Child's Play 3. Good! "},{"Title":"Solid return of the Good Guy doll. ***1/2  out of 5","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This one is purely tongue in cheek. There are scares but just as many (if not more) laughs. There are also plenty of nods to other horror films of the past, so be on the look out all you fellow horror fans! The story is really well done and scripted for a fourth entry in an old horror franchise. It feels fresh and new and certainly isn't a bad way to resurrect the series.Graeme Revell returns to score and briefly brings back his theme from Child's Play 2.I will always prefer the first and second films for being a bit more on the serious side (even though they were plenty hilarious as well) but this was probably the best way to return the Chuckster to the big screen. Bride of Chucky is definitely a lot of fun and not one to be missed! "},{"Title":"Chucky changes","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of chucky was a great movie that had a lot of what the originals have, killing and gallons and gallons of blood. This movie had different qualities than the originals of course, and that is comedy. Bride of chucky was barely scary, but was extremely funny. Many people said that this destroyed Chuckys scary edge but he still looks as scary as ever. Even though This movie was not scary doesn't mean that the movie was bad, not at all this movie was great. Chucky was sort of laughing matter to begin with anyway; man is dying he transfers his soul into a doll, then as the doll gets back at old enemys and kills anyone in his way, sounds like a funny story. This movie sort of shows the real side of chucky, a complete laughing matter. Still though the movie was great and should be rented at least twice a year. "},{"Title":"Bride of chucky is full of Deaths and Laughs!!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought Bride of chucky was very entertaining thought out and full of gore with a lot of catchy and bloody deaths awesome for a Sunday night watch in the dark. You get to know chucky a lot more in Bride of Chucky it lets you know his background a lot more and you get to meet his bride and what he did in his early years when he was not a doll. My favourite part in Bride of Chucky was when chucky and tiffany (Chucky's Bride) have sex and chucky asks (Shouldn't you wear a rubber? I'm all rubber!). Some of the one-liners in this will blow you away with laughter It's recommend it to those who enjoy horror Comedy movies! The movie laughs at itself, and I laughed along with it. "},{"Title":"Easily the best sequel in the CHILD'S PLAY series.","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" BRIDE OF CHUCKY is perhaps the best sequel in the CHILD'S PLAY franchise! wherein the first three films took a more serious approach to a killer doll stalking the unwary, BRIDE OF CHUCKY take a far more comedic route & as a result, it winds up being highly enjoyable! It's fun to watch & it's jokes are always on target. It contains some pretty inventive kills & many gross out moments to help wet the appetites of even the most jaded of horror fans. Best of all, the film is loaded to the eye balls with pitch black humour & satirical references, such as Tiffany using VOODOO FOR DUMMIES book to revive Chucky, the two dolls have sex (we see their silhouettes on the wall) Chucky drinking from a fish bowl, pulling a ring off a severed finger & giving it to Tiffany etc. The dialogue is absolutely hilarious at times. The two fighting when she makes dinner for him & yet he refuses to clean the dishes. Being that the film arrived during the whole SCREAM series phenomenon, it's no surprise that Part 4 would be just as self satirical & self referencing as pretty much any theatrically released horror film of the era, however unlike most horror films at the time, BRIDE OF CHUCKY'S swiping of the SCREAM formula actually works here! it's cleverly interwoven into the screenplay, where it makes it not so obvious. Director RONNY YU & company let us know that this is a different, fresher, CHILD'S PLAY sequel, as we see a police evidence locker containing the Crate from CREEPSHOW, Jason's hockey mask, Michael Myers mask, Freddy Kruger's glove & Leatherface's chainsaw & Andre Toulon's puppets from PUPPET MASTER, which is cited as a rip-off of the original CHILD'S PLAY, since it came out almost immediately after it's arrival. A theory which I disagree with, since Full Moon Entertainment has been making killer doll movies long before the first CHILD'S PLAY even came out. Ironcially enough, MATT ROE who played a psychic in that movie, was cast as a cop in CHILD'S PLAY 2. By the way, if you don't know who any of these characters I mentioned are, then you shouldn't be seeing this movie! & HELLRAISER's own lead villain Pinhead is also referenced later on, when Chucky embeds a series of nails into a victims face, to which he replies Where have I seen that before? One of the characters is also named Damien Baylock which is a reference to THE OMEN, who's lead villain, a child, was named Damien & who's nanny was a woman called Mrs. Baylocks.Being that this is a new CHILD'S PLAY movie, the film-makers update Chucky's look as well, he looks like a stapled & stitched up Frankenstein doll. Not surprising, since the films title is a spoof on THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, in fact, that very movie is playing on the TV moments before Tiffany is killed, in a kill scene that was originally written for the death of the babysitter character in the first CHILD'S PLAY movie (the psychologically driven draft called BLOOD BUDDY) & replaced with a scene where the character in that movie is killed with a hammer, this is also spoofed in the movie, as Chucky considers killing a victim via a hammer to the head & Tiffany replies that it's To lame & predictable. Arguablly the stitched up look for Chucky is cited by many as being Chucky's definitive look. The film's main plot of the two dolls trying to return to human form, by switching bodies, is yet again the focal point of the film but it doesn't dominate it & it's not repetitive. However it makes one wonder why if the amulet Chucky seeks could help restore him to human form, (despite now being human inside the doll) he never went after it prior to this, is questionable. Wisely the film-makers do away with Chucky's pursuit of Andy Barclay & ventures off into an entirely new fresher direction. Which was desperately needed after the abysmal box office performance of Part 3 some seven years prior.The direction is great! RONNY YU'S camera movements & direction are really stylish & help suit the tone of the movie. It's very professional. The acting is even better. JENNIFER TILLY is amazing as Tiffany, nobody could have played that role like she did! KATHARINE HEIGEL...Everyone! I especially liked the late JOHN RITTER who does a terrific job of playing her sneaky low life, spiteful uncle. Ironically enough, his son Jason would also work with director Yu, on FREDDY VS. JASON some years later, another box office smash hit that, much like CHILD'S PLAY, helped revive the two ailing horror franchises. Also worth of note is how GRAEME REVELL who does a terrific score here, also scored CHILD'S PLAY 2 & FREDDY VS. JASON.In the end, BRIDE OF CHUCKY has more flesh to the characters & story & plenty of enjoyable new twists & turns, that it stands out as not just another CHILD'S PLAY sequel. But something far better than that. Everyone who made the film, was clearly having fun & it shows. Great doll creations by KEVIN YAGHER. Despite it's silly concept, the film is so much fun & a must see for horror fans! It's never once campy & best of all, it delivers a fun, highly entertaining thrill ride, that any horror fan would want. The ending leaves a set up for a sequel that ironically enough, despite this films huge box office success, took some six years to come to the screen, in the form of a sadly tepid entry entitled SEED OF CHUCKY**** stars "},{"Title":"Hillariouse! This is a funny, violent and vulgar film.","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chucky Gets Lucky and The Honeymoon's Gonna Be Killer! Serial killer Charles Lee Ray is back! This time his girlfriend Tiffany has revived him, once again in the form of the popular Chucky doll. Shortly after the happy couple's reunion, Chucky kills her and brings her back in the form of a girl's bridal doll. The two then embark on a killing spree en route to dig up Ray's corpse, which was buried with a Satanic voodoo charm capable of bringing back the dead.This is extremely funny, I laughed the whole way through. Whoever wrote this is either extremely disturbed or has a great sense of humor. Ronny Yu the director of Freddy vs. Jason brings his whole unique style to the film. Brad Dourif is Chucky's voice yet again in this film. Newcomer Jennifer Tilly plays Tiffany. "},{"Title":"Harper in this film! Must be good...","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved this film mainly because it has GMW in it. I watched it casually with a friend once and about 10 minutes into I sat up really straight and said, holy s-, that's Harper! He is the best character in the whole film, even when... wait... no spoilers!Seriously, if you haven't seen this movie then you are either crazy or you just haven't heard about it yet. If you haven't seen this film, trot down to your nearest HMV and buy it. It is AWESOME, incredibly funny and with some of the best actors in America/Canada I have ever seen. It made me laugh so much I was falling off my seat and the lovely gory death scenes are as brilliant as ever. "}{"Title":"Bizarre funny stuff","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky - come on - there is no way you could take this post-Scream film seriously!? Thank god - it doesn't (with a tag line - You'll scream when you know what Chucky did last summer....)! A former girlfriend of Chucky, Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) attempts to bring Chucky back to life and get him reincarnated into human form - but alas - it doesn't work and she ends up being turned into a doll.  Chucky and Tiffany end up going on a road kill trip. What I love about this film is the truly bizarre stuff they come up with - including a doll wedding, a doll love scene and even - a doll domestic scene. This is directed by the same guy who made Freddy Vs Jason - but this is much more entertaining...! Much underrated - definitely worth checking out if you love those cynical 90's horror movies.  "},{"Title":"4th time is the charm","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky's back and better than ever in the fourth film as the innovator and creator or murder, mayhem, thrills, chills, and laughs. Bride Of Chucky is the best of all the Chucky films because it does not focus on scares and violence, rather it focuses on the more important elements. Instead of having scene after scene filled with violence, the director combined all the elements of action, drama, suspense, horror, and even comedy into Bride Of Chucky. The only actor to act in all four films returns; Brad Dourif reprises his role as the voice of Chucky. Jennifer Tilly lends her voice to the Bride Of Chucky as Chucky's bride, Tiffany. Chucky and Tiffany fit together very well for a pair bent on creating malice, chaos, havoc and mayhem.Though Chucky and Tiffany are definitely the main focal point of this movie, but they can't make it a successful film by themselves. Strong performances by relative newcomers Nick Stabile, Katherine Heigl and seasoned veteran John Ritter made this a tremendous hit. Katherine Heigl may be known for her portrayal of Steven Seagal's niece in Under Siege 2 Dark Territory plays Jade. Nick Stabile is Jesse, Jade's boyfriend. John Ritter plays a police chief and who hates Jade's boyfriend, Jesse. I commend the creator and the puppeteers of the Chucky and Tiffany dolls for their original and unique movements. Also, I loved the maniacal laugh that Brad Dourif created after each crime Chucky and Tiffany committed. Bride Of Chucky is filled with laughs, scares, and chills from beginning to end.     "},{"Title":"The only CHILDS PLAY flick worth seeing","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I always found the CHILDS PLAY/Chucky films to be dumb and pandering..then I saw BRIDE OF CHUCKY a funny,fast-moving,FUN horror flick. Thank you Jennifer Tilly for breathing life into a franchise that needed a good dose of your sassy badness! This ones worth seeing even if you havent seen the other Chucky flicks, it stands on its own and is the only Chucky flick I would ever wanna sit through again. Very amusing. "},{"Title":"It aint the size that counts, as*****, it's what ya do with it!-Chucky(obviously)","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I could care less of what anyone thinks of this film. It was well done at a great pace and the soundtrack is awesome! Well, despite the fact that Living Dead Girl by Rob Zombie wasn't on it... John Ritter, Jennifer Tilly, and Brad and all the other amazing actors in this movie did great... Maybe I am just a hard core Chucky fan and it was selective thinking? We'll never know, now will we? hehe Cathie "},{"Title":"It aint the size that counts, as*****, it's what ya do with it!-Chucky(obviously)","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I could care less of what anyone thinks of this film. It was well done at a great pace and the soundtrack is awesome! Well, despite the fact that Living Dead Girl by Rob Zombie wasn't on it... John Ritter, Jennifer Tilly, and Brad and all the other amazing actors in this movie did great... Maybe I am just a hard core Chucky fan and it was selective thinking? We'll never know, now will we? hehe Cathie "},{"Title":"About an early Ronny Yu movie...","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think this is a pretty good movie, with signs that Yu can be a very good horror director, who can create a Horror Evergreen candidate Freddy Vs. Jason. This movie isnt too scary, but have a good black humor, and some moments we can remember.I warn Argento, Fulci,Hooper fans its not a classic bloody horror, just a good fun... "},{"Title":"Deadly dolls for the Scream generation","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Before i write anymore, I must make a confession. I have never seen Child's Play 1 through 3. However, I am well aware of the history of the series, thanks in large part to the British ban of Child's Play 3 as a knee-jerk reaction to the Jamie Bulger killing. I came to Bride of Chucky expecting very little. A friend of mine said i should watch it and lent me the tape, so watch it i did. And i had a derned good time.This film wastes no time in letting you know where its coming from. In the opening shots, we see a police evidence lockup containing Jason's mask (of Friday the 13th fame) and Freddy's finger knives (of Nightmare on Elm Street infamy). From a locker, a cop pulls a bag containing the shredded remains of Chucky, the once goodguy doll who was possessed by the soul of serial killer Charles Lee Ray. It is obvious that Chucky will be resurrected, as were Jason and Freddy many times (most recently by Bride's director Ronny Yu, in the crossover Freddy vs Jason), and the setting is one of post-modern horror, as was fashionable at the time of the film's release, thanks to Scream and its disciples.The basic plot is this Chucky's former girlfriend, Tiffany, resurrects Chucky via some needlework and voodoo, who then kills her (whilst she is watching Bride of Frankenstein, geddit?) and pours her soul into a female doll of Chucky's stature. Tiffany manages to convince her hunky neighbour - who is running away with the girlfriend whose Chief of Police uncle has banned him from seeing - to transport the two dolls to Hackensack, New Jersey, where the body of Charles Lee Ray is buried. Once there, the two dolls will exhume the body, claim back the voodoo amulet which will allow them to repossess human bodies, kill the two teens and take over their forms. Its pretty weak at best, but lets face it, you're only here for three things - the dolls, some laughs and some grisly murders. And that's what you get. The Tiffany doll is brilliant and Jennifer Tilly - though i did miss her voluptuous form filling the screen - brings her to life wonderfully. Brad Dourif gives Chucky - now horribly disfigured, thanks to Tiffany's stitch-up job - appropriate levels of menace and sick humour. And the deaths are pleasingly grisly and imaginative.What is good about this is that it never really pretends to be anything other than ridiculous. There are constant references to horror movie staples, such as Pinhead etc., and the script consistently pokes fun at the state of affairs. And the whole thing rattles along at a brisk old pace. At just over 80 minutes, there isn't much screentime when some absurd situation or some blood-letting isn't in the works. It just sets up the plot and the set-pieces and gets on with letting them play out much as you would expect.All the people you dont really warm to get offed pretty quickly. Alexis Arquette, doing his best Marilyn Manson is the first to go, and while Chucky certainly puts him through some pain, the deaths get more elaborate as the film progresses. One of the best scenes sees Chucky blow up a cop car after getting stoned in the back of the teens' truck, and the reaction of a stoned spectator teen to Chucky crawling away and giving him the finger is priceless, and for me the biggest laugh of the film. It also has one of the films two impressive explosions, a minor note, but its always nice to see some good pyrotechnics in a b-movie.Some of the structuring is actually quite neat as well, with the two unaware teens gradually suspecting each other of the string of murders that seem to dog their roadtrip. And anytime someone new enters the fray, you can guarantee they'll get theirs. Perhaps the best death is a tie between the 'honeymoon sweets' murder and the resultant Final Destination-style splattering of one of the film's main characters. There's also a suitably perverse sex scene which was crying out to happen, topped off with a nice punchline, which sets up the film's final twist.And what a twist. Hardly unpredictable, but neat none the less, it tops off a sick and entertaining hour and a half effectively enough to warrant a further sequel. A date movie for horror fans, unless your woman is a) scared of murderous dolls, b) far too lofty for this sort of thing, or c)not into a bit of dark silliness. Otherwise, its a good little film, stylish and pacy enough to rise above Direct to Video horror and spineless dirge like I Know What You Did Last Summer. Give it a go - just don't expect The Silence of the Lambs. There's no Oscars here, and all the better for it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Good natured fun....in a sick and demented kind of way!","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With a tag line like Chucky gets lucky you can expect a film that doesn't take itself too seriously and Bride... is certainly not a movie to be taken, or even attempt to be taken, in any way, shape or form, remotely seriously.Jokes and one-liners abound throughout the movie, and there are a number of visual gags that poke fun at other horror flicks (see the Pinhead scene, for example).The two dolls steal the entire film thoroughly and Brad Dourif (who has to rank as one of the world's most underrated bit-part actors) voices Chucky perfectly.If you like silly horror, then this one is a must-see. If, on the other hand, you think Scream is the height of the horror genre, I'd stay away. Though this movie has teens getting in trouble, they are almost completely unimportant next to watching to see what Chucky and his diminutive partner get up to.It's a real shame there aren't more of these kind of Don't take it seriously movies around. It's a sad reflection that the comedy horror genre, in recent years, has had to suffer the likes of Scary Movie, which are, lets face it, completely crap. Hopefully, more films with real dark humour and not force-fed you must laugh at this crap will emerge in the near future. If not, then comedy horror is dead.One last thing to note about this movie.....the appearance of the late John Ritter. It's strange that it is often only after an actor has died that you begin to realise what a tremendous talent they were and how much they contributed to the industry over the years. RIP John.  "},{"Title":"Sadly, the best film with Chuck.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Then again, maybe it's not so surprising since the title is obviously a reference to the classic 30s Bride of Frankenstein starring the late great Boris Karloff (a sequel widely considered superior to the original.)  Then again, with Frankenstein James Whale directed both films as series entries into the horror genre where as Chucky's `Bride' takes a turn for parody.To the original's credit, the concept of a possessed doll was original and had potential, and the film semi-delivered (mostly thanks to Dourif who gave Chucky his undeniable flair that gives Englund's Krueger a run for his money in the witty-serial-killer department.)  Half the fun of Child's Play was Chucky's off screen mischief through the first half of the film, which could theoretically lead up to a Candyman ending.  Well, that couldn't carry over too well into the sequels so we got more of Chucky.As cool as Chucky is, the first two sequels just didn't quite work as a result (that and because the reason the first one didn't fully deliver came back.)  So here we have Bride of Chucky, a post-Scream self-commenting slasher featuring everyone's favorite miniature killer ever lovable Chucky.  Now the Child's Play franchise has something fresh again, and the parody vs scary trade-off isn't too terrible (unlike Jason X.)  Slashers are not scary anymore, most are standard formulas that give cookie cutters a bad name and are spliced together in post-production where the other unimaginative elements get stuck together to create a half baked glob of stuff we've tasted before (prepared by better people).  Chucky isn't scary anymore.  BoC acknowledges this and shoots for a different approach and fairs pretty well in the craft department (surprisingly) . . . it's a distinct cut above the average horror flick.  So it's far better than I expected, and I admit after the first 3 films and just hearing the title of this one I could not see how this movie would be remotely worth the $1.08 rental.  It's nice to be surprised.  It is a relief that at least a few horror flicks acknowledge their worn formula and have drifted to this parody approach (some with more success than others), and after viewing Ronny Yu's work on Freddy Versus Jason I don't see how FvsJ could've been done any other way successfully.  Yu has a talent for throwing a few interesting wrenches into old-school horror and making them worth getting back into . . . Bride of Chucky is easily my favorite of the Child's Play movies, though I love Chucky's comments throughout the entire franchise.  Finally he has someone to play off of, and Jennifer Tilly's performance of Tiffany does a fine job keeping up with Chucky's wit.  The two dolls constant bickering is half the reason to watch this movie.       "},{"Title":"Even as a stand  alone film I'm still conflicted....","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has a lot of things going for it....It had Don Mancini who's been the same writer through the entire series which is a big plus in my opinion...If you're doing any kind of series then I believe that the same people should be involved all the way through it...Brad Dourif still seems to get a kick out of portraying Chucky and rightfully so as he's a great insanely funny character....The movie itself was fast, energetic and fun....as a stand alone film that is....and that's where I stand conflicted...I really wanted this to play as a part of the Child's Play series but sadly too many things in this film's plot don't allow that....Sure It starts off with Chucky shredded by that fan in 3 and stuffed into an evidence locker...wrapped neatly in brown paper bag...Once this scene has played out the series continiuty begins breaking down....With the addition of two major plot points...VooDoo for Dummys A real funny gag...Just played out completely wrong...I can buy Jennifer Tilly's character would using this book but for chucky to know the exact page number that she'd need that just doesn't make sense as he studied under an  actual voodoo preist ala the first movie....The Amulet Heart of Damballa Interesting plot point but we should've known about when Brad Dourif was shot in the first movie...When his body fell to the ground and in the police photo we see from his file... When see that same photo from the police file in the first film here but it's been badly altered to include the amulet around his neck...Was it the writers fault or was the director's fualt who knows? Either way it ruins the series continuity for me...But this by no means is a bad film....It's actually quite fun.... "}{"Title":"Chucky does'nt get lucky","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the first Child's Play movie i saw and i was disapointed i have now seen all of them and the first 3 rule. Its not a terrible film just not a very good one if you want to see a good childs play movie check out the first three (number 2 especially) the acting was really good though it just did'nt have that childs play feel to it (4/10) "},{"Title":"Best Horror Comedy Ever!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky had a girlfriend named Tifany(A damn ass hottie). She brings everyones killer toy back from the dead,to ask her to marry him. He laughs,she locks him in a play pen. He decides to punish her by turning her into a doll. They go to get a crystal that can allow them to turn back into humans. I got to tell ya this is a great movie. Funny as hell. Laughed a whole lot during it. We get some funny jokes. Provided by Chucky,and Tifany. I loved this film. I know you might call me crazy,maybe I am but...4/4 "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don`t know why it took me so long to see this movie. This has movie did`nt have to be scary but it was just simply entertaining.It was good to see John Ritter find some work after the horror it. If you like entertainment this movie is you`re perfect 10 "},{"Title":"Reinventing the series. *Spoilers*","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being a fan of the series ever since the first one scared the hell out of me at the tender age of 6, I walked into a packed theater on opening night to see this movie. What I got wasn't what was expected. This movie was actually better than the three flicks behind it! Ever since seeing it in theaters, I have bought it on VHS and DVD and have watched it hundreds of times. This is easily one of the most entertaining horror movies out there. Sure, Chucky isn't scary in this flick, but really, could he be scary anymore. Everyone knows who he is (you aren't scared of Freddy Krueger anymore, are you?). 'Bride of Chucky' takes a more comedic route that isn't afraid to make fun of itself. Almost all of the murders are excessively unrealistic and Chucky spouts off lines such as If this was a movie, it would take 3 or 4 sequels just to do it justice and I'm ALL rubber! (you'd have to see the scene). In this movie, Chucky is pieced back together (after being chopped up in part 3) by his former lover Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly). When things turn sour, Chucky kills Tiffany and transfers her soul into a doll, via voodoo. The duo takes a road trip with unsuspecting runaway couple Jade (Heigl) and Jesse (Stabile) to New Jersey to uncover Chucky's dead body so they can find a special jewel that will allow them to be human again. Confused? Far-fetched? Don't worry. The movie is thoroughly entertaining and is directed with an dazzling visual flare by Ronny Yu ('Formula 51,' the upcoming 'Freddy Vs. Jason'). I honestly can't find a flaw in this movie. Everything about it is wonderful. It's funny, it's bloody, and it even has an awesome soundtrack. Chucky fans will not want to miss out on this one. "},{"Title":"Chucky and Tiffany 4-Ever!! OK!!!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Kids of the Eighties like us - who grew up watching Chucky over the years but unfortunately had the same height as 'our star' at that particular time were turned away at the Movie house with a warning of 'don't you even think about it, Kiddo!!'  Now these 'Big' kids are excited to have passed the R rating 10 years later to go and finally see him Back in the Big Silver Screen - Yaaaaaay!The world's favourite Serial Killer doll is cooler than ever to be Fantastically Vocalised as always by Genre Star Brad Dourif, but this time brings a lil' Honey.Charles Lee Ray's Ex-lover, Tiffany, is wonderfully played and later voiced by Sexy Jennifer Tilly as Chucky's Playmate and Partner-in-crime, better than Chucky's first pal Eddie Caputo and makes Barbie look like a plain Jane which is a great addition to the film.  Tiffany patches up her man from a horrible end to 'Number 3' and brings him back to life with a book, VOODOO FOR DUMMIES, bribes Chucky to animate with teasing comments and manages to bump off a Marilyn Manson- Alex Arquette- which makes people think twice about body piercings.Tiffany is happy with the result and hopes everything is champaigne and red roses, WRONG!! - because she thought Chucky would pop the question on the night he was killed, she obtained a Diamond ring on his Mantlepiece - but he told her that he took it as a trophy from Vivian Van Pelt (one of his victims on his snuff list)and told Tiffany she was nuts and letted out a mad-capped laugh, she felt humiliated and was enraged, and locked him up in a play pen to provoke him then brought a female Bridal doll for spite, However Chucky had a master plan......While watching the box and taking a bath, Chucky was on the loose by sawing his way out, Chucky pushes the T.V. into the water and Tiffany dies by being buzzed by a lethal combo of floated entertainment called Bride of Frankenstein (Geddit?!).Tiffany's spirit was transferred into the bridal doll by that ol' spell and now has the dress she always wanted but she is now pint-sized!!! To be Human again, C&T need the amulet from Chucky's Human body-which was buried in Hackensack, New Jersey.Enter Teenagers- Jade (Heigl) and Jesse(Stabile), who are the perfect target for the latex duo, but were eloping away from Ritter portrayed as a brilliant Villain in the movie, but Bodies are being left at their trail to be pinned as the blame, and to quickly pick up cash in Hackensack's Cemetary written on Tiffany's note is the only escape route for the sake of their love.Ok! in my opinion is it the best sequel left from Chucky 2, it has more humour, especially when Tiffany explains that he is 'too eighties' and should be creative, Ritter becomes Pin-head when his face is a pin cushion, and as a dear friend of Jesse and Jade splatters all over the freeway Chucky nudges at her and peeps up 'that works too'. Chucky always had a sick humour, but does not alter his Evil side which is a good thing.What really made us curled up and die of laughter was the memorable love-making scene between Chucky and Tiffany which is HOT enough to make plastic melt, if my memory serves me correct somebody done a loud wolf whistle in the audience and that made it worse, better than creating scenes ourselves as kids over the years for banging nude Barbie and Ken together at elementary school.I am not gonna give away too much but Chucky made a protest at his death scene when Jade pointed a gun 'Go ahead Shoot, I will come back, I'll always come back....but dying is such a bitch'- and that made me applaud because due to the habitual ritual of the 'baddie dies at the end of every movie'.With a great ending, make way for Chucky 5. "},{"Title":"Please, please don't take this movie seriously!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As long as you don't, you should have tons of fun.  I haven't seen any of the previous Chucky films, but I know the basic gist of the original (a serial killer inhabits a doll) and didn't feel in any way lost.  First off, I must say any movie that plays Living Dead Girl by Rob Zombie in the opening credits is in my cool book.  You couldn't have picked a better song to open the film.  I made a student film in which I edited an opening montage set to Rob Zombie's Superbeast and that was the only part of the movie I was proud of.  The movie is packed with dark, tongue-in-cheek humor.  One thing you can't accuse this movie of is not being original.  Name another movie with a doll-on-doll sex scene!  The scene contains my favorite line in the movie.  Chucky's bride asks him, Do you have a rubber?  Chucky responds, I'm ALL rubber!  Classic!  Absolutely classic!Jennifer Tilly has never looked sexier, and is incredibly seductive in the first 30-or-so minutes in which she is still human.  John Ritter has a totally offbeat role that made me laugh with delight. Bride of Chucky probably won't scare you, but it never ceases to entertain and made me laugh throughout.  My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"best film i have ever seen!!!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky at his brilliant best, his most funniest ever film and one of the best chucky films yet. Here's hoping Chucky has more films to come!!!!!!!!!! The Bride of Chucky film has more laughs in it than the cheap rip offs like scary movie. CHUCKY FOREVER!!! "},{"Title":"Great!! Except for one goof up","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This sequel to 1988's Child's Play is a great continuation of the series,but there is a goof up,Chucky says that they need this heart thing to get out of the dolls,but in 1,2,and 3 he was trying to get in Andy and Taylor's bodies,and he didn't have the heart thing,so I hope Child's Play 5 can correct this error by bringing back the true Andy,Alex Vincent,not Justin Jimmy Olsen Whalin,so the 5th part should be more like the other films in the series,but other that goof up,it's a great film "},{"Title":"Chucky gets Lucky? YES HE DOES!!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MY REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSOkay I give Bride of Chucky a 9 out of 10. It has some funny moments, some corny moments, and some very outrageous kills! It is so amazing! And look for a good performance by John Ritter.Now, a little about the movie. Chucky is sewed and put back together by his old girlfriend Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly). Then, as Tiffany makes him mad, he kills her by electrocuting her in the bathtub and transfers her soul into a bride doll. They get married and kill almost everything in their path.The murders are blamed on two newlyweds, Jade and Jessie. They are actually blamed for them all until the end, when a cop notices it's Chucky, and then Jade kills him.Tiffany then dies having a baby, and... THAT is where Child's Play 5 will pick up. I have to give this one a nine out of ten. And if you watch this, do it for the kills and, well, a very sexy Jennifer Tilly. "},{"Title":"prepare yourself for the most romantic scene ever...","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This 3rd sequel has nothing to do with the other movies of Childs Play. After the first one, inspiration was hard to find. We could bare part 2, but 3 was just 2 bad. Don Mancini (now preparing part 5 with Chucky's son) didn't think he would continue after Child's Play 3 in 1991, but because of the success of the interesting Scream and the terrible I know what you did last summer, he decided to bring the Good Guy back to life. Bride of Chucky is a very funny movie. Brad Dourif, who will be in The Lord Of The Rings-The Two Towers as Grima Wormtongue, does a excellent job and invents some hilarious one-liners. The black humour is just a chiller. The best part is when Chucky sees himself in the grave. But we must not forget Jennifer Tilly, who turns out to be an fine partner for Dourif, and who will be back in Child's Play 5 (2003). The story is not so important (what story?), but to see Chucky and Tiffany making love is the best thing that could ever happen to us in a horror movie, right? It's just the most romantic scene I have ever seen. I am curious about what Chucky Jr. will look like... Anyway, he has some wonderful parents. I can recommend Bride of Chucky, because besides all the humour the bloodfans will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Chucky Get's Lucky!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Chucky is back! It's been 10 years since killer Charles Lee Ray transfered his soul into the body of a Good Guy doll. The doll, all chopped to pieces from Child's Play 3, is stolen from a police depository and put back together. The one who did it was Ray's old flame, Tiffany. Chucky is brought back to life. He looks terrible.         Tiffany locks Chucky in a cage when he says he didn't love her enough to marry her and to irk him off even more, she bought him a bride doll. This meant war. Chucky broke out of his prison, electrocuted Tiffany and transfered her soul into the bride doll's body. Chucky the unveiled his new plan The Heart of Damballa. They need it to transfer their souls into human bodies, he was wearing it the night he was gunned down. So it was buried with his corpse at the cemetary in New Jersey. But how do they get there?         Tiffany has a teenaged friend Jesse. She assigned him to take the dolls to NJ. He did it for some big $$$. Jesse took along his girlfriend Jade, but Jade's uncle is the mean Police Chief Kincaid. He has an officer, Norton, tail them around all the time. Both Kincaid and Norton are killed by Chucky, but Jesse and Jade are framed. Pretty soon, they find out Chucky and Tiffany are live dolls. Chucky then hears the corpse of Charles Lee Ray will be examined. This could ruin everything! So the first thing they do is barrow some new wheels an RV. The ride goes great until Chucky and Tiffany fight, then they crash. Chucky and Tiffany have a show down right at Ray's grave. They both die. For now. Jesse and Jade's names are cleared and this movie has a huge surprise at the end!         Pretty good! An improvement over Child's Play III. Though at the end of the latter, Chucky was chopped up into little pieces. In this movie, it looked like he was just cut up with a knife. I hear there will be a fifth Chucky movie Seed of Chucky. Due to come out sometime this year or next. But for now, you gotta check out this movie. I'm glad Tiffany killed those two obnoxious people in the honeymoon hotel where Jesse and Jade stay. They were creeps.In horror movies when there's a jerk character, it's good when they're killed. Or mamed. I recommend this movie!!-- "},{"Title":"rude f***** doll business!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky can be described as a cool movie. Gore, black comedy, and good acting make this the second best in the Child's Play series. Chucky, (his voice is from none other but Brad Dourif) the main star of the film is our hero, and our villian, we have to love him in this one. Chucky's black humor, and creative ways to murder make him a doll to fear. Jennifer Tilly gives a good -and sexy- performance, and her voice fits perfectly for Tiffany.  I have to say that I loved when she -in her physical body- appeared on-screen wearing a mini skirt.I didn't want to see Chucky dying in this one, but I was happy when he said that dying is such a bitch, but that we will return as he always do... Or something like that.  I hope that Seeds of Chucky will be a decent follow-up to this one. "},{"Title":"A great horror comedy!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is cool!I like the part when he puts up the middle finger  at a man and the man sees him and says''rude f***ing doll!''This movie isn't bad,but child's play 1 and 3 are better.I recommend this movie to child's play fans every where! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one fun movie. This was a great installment after 'Child's Play 3'. It's 10 years later & Chucky is brought back to life by his old girlfriend, played by Jennifer Tilly. Great gags, jokes & effects keep this new Child's Play movie fresh & exciting. Jennifer Tilly does a great job in this movie. This is worth watching! "},{"Title":"Unique and complex...","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've grown up watching horror movies, since the age of three with my very first Nightmare on Elm Street back in about '87 and then the first of the series, Child's Play, came out and being 4 almost 5 I was forbidden to watch it (Though I don't see why, Nightmare was scarier than Child's Play).  Being 18 now and finally getting to see the first Child's Play and having vivid memories of the second, I was quite pleased with all that I saw in them.  At first I was a bit iffy on seeing the newest installment, I had heard about it a bit my freshman year in High School, I thought it was a bit stupid and then the other night it comes on Sci-Fi, following the third movie, I said Eh, why not and man am I glad I did.  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS*** The best part of this movie is, of course, Brad Dourif, the voice of Chucky, that laugh of his is trademark and the way he delivers the lines is great, I couldn't think of a better person to voice the doll.  Jennifer Tilly was also quite good as Tiffany, though the Satanic voodoo angle wore thin on me being a Christian as I am, but I find the humor coupled with the gore to be a movie made simply to confuse and entertain the Child's Play fans who have been waiting for Chucky to make a return.  I found Kathy Najimy's role as the maid in the scene when the other couple was murdered with the glass from the mirror to be amusing, being completely oblivious as she was (Reminded of her role in Hocus Pocus as Mary, the very unaware one).I can see where Jessie and Jade fit in with this, they're kind of a way to symbolize Charles Lee Ray and Tiffany in a less psychotic, but more of a confused version, impressionable, if Chucky and Tiffany got their way and got into the bodies of these two, it could have been another kids gone wrong example with no one knowing the reality of it, but thats the thing, where would the other movies be?Like a lot of movies, there were unrealistic parts of it, such as the dolls fighting, Chucky stabbing Tiffany and them not having slept together but a few days before and the baby not only being born, but surviving being stabbed.  I am interested to see how they make this whole thing come back and I do await the newest one, but I beg the people who make the new movie, get a better sound track, the last one was a bunch of trash death bands...My final ratingsActing Dourif/Tilly-10 (especially Dourif)         the other two-6Story line-6 after all, it was kind of hazyCharacters-8 interesting development   "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky gets lucky in this poorly made sequel that just happens to have a great premise. Jennifer Tilly is Chucky's former lover. She tracks down the doll and brings him back to life through voodoo. However, Chucky manages to turn Tilly into a doll also. Now Tilly and Chucky search for a couple to transfar souls with. This entry puts humor over chills and scores some laughs, but still the main saving grace is Tilly's wickedly smart performance.Rated R; Violence, Sexual Situations, Profanity. "},{"Title":"Another Victim of Killing a franchise just to make a buck!!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sure this was a good movie, I liked it a lot, Brad Dourif was still Mr. Charles Lee Ray.. AKA Chucky, and it had some cool killing scenes.. Like the nails in the head.. And it tried to be funny too.. But It was a good thing they called it the Bride of Chucky.. Because it was no child's play.. It wasn't even a horror, really.. I have always believed that in horror movies there is a lot of room for change, so that you character can grow into something maybe a little more than what he started as.. Sometimes, you have things like The Leprechaun Series, that changes from movie to movie, which was o.k because even though Warwick Davis was always the Leprechaun, he was a new different one in every movie.. But in this case the changes they made are unforgivable, and un called for.. Charles in part one preformed Voodoo, on a doll in a store because he needed a person and that was all he could get his hands on and he was dieing.. He was taught this Voodoo from a man he later killed in the movie.. The rule is and can't be changed that the longer he stays in the body the more he becomes it, for example, at first you can shoot him all you want he has no blood, he can't be hurt, but after being in the doll he starts turning and the body starts to feel pain, and he even bleeds, if he doesn't change into a human body, before he becomes human in the doll, he will be forever trapped in the Good Guy Doll.. The only way he can get out of the doll is to perform that same Voodoo in which he did to get into the doll he is in.. And more important, the only body he can do that to is the body of the first person he told who he was in the doll.. That person is Andy Barclay , Andy is the only person Chucky can use to get in a new body, in parts 2 and 3 he was givin' a new body (doll) in two he was recreated with new parts, in a sense rebuilt, and in 3 he got a whole new body all together that was mixed with his blood.. This is why they can bend the rules saying that chucky has a whole new doll, and this means that he can use the body of the first person he tells who he is with his new body.. Giving him the choice between Andy or Tyler, the little black kid he told.. In the Bride, he has no new body, the same one, so he had turned before, even if the Voodoo for Dummies could bring him back, he would be forever stuck in the Good Guy Doll.. But that's not the part that is all wrong, the part that is all wrong is that there is no Andy, and Chuck is trying to find some medallion, that didn't exist before, and we knew it didn't as the viewer, and so didn't Chucky, cause if you watch part 1, it clearly states that THE ONLY WAY TO SWITCH BODIES IS BY PERFORMING THE CHANT ON THE FIRST PERSON HE TOLD WHO HE WAS IN THE DOLL!!! The Voodoo Black man in part one, whom Charles asked how to get out of the doll said nothing of any medallion.. But in The Bride', it's like Chucky knew all along!! If this were the case, he wouldn't have asked in the first one, and he wouldn't have spent all his time with Andy, when he could have gotten the medallion, and picked any body to posses.. I find that most people who didn't see the others or didn't like the others liked this movie a lot.. It was a good movie, in fact I liked it quite a bit, but The plot was bad, and this movie made no sense, and it did no justice what so ever to any of the others.. And it lacked the great lines from Brad Dourif like, There's nothin' like a strangulation to get the circulation running!! But I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to give it a chance.. In a serious Horror flick, Serious screw ups do matter!! But in a funny Horror flick, at all depends on who, what, and you... "},{"Title":"Not the best I've seen so far","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I felt that the plot line in this movie was very poor. The acting was okay, but the plot line was terrible. No, I am not a Childs Play basher actually I am quite fond of the series. All I'm saying is that this one could have been better. It was really weak. "},{"Title":"changes tone effectively","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Moderately entertaining sequel abandons horror-thriller and shifts more into the realm of horror-comedy. The killer doll Chucky is unexpectedly revived by his onetime human girlfriend Tiffany, who may have the means to transfer his soul into a human body. Unfortunately, circumstances soon turn her into a living doll as well, and the two of them team up on a violent quest to try and find a way for both of them to become human once again. Has a much different approach than previous Child's Play films, but it works better than expected by providing an effective blend of violence and dark comedy. By nature corny, but worth a look if you're in the mood. ** "},{"Title":"Genius at work","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Magistral fourth entry in the Chucky's saga, with a great cast and dozens of citations from other horror masterpieces, from Psyco to Hellraiser ending with It's Alive. Chucky becomes a married man and has also a child!  One of the greatest horror movie of the last decade, a delight for the real movie buff, who likes his movie with a lot of internal trivia. Ironic gags, blood running free, politically incorrect a great, great movie "}{"Title":"different","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's face it, the Child's Play series is no longer scary. Bride of Chucky is smart in the fact that it doesn't try to be an intense thriller. Instead it delivers plenty of violence, and has a surprising sense of humor. The only major disappointment is that we've seen this all before. A lot better than the junk titled Child's Play 3. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Not true to the originals","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky was certainly not a flattering sequel to the original child's play trilogy. The first 2 installments were the best followed by the 3rd which was still quite impressive. However with this film, they lost the plot. Chucky was nowhere near as funny as he used to be neither is he as violent. These 2 ingredients are a must for Chucky to work like he did in the other films. The plot was very unimaginative and predictable, the usual comedy not there and it looked more like a teen flick. Chucky's character was overborne by his bride which may have been the point but just didn't work.I hope they make another installment but a true sequel to child's play which remains one of my best loved film series. "},{"Title":"this is a kool funny horror","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a fun of CHILDSPLAY, and I believe that this series of sequels is cult. I love Chucky and the way he talks and he is mean. Especially when he says bad words or when he's laughing he's magnificent! Part II used to be my fave and I expected the Pt4 (bride of chucky) to be as stupid as the 3rd of the sequels was. I was wrong!! The Pt4 is as entertaining to me, as part II was! It's funny and has some really nasty gore and effects! A true childsplay "},{"Title":"A terrific blend of comedy and horror!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was very well-done. Katherine Heigl, Brad Dourif, and (especially) Jennifer Tilly did a great job in this! It was a perfect blend between horror and comedy. In fact, I think that this film was supposed to be a dark comedy. That's what it seems like, anyway. If you like 'Child's Play', than you'll LOVE this one! ***/****PS- Happy Halloween, everyone! "},{"Title":"Look past the bad acting...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g., genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- Bride of Chucky = **1/2- Rated R (for graphic horror violence/gore, language, and some drug and sexual content)The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was horrible; possible the worst I had ever seen.  However, I am the type of movie goer just like many others that change their minds upon multiple viewings.  I rented it again remembering all of the good parts and ended up loving the whole thing.The style and energy it carries is the best thing in the movie.  Dark scenes, high-bass Rob Zombie tunes, and a brilliant Jennifer Tilly in skimpy outfits!  If you look past the bad acting in this film, there isn't much not to like.  I mean, looking at it from a serious critic's point of view, the film can't climb up very high on the star scale, but the film is so fun and lovable, what the hell?  You'll love it, Chucky fans.  Hell, fans of a fun movie on a Saturday night will love it too! "},{"Title":"Sorry, Jack. Chucky's Back","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first heard that another sequel to Childs Play was forthcoming my reaction was something along the lines of OH NO! Because lets face it, the third one wasnt very good and after a ten year break theres bound to be a few problems with the film. I was wrong. Chucky returns with great force and really makes this movie a memorable one. Its creative and origional. Tiffany is particularly effective in bringing this film to life. There is even a bit of humor in this one, such as Tiffany using Voo-doo for Dummies to bring Chucky back to life and saying that her hero is Martha Stewart. There are a couple of problems with the movie, such as the whole magic amulet thing which was never mentioned in the previous movies. According to the ones before he has to possess the first one to realize what he is, meaning that he should have been after either Tiffany, that guy she was with or (shudder) Andy Barclay again. To me the saving grace of Bride of Chucky is that we are finally past the Andy stage of the series. This movie is cool though I still think Childs Play II was the best.Movie Rating A- for generalized coolness. "},{"Title":"Hmmm?","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'll be the first to admit it- I love the first 3 in this series!....But this one should have never been made! It doesn't really follow the series(No andy!), although not as bad as the 'Highlander' movies... , and the plot is actually quite boring, and Chucky should have just stayed dead. Chucky has no cool lines like in the last ones and it really is just a mess of a film, made to cash in on the earlier 3- See the first 3, and skip this one! "},{"Title":"A very violent, yet funny film.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    The Bride of Chucky was nothing like I expected. I expected it to be scary (which it wasn't) , but it was funny instead. This film was very violent, yet humorous and funny, but wasn't very good. The story didn't fit very well, and I didn't like it at all that the film had to be funny. Thank god that this is the final chapter of the Child's Play movies, well hopefully the final chapter, unless they make a fifth, but they probably won't. Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly were okay in the film, but the movie itself wasn't very good. I give this film a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great 4th entry!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is just so much fun. Although I do still say Child's Play 3 is the best of them all. This time we get a whole new kind of Chucky movie and it suprisingly works pretty well.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!An old flame of Chuck's finds his remains and brings him back. He soon gets the idea to kill off his old girlfriend and transfer her soul into a doll. However, to transfer into human bodies they must find the grave of Charles Lee Ray and get a magic pendant. To do this they hop aboard a van with a teenage couple and the fun begins.Good story, acting, and effects. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Chucky get's lucky???","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You know how a lot of horror movies have a reputation for being really stupid, pathetic, unoriginal movies? Yeah, well the 'Bride of Chucky' is a perfect example!Chucky is back - and now he's got a girlfriend, Tiffany (played by Jennifer Tilly) who hope to go back to where Chucky's original body was laid to rest.However, the two evil dolls hijack a young couple's truck and all hell breaks loose.Pretty pathetic, (even for a horror-lover like me!) although not all bad - with the whole love scene being just a little icky, but laughable at the same time. Very mediocre. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie is a lot of fun. i didnt even want to see it when it first came out because of the first three, but i watched it the other night due to extreme boredom. i actually found myself laughing and even getting scared! i loved Tiffanys charachter! she was so funny and flamboyant! *SPOILER ALERT!!* my favorite part is when Chucky set the police cruiser on fire, and was crawling back to the van, when the stoner kid sees him. so pausing, Chucky flippes him the bird. the kid looks at the joint,blinks and says RUDE F***ING DOLL!! i was rolling!!!! the other part i liked is when Tiffany threw the champagne bottle at the mirror to rain glass down on the thieving couple. i loved the expression on Chuckys face, as he said I love you! this movie is fun and fresh! it is a wonderful contrast to the other three movies which i found to be a drag. this one is a must see! "},{"Title":"If you want to watch dolls having sex, then this one's for you!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I expected Bride of Chucky to be campy fun. It was campy and it was fun, but to an extent. The first half of the film was silly, gory, and witty. The film makers just wanted to have fun with the premise, and it was entertaining. The second half tries too hard to shock you, and it gives up on the one-liners and replaces it with violence, and it comes off as the film makers are actually trying to scare you, and thats where the film goes flat. Bride of Chucky is about that a doll obviously named Chucky, he has been dead for quite some time, thats until Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) revives him. He doesn't like her human advantage and he kills her and she becomes a doll. They need to get to Hackensack, New Jersey to get some necklace off Chucky's real body to be turned into humans again. They hitch a ride with a teen couple, Jesse and Jade (Nick Stabile and Kathrine Heigl). The two dolls commit many murders on the road trip and the teens get blamed for it. Once Jesse and Jade find out the two dolls in the backseat can talk and maim, the film takes a downward spiral. I have only seen the first Child's Play, and it was a decent film. The 4th installment's campiness looked like a promising rent. Of course this films going to be gory, but there is so much of it here, it gets boring. (SPOILER!) And when Tiffany has that bloody baby at the end before she dies, that was just gross, and the gleeful smile on your face, if you still have one from the first half, quickly turns to one of disgust. Watch the first half for campy fun, and the last half if you're into run-of-the-mill(but more gore)slasher flicks.Bride of Chucky gets a 5/10. (Dolls having sex was not as nearly as funny as it sounds, it's more awkward than hysterical.) "},{"Title":"So bad that it's funny!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Child's Play was an interesting idea. I can't remember what happened in parts 2 and 3, but 4 is not that scary. The story really falls apart after 30 minutes, there's no structure and no character developments.  You don't give a damn about the main leads. The whole concept is very MTV!! It's geared towards the 16 - 22 age group.Acting isn't great, the actors had nothing to do!!! They throw in a gay character, it's so forced!!!The screenplay falls apart in the middle and never recovers.Technically, the dolls are excellent, they steal the show!!!The movie is bad, but that's what makes it funny.Overall, bad, but you'll get a few laughs at the stupidity of it all. "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Does not have the thrill horror movie fans look for.Yet the two doll idea works great.Chucky`s bride Tiffany was his girlfriend in life she buys the pieces of his body the good guy doll.And sews them back together making Chucky look like some frankenstein thing.Anyway she brings Chucky back.Chucky murders her.And changes her into a doll.They sneek into a friend of Tiffany`s truck and go all around the country killing teenagers with sex on the brain.looking for a jewel buried with chucky so they can become real human beings. At parts it is funny like I said lost the thrill horror movie fans look for rent it if you are a fan of the child`s play series you are in for an extra large treat.Yet the parts with Chucky`s son and the dolls smoking were not needed,It is great and i like how they made chucky look.Fun Movie.  "},{"Title":"Fun and guts","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Revamping eighties horror icons isn't exactly new. Just rent Friday the 13th part 6 Jason lives. Wes Craven, responsible for turning horror from tres corny to tres chic with his Scream-series, also went down this road with A New Nightmare. Even Michael Myers got his turn to star in a fresh new adventure filled with nubile screaming (pardon the pun) teens to kill, a recipe for modern horror box-office success. And as you are reading this, Jason X is being screened and prepped for release. Properly done, a revamp is just the thing to freshen up a flailing franchise. Especially the Child's Play franchise. It's so Eighties...Let's face it, a possessed doll is a rather silly concept. SO why not have more fun with the idea? I liked the new direction the writers took with Bride of Chucky, turning it into a black comedy rather than a senseless slasher pic. Loved the Voodoo-for-Dummies bit and the little genre in-jokes are oh so cute, although not too subtle. The movie also delivers some stylish murder sequences done with a sense of flair not often seen in the horror genre. Exploding waterbeds and radios in the tub while soap bubbles fill the air. And let's not forget the highway scene, which even manages to shock ole Chucky into silence. And that doll's seen some sh*t, man!OK, so the acting is two-dimensional and the movie sometimes gets a little bizarre (doll's having sex, for goodness' sakes). The puppetry is amazing, humor as dark and strange as it comes and the final showdown in the graveyard, with the dolls walking towards each other aka. spaghetti-western, left me riddled with goosebumps. So its not Shakespeare, but it's not meant to be. Bride of Chucky takes the brave step of revamping the franchise, and succeeds.      "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the 4th film being reviewed for my Halloween special. Bride of Chucky drives the Child's Play series into the ground. I personally thought they should've stopped after the second one. This film turns the series into one big joke and while some might find the joke funny i most certainly did not.The film introduces Tiffany played by Jennifer Tilly. She was charles Lee Rays girlfriend during the time of his actual death. she finds the chucky doll that lee's soul was in and sows it back together and resurrects the doll. Chucky's back. it's pretty good up to this point but soon things get bad. He then kills Tiffany and turns her into a doll much like himself and they go on a mission to get the bodies of a young couple played by nick stabile and katherine heigl.Things go from bad to worse As the movie progresses. the only few good points is Chucky is as cool as ever in this film very good voice talent by brad douriff once again. Jennifer Tilly is adequate as Tiffany but she has done much better thna this film. Nick Stabile is flat as an actor and Katheirne Heigl is ok. thank God she has a much better character on a very good show named Roswell.What's sad is that this movie leaves it wide open for a sequel. hope they don't make it. give the series some dignity. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Genuinely classic","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Spoilers)Like Bride of Frankenstein, Bride of Chucky follows the tradition of slashings, killings and doll sex (and birth).  This story shows Charles Lee Ray's girlfriend (Jennifer Tilly is smokin) as she brings back the chucky doll he's in after a 7 year abensce.  Then horror ensues, when Chucky puts Tiff into a doll and the adventure ensues.  Plenty of fun, and it is the second best in the series, even in the sex doll scenes make you cringe.  A- "},{"Title":"Why a bride ?!? (some spoilers ahead)","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie isn't good. I didn't like this movie, although I think this movie could have been a great sequel. It wasn't. I'm happy to say, though, that it had it's moments. The death scenes were great and very creative, even if kind of  unreal, it still was great enough for people to say hey, that was cool. That's a high point for a horror flick, like that cool mirror scene in the hotel room.This movie wasn't good, but was tons better than the 3, which was simply a bad, bad attempt for a chuck's come back. Chuck's dark humor is back too on this movie, and he can actually be funny here. The Tiffany character has it's potential, but I think it was dull. It was dull the way she appeared, it is dull the way he interacts as Chucky's girlfriend. And the final sequence, oh the final sequence was just awful. Unless you like to watch two toys fighting (if I can call it that way), then it might be good for you.But all and all, Bride of Chucky isn't all that bad. It has it's moments, they just needed a better plot to make this one real good.Rating 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed Bride of Chucky. It had a lot to like about it. The murders and killings were extremely intelligent, and the voice-overs from Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly were hilarious. Bride of Chucky is a very enjoyable, silly comedy that kept me entertained for it's reasonably short running time.But, be warned Bride of Chucky is definitely not a horror film, so if your looking for the scariest Chucky movie, your not gonna find it. This film is a comedy. Be warned, but be extremely encouraged.Rating 8 "},{"Title":"Chuckys back and up to his old tricks again","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This forth Child's Play movie has to be one of the best so far its very funny and quite gory now and then. Brad Dourif is back as Chuckys voice and Jennifer Tilly is great as Tiffany who soon becomes a doll herself as well as a bride.This movie is great the death count is high and the music is cool i can not wait to see seed of Chucky. "}{"Title":"This film winks an eye at every horror fan, and then gives them the finger","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie doesn't take itself seriously, and if you follow its lead you're going to have a lot of fun (as long as you don't mind your murders served up really bloody, and your horror topped with extra cheese)!This film winks an eye at every horror fan, and then gives them the finger. It knows it sucks, and because of that, it's far and away the best of the Child's Play series. It plays up the stoopid humor angle so well, you find yourself doing more than just laughing AT it, but WITH it. And, trust me, the whole time you're laughing, it's laughing back atcha. "},{"Title":"Same old same old","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok. They have to stop these movies.Chucky has lost his edge. I can tell you whyFirst of all in the last 3 films Chucky always worked alone.I thought Chucky has to say the words to become human. Not use some stupid amlet.Now heres where it got stupid. The sex scene. What the hell has happend to him. He used to be a kids worst nightmare. Now hes just another face "},{"Title":"Spectacularly entertaining!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've commented once on this Chucky great, but I had to do it again to say some things about the film, when I first saw it in a great balcony in a great theater. The film was a lot of fun in the theater and my first Chucky film ever in a theater, and that was a special moment for me, because I cherish Chucky. The other horror villains are referenced with GREAT COOLNESS!!! And the gore was shockingly great! The scene where the gay kid gets nailed by the truck was amazingly cheerful! That was a great gore scene!!!!! And the ending was so bizarre and shocking it made me s*%@ my pants. The idea of having the Seed of Chucky was very, very bizarre and shocking! When I left the theater I just loved it and I could'nt believe it was real. The bizarre and different qualities of this Child's Play installment for some reason made me mark it as the Jason Goes To Hell of the Child's Play series. It just had that intensely shocking, bizarre and different quality that reminded me of Jason Goes To Hell. A sure ***** out of *****. Here's how I rank the series  1,4,2,3. I loved it but not quite as much as Tom Holland's original Child's Play classic. I can't wait for Seed of Chucky! Bring it on! "},{"Title":"Chucky gets funny","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky is back but this time he is not scary (a lot) - but he is funny!When Chucky is brought back to life (in the doll, of course) by his old trailer trash girlfriend, Tiffany, he promptly kills her and transforms her into a doll, too. Tiffany and Chucky are now on the case of 2 high school graduates - eekkk!!Don't miss this film - it is a whole lot of fun. It is scary, funny, weird, wacky and stupid all in one!My rating  9/10. "},{"Title":"Nice movie to watch now and again","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    I've never been a real fan of the Child's Play series but I have to say that I love this movie. Its smart, funny, and great effects. Jennifer Tilly steals the show and I found her to be quite enjoyable. Chucky and his new girlfriend are funny as hell together and you are so happy to see them as a couple. This movie is a must see. You will enjoy it if you like horror-comedy. "},{"Title":"a bad comeback for chucky","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i am a big fan of the Childs Play series, i've got them all taped. They're all very entertaining movies, the first is a classic horror film. This fourth surprise installment falls quite short off the mark. It is far too slapstick and cartoonish and not suspenseful at all! I admit that i like the other movies especially for Chucky's wisecracks, but they had a spark of credibility and they were scary. This movie has far too many sex jokes, and Chucky is more irritating than funny. The two teenagers were extremely annoying, the presence of an endangered child is sorely missed here. Little cute Andy is what made the other movies work, but the filmmakers don't understand that. Many people i know like this movie better than its predecessors, but i honestly don't think that's true. I can't tell you if you'll like this film you might adore the first ones, but that doesn't mean you'll hate this film like me. But if you liked  them especially because of Andy, then i think that the absence of a child actor in this film will disappoint you.(P.S. the ending was too ridiculous to be funny. People who liked it should check their I.Q.'s and their senses of humor)  "},{"Title":"best of the four","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first one was pretty good. The second and third one sucked. But the third one was the best. It had more gore and violence than any other one. And the ending was awsome, and surprising. This was the ultimate chucky. I liked it because it was more exiting and well it wasn't as scary but more killings. I recommend this film to anyone who likes chucky movies and doesn't like dolls.  "},{"Title":"Worst of the series","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was bad. Even Child's Play 3 is more entertaining than this movie. I was expected more and improved death scenes in this picture. All I got was, bunch of lame killing scenes. Come on! The last 3 child's play movies had better killing scenes than this movie. This movie is mostly talking than killing.Take my advice, stay with the original.I give this film 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Chucky And Tiffany Get It On!!!!!!!","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride Of Chucky Is One Of Those Sequels That Are Hard To Come By.After 10 Years Of Waiting Charles Lee Ray's Girlfriend Tiffany Has Came By The Remains Of Chucky The Serial Killer.Using Voodoo, Chucky Is Brought Back To Life.But After A Lovers Quarrel Chucky Kills Tiffany And Puts Her Soul Into A Female Doll.They Hitch A Ride With Lovers Jade And Jesse And Begin A Trail Of Murders.Overlook The First 3 Movies And Skip To This Movie.This THE ONE!!!!9 Out Of 10..... "},{"Title":"Equality of gore and fun","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Im from germany so please excuse my style of writing. As Ive seen Chucky 4 for the first time I was a bit surprised, I knew Chucky as a usual 80s scarymovie, but Bride of Chucky was very different from the old ones. First there is the artwork of the very good director Ronny Yu, who we still have in mind from A chinese ghost story. His visual style is in a wired kinda way comparable to Francis Ford Coppola. Also the voices of Chucky an Tiff are very impressive. Ive also liked the screenplay very much, especially the scene in which Tiff throws the Champaignbottle in the ceilingmirror.I give it a 9.0 vote for funny, gory and progressive entertainment. If you have any comments on my opinion, just send me an E-Mail. MFG Schawez "}{"Title":"good, but not the best","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought Bride of Chucky was a good film, but it lacks the thrills and excitment which made the other three so popular. Andy's name doesn't even get mentioned. The scenario in which the whole movie takes place in is weird. The music is good, but doesn't mix in. However, this movie is hilarious! It's extremely funny with massive foul-mouthed humor! It shouldn't even fall under the horror genre. It's completely a comedy. I recommend this film to people who enjoy bloody comedies.Rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a welcome return to form for a downtrodden series.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the first Child's Play was an original and effective little horror movie. as expected though, the 2 horrible sequels seemed to spell the end for this franchise.well, when i heard they were making a 4th one called bride of chucky i just rolled my eyes and muttered a ...when will they ever learn.but when i heard that they had gotten a great director, Ronny Yu and a solid cast including the awe inspiring Jennifer Tilly my interest in it perked up.this film is extremely well done. it has a great sense of humor, highly stylized graphic violence, great cinematography and the stunningly sexy Jennifer Tilly strutting her most impressive stuff during the first half. (i should add that she is also a fantastic actress as well.)it keeps it's tongue firmly in cheek without veering into campy territory. the doll effects are great and the verbal interplay between them is priceless. it's more of a horror/comedy than straight horror but the humor is welcome and well integrated. i've already heard that they're planning a Son of Chucky. if they can match the quality of this film, than maybe this franchise will have made a legitimate comeback.rating8.5 "},{"Title":"The Best Chucky ever!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Seen all 4 installments, this one is by far the best of all. I did'nt have much expectation when I got the DVD(3rd was such a drag), but to my delight this one was fast paced with some slick punch-lines.Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting this to be just like the others, tries to be scary- ends up looking silly. Somewhere along the line the writers must have realised this and so took the film in a totally different direction basically ignoring the other films. This feels like a different film rather than the fourth entry in the Child's Play series. The new idea works making this the best in the series by far. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BETTER IN THE SERIES!!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Child's Play series isn't a favourite of mine, but Bride Of Chucky is actually an okay movie. This time we have two dolls Chucky and his former girlfriend (when he was human) Tiffany. Together they go on a journey to find an object. There are a few interesting scenes through the movie like the guy getting hit by the truck and literally exploding, the sex scene between Chucky and Tiffany and the ending which allows for another sequel to take place. Wasn't really a straight forward horror, it mixed a lot of comedy and was a sort of spoof of the horror genre. This made the movie better like comedy does do with many horror movies. All up even if your not a Child's Play fan give this one a go. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Black Comedy","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  4th Child's Play movie succeeds on all counts, with incredible black comedy replacing horror. After gaining a bride, Chucky hops on to a crosscountry trek with two young lovers. All the actors have great fun playing their characters. Movie is filled with in-jokes and features props and plays-on-names of older horror series, including Friday The 13th and The Omen. Followed by a sequel, Son Of Chucky.***1/2 "},{"Title":"Chucky isn't the same.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What should we expect from Chucky fourth movie ? Chucky isn't the same. He is now a slave of Jennifer Tilly, Barbie version, doing everything than she says. That's not the old and frightening Chucky than I just know before. And that ending ? What should I say ? It's pathetic !Rating  *  "},{"Title":"Exemplary specimen of almost lost genre","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie exemplifies a certain brand of comedy horror of a strictly adult kind but quite different to the Troma movies (with which it shares certain qualities). The humour is rough and ready but fast and furious. If the idea of hideous dolls with evil powers and twisted minds don't make you shrug with boredom, reach for the six-pack of beer and enjoy the best Chucky film yet. "},{"Title":"Not a classic but a nice diversion","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I now have seen all the Chucky movies, and they have become less scary and more funny every time! I guess the holders of the Chucky franchise have realized that funny sells better than horror. The bride of chucky is almost tongue in cheek ala the Batman movies. I laughed all the way through, and found not a second of fright in the whole thing! BRING ON THE SON OF CHUCKY !!! "},{"Title":"entertainingly clever!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Recent Hong Kong directors, such as John Woo, Tsui Hark and Ringo Lams attempts to break into Hollywood have been so-so. Their latest colleague to work in the land of la-la is Ronny Yu. I have to admit but this film is better than any of the other directors entry into Hollywood. This film is a total laugh. Since the film SCREAM Hollywood has actually figured out that their audiences aren't total morons and might also have enough brains to GET THE JOKE.  Ronny Wu brings to this film that certain style of Hong Kong inventiveness and fluid camera work. Jennifer Tilly as a doll tells chucky to forget the knife it's so 80's, kill with some imagination and with this we witness some very clever ways in which people are killed. If you don't find this film and Jennifer Tilly hamming it up as a white trash serial killer funny, then you need spend more time renting videos every night until you get the joke. 4/5  "}{"Title":"Chucky rules!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a great installment in the Child's Play series. It brought back some bang to the series. Great comedy, boy this movie is funny. Also there are awesome homages to other horror celebs. Beautiful cinematography. Great ending! Bring on Seed Of Chucky! "},{"Title":"very stupid and ridiculous-I loved it.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This new installment to the Child's Play series has not one scary scene but tons of hilarious jokes such as a stoner witnessing Chucky giveing him the finger and saying rude f--king doll and lots of references to the series you can kill me but I'll come back.  I always come back.  The movie's title was probably thought of before the script and was written around it.  This is totally different from all other films in the series.  It doesn't even have Andy, the central character for all the previous ones.  Chucky seems to interfere with characters from another movie, a soap opera about two teens running off together to get married.  There is one cool elaborate death scene involving broken glass and water spilling everywhere.  The movie is very gory, very funny, and has pop culture references from Martha Stewert to Jerry Springer.  DO NOT SEE THIS ONE BEFORE YOU SEE THE OTHER THREE,.  It will really ruin the effect since the first one is truly scary.  Lots of guilty pleasure fun and silliness.  "},{"Title":"Bride of Chucky A MUST SEE!!!!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky is the 4th in the Child's Play series, and is extremely entertaining, and fun to watch!!  The filmmakers obviously knew they weren't going to be able to make this movie serious, and have it succeed, so instead, dealt with it in a campy, funny way, and it SUCCEEDS!!   In BoC, Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly), Charles Lee Ray's girlfriend resurrects Chucky, and Chucky is none too grateful (you'll see why), so Tiffany wants to just keep him as a baby, which doesn't go to well with Chucky........... While the human characters (Nick Stabile, Katherine Heighl, and others) are forgettable, Tiffany and Chucky make us not care, and suck us into the story.  The script is very witty, and there is also a great soundtrack.  BoC is also not too long (not even 90 minutes), although it could go on for days if it were up to me.  Every aspect about this movie is fun and entertaining.  See this movie, and be prepared to laugh!! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good for a fourth in the series.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie. As did I the other 3. But, not as well. It's not a bad movie. In fact I cannot think of anything bad about this movie. I was just the teensiest littlest pin-point size disappointed by this movie. Why? Because it's not the usual Chucky-chasing-Andy-alone horror flick that I always loved. In fact i was a little surprised that Andy wasn't in this one. Why??? I hope the next movie, Son of Chucky which I pray will actually come out. It's listed as a year 2000 release by www.imdb.com   my favorite website..I come here all the time. It would be cool to see what Andy is up to. Anyway, I give Bride of Chucky an 8 out of 10  because  I liked it's cleverness. "},{"Title":"A creative horror film","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You have got to give Bride of Chucky a little credit. I mean, the characters are original, the special effects are so so, and the story line is very creative. When I first saw this movie I liked it. Even though it was a little cheesy and unbelievable (I mean, how murderous can one little doll be? Stepping on him would bump him off.) but it was a lot of fun.Jennifer Tilly is really funny as Tiffany (Chucky's bride) and it's fun seeing her being made into a doll. And given, some parts of this movie are comedy when meant to be horror.  Most of this movie is pure camp, but at least it's fun camp!My rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Surprise","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great movie.  I thought it would never be as good as it was.  Great special effects, great story, big laughs.  It didn't take itself seriously, which is why I think it worked so well. Even the acting was surprisingly good. Overall a very funny and sometimes chilling story. "},{"Title":"somewhat enjoyable","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting a horror film, but what I got was a comedy.  yeah, it was pretty funny.  Actually, kind of stupid.Bad acting, terrible story, but yet...i enjoyed it somewhat because it made me laugh.  It was better than part 3, no doubt about that.  But I was never much of a fan of the Child's Play movies.  If you are, you'd probably like this.   "},{"Title":"He's finally back and he's not alone!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The success of SCREAM gave birth to a whole new horror flicks wave. I'm happy with that, as a big fan of horror, and I liked most of those new horror films. BOC is a one big pack of horror. Colorful, fast paced and original.  I see this movie more like the opening of a new trilogy (much like Episode 1 and Aliens Resurrection) since it comes up with a new twist. Instead of focusing on the little boy-killer doll relationship we have here a twisted movie about couples. We have the sweet young lovers in contrast with the killer crazy doll-sized lovers. Very inventive! "},{"Title":"Chucky gets lucky. The people who watch it are unlucky...","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was pretty young when I saw Child's Play, Child's Play 2 and Child's Play 3. I remember that I was terrified by Chucky, the killer doll who kills a child's whole family. Years later, I saw the preview on TV. We could see Chucky with a torn face, holding a sharp knife. I told myself I will see that movie, just to see if I am scared again by Chucky. Well I went to the theater, and I watched the movie. I was laughing cause it was so dumb, so stupid. I wanted to weep cause this movie was so bad and so not terrific!!! In the Child's Play series, there was lots of blood. Well it is not the same thing about this one. There are maybe four gore scenes. The actors are not too bad but the scenario is a joke. The sex scene between Chucky and Tiffany (two dolls) is a classic of stupidity. This movie is just a joke made to finish the Chucky series. I give it 1 out of 5. And I am very generous! "},{"Title":"TERRIFYING!!! (of BAD)","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw it in the cinema with my friends , it was the first scarry movie , when Chucky killed someone the people (including me) laughed. It is the most ridiculous and stupid film. It is boring and fool. It is really garbage. When Chucky had sex with his bride, all the people were laughing, it was really ridiculous. I recommend you to dont look at the movie.... The only thing good in the movie was Nick Stabile, he is really nice, but the film was horrible. On a 1-10 scale -1 "}{"Title":"My second favorite in the series","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is what fans of the series were waiting for, a sequel that focused more on Chucky than it did on Andy, who became more and more of a wuss as he got older.  Brad Dourif seems to have lots of fun voicing Chucky, and will always make his lines memorable.  My favorite conversation in the movie is when Chucky first talks to Tiffany, and she asks how he's been and he replies Peachy!  I don't know why, but it seemed so cool to hear Chucky say that.  Now onto some of the series' famous plot holes.  In this one, Tiffany had to chant Chucky's incantation to bring him back to life, but in the other two sequels he came to life once he was rebuilt.  I have no theory for this one.  The other was the previously unmentioned medallion.  Chucky could have transferred his soul into Andy before without it, but now to transfer his soul he needs this medallion.  (In the first movie, it was said that Chucky needed to transfer his soul into the first person who found out who he really was.)  My theory for this is as follows  Chucky was still the same doll as he was at the end of part 3, so he'd have to find that little kid that he told his real name to in that, but it would be too much trouble to find him when he could just get his medallion and transfer his soul into whomever he wanted.  Tiffany needed it because the first person who knew who she really was is Chucky, and neither of them would want that, so they need to find the medallion.  Like the Evil Dead series, the first ones were both almost strictly horror, the middle ones added some dark comedy, and the last ones were both almost all comedy.  Bride of Chucky is loads of fun to watch, it is more entertaining than all of the other three, but the first one is still the best.  The girl who plays Jade is very pretty, but Jennifer Tilly is gorgeous as always.  While the ends of the first three left you wondering whether or not there would be a sequel, this one leaves almost no doubt.  If the next movie, which as of now is called Son of Chucky, is half as entertaining as this one, I'll be one of the first people in line to see it. "},{"Title":"Know what you're getting into","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm warning you -- this movie is not scary.  If you're a horror movie fan, especially a Child's Play fan, you'll think it's incredibly funny, but you won't be scared.  It's not a bad movie, but it's not scary. "},{"Title":"Ok... it was well... funny...","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie expecting to see a horror movie... what i got was a comedy. i am not complaining at all. the over all writing and plot was good, the gore and killings were done well and creative, and the movie made you laugh. also, nice camera angles and the ways the movie was put together was great. it's just not one of those, WOW! I'M SCARED! movies. it just wasn't scary at all. this movie is even appropriate for small children, if you don't mind all the language, sex, drug use... well, maybe it's not for small children... but, hey-- i am 14 and it didn't gross me out one bit... although... neither did Species II... and that movie made some people sick to their stomaches.. but anyway, i have gotta admit, the movie all in all was cool, it was never boring, always action happening even up to the last second, so... rent this movie if you want to see a funny doll go on a killing spree, and bring his wife with him... and if you want a cool surprise twist at the end. hahaha.  My vote? 1-being well, the telletubbies freak me out more than this, or 10- i will be shaking the rest of my life, i give it a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Evil and nasty Chucky is back funnier then ever!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the funniest sequel I have seen in a long time it is much funnier than the other three and not a bit scary.  It has some very gory pieces in the film, but not bad enough to make you sick.  In this one he has a female doll companion, hence the name.  If you liked the first three then you'll love this, go watch it! "},{"Title":"Formula horror spoof. 6/10","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I admit it, I have seen all the Chucky films. They are all the same; enough red splatter to make an 18 cert and enough humour to entertain. Do producers remember how to make a proper horror movie? It might be nice to be scared again.To have a bride for Chucky was a nice idea but there are precious few others. The acting is appropriately hammy. The dolls are well animated. The last scene was not necessary - we know there will be another, Chucky always comes back.This is far, far from the best of its genre but the only one out at the moment.There are other comments of mine on this site under the name of Fudge-3  "},{"Title":"A surprise","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this last night against my better judgement. I expected to be bored stupid, and just went as my friend was paying. How wrong could I be? From beginning to end this film is thoroughly entertaining. As soon as I saw the cop in the evidence depository walking past Michael's mask from Halloween, and Jason's hockey mask and chainsaw from the Friday the 13th's I knew that the film wouldn't take itself seriously, and just settled down to have some fun. This film is not scary, and has little tension. There are, however, laughs aplenty. In fact I would call this a comedy as much as a horror. If you watch with an open mind I'm sure you will like it too. "},{"Title":"coolest horror in the 90's","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just saw this great movie and it's great ! It sure beats all of the earlier Child's Play movies ( 1 - 3 ). This is one of the seldom moments when you can say the sequel is better ! It's raw horror-action from the beginning to the end... I like the twist when Chucky's girlfriend gets mad at him when he doesn't make the dishes !!! ) This film has only one real competitor at my top90-horror-movie-list... and that's Scream See this movie !!! "},{"Title":"The (almost) Best of the series","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's unbelievable but the fourth is better than the second and the third. After the third that was awful, it's incredible how they could have an unexpected sequel with new ideas. Chuck is the same nasty doll of the previous movies. Interesting the final that lets know that a fifth can be done.... "},{"Title":"My Absolute FAVORITE!!!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know this movie isn't for everyone, and I won't push my opinions on you, but what I have to say is the truth about how many people feel about this movie...It was the best I have ever seen!!!  It was soooooooooooooooooo funny, and even though it wasn't the scariest movie I had ever seen, it kept me on the edge of my seat, because I didn't know what was gonna happen next. If you like funny scary movies, you have got to see this one! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Wonderful","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie was surprisingly wonderful especially considering the last sequel.  The third was dark,  and semi-interesting but it wasn't nearly as fun or enjoyable as this.   It is filled with comedic lines about Martha Stuart,  doll's anatomy,  masturbation, and it was actually done effectively during gruesome and disturbing images.    The movie wasn't scary or suspenseful and I'm sure that it wasn't the director's intention.  It was fun because of the silliness,    Jennifer Tilly's over the top and sexy performance.   The puppetry of the dolls were so well handled,  the movement of mouth,  lips,   tears in eyes,   knife in chest,  and the costumes. The dolls were just marvelous and it made the gruesome deaths more enoyable considering the fact that they were done by wonderful dolls.   The new Chucky look was great and Tiffany was very cute.   A few scenes with Chucky hugging the human Tiffany even made my father smile.  Jesse and Jade were surprisingly well- very attractive and the special effects were cool.  The ending was so unsuspected and the fact that they could make another as good is quite unlikely.    It may not be as suspenseful as movies like Halloween H2O or Urban Legend,  but it is certainly more fun!!!! "}{"Title":"Chucky takes a bride","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky's back in his fourth film as the innovator and creator or murder, mayhem, thrills, chills, and laughs. Bride Of Chucky is the best of all the Chucky films because it does not focus on scares and violence. The only actor to act in all four films returns; Brad Dourif reprises his role as the voice of Chucky. Jennifer Tilly lends her voice to the Bride Of Chucky as Chucky's bride, Tiffany. Chucky and Tiffany fit together very well for a pair bent on creating malice, chaos, havoc and mayhem. I loved how the director went in a different direction than with the other films in the series. Instead of having scene after scene filled with violence, the director combined all the elements of action, drama, suspense, horror, and even comedy into Bride Of Chucky. Though Chucky and Tiffany are definitely the main focal point of this movie, but they can't make it a successful film by themselves. Strong performances by relative newcomers Nick Stabile, Katherine Heigl and seasoned veteran John Ritter made this a tremendous hit. Katherine Heigl may be known for her portrayal of Steven Seagal's niece in Under Siege 2 Dark Territory plays Jade. Nick Stabile is Jesse, Jade's boyfriend. John Ritter plays a police chief and who hates Jade's boyfriend, Jesse. I commend the creator and the puppeteers of the Chucky and Tiffany dolls for their original and unique movements. Also, I loved the maniacal laugh that Brad Dourif created after each crime Chucky and Tiffany commited. Bride Of Chucky is filled from begininng to end with laughs, and chills that everyone MUST see.  "},{"Title":"Cool great funny awesome","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Child's Play movie was scary. The second was scary, too, but not by far as scary as the first movie. The third movie was not scary at all. The makers of this movie thought about that very well and figured that it would be smarter to turn this movie into a comedy movie. And they did that very good. The movie was very funny, they used the right kind of humor in the right situation. The complete movie was cool, except for the end, it (of course) ends in a way so that there can be a sequel, but in a very silly and un-original way. Except that, I loved it.  "},{"Title":"HYSTERICAL!!!!","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film totally surprised me!  I did not expect to appreciate it as much as I did. The perfect combination of humor and horror.  Jennifer Tilly is hysterical! If you love camp, rent this!  You'll laugh yourself silly. "},{"Title":"Better 'Chucky' movie than I anticipated!","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must say that I actually liked Bride of Chucky.  Hell, even more than Child's Play.  I was never tempted to see Child's Play 2 or 3 because I feared that they both would suck.  I had low expectations for this movie and was in for a real surprise.Chucky (voice of Brad Dourif) is back and he's armed with more one-liners (I'm all rubber) and this time he gets lucky.  After killing a trailer trash voodoo priestess (Jennifer Tilly), he transfers her spirit into a bride doll.  Afterwards, they travel cross country with a young couple after they've just eloped.  Boy, are they in for a big surprise!  Too bad John Ritter is one of Chucky's unlucky targets.  This is not the last installment because Son of Chucky is next in the series.  My evaluation **1/2 out of ****.     "},{"Title":"Way Over the Top","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best part of this movie is the tagline, Chuckie gets lucky.  Now that should tell you something.  It does have a few laughs, but not many.  More often you're groaning at the pointless gross-out humor.  The movie tries to make serial murderers humorous; think George and Gracie as sociopathic killers trading barbs between butcheries.  Not my cup of tea, but if this kind of flick turns you on, you might enjoy it.  And it does have Jennifer Tilly and John Ritter, sadly for their fans.   "},{"Title":"After four movies Chucky is still hilarious","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In this 4th Child's Play film, Chucky gets lucky.  It's very funny and there are some enjoyable parts.  Very good direction.  Not as bad as it could be. The best one in the series since the first.  Three stars out of four. "},{"Title":"Funniest 'horror' movie I've ever seen","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's just that. Chucky 1 was good. Chucky 2 was better. Chucky 3 sucked. Now, the 4th in the series which is, in my opinion, the best out of the series. Jennifer Tilly was just great in this movie. For dolls, they were better than a few actors that come to mind (Freddie Prince Jr, for one) and funnier than many comedies I've seen in the past.The plot wasn't great, but I really didn't care about it. Just to see Chucky and Tiffany bicker and fight each other. And the ending leaves it wide open for a 5th sequel (which I hear is in the works). Idle Hands premiers next week and looks to be another horror/comedy, but I doubt it'll top this one.  "},{"Title":"4th in the series and still not that bad!!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I will be honest, i rented this movie solely on the fact it was part of the Child's Play series. I was expecting a boring dull 4th part too the series, but i was surprised. This movie was surprisingly good, and i found it to be quite funny. There was a lot of dark humor, and the idea to have two dolls was a good way to spice things up. The two dolls worked well together and added a bonnie and clyde type fell to the movie. Overall it was very good for a 4th movie in the series, with some gruesome death scenes (just watch the marilyn manson type get killed at the beginning, not to mention john ritter getting a face full of nails). Applauds to the writers for spicing things up, and the ending although i found it a bit strange leaves room for yet ANOTHER sequel...maybe son of chucky!!! "},{"Title":"FUN!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Perhaps, people disliked the movie, but for me, I enjoyed it immensely. The fourth installment of the killer doll series may be different from the first three, but it was a refreshing change. Jennifer Tilly was wonderful in it. I absolutely loved Chucky and Tiffany as dolls. They're so adorable. Their bickers were very entertaining. Another hit---Jesse and Jade. They also make a cute couple. Katherine Heigl and Nick Stabile did very well. The killing techniques of Chucky and Tiffany were very creative and hilarious.Really, Bride of Chucky is a fun movie and it gave me a lot of laughs and smiles. The ending was...well, you know. "},{"Title":"Better than the first 3, shouldn't be compared with them","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best horror / comedy movies of '98!  Laughed my butt off for the first hour and the last 30 minutes were truly intense!  I know a lot of people won't see this movie because they think it is just another sequel to the first 3, nothing could be further from the truth!  In fact, you don't have to have seen the first 3 to see this one.  If you like dark-humor comedies you'll love this one! "}{"Title":"Don't judge this one by its name.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was both extremely clever and funny.  Every time I tell this to someone they give me a blank stare, but none of them have seen this movie. I understand why people would pass this one by but folks -- DON'T!  It's nothing like the other Childs' Play movies which were good in their own right, but this one is different.  Different in a positively excellent way. I saw this movie expecting to be bored but was amazed at how funny it was. It is not a horror film.  In fact, I don't think it's an accident that it turned out to be a comedy, I firmly believe that they intended this to be a comedy/horror film (with emphasis on the comedy) right from the start.  I am also a Jennifer Tilly fan, and getting an eyeful of her was nice but she also really made the perfect bride of chucky.  At any rate I would highly recommend this one to anyone looking for some brilliant satire that also has an open mind.  Don't judge this one, folks, you will be surprised.  "},{"Title":"Chucky finally gets down to business","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Child's Play movies were pretty lame, I admit.  The first was fun, almost a parody of slasher flicks by making the villain a little plastic doll ... but Chucky's take no s**t attitude made him a memorable movie monster.  Parts 2 and 3 gave us little Chucky and lots of cookie-cutter characters, leaving their best asset untapped.  Well Child's Play is rechristened Bride of Chucky ... and now things really get rolling.  Don Mancini and Ronny Yu take the best of Chucky and build a brand-new kick-ass movie around him.  Sure, we all thought that bringing in a new bride for him would be cheesy ... and OK, it was, but it was an inspired origin as Tiffany joins Chucky to create one the greatest crime couples the cinema has ever seen.  Over the top action and some terrific black humor make this one a winner.  Don't F*** With Chuck! "},{"Title":"Chucky Is Better, Funnier And More Terrifying Than Ever!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Child's Play is one of my favorite horror movies of all time. I wasn't too crazy for parts 2 and 3, but after I saw Bride Of Chucky I was stunned by how good it was!!! I never expected it to be such of a great sequel. Chucky gets lucky as the indestructible boy-toy, possessed by a serial killer's soul, forges a match made in hell with his equally evil girlfriend Tiffany. Now, the two hitch a ride on a journey to find a voodoo amulet that will transfer their souls back into human form. As you watch it, the film gets better and better. I give Bride Of Chucky a 9 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"a great comedy?!!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The people who made this movie are brilliant. They obviously knew that if they tried to make it a straight horror film it would flop, considering the fact that Chucky hasn't been around for a while. Just recently someone got the idea to bring back Michael Myers, and what we got was one of the worst movies ever made. However in the Bride of Chucky instead of a lot of cheap scares we are presented with some genuine laughs. Not only was the humor a pleasant surprise,but now Chucky is finally the star of the movie and not just appearing when it's time for someone to die. The introduction of a second doll was yet another stroke of genius. yet again we can't help but laugh at the new couple. They even fight and make up like real people which make for some very interesting scenes. All joking matter aside bride of chucky is still a horror film and the death scenes are very creative and full of blood, blood, and more blood.   on a scale of 1 to 10  1 being the worst and 10 being the best. Bride of Chucky gets an 8. "},{"Title":"Best of the Series","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky is back and better than ever in 'Bride of Chucky', my personal favorite of the whole Child's Play series... so far.  Chucky has much more charisma than he ever did, and the Chucky animation is great in this flick. This movie has much more blood than Child's Play 1-3.  The movie's plot is ok, but some great death scenes make it all the more worthwhile.  I loved the ending.  Great movie. "},{"Title":"Lucky for everyone.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride Of Chucky is a great B horror film. The kind of horror films they don't make anymore. The reason why I say this is, the film understands itself. No one went to see this movie expecting a great film. Alot of people however went to see Chucky kill innocent victims. The film makers knew they were making a fourth installment in a horror franchise and they had fun with it. Movies like this don't have to be good, they are just supposed to be fun. This film is very entertaining and I think horror fans will enjoy. "},{"Title":"A witty shocker","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a witty shocker with equal emphasis on attitude and gore.I especially like the surprise ending that gearing toward a sequel. "},{"Title":"Well Above Expectations","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had to watch this movie because reviewing films is one of my jobs as a writer. It was much more fun than I expected it to be. In fact, a reason why it failed at the boxoffice it that it is a comedy. Those expecting a horror film, which is, of course, its subject matter, may have thought the laughs were unintentional. The best film in this genre since Scream and its sequel. "},{"Title":"Best Chucky movie","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all I have to say that I like the whole Child's Play series, but this one was more than just a good movie to watch on TV at night. It was so funny and exciting to watch. Great chills, great laughs, great music and even some good special effects for a Horror Movie.9 /10 "},{"Title":"Scary?","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not quite scary. But a good sequel to the others. It's good fun. I advise you to see this movie. First I would like to say having two evil dolls is even better. Like they say the more they merrier are in case the scarier, or not scary. SEcond the characters were great. John ritter played a pretty creepy guy on his own. Go see this movie. "}{"Title":"Exelent blend of comedy and horror.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bravo to the writer! The 2 doll idea was terriffic! I'm a big fan of the Chucky movies but this is without a doubt my favorite one. All the Child's Play movies had comedy in them, but this had tons of comedy. The jokes were hillarious. When I was in the theater seeing this, people were staring at me because I was laughing so much. Two thumbs way way up!A++ "},{"Title":"Ok but too many dumb self parodies","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just saw this movie, and I thought it was OK but I really hated all those dumb lines like What that knife stuck to your hand, that's so 80's and This story is so long it would need at least 3 or 4 sequelsWhy does Chucky need to talk like those dumb people from Scream, He is better than that!Why does every horror movie nowadays need stupid self parody lines like that!Apart from that minor glitch (which nearly ruined the film for me) It's a cool film but the worst of the seriesChild's Play 2 is still the King! "},{"Title":"Nice Movie","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was quite impressed by the movie. Jennifer Tilly did a great job in it. Her voice is so sexy it could light up fire. The whole movie was great, especially the sex scene and the ending.  "},{"Title":"The Bride With Nylon Hair","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not fond of the other Chucky movies, but this was a good film.  Very funny, very interesting visually.  Ronny Yu is a great director and Peter Pau is a great DP.  The film quotes from The Bride of Frankenstein (the best and funniest of the Frankenstein movies), which is fitting since this is the best and funniest of the Chucky movies. "},{"Title":"one of the funniest horror movies ever!","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  bride of chucky is 100% entertaining. it is one of the funniest horror movies i have ever seen. it is also the best horror movie of 1998. and the best all around in the series. but not the scariest.i give it ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"A little TOO gory.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It lacks something that the first 3 had. I liked the quiet, secluded atmosphere of the first 3 rather than the loud, out-in-the-open, party-like atmosphere in Bride of Chucky. I'm a big 80's fan and it seemed a little too 90's to me. But the plot, the constant humor, and the excitement in the fact that they actually made another sequel makes up for it. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This sequel rocks! it has horror,gore,and romance by Chucky himself! and this time CHUCKY GETS LUCKY!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride Of Chucky was a very good sequel like all the other Child's Play movies.  In this fouth installment Chucky for the fourth time in a row was being resurrected by his long-time sweetheart Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) who he stayed with till he got gunned down in the first Child's Play movie. Jennifer Tilly was so great in that looked like a Heavy Metal blonde. Some of my favorite parts was when Chucky snatched a lip earring from that freaky guy,made a tore from his lip squirted blood,Chucky in the playpen,Chucky smoking pot (the first time) and everything! I loved what the creators of the film made up Chucky's bride,her blonde hair,silver of black lipstick, black nails,a wedding dress sporting out with a leather jacket,  (I wish they came out a doll like that on merchandise!) In this sequel,in the first time,they show Chucky and his new bride making out trying to make this movie very hot!!! and the terrorizing doll couple fighting for the first time! This movie has a great soundtrack by Rob Zombie, there is a wicked,interesting ending of the movie (I'M NOT GOING TO TELL NOBODY!!) You Chucky fans out there,GO SEE THE MOVIE! This movie rocks! and so does Chucky!  "},{"Title":"Better than the other Child's Plays, but not great.","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This ridiculous flick is one of those high budget movies that seems like it should have been a low one.  In some ways this can be amusing, but it also makes the film pretty predicitable in terms of who is going to die... The movie also tries to go for some weird kind of touchy/feely stuff that really doesn't belong there.  Everywhere you look in this thing there is somebody commited to some kind of relationship that seems impossible- the two lead characters, Tilly's character, and there's even a gay boy (the lead actress' best friend) tossed into the mix, taking over the much famed roll of the stereotypical black character in this type of movie.       "},{"Title":"A great new dimension to the child's play series","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Seeing this movie I was suspecting a typical slasher with no plot but Ronny Yu's new perspective on chucky brought back a whole new experience to the chucky saga. With the animatronic effects improved and the use of Tiffiny Chuck's sidekick This film puts in something to this film that was never there in previous sequels personality. Apart from focusing on Andy the victim from the first film, this film portrays great chemistry between chucky and tiffany and with its stylish filming, clever humour and shocking death sequences this is the best of chucky yet. "},{"Title":"Chucky gets lucky, but we don't !!!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When i enter in the theater to watch Bride of Chucky, i thought this movie will be the best of all the Chucky movies, looks like i made a mistake ! I mean, in the beginning, when Tiffany kill that dept, do a very Frankstein look in Chucky, bring him back to life, he killed her boyfriend, and after he kill her and put her soul in that doll, the movie rules, but after that scenes, when Chucky & Tiffany get that ride with Jade and Jesse, the movie start to be not so good, and that sex scene between dolls ????? Camon, get a life ! And at the end, Tiffany have a baby from Chucky ???? That's the worse end than they cut put to this movie, provably the next movie will be   The Son of Chucky . But Chucky still very funny, and it have a funny part with Kathy Najimy playing that maid in the hotel. But, that's not what i expect.... "}{"Title":"Chucky Gets VERY Lucky","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Chucky series of films appeared in 1988 as a reaction to those ugly, cute cabbage patch dolls; a maniacal, throat slitting, foul mouthed, murdering, plastic fiend seemed by many on the planet to be a reasonable and just reaction to the popularity of its competitor. (I wonder how many cabbage patchers have survived, lounging squashed and mouldy in the bottom of cupboards?)The slice and dice genre does have many admirers and Bride Of Chucky (Chucky gets lucky) will be a huge winner for the fans. It's funny and very gory; a fine no 4 in the series.Guess who gets to play Chucky's woman? Jennifer Tilly is one of the best actresses around, she's already won an Oscar for Woody Allen's Bullets Over Broadway and her performance in Bound with Gina Gershon was superb.She puts on the squeaky Bullet's moll voice again here, squeezes into the push up bra, the mesh stockings and has a ball as Tiffany, the malicious paramour for the charming Chuck.After bloodily murdering Marilyn Manson look alike (Alexis Arquette) our love birds accompany a pair of non plastic honeymooners  (Katherine Heigl and Nick Sabile), attempting to reunite Chucky with serial killer Charles Lee Ray's body which is buried in a Hackensack, New Jersey, cemetery.And so the tradition continues. Bride Of Chucky will please the purists and offend just about everyone else. It's a success!!!!! "},{"Title":"4 stars/5 fantastic","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this was better than one  but all of the chucky films are good really. I didn't dislike one from the other this is no exeption either.Chucky is in fine form & of course so is Tiff' and the franchise is worth continuing after an annoying long rest since 91/92i hope the rumors of a SON OF...  film are real. "},{"Title":"One of the best films in the series and one of the best horror films of this year!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The honeymoon is gonna be killer...Child's Play 4 Bride Of Chucky was the fourth movie in the series of Child's Play or Chucky films that started back in '88. This is the one film out of the series which takes it a little, well, not so series and makes what I call a fun film. I've always been a fan and I even have a site and know of a ton of sites. Although Bride Of Chucky is a fun film it still has its suspense and scares, not as many as the previous 3 movies but still some. This is a great movie, even if you don't like the series you will either scream or laugh at this movie garunted. The movie was rated R for it's gore and violence mainly but also for it's content, language, and showing a doll's butt. Lot's of guilty fun here...an all American kinda movie. Be on the lookout for a sequel next year called Child's Play 5 Son of Chucky which a deal has been made but production has yet to start as of today (Dec. 28, 1998) You may read this at a very later date though so just telling you. Bride of Chucky gets ***!! "},{"Title":"I don't care what anybody says,4th time is the charm!!!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One word, GREAT!!!!!!!!! Add a girl doll with an attitude and ready to kill, you have a winner, 'nuff said!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Great 4th Sequel, although Teen Love could be cut down","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was an excellent fourth sequel. It kept its killing style and comedic ways the same. Although the teenage love story was annoying and cheesy, it felt like it would be in a horrible horror movie like Scream or I know what you did last Summer. But Chucky was superb as always. One camera technique that I did not like was when Chucky and Tiffany  were fighting and the camera shot from above so the top of the heads would show. It seemed that it was trying to cover up actors in costume as them ( but maybe they didn't do that--I don't know).  "},{"Title":"*** out of ****. uplifting sequel","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky was definitely unique.  It was different from the other three movies.  Although not as enjoyable.  BoC made me laugh a lot while displaying a lot of originality.  For example, tiffany says to chucky is that knife super-glued to your hand?  that is soooo 80s.  then they work together to come up with an original, creative death scene.  The movie handles itself cleverly, while sporting an interesting plot. *** out ****. Not as good or scary but funny and clever. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Hilarious","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I walked into Bride of Chucky expecting to see a badly acted cheesy movie that would produce a few scares.  It delivered all of that and more.  And that was a good thing for me.  This cheesy flick is induced with sophisticated humor with themes such as marriage and domestic conflicts. What really made me hit the floor was the scene where Chucky and his doll wife made love.  This is by far the most original sex scene in Hollywood history.  There are many things in this movie, you probably won't see anywhere else and that's why I liked it so much.  Take a trip to the theater and treat yourself to some vulgar humor. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not...","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the funniest movie I've seen this year.  I went into it pretty skeptical, but I was impressed at how entertaining it was. "},{"Title":"SUCKS","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a JOKE this isn't a horror film, what an embarrassment! "},{"Title":"Welcome Back C Man","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was very much looking forward to BOC, but I didn't know what to expect. After it was all said and done, I was really surprised. It is VERY good. This movie is NOT, I repeat NOT, to be taken seriously. It never scares once, but honestly I don't think it's supposed to. It is a clever spin on the killer doll story, good performances, and most surprisingly of all, a good love story underneath. I saw this with a very packed house, and when Chucky got down on one knee, everyone let out a AWWWWWWW, including me. It was sweet, funny, and so corny it was entertaining. It is my fav in the series  my previous was 2 , and should be seen.****1/2 out of ***** "}{"Title":"Bride of Chucky Surprisingly Cool","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went into the movie expecting camp.  And what I got was camp, but also a movie that had a lot of funny performances in it, too.  Jennifer Tilly is probably the only person that could do the role of Tiffany justice, and you can tell she was having a ball doing this movie.  Making self-references to other Child's Play movies as well as other horror movies in general (after John Ritter gets it in the face with a booby-trap of nails making him look like Pinhead, Chucky stands over him and says, Now why does that look so familiar?)If you go into the movie expecting a serious horror movie, forget it -- you'll be disappointed.  If you go in looking for something that resembles a horror/comedy that is also pure camp, then you'll love this newest installment of the Child's Play series. "},{"Title":"beneath the cornball script and mind-numbing horror there's actually a nice love story","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Even though the script registers below Showgilrs, this movie is still a fine sequel to the original, especially after the last sequel, this one offers better acting and music as well as a lot more action, and it's worth the price of admission just to see Chucky and Tiffany make love on their wedding night. "},{"Title":"A Good Time","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky was pretty good. It was exactly what I expected it to be. It's nothing groundbreaking, but you'll have a good time watching it if you have my tastes. It was rather different then the other movies in the series, but in a good way.Go and see it, it's worth the $7.50.Oh yeah, and I should note that this wasn't a 'series ender' or anything, in fact it opened a new possibility for a sequel. "},{"Title":"They brought him back in grand style...","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a child of the 80's, so I grew up being scared out of my wits by classics like Chucky, Jason, and Freddy.  I think the makers of this film went all the way!  It was the perfect re-introduction of the Chuckster into this decade, and to him, I say, welcome! "},{"Title":"Child's Play 4 Bride of Chucky Chucky Got Lucky","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CHILD'S PLAY 4 BRIDE OF CHUCKY The fourth installment to the Child's Play Saga is the best one out of them all. This time Chucky really does get lucky by out doing his performance from all the past Child's Play films. He is assisted by a his ex-girlfriend who is now trapped in a body of a doll as well. When these two team up its like Bonnie and Clyde all over again as the two dolls take center stage through out the entire movie. And just when you think the movie is coming to an end watch out here comes SON OF CHUCKY.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly highly not bad.","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this on a lark, and had a terrific time.  Yeah, no one's going to confuse it with Citizen Kane, but its constant humor and utter disregard for convention make Bride Of Chucky a treat.  It's almost as good as either of the Screams, and is much better than any of the Scream wannabes (I Know What You Did Last Summer, Disturbing Behavior, Halloween H20, Urban Legend.)  If nothing else, go just to see John Ritter get turned into a pseudo-Cenobite. "},{"Title":"The Coolest Movie that I've Seen in a Long Time!!!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting a good time and that's exactly what I got. Possibly even more. I've never had so much fun in the theater before. The crowd and my friends and I cheered for our little hero Chucky and his new bride Tiffany who slash their way to the top in this hilarious movie. Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly make an awesome pair and must have had fun making this film together. Watch for Martha Stewart jokes and one hell of a funny sex scene between Chucky and his bride. Chucky definitely gets lucky with this fun little romp in the theater. Run to go see this movie today!!! I'm going again next week!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining.  Who knew Chuck was a comedian?","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had the pleasure of seeing this film in it's NC-17 format.  No matter how you see it, just see it.  Bride of Chucky is by far the best since the original.  Less a horror film than a comedy, the sequel has plenty of suspense and surprises.  Chucky looks his best (no joke) and Jennifer Tilly proves to be a competitive equal -- forget Barbie!  She's just the someone Chuck needs to show him who's boss.  Even if you hated the sequels, Bride is a must see, for halloween or anytime.  This is a film all horror sequels should aspire to be. "},{"Title":"A great 4th edition to Child's Play...","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky is a great sequel to the Child's Play series.  It's been awhile since Chucky's been on the big screen, but now that he's finally back, it seems that the series couldn't have gotten any better!  The plot was great and the story-line definitely hyped in a lot of 90's like content.  Great job and can't wait for Chucky 5! "},{"Title":"Great Horror/Action Flick","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Excellent ending to this best sequel in the Chucky series.  "}{"Title":"This movie is cool!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie!  Chucky is his old self again, and this time has a female partner in crime named Tiffany.  They make a cool team.  The funny parts in this movie with Chucky and his bride are HILARIOUS!  I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who loves the Chucky movies like me!  This movie rocks!  And so does the soundtrack "},{"Title":"Bride of Chucky proves that sequels don't suck.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Chucky DOES get lucky in this outrageous sequel to the 1988 horror hit Child's Play which submits itself as being a hilariously distasteful horror film that will live up to cult standards.The film's beginning is intense and explosive as we are introduced to the sultry Jennifer Tilly who plays Chucky's demented mistress. Who does a fine job portraying the doll and giving it her sense of charisma and style. The plot may sound stupid to many but oddly enough it works. Every detail falls right into place making the films plot seem somewhat legible. The human characters are interesting sometimes even funny. But the film really belongs to Chucky and Tiffany who breath life into the film making it outrageous, dark, and fun. The film flows never quite boring. The film is nicely done with glossy photography and excellent special effects. The soundtrack by the way is very good.The film overshadows it predecessors with it's fresh approach, witty dialog and unique style. Although the film is crude and violent it's not for all audiences, only for audiences who want to laugh, scream and have a distastefully good time.  "},{"Title":"Awesome and Hilarious","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I absolutely LOVED this movie. I found it very humorous. Brad Dourif brought back his murderous charater with more wit and style in this film and Jennifer Tilly did an excellent job as Tiffany. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of the series.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wouldn't really consider this horror, but rather a comedic thriller, much like the film Army Of Darkness. There were many light moments and Jennifer Tilly and Katherine Heigl are hot. "},{"Title":"Is this a comedy?","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky, now can you think up a name that's going to turn off movie goers to see a movie? Well let me tell you this, the title doesn't mean everything. Being a fan of the Childs Play series, I was highly anticipating this movie. I didn't know what to expect, what I got was a hilarious romp with my favorite movie villain Chucky that left me saying, is this a comedy? sure there was a few killings here and there but nothing very scary. I would call this an Action/Comedy/Horror. This movie took what made the Childs Play series so poular, Chucky's foul mouth and dirty jokes, and turned it into a movie for Chucky fans everywhere. If you're a fan of the series or you like a movie with a lot of dark humor see Bride of Chucky. "},{"Title":"Silly, fun movie","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky was by far the best of the series. Better than such tripe as Urban Legend and Disturbing Behavior mostly because it does not take itself too seriously. How serious can a killer doll be anyway? If you are looking for scares this will disappoint, but if you are looking for a few laughs and some gore this is your type of movie.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a sequel that surpasses all of its predecessors!","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Truthfully, I wasn't expecting much going into Bride of Chucky.  To my surprise, I haven't had this much fun at the movies in years.  I know it sounds bizarre to praise a horror flick about two killer dolls, but I think even genre fiends will find a lot to like here.  The action is fast-paced and the movie is never boring.  The special effects make-up is outstanding; Chucky and his bride Tiffany are incredibly lifelike and given great voices by Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly.  While Katherine Heigl and Nick Stabile are okay as the heroes, Gordon Woolvett is most impressive as their best friend.  Bride of Chucky puts its predecessors, even the original, to shame.  Congratulations to the director, the writer, the cast, and to all involved for bringing a tired horror series roaring back to life with a wicked sense of humor and some shocking death scenes.  The only really disturbing thing about seeing Bride of Chucky was how many parents brought very young children to see a very adult movie.  "},{"Title":"Funny but not too scary","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A very funny movie with lots of great one-liners.  The sex scene between Chuckie and his Bride is hysterical.  Pretty simple plot but good escapism. "},{"Title":"Chucky DOES get Lucky!!","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky is one of the most entertaining horror movies I have seen in some time. It is definitely better than anyone could expect. I can honestly say that Chucky was not a character that I missed or looked forward to seeing again. When I heard in May that they were making a new Chucky film I might even have groaned. That is why I was so pleasantly surprised as I watched it.Bride of Chucky is funny and has a great look to it. Brad Dourif must have had a blast doing the voice of Chucky. He definitely has the best lines in the film. Jennifer Tilly is also used to good effect as Tiffany, aka The Bride Of Chucky. Sure the plot is dumb and the human characters are the weakest part of the film, but who's going to see them anyways. The dolls are the main attraction here and they certainly are something. They give the most convincing performances in the movie.Ronny Yu should be given credit for pulling this off. He gives the film a great look and keeps things moving at a brisk pace. He also doesn't take things too seriously which would have doomed the film.All in all a fun film which will be enjoyed if taken for what it is. Not an all out scarefest but a horror-comedy that is just out to entertain.And the tag line doesn't lie. Chucky does get lucky.  "},{"Title":"Can you say milking it?","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky? Child's Play 4? What's this? Why do we feel compelled to bring a mutulated doll back to life, and this time along side another mutulated doll with a wig? What's the point? Give me a low-budget independent film any day over these commercialized extravanganzas with no real plot and a lot of gore. Hey, it was bad enough with three Chucky films, wasn't making a fourth one milking it? "}{"Title":"Excellent for the fourth in a series","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, let me start by saying what an excellent film this was for a fourth in a series. This film eclipses the other great horror series' that have been created, in their fourth films.  This film builds upon on the character of Chucky created in the other three films, bringing him back in perhaps his best role to date. The film uses the magic of the 90's to create a terrific horror flick, with great visuals and a unique storyline. Chucky is the one of the great horror icons to get married. A great idea of the writers. If you liked the first three movies, this one is a must see. "},{"Title":"The best one yet","Date":"2 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the 80s, studios just couldn't lay a good slasher to rest. Each year they'd pop out a new installment, delivering more of what fans love about these films. The genre ran out of a lot of steam by the 90s, but some sequels still came about. The third 'Child's Play' appeared to be the last, much like 'Freddy's Dead' and 'Jason Goes to Hell.' It was time for some fresh blood to come in. But some times, bringing a Horror icon back from the dead can be a good thing. Good thing Universal and Don Mancini waited. What they came up with was most definitely worth the wait.Pros Fine performances. Great soundtrack. Stylish direction. Tongue in cheek humor. Creative, not to mention bloody death sequences. Solid special effects. Fast paced. A lot of great homages to classic Horror films like 'Bride of Frankenstein' and 'Hellraiser.' Cons Not at all scary. Lacks suspense.Final thoughts It took 7 long years, but Chucky was finally resurrected. The result is by far the most entertaining and imaginative of the series. It breathed new life into it and solidified the killer's place in the Horror Hall of Fame. May not scare you like the others did, but makes up for that with goodies of it's own.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Falls away from the Trilogy, but makes up with the Comedy","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" According to fans, after the Fall (not) of Child's Play 3 and it's indirect controversy, the creators of the Chucky franchise decided to give the film series a rest until 1998, since they thought that CP3 was a big fail. I don't think its true but I wonder and ask myself this question. Not only about budget and Don Manici's disappointment for the film (saying it was his least favorite), but was it the harsh, indirect controversy towards the film that they decided to stop and then take Chucky away from his Horror roots, introducing him into Comedy??? Now don't get me wrong. I liked Bride of Chucky for what it was. I personally think it is a totally different viewing experience to the previous three which were darker, scarier and more suspenseful. This fourth entry in the series does a sort of rehash, mixing the horror, turning the film in a black comedic side, splitting time waster. I also don't think its a waste of time, but I do think that the film is not as intriguing as the first three. Like the two previous sequels however, I do think this film suffers from a few problems. Maybe even a few more than Child's Play 2 & 3.I will go through some positives and negatives. There aren't many, but there are a few more than the other films.Pros The film's turn to black humor wasn't such a bad idea. Because of its campy style, Brad Dourif's excellent voice and the rest of the acting working well, as well as the use of campy songs and the composer (who did CP2) to come back and take on the job with the music score. All these little elements with some tense kills, catchy moments and quirky language made for a fun Chucky film. I found it to be a very different viewing experience from Child's Play 3, because that one was just totally dark. I like the scarier Chucky films better, but having Comedy and keeping some of that intense stuff occurring was a great achievement, which I thought would have fell apart by now.Negatives Despite the film being on an excellent level with Horror and Comedy, having great actors and excellent, and more bloodier kills, I think the film (like Child's Play 2 & 3) have a few problems. The transferring the soul concept is way out of hand, and it becomes much more messier. Using an amulet, silly, just silly! I thought that the climax of the graveyard scene was shot well, but I thought that at times it just dragged on for too long. I felt as if it just lagged too much. Lastly, (I know its a comedy/horror, and by this stage it wasn't going to be realistic!) I think that Chucky just isn't scary. Back in the first film, we didn't see him, so it built up the tension and suspense. It was better when he wasn't seen. Oh well, maybe I was just nitpicking there, but Chucky doesn't have as much charm I think like the original.Still liking the film today, I think it is a good time water if you're feeling bored, and you are watching it alone or with friends. The plot is good enough for what its worth as the acting is paced well. The scenes are paced well (Unlike Seed of Chucky, which was a major blow). It is a good sequel, just not the greatest one.7 Stitched Dolls outta 10. "},{"Title":"Gah, in-jokes","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror comedies and why they barely ever work the only funny thing about horror is how serious the people making it are being about it. Whenever you see a making-of to Wrong Turn 5 The Bloodening or whatever you always get the director having long rants about what exactly inspired him to make things so scary and what a great cast he could work with, hatless man in gas station played the role of his life, it has been such an experience etc. The audience then inevitably goes to the theater, TV said it was good, has a few laughs, and is able to walk out just happy enough. The filmmakers who are deliberately trying to make a bad movie are the worst of the bunch. Especially because Child's Play is one of the few horror milestones that is actually somewhat scary. When you see Chucky making the most awkward inside jokes outside of The Simpsons ever, you can't help but dying a little inside. He blatantly refers to Pinhead, says his story is so complicated it needs two or three sequels to do it justice, it just isn't that well written. The horror element is absent, it's only fun to see people get killed when it's played out like we actually should be scared. Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly do the best they can though,but the change in tone was most unwelcome. "},{"Title":"just mindless gory fun","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I kind of find this funny that this is the only movie in series rated a 18.I didn't see any thing different from the one before (Child's Play 3) I not sure why it was 18, This movie did have some Doll nudity , (if that made you laugh you are on the right track LOL), Yes Chucky got lucky, which is the tag line of the movie anyway, back to story Tiffany ex- Girlfriend of Charles Lee Ray, rescues chucky remains and bring him back to life , Soon she regrets, has chucky kills her and transfer her soul into another doll.They both look for a new body to transfer there souls into and kills few people on way and also putting a young couple in the frame of murder. They have some good deaths scenes, this movie and acting was very good. This movie not scary,is just mindless gory fun 7/10 Very good movie "},{"Title":"I'll be back. I always come back!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the world of horror movie sequels, movie monsters having children is one of the biggest clichs in the book. But movie monsters having brides? THAT'S never been done before!! Oh, wait. Yes it has. Luckily, the Child's Play films reside on this odd plane of existence that separates them from other horror movies while still allowing horrible things to happen in them. It's that world between comedy and horror where the movies can be a little bit of both and, most paradoxically, the expectations for quality are low but, for fun, very high indeed. At the end of Child's Play 3, my least favorite in the entire series, Chucky suffers a fate that lands him in a police evidence locker in what is most accurately described as an extensive state of disrepair. But coming to the rescue is Tiffany, his true love in the human form and something of a knee-weakening sexpot. She bribes a cop at the beginning of the movie to steal Chucky from police lockup since, being a true romantic, she is still in love with her Charles, even if he is dead and plastic. This is one of my favorite scenes in the movie, because inside the evidence locker are items from various other unexplained multiple murders &#150; Michael Meyers' and Jason's masks, Freddy's claws, and Texas' chainsaw. Being the first film in the series that heads in a genuinely misogynistic direction, it's not long after Tiff brings Chucky back to life that he kills her, although he still doesn't manage to get her to stop loving him. The love of the abused dies hard, I suppose. This does, however, lead to some of the best scenes in the movie, as Chucky transforms from the one-dimensional murderous doll that we know and love from the previous three films and into a murderous plastic husband. One of the movie's many highlights is when Jesse and Jade use stereotypical domestic expectations to turn Chucky and Tiff against each other and get them to fight. ('She's not much in the housecleaning department, is she Chucky?' 'You cooked, the least he could do is wash the dishes, right?'). I love how the movie starts off. Jesse and Jade are high school sweethearts conspiring to run away together, but matters are complicated by her uncle, who happens to be chief of police and no big fan of boys sniffing around his daughter. Chucky and Tiff, as seems to be common in horror movies that contain the number 4 or higher in their title, have a scene in which they discuss the originality of their methods of distributing death. John Ritter has a great scene where they lined up nails on the dashboard and then somehow set off the air bag, filling his face with nails. Chucky looks at him and says, 'Why does that look so familiar?' Looks like he wasn't so original after all!Charles Lee Ray's body was buried with an amulet around his neck that they now need in order to escape these wretched bodies. Tiff hires Jesse to bring them to her friend in New Jersey (over the phone he can't tell she's a doll), so they can get to his grave. Thus you have two murderous dolls being transported by two teenagers who themselves don't even know they're alive, and now the police are in hot pursuit because of the trail of bodies and missing police chiefs being left in their wake. As if Jade's nosy uncle wasn't enough&#133;(spoilers) At the end of the film we are left, as is generally the case, with an ending the leaves the door open for a sequel. That requires one, really. It is strange that a single detective ultimately catches up with Jesse and Jade once they finally get to Charles Lee Ray's grave in New Jersey, and stranger still that, as we learn in Part 5, a trashy British ventriloquist wanders onto the scene to remove the slimy, bloody baby before any more officers arrive, but the movie is so much fun that it's easy to overlook that. Bride of Chucky barely even sets out to be a horror movie as much as a curious, bloody comedy, so I think a little lapse of judgment is allowed here and there. Bride of Chucky is something of a deviation from the movies that came before it. The same main themes are there, but they have transcended the storyline that allows for all sorts of homages to be paid. Scariness is sacrificed, but quality and fun are not. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but not hard to watch","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There wasn't a lot to like about this film, but I do have to say that not only were it's production values not too shabby, but it was actually not difficult to watch because the film didn't take itself seriously.  The goofy comments were stupid, but were made with tongue firmly in cheek, and the ending was completely lame, but again I suspect that the writers and filmmakers were completely aware of it.Besides, I can't fault Brad Dourif, and it had a killer Rob Zombie opening song.  As an added bonus, we get to see Jack Tripper get his due.  So while it was hardly even a C grade film, it wasn't completely painful to view. --Shelly  "},{"Title":"Abysmal Piece Of Work","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I read many comments on this film and most people seemed to enjoy it immensely. It looks as though I am definitely in the minority as far as hating this film and I did feel a bit silly about posting this comment after seeing how everyone else enjoyed it. However, I am a big believer in freedom of speech and the other people who have reviewed this movie are most definitely entitled to their opinion. I hope they feel the same about me when I criticize this film.Basically, Bride of Chucky did nothing for me. It didn't make me laugh like some of the other Chucky movies did and I found it very tame. Watching this movie, I could hardly believe I was watching the same doll that terrorized poor young Andy Barclay in the first film. Chucky was a joke in this film.Some of my favourite actors were in this film such as John Ritter and Jennifer Tilly and Brad Dourif (voice only). But that didn't help the film at all. The fact that Chucky had a girlfriend in the movie only made it more ridiculous. Okay, the sex scene between two dolls was kind of funny but that was about it.The problem with some horror film series is the way they descend into comedy and farce. Many film series have been guilty of this. Freddy Krueggar was a scary son of a gun in the chilling Nightmare on Elm Street but as the sequels came, he became a joke. The four Texas Chainsaw Massacre films are also guilty of this. Scary characters should not become buffoons. Could you imagine if say, Pinhead from Hellraiser became a comedic character after a few films? Bride of Chucky was just so unfunny and I am afraid that it did nothing for me. I would like to see another Chucky film one day because one bad film should not kill off a film series but I hope the next film is a lot better than this. "},{"Title":" Somebody that's trying to screw with our ride","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nick Stabile is pitiful as Jesse in this horrible horror movie. The supporting cast is terrible. The costumes are dull. One of the poor films in the genre, Bride Of Chucky introduces ample scares. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chucky 4 ever!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hey, lighten up you would-be sophisticates who dumped all over this flick. Just for the record, its by far the best of the series! If you can't see that, you're no Chucky-appreciator! What's WITH You people? Doesn't fit in,  Trash movie!  Boring as all Hell, Not Brad Dourif's fault,  etc. etc....jeez, whaddya want?  This had EVERYTHING! Action, great one liners (keep 'em coming Chucky), good story line and a DEPTH none of the others came close to! As for Chucky's love interest - Tiffany, was there ever a spunkier doll?  Does she take it up to Chucky or what?  If they ever put these dolls on the market, they'd sell a million the first weekend!  Tiff and Chuck are the hottest pairing on screen since Bonnie and Clyde. Even Dunaway comes off looking a wuss compared to Tilly's awesome turn as Barbie with attitude and a stunning line in finger nail varnish! Add to this a top teen-cast, an awesome scene where one guy is taken out on the freeway by a truck, wicked black humor and even Chucky at one point sending himself up when he admits almost lethargically I ALWAYS come back!There are six of us in our family, all of conflicting tastes and interests. It was a democratic yet UNANIMOUS decision here that as far as the Chucky cycle is concerned, THIS was the highlight!This film delivers! "}{"Title":"Another Good Follow-Up","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky, After a Slow Part 3, Got the Chucky Movies back into Spirit. I was Advertised Everywhere and Became a Great Box-Office Hit. The Plot Itself was Quite Not Original. It Was Obviously Inspired by the Movie Bride of Frankenstein, Which The Director Admits in The Behind the Scenes DVD Special Feature. The Deaths ,on the Other hand, Were Quite Energetic and Creative. I Reccommend his Movie to Big Time Chucky Fans, as Well as any Horror Movie Buff  "},{"Title":"Dismal","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Acting **/*****Plot */*****Direction */*****Storyline **/*****Overall **/*****This is such a mediocre film with crappy acting and crappy direction, everything about it is crap. There are some decent moments but it never gets above average.At best this movie is awful. The blood and gore is stupid and no one who gets knocked over by a truck gets splattered into a million pieces. This is just another poorly put-together movie with no actual meaning. The only reason this gets a 4/10 instead of a lower score is the ending, which may spawn another sequel. Only see this movie if you are a true horror movie fan or are a maniac doll.4/10If you like this tryChilds Play 1,2,3,4Scary MovieBasic Instinct "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Finally, the series has ended ( i hope )I felt quite disappointed in the film, mainly because what i saw was totally unbelievable. The movie is an absolute nonsense. Here, we see ( again ) the epic, bloodful journey of Chucky in his path to recovering his true form as a human. But an in-depth analysis tells us 'what? What do we learn from this movie? And i cannot believe that we are shown pathetic souls acting out supposedly scared? It looks to me that they were selling out comedy routines for dollar apiece, but i guess nobody wants to buy it.Not even a thriller. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Words come up short in its awfulness.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is by far the most ridiculous piece of trash I have ever seen.  What a waste of perfectly good celluloid!  What is everyone talking about with this campy and funny stuff?!?  I was not entertained in the smallest iota for one fraction of a second of this movie.  I've got nothing against Chucky or horror movies, I loved the first Child's Play and appreciate a good horror flick now and then, but this was just pathetic.  Even the so-called funny scenes in this movie were so atrociously bad that I couldn't even laugh in pity!  I would have walked out except I saw it with about 5 other people and I didn't drive.  Six months later and I'm still trying to wipe the slime off my memory that is Bride of Chucky. "},{"Title":"What a load of garbage!!!!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never in my life gotten so much less than i expected from a movie. I thought it would be at least a little scary... I was wrong. I thought it might be a little bit funny... I was wrong. This movie was a waste of a fraction of my life! "},{"Title":"one of the dumbest and laughable movies of the year","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is my first comment for this site but I felt a movie this bad needed a warning for people to stay away. Yes my friends it's a typical carry on of a movie series that should listen to itself (Chucky, he's so 80's). It thinks it's scary, but it's not. It thinks it's funny, but oh boy is it not. As long as Horrors continue on its downwards spiral we will have to put up with crap like this. Limp directing a poor poor poor script serve to make this in contention, along with I still don't care what you did last summer as the worst of the next generation horrors. "},{"Title":"OOOhhhh God - Make it stop!!!! Please!!!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We didn't need a 4th Chucky film!!After the 3rd, I had grown up, all the films were impossible to get a hold of, especially the 3rd after what happened with poor Jamie Bulger. So, my childhood horror film experiences were lost in my subconscious...until I heard they were going to make a 4th installment!I was both interested, mildly excited, and cursing the idea!! WE didn't need it...but I dragged 3 of my mates to see it anyway!I HATED it!! It was rubbish!! Complete and utter trite!!! How in the name of God, could this film be made? It destroyed the feel of the other three films. Talk about 'cash-in' this is one good example - the other being Scary Movie 2, and that was utter trite!!I did HATE this film, but, and listen to THIS!!!....my mates who I 'dragged' to see the film, LIKED it!!! Has everyone gone mad??The only reason I reviewed this film was due to the fact that I reviewed the first 3, I'd might as well review this one!People, stay well away from this one. Don't say I didn't warn you!!a well deserved 2/10 "},{"Title":"We Belong Dead","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Chucky movie was when the whole series of killing Andy is were it stops,into a new direction.I to dally love this movie,it made me laugh, it made me cry, it even made me a Chucky fan scared.This movie shows more of Chucky and Tiffany than the rest of the cast.It shows Chucky trying to compete which I love because more killing.I loved the idea that they give him a bride because one simple change can change him to a better doll killer.Next to Childs' Play,I love part four of Chucky,it was a wonderful movie to see.I also love that scene were she changes herself,much better like that than the way it normally was,I was a scene to love.And still Chucky can't finish the ritual,and that is what I love because this way the series will never stop.More Chucky, more killing, more ways for Chucky to die in a horrible way.I hope it will go on for generations and maybe one part he will fight.I will love that we will fight another small killer so he can fight.And maybe a part to show his family it all characters will be funny and great.That is what I hope to happen.Till then I will keep seeing the Chucky movies over and over and over. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was good from start to finish!the deaths were awesome and the Chucky and Tiffany F/X, were outstanding! I also loved the story between tiffany and Chucky. The comedic brilliance shined!!!! Bet of the series!!!!! The Acting was great all around and the chops go out to Jeniffer Tilly for making Tiffany a new horror movie icon to look forward to for years to come!! Brad who does Chucky's voice also give nods for breathing new and fun life into this limp franchise. I just hope with Seed of Chucky (coming November 10th, will show us fans what he have been waiting on for so long.GIVE US THE SEED!!!!  "},{"Title":"Revival of Chucky  SPOILER!!","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have been an avid fan of Child's Play since its start. The first movie was truly a classic. After that it just sort of got boring...pretty quick.Bride of Chucky was responsible not only for reviving Chucky's status, but it also took the character on a better path. Bride of Chucky took the total horror basis for its three predecessors, and became more of a horror/comedy.From start to finish this movie is enjoyable by fans of Chucky and anyone who enjoys funny movies where people die horrible deaths at the hands of a homicidal doll couple.The movie introduces Tiffany, the romantist who revives Chucky after 7 years, with hope of marriage, but instead, Chucky breaks her heart. After breaking out of his planpen prison, Chucky kills Tiffany, puts her soul in a doll, and the two take advantage of a young couple to get to Jersey.After some fun on the road, a love scene..., and some gruesome deaths, the movie climaxes in a graveyard, where both Chucky and Tiffany die.This movie is truly a great flick to watch anytime...9.9/10 "}{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  GREAT MOVIE! Chucky is by far the funniest character in a movie. Jennifer Tilly (Tiffany) makes this movie even better! Well before Chucky died Tiffany and him were together. But like ten years later Tiffany gets Chucky back (as a doll) and brings him back to life. It was a great movie!Scary and definetly funny (only because Chucky!)10/10 "},{"Title":"my favorite romance film","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i loved chucky growing up. this movie came out when i was seven and i desperately wanted to see it. sadly i didn't see it until i was nine and since then it has been the greatest love story I've ever seen (im some what joking but im not the chick flick type) this movie has it all blood, love and doll sex. when the second scene includes a hot busty blond (Tiffany played by Jennifer Tilly) killing to get her lover back (as a chopped up doll) and rob zombie's song living dead girl is playing you know you're in for a good time! this movie is very comical thats why im being a smart ass in this review. this film also has lots of wtf moments, chucky and tiffany (as dolls) killing John Ritter in the van with nails so he looks like Pinhead, the dolls having sex and then of course the end which to me as a young child was gross, and the tiffany doll giving birth to a baby. its a hilarious and sick movie. great actors, awesome soundtrack, and enough blood for the horror fans who need a movie to be gruesome. a great film for any Chucky fan, weird horror fans or anyone who needs a laugh. its romance at its nastiest form! two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"good addition of Jennifer Tilly","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the Lockport Police Dept Evidence Depository, there is Chucky along with the remains of the greatest horror villains. Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) was serial killer Charles Lee Ray's girlfriend. She gets a young policeman to steal Chucky and then murders him. She reassembles him into a cooler looking Chucky. She does the voodoo rituals again and Chucky comes alive to kill Tiffany's admirer Damian. Tiffany gets angry that Chucky doesn't want to marry her. Later he electrocutes her and using the same voodoo, puts her soul into a bride doll. Chucky needs the amulet Heart of Damballa buried with his body in Hackensack, New Jersey to return to human form. Tiffany gets his neighbor Jesse (Nick Stabile) to drive the dolls there. Jesse convinces Jade (Katherine Heigl) to come with him despite the objections of her police chief uncle Warren Kincaid (John Ritter).It's fun to have Jennifer Tilly introduced into the franchise. She is the best part of this movie. Chucky is still kind of fun too. The two characters have good banter. I could do without the teenage melodrama. It only serves to take time away from the fun of Tiffany and Chucky. Jesse and Jade are annoying and not worthwhile. They are a major decline from child Andy. "},{"Title":"Quite good (if you don't mind the change in genre)","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There was quite a lot of fuss made by 'Child's Play' die-hard fans when the fourth instalment (aka 'Bride of Chucky') was released. Not only did it drop the 'Child's Play' title, but it also changed genres.The first three films played it dead straight every time. They were horror movies through and through. However, Bride of Chucky could almost be considered a reboot, as it uses very little of the 'mythology' from its predecessors and introduces a whole new concept to the franchise, i.e. humour.This is very much a 'black comedy.' Personally, I was never that scared of the original films and thought that a story about a possessed killer doll was hardly 'serious' subject matter to begin with, so I was okay with the change. However, Child's Play 'purists' disagreed.So, if you only see the Child's Play franchise as straight horror, I'd leave the series at Part III. However, if you're okay with some campy humour added into the mix, or are just a fan of black comedies in general, I'd give this one a try.Special kudos to Jennifer Tilly, who's brilliant as the 'bride' of Chucky in both human and doll form.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Chucky and his bride...","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky is the fourth movie of Child's Play and in this one except Chucky we have his bride Tiffany. In this movie Chucky finds a mate to kill and revive into the body of another doll. Also in this movie we watch Chucky trying to finally complete and transfer his soul, but other things happen and always something change.I liked this movie and I found it really hilarious because the whole storyline and plot were really nice and finally we watch something different from the previous movies. I also liked the story of love between these two dolls and I think as the poster says Chucky gets Lucky for one time.Finally I believe that Bride of Chucky is a movie which is really better than the previous two movies and also good as the first one which I believe that was excellent. Recommended if you want to watch a movie for laugh combined with thriller. "},{"Title":"a childs play comedy","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I liked in the first 2 movies how chucky was actually scary. He was scary first and then would shout out some ridiculous one-liner. Now in the 4th Chucky movie they have removed anything scary from the movie and gone completely dark comedy. Fortunatly for the Chucky legacy this isn't exactly a bad thing. It's still fun to watch chucky go around murdering people even when the horror is removed. He's that great of a character. Now in Bride of Chucky we meet Tiffany who is played by Jennifer Tilly acting hotter than she actually is by showing as much cleavage as possible. She becomes the bride and they go on a killing spree together. Genius idea giving the fans the ridiculousness they crave. Even though bride of chucky feels like a parody of the originals it is still a fun time and ends with a great send up to another sequel! "},{"Title":"The best of the lot","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The best entry in the 'Child's Play' series unfortunately coasts on the post-'Scream' irony wave, but does so with more laughs and wit than the usual self-aware horror. It's not a big surprise to see a clip from 'Bride of Frankenstein'; it is a surprise to see a reference to the media furore that surrounded 'Child's Play 3'. Playful and smart-mouthed, then, but not quite as funny as it thinks it is the balance between humour and horror isn't always maintained, as the violence is rather sadistic at times. But the puppet effects are excellent, treating us to a rather off-putting sex scene between Chucky and his missus. The real highlight is, of course, Jennifer Tilly's cleavage. "},{"Title":"Funny Addition to the Series","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After 8 long years of the Child's Play series left untouched, Bride Of Chucky was released. The spirit of Charles Lee Ray lies dormant in the Good Guys Doll, Chucky, which he had possessed and murdered numerous people in the form of Chucky the Doll in the previous Child's Play films. A woman named Tiffany (ex girlfriend) finds the Chucky Doll and is driven to resurrect one of the most feared and legendary serial killers in the US using a voodoo spell. Charles Lee Rays' spirit is awakened and he manipulates Tiffany with his cheeky charm, leaving her vulnerable for him to strike. Chucky escapes captivation and transfers Tiffany's soul into another Doll. Chucky then mentions that there is an amulet in existence that can return them to human form, but it is buried in New Jersey. The pair set on a psychotic, murderous journey in doll form and mutilate any human being who comes in their path. Overall, the story-line is dark, crude and humorous, and Chucky seems to be as cheeky as he was in the originals. If you are a fan of the Child's Play series, it is definitely worth a watch. Personally, the movie soundtrack for this film was my favourite out of the whole series, but it lacks the TRUE horror that the other Child's Play films create as the script and acting is a lot more light-hearted. Overall, I give this film a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Horror turned to humor","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a formerly straight, serious horror film franchise begins turning to camp, it is typically a sign that the creators are running out of gas. That would seem to be the case with the Child's Play series based on the fourth entry, Bride of Chucky. After 3 previously straightforward films, Bride of Chucky disposes of any pretense that you should find anything here, well, horrific. Instead, we are treated to black comedy, one that isn't without it's moments, but on the whole a sign that perhaps it's time, like toys we have outgrown, Chucky should be put away.Set years after the previous entry, Chucky's damaged remains are rescued from an evidence room by Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly), who had been the girlfriend of Chucky's original human form, Charles Lee Ray. After performing a voodoo ritual, Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif) returns to life, but Tiffany quickly realizes that her hopes of the two of them settling down seem iffy. Chucky doesn't take kindly to being treated like a plaything, so he offs Tiffany and transfers her soul into a female doll. Both then decide to return themselves to their human bodies, so they hitch a ride with eloping lovers Jesse (Nick Stabile) and Jade (a pre-Grey's Anatomy Katherine Heigl) who are headed to New Jersey, where Chucky and Tiffany have plans for the young couple.Bride of Chucky, written by series creator Don Mancini, realizes that Chucky as a typical horror icon has past his sell by date, so instead elects to, a la Freddy Kruger, transform him into something of an anti- hero here, giving him, and Tiffany, a cadre of one liners to make him the star attraction of this entry. It wouldn't really take much, the plot involving the human characters of Jesse and Jade is about as limp and tacked on as you can get. Their framing device, and the ongoing plot thread that the killings being perpetrated by Chucky and Tiffany are believed to be performed by Jesse and Jade, are here because the filmmakers felt that they needed some kind of normal protagonists to play off Chucky. Stabile and Heigl get the job done, but nothing about Jesse or Jade is interesting, involving or memorable. When the film chooses to focus on them, it more or less grinds to a halt. All the good stuff is reserved for Chucky and Tiffany.The film contains the usual material you would expect from a slasher film, with a host of gruesome, creative deaths that are fairly graphic. That doesn't translate to anything being scary, however. There isn't much in the way of suspense in Bride of Chucky, and because the lead human characters are so lifeless, we aren't really finding ourselves biting our nails as to what is going to happen to them next. The screenplay also surrounds the leads with some enormously goofy characters, from Jade's overprotective police officer uncle, played by John Ritter as if he was in one of his many sitcom roles, to a Marilyn Manson look-a-like with the rather tongue-in-cheek moniker Damien (Alexis Arquette) who lusts after Tiffany.Bride of Chucky isn't exactly unenjoyable. Many of the moments involving Chucky and Tiffany are funny, and the film pokes fun both at itself and other horror films more than once. Mancini obviously knew what he was doing when he wrote Bride of Chucky, nothing here seems unintentional, so on the one hand I have to give him a degree of credit for going for the gusto with some of the humorous elements of Bride of Chucky. That doesn't translate to good movie, horror, comedy, or otherwise, perhaps a passable one, but nothing I would see myself revisiting in the future. While Hollywood is always good at continuously mining properties, Chucky is one that, this time, should probably stay buried. "},{"Title":"Bride of Chucky","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky is the fourth Child's Play film and this is where the series takes a whole new direction. Andy Barclay is absent in this one and Jennifer Tilly plays Chucky's girlfriend. The story goes that after Chucky was cut to pieces in the funhouse at the end CP3, his remains were stored at a police evidence locker. Chucky's girlfriend Tiffany takes his remains and stitches the doll back together before using the famous voodoo chant to bring him back to life. Tiffany ends up becoming a doll after Chucky kills her, but in order to become human again, they have to get a amulet which was buried with Charles Lee Ray (Chucky) years ago. We also meet two younger characters in love who end up driving the dolls to New Jersey where the body of Charles Lee Ray is buried.Several murders occur along the road trip with the two human characters unaware that the dolls are alive. Eventually the dolls reveal their true selves leading up to a rather interesting ending. The acting is very good in this one, and the voices by Dourif and Tilly are well done. Lots of comedy in this installment as well. That's really the difference between this one and the others. This is a horror comedy while the others were more horror thrillers. I personally liked the series the way it was, but there are some funny moments in Bride of Chucky.There are some gory death scenes which are done well. Much better than the third Child's Play. But it just doesn't feel like a Child's Play movie without the story of Chucky chasing Andy Barclay around trying to take over his body. The rules from the original story are changed. There was no mention of an amulet buried with the body in any of the first three. Overall, a decent entry to the series, but I enjoyed Chucky more when he wasn't a full on comedian.5/10 "}{"Title":"A Bump in the Series' Slump","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror franchises tend to be just crappy rehashes of the first film after the second film. That is not the case for Bride of Chucky, its a fresh start over after the last miserable mess. Its got great voice acting by the dolls once again and it revisits some scary moments that made the first two memorable. Though it still takes the dreaded Comedy factor in Horror a little too far, there are still enough jumps and catchy one liners that make the film good (the air bag scene and the Martha Stewart insult).The plot involves Tiffany (Tilly) a women interested in voodoo and talking to the dead, try to revive the old Chucky doll after, of course, being killed in CP3. She believe she failed, but sooner than later is killed by Chucky and puts her soul in a female doll. Now Chucky has a girlfriend, which then, like the title suggests, later becomes a beloved butchering bride. Chucky and his new bride begin going on a killing rampage traveling with two rebellious dating teens which leads to all sorts of slaughterings and gory fun. This film can be a little clich, but its satisfying, scary, and hilarious to see two dolls run around killing people. What fun Bride of Chucky can be.Part of the prize that stems from this movie's greatness is the Honk Kong director Ronny Yu. He worked on several Honk Kong movies before starting working on American movies in 1991 with Rapid Fire. He would later become famous for directing the ultimate Horror match-up between Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees in the iconic Freddy vs. Jason, direct a Jet Li film three years later, and even do an episode for the NBC series Fear Itself which is definitely a must see. He is a great, underrated director, but it seems that the movies he does gets more recognition than himself. Bride of Chucky is one of my favorite movies to mix the Satire/Horror but use it in a limited form, so we're not just saying c'mon gimmie come scares. Still being succeeded in the best department by the first two, its hard not to call Bride of Chucky a fun Horror film and the best of it's kind.Starring Jennifer Tilly, Katherine Heigl, Nick Stabile, John Ritter, Alexis Arquette, and Brad Dourif. Directed by Ronny Yu. "},{"Title":"Better than the first three.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After getting off to a very silly start with CHILD'S PLAY in 1988, the series got better by the time the second & third films came out, but the waning interest in Elm Street-style films saw an end to the series. That lasted for only seven years. Bride of Chucky was the rebirth of the Chucky saga, with series scribe Don Mancini returning to write the script & Chucky himself, Brad Dourif, making a comeback.Tiffany, the girlfriend of Charles Lee Ray, gets her hands on the remains of the killer doll from a police evidence locker (which has Jason Voorhees' hockey mask, Freddy Krueger's razor glove, Michael Myers' mask & Leatherface's chainsaw) & attempts to revive it using a copy of 'Voodoo for Dummies'. Chucky comes to life, kills her & resurrects her in the form of a female doll. The only way for them to regain human form is to get the 'Heart of Damballa', an amulet that was buried with Ray's body in New Jersey. Using a pair of teenage lovers, the duo undertake a road trip to New Jersey, with the police in hot pursuit.With Bride of Chucky, producer David Kirschner brings in Ronny Yu to direct, hoping that Yu would reinvigorate the series, which was already lagging creativity-wise. But the result is a film that seems nothing more than routine in almost every respect. The script is stuck with the same nonsense that mired the original trilogy, with the bizarre plot device of the dolls having to obtain an amulet in order to regain human form &#x96; I can see how Chucky became a doll, but how does he transfer Tiffany's soul into the doll without the amulet? Plus, Ray was killed in Chicago, yet his body is buried in New Jersey. How does that work? That said, what makes the film work (only slightly it seems) is Yu bringing in a sense of dark humour to the proceedings, with some cool deaths &#x96; a couple being impaled by glass shards; a guy being hit by a truck; the obnoxious deputy being killed as his car is blown up. The acting is adequate & the visual effects are better than the previous films. Besides the black humour, the film has plenty of in-jokes (the opening sequence has references to THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE, HALLOWEEN, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET & Friday THE 13TH, which when you think about it doesn't make any sense since the locations for each franchise are spread all over the country) & hilarious sight gags (the scene where Chucky flips a stoner the bird before killing the cop is worth the price of admission alone). "},{"Title":"This is one movie that you just can't miss.","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tiffany brings home the many pieces of a killer doll named Chucky.She stitches him together and brings him back to life.Things don't go very well.Chucky kills Tiffany and puts her soul into a doll.They both seek human bodies, and they manage to find two people who are right for the job.Is it stupid? Definitely not. Is it fun? Most certainly. 'Bride of Chucky' is basically like a rom-com.All you have to do to make it scary is to add a lot of blood and death scenes.Just so you know, a rom-com means a romantic comedy, Duh.Overall, This is an over-the-top fun and grizzly movie with some belly laughs and a decent cast.Even Katherine Heigl from 'Knocked Up' is in this movie.Very worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"New Direction for Chucky","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chucky has been transformed. 8 years after Child's Play 3, and after we all thought Chucky was dead for good, Bride of Chucky comes out. This movie is very very different than the Child's Play's. Chucky has a whole new, stitched up, more menacing look here; which I think makes him look cool, but many will disagree (or agree, many people have different opinions). Chucky is now more of a main character than an idle doll who is only shown alive during kill scenes. He has an actual personality and everything. We are also introduced to another living doll, Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly), who is actually an old girlfriend of Chucky's. Andy is no longer a part of this series it seems, which is probably a good thing. 3 movies starring Andy is enough. Here, we have a young couple as the main characters. Jade and Jesse. They decide to run away and start a new life together. And you'll never guess...CHUCKY comes along, and brings HIS girl as well. On the road, they leave a trail of death and destruction; leading them right to the exciting conclusion. This movie has gotten a lot of good recognition, which is well deserved. Catherine Heigl is very good here and; in my opinion much better than in Knocked Up. Nick Stabile is very good also for a small-time actor. Fans of Child's Play will either love or hate this. But its worth the time to watch and find out. 8/10. "},{"Title":"I'll kill anybody, but I'll only sleep with someone I love.","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the best so far of all the Chucky films. It isn't that it has more story going on, but the addition of Jennifer Tilly makes it worth watching even if you don't like Chucky.Tilly's best role is unarguably Bound with Gina Gershon, but she has been thrilling us for years in such films as The Getaway and Dancing at the Blue Iguana. She thrills us again in this film and we take due notice.The film also stars Grey's Anatomy's Katherine Heigl, who shows much better taste in men that she did on screen this year with Nick Stabile as her partner.Lots of laughs and a cool maniac in Chucky. "},{"Title":"Refreshing entry in the Chucky series","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Ronnie Yu has entered the building. Seven Years after Chucky was sent spiraling into a huge fan and chopped to bits we get Childs Play 4...or Bride of Chucky. We open with a former girlfriend of Charles LeRay named Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly). She gets word of her former love's whereabouts in the body of the doll and rescues the dolls remains from the police depository. After a Satanic voodoo ritual she resurrects Chucky and it's on again! Chucky reveals to Tiffany that he had never planned on marrying her and this nerves her which leads to her demise at the hands of Chucky who also transfers her soul into a Bride Doll. So the two are now on the same level.Chucky reveals to her that they need the Heart of Demballa, which Charles was wearing the night he was gunned down, in order to transfer their bodies back into human form once and for all. So it's off to the races as Tiffany tricks her neighbor Jesse (Nick Stabile) into taking the dolls to New Jersey. Jesse uses this as an opportunity for his girlfriend Jade (Katherine Heigl) and himself to make a run from her over protective police chief uncle (John Ritter). So the two are off with the two murderous dolls tearing up the country all the while...and all the while the police are hot on the trail of Jesse and Jade thinking the committed the murder. Definitely fresh to see Chucky doing something besides tormenting Andy Barclay. Definitely the most original of the series. Definitely a wow of an ending that sets up the follow up Seed of Chucky in a great way. "},{"Title":"AMAZING installment","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ronny Yu not only revitalized the Freddy and Jason sags with his masterpiece, Freddy vs. Jason, but he also saved the dying 'Child's Play' franchise with the superb Bride of Chucky. The comedy mixes with horror so much better than any of the previous...(read more) installments, and Jennifer Tilly is simply great as Chucky's bride. There is plenty of gore and slapstick humor for a good horror fan. The next installment, Seed of Chucky, didn't work quite as well, but it was still a hilarious and over-the-top journey. Both films were great in my book, but Bride of Chucky was the superior one, and the best installment of the Chucky films thus far. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well done sequel with a different kind of humor.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the death of Chucky, which it's been a couple of years. Chucky (Voiced by Brad Dourif) has been bought back to life by his old girlfriend Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly). When Tiffany regrets bringing Chucky back to life but he kills her and transfer her soul to a doll. When Chucky has a plan going to the state of New Jersey to see his original resting place (Which his real is Charles Lee Ray). Chucky needs to get Satanic voodoo charm nickles, which he was buried with. Now Chucky and Tiffany are tricking two young lovers (Katherine Heigi & Nick Stabile) to bring them. Which the couple are unsuspecting newlyweds, leaving murder and craziness behind them.Directed by Ronny You (The Bride with the White Hair, Formula 51, Freddy Vs. Jason) made an stand-out horror/comedy/thriller that really entertains. Using the same plot from the previous movies but adding another killer doll in the mix is the highlight of this lively silly sequel. This has good sharp funny dialogue and clever situations makes this enjoyable ride. Only around the end, where the movie actually falls flat and cold (Giving an homage to It's Alive).DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an excellent Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD's extras are good, including two commentary tracks. Commentary one is an amusing funny commentary track by actorsDourif and Tilly & ScreenwriterDon Mancini (Who wrote every single Child's Play flick). Commentary two is by the director. DVD also including Behind the Scenes featurette, Production Notes, Trailers and more. Bride of Chucky in a way is giving an loving tribute to Bride of Frankenstein. Which it's seen in the film. The only thing is missing from this DVD is deleted scenes, which Mancini mentions in the commentary track. Don't miss the best of the Child's Play series. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Great horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" BRIDE OF CHUCKY, in my opinion, is a great horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good. The only thing about it that bothered me was some of the bloody stuff. You'll have to see the movie if you want to know why. Other than that, I liked this movie very much. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did an outstanding job. In conclusion, to all you horror film lovers that have not seen this outstanding horror film you'll love which will leave you feeling good, I highly recommend it! You're in for a good time as well as some pure chills and thrills, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, turn down the lights, lock all your doors and windows, and enjoy! "},{"Title":"This film is the best","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I absolutely loved Chuckys bride!!! My friends were all telling me about Chucky the doll and i wished to see him so one day i watched the movie The bride of Chucky and im absolutely mad for Chucky!!!! I have loads of Chucky dolls and kiss and love each one of them i take them to bed each night. I have loved him since i have been 9 and i think Chuckys the cutest doll ever!!! My dream is for Chucky to come to life and i would give him a home and absolutely treat him so special and with love!! Anyway i hope every like this comment lol and i hope for the makers of Chucky to bring more films out about him bye xx-xx "}{"Title":"This was a strange experience...","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was accidentally that I came to watch this movie as I just couldn't fall asleep and, thus, decided to turn on the TV. Well, I thought it quite funny in the beginning but after a short while it just became creepy. I know, that this was the intention of the movie - but I thought it would happen in a different kind of way! It is really not the action or the characters or these nasty little puppets I was worried about, I can tell, because this was rather funny, I have to admit.... But watching PUPPETS having sex with each other... that is just too disgusting, even for my taste (And I can handle a lot!) It was not until the end, however, that I was completely shocked! A burnt puppet bearing a blood-thirsty child on a grave-yard, while her (the mother-puppet's) blood splatters all over the ground...That was horrible! I was really scared in the end, not by the film, but by the strange and absolutely sick minds of the writers and producers of the film, so I think it achieved what it was inteted to.... "},{"Title":"For the easily frightened dweeb in your life","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" On a regular basis I flush things that are more frightening than Bride of Chucky. I don't know what kind of timid geek you have to be to be frightened of anything in this stupid and over-hyped film. If you're scared by this movie make sure you never watch Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer or that abominable snowman will give you nightmares for weeks. There's not even any stylishly dark humor in this film unless you count the fact that those dorky dolls are more likely to make you laugh than have any other impact on you. Movies like this are for people who like to pretend they're watching something scary but really aren't.There is absolutely nothing in this movie that would frighten or creep out anyone who doesn't still sleep with a light on! "},{"Title":"Rebirth of Chucky!","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Chucky is resurrected after being chopped up in the last film. Except this time he is brought back to life by his girlfriend Tiffany, who has been searching for him ever since he put his soul into the infamous Good Guy doll. Now with Tiffany cut down to size, the demonic duo hits the road and hooks up with an unsuspecting couple, in hopes to transfer their souls into human bodies, leaving behind murder and mayhem. In 1988 Child's Play was released into theaters and was met with instant success upon its release. The movie had spawned two sequels Child's Play 2 & 3, which were not as successful. So with the franchise down and out, in 1998 Bride of Chucky was released. Unlike the previous films, this entry decided to take a more humorous turn, which was for the better. The film gave a fresh new start for the franchise, the fans, and for Chucky himself! This film has a lot of dark humor, some gory death scenes, brief doll nudity (that's right, you heard me), and a very surprising ending. Bride of Chucky is one of the best horror movies I have seen in a while. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Martha Stewart can kiss my shiny plastic butt!","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) was at one time in love with a serial killer whose soul now possess the killer doll known as Chucky. She pays a young man to retrieve the doll from a police evidence locker and brings Chucky back to life. She soon ticks off Chucky and he kills her. By a strange coincidence her soul becomes trapped inside another doll. The pair set off cross-country to retrieve an amulet buried with the serial killer that will allow them to regain their human form.Maybe I'm not part of the target audience, but there's not much in this movie that works for me. Some of the humor is mildly amusing, but for the most part, it's ridiculous. And the whole notion that these two small dolls are able to take down and kill anything larger than a puppy or engage in sex and procreate is really stretching it. In short, I've never understood the appeal of Chucky and Bride of Chucky does nothing to change that.The highlight (for the lack of a better word) of the movie has to be Jennifer Tilly. I've always enjoyed seeing her in other movies. She has a style and look about her that I find unique. And Bride of Chucky gives her a chance to show off her&#133;well&#133;acting abilities. "},{"Title":"Films of Ronnie Yu Chucky's back!  This time with a bride.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky (1998) marks the return of Chucky and the second Hollywood debut of Hong Kong film maker Ronnie Yu. Chucky is also back in form after a five year hiatus. Jennifer Tilly stars as the former girlfriend of Chucky (Brad Dourif). She wants to bring him back (via black magic) and keep him in check. But the revived Chucky isn't pleased with his ex-girlfriend's plans and decides to do something about it. Alexis Arquette, John Ritter and Katherine Heigel co-star as well.The real attraction of this film is the direction style of Ronnie Yu. If this was in the hands of some hack it would have been just like the first two sequels. But with his favorite cinematographer(Peter Pau) and editor (David Wu) in tow, Yu creates a visually appealing movie with a very modest budget. The movie will also appeal to horror fans (epspecially those of the first film). Ronnie Yu shows why he's one of the most underrated film makers in Hollywood today. We need to see the team of Pau, Wu and Yu in action. They make some of the most entertaining films when they're clicking on all cylinders.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Better than the last","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was a lot better than the sequel Seed Of Chucky. There isn't too much blood and there isn't to much of a comedy status.The plot is about a doll (Charles Lee Ray) that is searching for a medallion so he can transform into a living person again. Well he finds it. But the thing is he also finds love. He marrys another doll (Tiffany) who use to be his girlfriend. He and her go on a killing spree in the back of a van on the way to New Jersey.Along with the language (I must say there's too much of it in this series) and the gore there's also a sex scene between the two dolls. At the end they even have a baby. "},{"Title":"An Average Movie","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky has a semi-creative plot mixed in with gore and sexuality. Character development is average. Viewers won't care about most of the secondary characters who die. All the blood and guts lose their shock value after a while. This movie offers a few quick thrills but overall it fails to invoke any significant emotions in the viewer.5/10 "},{"Title":"weakest of the series, but better than the average horror movie","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yikes! What happened here!? Actually, there is a good explanation for this mediocre addition to the Child's Play legacy, if I may be so bold to call it a legacy. While BOC isn't the worst horror film ever to come along, it certainly is not the best. Here's how it breaks down.First of all, there are some good things with this film. It pays homage to other great horror films in hilarious ways, much to the effect of Batman Forever actually, if you remember the scene in the prison where all of the prisoner's personal belongings are being stored. Second of all, I love the way chucky keeps getting reinvented. The great thing about the Child's Play series is how they keep up with the overall story. Unlike Friday the 13th, which just gave up on how they should keep bringing Jason back to life, Child's Play always offers a reasonable and somewhat believable explanation why the good guy doll comes back to murder. Plus, Chucky looks really wicked in this film. I felt that with #3, he looked too much like an animated puppet, and with this one, he was completely fixed. There are also some cool death scenes, which are always welcome. But I'm afraid humor and death, while being key to a horror movies success, is not always the answer. A little thing arises called `plot' which this movie completely ignores.Follow the timeline back to the original Child's Play. Serial Killer Charles `Chucky' Lee Ray was aged in his late thirties early forties I'd say. And since no exact date was ever given in the film, for arguments sake, since the movie was made in 1988, lets say the events in the movie were also taking place in 1988. Lets also assume that Charles was 40 years old. As we all know, Andy Barkley is 6. Now fast-forward to Child's Play 2. Andy is about the same age, so Chucky is as well, so he's still 40 years old. Then in Child's Play 3, Andy is 16. so add 10 years on to Chucky's life and that makes him 50. Bride of Chucky takes place 10 years after Child's Play 3 so now Chucky is 60. Tiffany, Chucky's girlfriend, has been waiting to get her hands on the doll because back in Child's Play 1, even though we never saw her, she was Chuck's main squeeze. But Tiffany is only in her late 20's! So let's say she's about 28. Subtract her current age, 28, from the timeline years of events , 20, and presto! That would mean while she was going out with Chucky back in Childs Play, she was only 8 years old!!! Can you say `makes no sense'?As one could see, flaws galore! There's a scene where Chucky and his doll bride are sitting together in the mobile home talking, and this is really where it hit me that the series was dying. Between the aging Chucky doll and the new Tiffany doll, which looks like a Puppet Master reject, it became obvious how silly it looked! Aside from that, this movie suffers mainly from 90's pop/goth culture; Heavy Metal music with Chucky head banging? Come on! And further more, while there are some cool new death scenes, Chucky is an 80's character. I wouldn't want to see Pinhead put up a gun and kill people!! I want to see his signature chains! I don't want Michael Myers to all of a sudden use a flamethrower, I want to see his trademark knife. Chucky is supposed to stab, strangle, and shoot his way to victory, not blow up cars and set booby traps with nails! Child's Play belongs in the 80's and should never have been modernized to fit current day culture.Overall, it's better than some of the stuff that comes direct to video and gets shoved in the horror section at the video rental store. But it does happen to be the weakest of the series. Overall, on the horror movie scale, 5 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"The return of Chucky","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky is a proper return to the oringial Chucky we all know and love. Don Mancini script is sharp and funny and the direction by Ronny Yu is equal to his Jap films. The film is a vast imporvement of Childs Play 3 and I can't wait for Seed Of Chucky. "},{"Title":"The best of the Chucky movies!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't see this movie until it was on the USA Network earlier this year, but after I saw it, I rushed to the video store to buy a copy of it. As the movie began, I thought this was going to be just like the other Chucky movies except that there would be a female doll added to the mix. I was wrong. This movie is totally different than the previous three Chucky movies. There are new characters, superb special effects, tons of absolutely horrifying moments, and Katherine Heigl is great as always. Overall, I'd say this was the best of the Chucky movies so far.  "}{"Title":"Chucky reborn","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky is the best 'bad' movie I've paid to see in a cinema in a long time. Don Mancini's screenplay is hilarious, parodying both the series and the genre in general. Jennifer Tilly was born to play Tiffany and proves once again that she is the true successor to Marilyn Monroe and Jayne Mansfield. And Chucky? He's looking a little Raggedy around the edges, but I imagine he'll be back.  "},{"Title":"nice attempt at bettering lame 80's horror flick","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never been a big fan of the Child's Play series.  While the first one had a few good moments in it I just don't find a possessed child's toy that scary.  It's the same way I feel about the first Puppet Master movie (the only one I've seen), I find it hard to be afraid of something I can pick up and throw away from me.  That combined with the fact that 80's horror film directors don't know suspense from Adam doesn't help matters much. Needless to say I was a bit hesitant to rent Bride of Chucky but it's getting close to Halloween so I said why not.For the most part I enjoyed the movie.  I liked the addition of Tiffany and found most of Chucky's and Tiffany's banter quite amusing.  Unfortunately the rest of the movie is really lame!  The surrounding story is boring, it usually is but in this case the characterization for the human characters makes the cruise taken in Jason Takes Manhattan look like genius scripting.It was also nice to see the filmakers concede that Chucky just isn't scary, never was, never will be, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't attempt to create some tension people!Overall the film was okay, the comedy made up for the lack of anything else. Some other highlites include a tribute to Freddy, Jason, Michael and Pinhead and a couple of inventive deaths, but nothing much to really shout about.  After seeing this film I now realize how bad a year Universal had with this being their top grossing film of the year.Hopefully the creators will take a hint from other three long running horrors series and end this one with the next film, Son of Chucky.Bride of Chucky rates 5 out of 10, it is pretty funny.  "},{"Title":"The Second Best","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bride of Chucky was the second best Child's Play movie. I say second because the first one was the best. The Chucky and Tiffany puppets look so real! Chucky doesn't even look like a doll. He looks more like an operated on two year old toddler who escaped the hospital. Chucky looks more realistic too. Not exactly like a doll, because real dolls don't have tongues or the likes, but like a human like I said before. Of course, Chucky is turning human through the doll like he was doing in the third movie. The only thing I would have loved to see is either A) Andy or B) some refrence to Andy. When Chucky talks about needing to get into a body, he doesn't mention Andy at all. Oh, well. It's a very good movie! I would see it instead of I Still Know What You Did Last Summer. "},{"Title":"Bride of Chucky is a weak entry in the long going series","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky is a weak entry in the long going series*1/2 out of ****Now when you look back at the first three Child's plays did you notice something? They all were the same films because Chucky kept killing where ever he went and the audience would get a kick out of him. Now Chucky returns in Bride of Chucky but what's new? Now he has a bride and everything you remembered from the first three films are completely gone now. From implied violence to on-screen grotesque violence, more cussing, and a little sensual. I have to give the director credit for trying something new instead of having the same plot over and over. But Bride of Chucky is a weak entry in the long going series. Why? The film tries to be funny and scary when it just can't be both. The new characters are just dumb and they look like they don't know what they are doing. Bride of Chucky may have some decent kills but other than that it's just a pile of crap that shouldn't have been invented. I have to admit I'm the biggest Chucky fan and tried to give this every chance I could but it was just bad. I admit this isn't the worst movie I've seen and it's not even that bad but it got poorly reviewed from me because the film could have been so much better and since Chucky now has a bride it just made things worse. Short and simple Bride of Chucky is a weak effort and the director shouldn't have messed with Chucky. "},{"Title":"My comment on Bride of Chucky","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have been a huge fan of the CP movies since the first one came to Theaters. I can honestly say that I have seen the first 3 films more than 480 times. I can even translate chucky's chant to English, as It is a combination of Jamaican,Old-world Latin,and Old-world French.As a true fan of these films, I must say that TBOC was without a doubt the worst film ever created. It was a joke! The only thing that made the movie remotely tolerable was hearing Brad Dourif's voice. How could anyone like this horrible, plot-less movie? It's like having George Clooney play Batman....kinda ruins the series. does anyone agree with me on this?  "},{"Title":"I should be murdered for liking this movie","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As much as I totally disrespect this movie, I find it very entertaining. It's not so much a horror as it is a spoof of horror. There are scenes where Chucky and Tiffany discuss how to creatively kill someone. Another part has Jesse and Jade's friend telling them the difference between mass murderers and multiple murderers, and of course there's the opening sequence in a police evidence room with Michael Myers' mask, Freddy's glove, and a chainsaw probably belonging to Leatherface, or Jason, or...whoever. Like Scream, it tributes horror movies and serial killers. As morbid as that is, horror movies and serial killers are pretty much part of our pop-culture, and Bride Of Chucky gives a wink and a nudge to that.I can't believe I actually liked this movie, but I guess it's just one of those unexplainable guilty pleasures.My rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Well hello Dolly!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After being stuck in an evidence locker since he was diced in a giant fan at the end of Child's Play 3, Chucky is freed by corrupt cop Bailey, sent by his girlfriend Tiffany. Officer Bailey is quickly offed and Chucky is taken home in multiple broken pieces. Using bits off her massive doll collection Tiffany manages to bring Chucky back to life using another chant to the mighty Damballa.As soon as he's on his feet Chucky does yet another killing to get the circulation going. Tiffany is excited and can't wait to get Chucky into a human body so they can get hitched. But Chuck is dead against marriage and laughs in her face. Dejected, Tiffany locks him in a play pen while she blows off some steam. Not taking kindly to being locked up, Chucky breaks out and kills her by knocking a TV into her bathtub.Another chant to Damballa brings her back in the form of one of her many dolls. Angry with the loss of her nice, fleshy body and being stuck in a short, plastic one, Tiffany starts researching ways to help herself without Chucky's aid. Tough luck, the only way out is with the help of an amulet that was buried with Chucky's human body years ago.Conning a couple of local lovebirds, hick Jesse and well-to-do Jade, into driving them to the graveyard in New Jersey, Chuck and Tiff begin a cross-country killing spree, leaving a pile of dead bodies in their wake that the cops assume are the work of Jesse and Jade. Marital disputes between couples both flesh and plastic follow. Don't laugh, it's good! The formula of Child's Play was wearing mighty thin by the end of the 3rd film and really needed a fresh new spin to keep it alive. Don Mancini struck the nail right on the head when he turned it into a post-modern horror. Remember, this was back in the days when post-modern horror was all the rage so it might seem just the tiniest bit dated now. But compared to the endless Urban Legend, Scream and I Know yadda yadda films of that era Bride of Chucky seems to have the sharpest wit, the slickest direction and strongest production values.Director Ronny Yu gives us plenty of eye-candy and shoots the film with lots of darkness and deep blacks. A horror series like this needs technical superiority and imagination when it comes to direction and Ronny Yu soars over Jack Bender's mundane approach to Child's Play 3.Composer Graeme Revell returns and delivers a more sophisticated, if slightly generic, score to those awful death-metal guitar/synthesizer cues to Child's Play 3. His main theme from Child's Play 2 comes and goes briefly and he forgets the huge orchestral mayhem he did before. But he does introduce a very cool Twin Peaks-style love theme for Chuck and Tiff. An alright score overall that really should get a release on CD.Katherine Heigl is very easy on the eye as is Jennifer Tilly (as a human). Plus it also features one of my favorite actors, the late John Ritter, who died in 2003. Margot Kidder's gorgeous niece Janet also has a small role and Kathy Najimy (that's Peggy Hill for you King of the Hill fans) cameos as a distressed Motel Maid.My only problem is that the film should have been longer, with a more satisfying ending. Chucky has done the Damballa chant so many times now that I just want to see it work for a change. In the DVD commentary Don Mancini said that the film originally had Jesse possessed by Chucky and that the final showdown had more to it. I would have liked to have seen this instead of the weak ending that wound up in the film. For such an elaborate and imaginative horror movie, Bride of Chucky goes out with a whimper instead of a bang.That said, it was still the best of the post-Scream horror films that surfaced in the late-90s and the best of the Chucky series. The subsequent Seed of Chucky was still pretty damn good, but felt like it belonged in a different genre. "},{"Title":"Who thought this was a good idea?!?!?!?!","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I absolutely, positively, hated this movie. I look at Child's Play 3(My favorite of the 5) and then i look at this. Bride of Chucky has to be the definition of bad, horrible, scat, and every swear word you can think of. First off, how could Chucky possibly, and i mean possibly, come back?!?!? In the end of Child's Play 3, we see him literally get shredded to bits and pieces. Just imagine a bomb going off on an allied soldier during the Invasion of Normandy. Although it may not get the point across, in short, parts of Chucky here, there and everywhere(bravo to those who caught the song reference). I also didn't quite enjoy the scar look. Chucky was just fine the way he looked in the first three movies so, why even change it. He was a lot more scarier as an innocent looking doll, and was able to get around. The way he looked in this movie just made me laugh. However, i did enjoy the kill scenes in this movie, particularly, the scene where they kill the cop. This is not the worst movie in series thats a fact because, an even more horrid movie awaits 7 years later..... "},{"Title":"Very silly movie","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They are back with yet another film to add to the killer doll franchise Chucky. This one has got to be one of the silliest and thats saying a lot seeing how they have always been silly. The adding of jennifer Tilly does no good either seeing how she is terrible.Chucky is back once again and this time he discovers a perfect mate to kill and add to another doll. This doll he plans on being his bride and partner in crime.This movie is not very good. It is really not scary in the slightest and its just so silly at some points it nearly has you laughing although im pretty sure its intent is to scare you so Im baffled "},{"Title":"I am the bride of -------- Or the daughter...","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My name is Katrina Sowers and I look just like the Chuck doll- this won't let me up load a picture but it's pretty cool to look like a scary character. At least I think so.I have red hair, a round face and i can scowl just like him. I fart a lot too.Many of my friends call me chuckI watch the movie all the time, and try to make my voice sound the same as the doll. I also sleep at night with a chuck doll. Who knows maybe I should just change my name to chuck sowers.I wish I could post pictures up here so you could see. "}{"Title":"I don't mind it being silly, just make it good!","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The entire premise of the Child's Play-series was a ridicules one to begin with, so I really don't mind the series also taking a more silly approach with the later movies. However silly doesn't simply equal good or fun as well unfortunately.I always thought that Bride of Chucky would be a fun one to watch. And I did had some fun with it but the movie is still being brought down by a bad story and approach to it.So the movie is more a comedy than anything else really this time but did that really had to mean that they needed to get rid of all the horror elements as well? I can't even call this one a slasher this time really, since Chucky really isn't on a killing rampage this time. I don't even know what he was doing in this movie. I mean, what was his motivation this time? It didn't seem like he was very busy trying to get his soul out of the good guy doll and same goes for the Jennifer Tilly character, who also got transfered into a doll and is the 'bride of Chucky' in this one.And then there are the Katherine Heigl and Nick Stabile characters as well. Where they really needed for this movie? Couldn't they come up with a better idea or story for them? I seriously can say that I would had probably liked this movie better, hadn't they been in it at all. It would had caused less distraction and perhaps would had allowed Chucky and his new bride do some more evil and gruesome stuff.I'm not really sure what they were thinking. Seems to me they had no idea how to find or create a good balance between comedy and horror elements and therefore went for purely mostly just comedy instead. I still wouldn't had minded this if the movie did actually had a fun and clever story in it but as it turns out, the movie starts to run out of steam pretty fast, after a promising enough first 20 minutes or so. And I also still really liked the last 10 seconds of the movie. I won't spoil it but all I can say is that's the most awesome Child's Play movie ending I have seen, even though it pretty much came out of nowhere.It also remains awesome that Brad Dourif keeps coming back to do the voice of Chucky. You would think that it really doesn't matter much, since he's only just doing his voice but it makes all the difference in the world really. His voice is perfectly evil and insane and I especially also really like his evil laugh.Can't say that the effects have improved really much. Seems like the animatronic effects for the Chucky doll really haven't improved that much, ever since the first 1988 movie. Don't get me wrong, it looks pretty good all but it's not exactly the most convincing looking thing ever.Another disappointing sequel unfortunately, while I still really had good faith in the movie, before I started watching.5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Chucky's Back and this time he's not alone!","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jennifer Tilly plays Tiffany, the long lost love of the serial killer, who inspired Chucky, the doll only a mother can love who kills people. Tiffany is his soul-mate from hell. She finally becomes the doll and the two of them get together for mayhem and murder. The movie is quite hysterical and often bloody at times. Grey's Anatomy Katherine Heigl has a role here fighting with a bloody doll. Chucky and Tiffany have to get to New Jersey to the cemetery in order to retrieve something from his coffin. I only saw the half the film but it was more than enough. Evil dolls like Chucky and Tiffany go around killing people just to get to Hackensack. The people like the honeymoon couple at Niagara Falls and the senior elderly couple in the RV always looked shocked by being killed by two dolls. In the end, there is another surprise. I wonder if Heigl remembers this film or maybe she would rather forget. I would love to see a reporter ask her about it now that she's huge. "},{"Title":"Absolutely... awful!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a huge fan of horror films, especially older ones with Lugosi, Karloff, Price or Cushing. Naturally, I didn't want to miss Chucky-films, either, so I rented Bride of Chucky. It definitely was NOT worth my time.Why? First of all, the beginning of the film was like from a low-budget, awfully made I want everyone to see my tits!-film. The end of the film was better, but I found it funny instead of terrifying. Chucky couldn't scare me a bit.I haven't seen other Chucky-movies yet, but I really, REALLY hope they are much better than this piece of ****. I can only recommend Bride of Chucky for those of you who like to see breasts, that's the only thing this movie had enough of (actually way too much of it, this really spoils this film). This movie doesn't know anything about horror, it's more like a black comedy to me. A really BAD one too! "},{"Title":"Just when you thought Chucky had reached his lowest...","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is so far my least favorite of the series... never mind the rating, I actually like Child's Play 3 more than this. I haven't seen Seed Of Chucky yet, but I'm fairly confident it's not as bad(or worse, if that's possible) than this... honestly, it can't possibly be. I really don't think so. The plot is the most nonsensical and poorly written P.O.S. I've heard of for a very, very long time. The pacing is even worse than the third film, and, believe me, that says a lot. I think I would find it more thrilling to watch paint dry than to see this poor excuse for a Chucky film again. The acting is not as bad as it was in the third film, but it's close. The characters are the most poorly written(so far) in a Chucky film, and by far the most underdeveloped. None of them are really likable, so you have to just go by which actors you like or who you find attractive. Going by that, I preferred the screen time where John Ritter or Jennifer Tilly is on-screen. Unfortunately, that's not a lot of time, and I was bored for just about every remaining second of the film. The film is kept going through a series of 'twists' which act like introducing a small amount of electricity to a dead body; you get a slight twitching and movement, but it doesn't last long. New pointless characters are introduced on a regular basis simply to be killed off. The whole idea with Chucky's ex-girlfriend just seems dumb, not to mention the teenage couple that are our main characters constantly mistrusting each other... I guess it was supposed to make us laugh, but I've never really found Chucky the character to be entertaining or funny, I really just liked Chucky the maniacal serial killer because he was so interesting, cruel and creative. I don't know... the whole idea of the film just doesn't work. If you kind of liked the first three films, but you kept wondering how a black comedy featuring Chucky looking like a bastardized monster of Frankenstein, maybe you'll enjoy this. I recommend this to... um... well, I don't really know. If you enjoy black comedy far more than horror, and you like Chucky the character more than Chucky the killer, maybe you should give the film a chance. Just don't expect anything from it. It's not even worth it to experience the great John Ritter or ogle at the beautiful Jennifer Tilly... and that's coming from a big fan of Ritter and someone who's found Tilly incredibly attractive for a long time. Most people really shouldn't bother with this film. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Is it true that love will set you free?","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For the hard-core Chucky fans. The lasting remains of Chucky are stolen from the police evidence room and a dizzy, twisted woman (Jennifer Tilly)puts the doll together again in order to find a home for her dead boyfriend's spirit. Demented, comedic, violent and gory. One humorous scene is where Chucky gets a woody. Another highlight finds Chucky and his newlywed bride having a duel with shovels in a cemetery. Tilly also supplies the voice of Chucky's bride. Tilly always seems to get the parts of sexy air heads; this role is no different. Some of the insults between the miniature couple are quite funny. Brad Dourif again provides the voice of Chucky. This comedy of gore also features busty Katherine Heigl and Nick Stable. John Ritter takes some gruesome punishment in his role as the Police Chief. If you have seen the first three installments, you owe it to yourself to witness Chucky in unholy matrimony. It goes to show that love sometimes can be a bitch. "},{"Title":"CHILD'S PLAY KEEPS GETTING BETTER","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Lets face it, once a movie becomes a franchise they have to quit taking themselves seriously, and Bride Of Chucky proves how true that is. This movie is great, not only is it funny, but Jennifer Tilly takes the show. Awesome, she is terrific! I saw this movie the last week it was at theaters because I was really wasn't impressed with the 3rd one, oh how shocked I was. This is a must have for horror fans cause we know how to appreciate a movie like this. "},{"Title":"Ahh! You mean there can actually be a good Chucky movie?","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Again, I'm not sure why, but I wanted to complete the Child's Play series. I was kind of looking forward to Bride of Chucky because it has a better rating that the last two Chucky movies. The thing I loved about this movie is finally that it doesn't take itself so seriously any more. Because Chucky, you have to admit, is a very lame villain. He's only 2 feet tall and not that intimidating. Jennifer Tily brought so much to the series, her and chucky were just so adorable and like a comedic Bonnie and Clyde. I mean, besides the killings, they were so much like a real couple that could break your heart and make you want to kiss your crush. LOL! Bride of Chucky is very entertaining and is an actual good horror movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"the best thing that could happen to the series","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not sure what I should think about director Ronny Yu. Either he provides the genre of horror with the new wind it needed or he is a below average comedian who tries to be funny by spoofing the big titles in the genre. At this moment he is working about Freddy vs Jason which brings the 2 perhaps most famous horror icons, together on the screen and in 1998 he brought us this 3rd sequel in the Child's Play series. I'm not saying he did a bad job on this Bride of Chucky. Not at all, actually. The Child's Play films were never great. The first one from 1988 was original and fun. It went downhill from there. The second one had its moments (a few) and the third one was barely watchable. If you look at it that way, Bride of Chucky is a good film. It's not required to have seen all the sequels. If you know how Charles Lee Ray ended up in the body op a doll, you can easily watch this film. It kinda picks up on the social life that Charles Lee Ray left behind when he died. His girlfriend from back then finally found the dolly (or what's left of it) and brings Chucky back to life. Bride of Chucky has a few gore and bloody moments but it's definitely more of a comedy. The whole film is built around the funny personality that is Chucky. He's a sarcastic, woman-hating, psychotic doll and that provides the movie with lots of quote material. All the little easter eggs make this movie funny as well. If you don't like the story, try to amuse yourself by searching all the references to famous horror film. That should keep you busy too. I wouldn't have mind if Child's Play 3 never received a sequel, to be honest. But if it did have to happen and that's most likely in Hollywood, I'm glad it turned out to be something like this. Brad Dourif returns as the voice of Chucky. This guy is great. If you're not familiar with his name or work, look him up. He played some of the greatest villains in movie history. The girl, Tiffany is a good role for Jennifer Tilly. She has the most irritating voice possible but that turns out as a great advantage for the character she plays here. In conclusion, the movie isn't ashamed to admit it's based on Bride Of Frankenstein and will provide you 90 minutes of good laughs. I'm not saying it's a great film but you won't regret spending time watching it. "},{"Title":"You looked in the mirror lately? Now's not the time to get picky. Wonderful horror with lashings of dark humour.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky starts late one night as Officer Bob Bailey (Vince Corazza) sneaks into the evidence room at his police station & amongst all the horror film in joke props he steals the remains of the Chucky doll that serial killer Charles Lee Ray possessed way back in the original Child's Play (1988). He drives the remains to an isolated area where Ray's ex girlfriend Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) slashes Bailey's throat & takes the remains back to her trailer. There Tiffany stitches & staples Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif) back together again & using a 'voodoo for dummies' book brings him back to murderous life. Thing don't go as Tiffany had hoped & Chucky turns out not to be the man of her dreams after all so she locks him in a play pen at which Chucky is less than happy. While Tiffany takes a bath Chucky escapes, electrocutes her & using that book brings her back to life in the shape of a female doll dressed as a bride. Neither want to be stuck in plastic bodies & have to work together to get to a cemetery in New Jersey where Ray's natural body had been buried with the amulet needed to switch their spirits back into human bodies. The bodies of Tiffany's neighbour Jesse (Nick Stabile) & his girlfriend Jade (Katherine Heigl), who are both on the run from Jade's corrupt uncle Chief of police Warren Kincaid (John Ritter), will do nicely...Directed by Ronny Yu I love Bride of Chucky. The script by Don Mancini is great fun, very fast moving, highly entertaining & references plenty of other horror film with good affection. From the opening sequence where we see Jason Voorhees hockey mask from the Friday the 13th films, Freddy Krueger's razor blade glove from the A Nightmare on Elm Street series & Michael Myers mask from the Halloween franchise. To the clips used from Bride of Frankenstein (1935) when it virtually recreates the same scene. Bride of Chucky never takes itself seriously which is just as well, there are lots of one liners, self referential gags that Scream (1996) made trendy a few years earlier & it doesn't seem afraid to poke fun at itself & the horror genre in general. I love the scene when Jesse & Jade are having a clichd slushy romantic conversation that Chucky hears & he makes funny derogatory comments & gestures throughout. That's not to say that there isn't a damn good film in there as well because there most certainly is. Director Yu manages to create good atmosphere & a real sense of fun, both human & plastic sets of characters are likable & shine as each pair suffer their own sets of domestic problems that the trail of corpses that they are leaving behind would obviously cause. Technically Bride of Chucky is great for the most part & has that big budget polish about it & at about $25,000,000 I should hope so. The only thing that I will say is that some of the puppet effects by Kevin Yagher are a little stiff & unconvincing, I can't remember any CGI scenes in Bride of Chucky either. Thankfully the film doesn't neglect the blood & gore with a cool slit throat, nails blasted into someone's face in presumably a Hellraiser (1987) homage, people impaled on shards of glass, someone being bloodily obliterated by a huge truck, a ripped off lip piercing & various stabbings & gunshots. The acting is pretty good & Dourif as Chucky is very funny as he spouts the one liners out. I also like the scenes with Tiffany at the beginning & find her very sexy when she's wearing all that fetish gear, I can't be the only one surely? I personally think Bride of Chucky is a fantastic film, total entertainment from start to finish, great humour & horror in equal measure & at only 85 minutes long it never becomes boring or dull. A personal favourite of mine, watch it as soon as you can! "},{"Title":"How could anyone dislike a film featuring hot doll sex?","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sexy murderess Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) still yearns for a life of wedded bliss with ex-boyfriend, crazed killer Charles 'Chucky' Lee Ray. After getting her hands on the mutilated Good Guy doll that last played host to his spirit, and doing a spot of repair work, she conducts a satanic ritual that returns his life to the toy.Unfortunately for poor Tiff, the reanimated maniac shows no interest in marriage, and so she traps him in a cage, with a bride doll for company. Eventually, a rather angry Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif) escapes his confines, electrocutes Tiffany in the bath, and traps her soul in his 'bride' as retribution.Realising that they are now both in the same predicament, the plastic pair put their differences aside and decide to head for Hackensack, New Jersey, where they can lay their hands on the magical amulet that can relocate their spirits into human hosts. Tricking trailer park hunk Jesse (Nick Stabile) and his tasty girlfriend Jade (Katherine Heigl) into taking them to their destination, the psycho dolls embark on a murderous rampage, with their unwitting companions copping the blame.Although the idea of a kid's doll being possessed by the spirit of a mass murderer has always been rather comical, it wasn't until the fourth film in the Child's Play series that the makers fully embraced the sheer lunacy of the premise, opting to plays things much more for laughs than for scares (although there is still plenty of OTT splatter for us gore-hounds to enjoy).Talented Hong Kong director Ronny Yu oversees proceedings, deftly translating the witty tongue-in-cheek script into a slick and thoroughly enjoyable cinematic ride. Similarly, the excellent cast handle the camp material perfectly, with Stabile and Heigl making a likable couple, but smoking hot Tilly stealing the show as blonde, buxom, pouting, PVC-mini-skirted temptress Tiffany. Kevin Yagher's impressively expressive doll effects also go a long way to making the film such a success.Overall, this film is unlikely to find many fans amongst 'serious' horror aficionados, but those who enjoy the odd spot of mindless popcorn entertainment, full of twisted, black humour, crazy death scenes, and magnificent cleavages should have a blast. "}{"Title":"Chucky is back again! ...and it's not too bad","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've got to say that I never wanted to see this film, but sometimes you find yourself in front of a television showing 'Bride of Chucky', and have nothing better to do. I have to admit to not having seen the first two sequels, and I highly doubt that I'm missing much. As you might expect, Bride of Chucky is completely ridiculous; yet somehow, the overwhelming stupidity seen throughout the film is what makes it good; as after a while, it's much easier to simply not think about what you're seeing and enjoy the film for what it is. As I said, I never saw the first two sequels; but from what I've heard, they're not much good; and since there isn't too much that you can do with the idea of a mad serial killer in the body of a doll, spoofing classic films such as 'Bride of Frankenstein' isn't too bad an idea. The film focuses on Tiffany; a young woman that tracks down 'Chucky'. She was his girlfriend while he in human form, and she's looking to rekindle their relationship. However, things don't go to plan when it turns out he was never as keen on her as she was on him, and after punishing him; Tiffany gets hers...The film is directed by Ronny Yu; the same man responsible for such enjoyable trash as Freddy vs Jason and The 51st State. It has to be said that he certainly has his own style, and Bride of Chucky benefits from a superbly trashy atmosphere and a whole host of pumping rock music, which bodes well with the gory and silly plot line. The film is rather uneven, however, and while some of the jokes (the part involving Tiffany finding a wedding ring in particular), are very funny; while other parts of the film fall rather flat. Yu is keen to poke fun at the plot line and the entire Chucky series at every possible moment, although the 'in' jokes aren't often very funny. The doll 'sex' scene is bizarre, although Yu does make good by the end with a frenzied final half hour and a climax that leaves things wide open for a sequel, which the film got six years later. Brad Dourif returns to his trademark role, and once again does well at providing the voice for the maniacal doll at the centre. Even better than that, however, is the fact that he's joined by the extremely odd Jennifer Tilly, and listening to their banter is often lots of fun. Overall, this isn't a great film - but considering how bad it could have been, this third sequel ain't too bad. "},{"Title":"The New Chucky","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bride of Chucky (1998) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Fourth film in the series has a nutty woman (Jennifer Tilly) piecing Chucky back together and after Chucky kills her he puts her soul into a doll named Tiffany. Soon the two are trying to make their way to the burial site of the former killer so that they can get an amulet so that their souls can be placed into real humans. With such a large gap between this and the previous film I think it was a good move to try and start the series over and that's basically what they did as Chucky is now going for laughs over thrills. This makes the film somewhat refreshing but in the end you're really left with a one joke movie. Chucky and Tiffany are certainly here for laughs and they get quite a few of them but overall the jokes are rather hit and miss. The jokes that do work are the ones where the two are constantly fighting over the woman's role in life and this includes a hilarious sequence where Tiffany gets upset after Chucky doesn't appreciate her cooking for him all day. The horror elements here are the most violent of the series with a lot of the red stuff flowing throughout. The impressive cast includes a fun performance from Tilly who perfectly captures that dumb blonde mode. I wouldn't say she gives a good performance but she does offer up a fun character. John Ritter has a fun but small role, which he handles nicely. Katherine Heigl is fun in her role but leading man Nick Stable is quite bland. Brad Dourif returns as the voice of Chucky and delivers more good work. There are a lot of references and jokes to Bride of Frankenstein and these here are quite charming and in the end this works as a cute comedy but not much of a horror film. "}]